[[toc]]
**Emails : aff- [[mailto:hannanasser94@gmail.com|hannanasser94@gmail.com]] neg- kidunome@gmail.com**
=Affirmative- Blake= 
(**Same plan text as GBX)**
==<span class="Underline"> Contention 1- Inherency</span>== 

<span class="Underline">All status quo SSA efforts fail- despite DOD funding all programs have capability shortfalls </span>
<span class="Underline">GAO 11- United States Government Accountability Office, GAO Report to the Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, Committee on Armed Services, House of Representatives, “SPACE ACQUISITIONS Development and Oversight Challenges in Delivering Improved Space Situational Awareness Capabilities” May 2011 http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d11545.pdf hnasser </span>
<span class="Underline">Despite recent investments, existing SSA capabilities continue to fall short of operational needs and space policy objectives. In the past 5 fiscal years, while DOD continued its investments in SSA, it has not delivered significant new SSA capabilities to the warfighter as originally expected. Capabilities that were delivered served to sustain or modernize existing systems versus closing gaps. For example, DOD has extended the service lives of some sensors supporting SSA capabilities and has added 12 The Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) accounts for the remainder. Page 11 GAO-11-545 Space Acquisitions additional processors and servers to the SSA’s command and control system’s computer, as well as adding analysts and operational personnel. However, Joint Functional Component Command for Space officials did not characterize these efforts as delivering significant increases in capability. DOD plans to begin delivering major new additions in capability in the coming 5 years, including the Air Force’s recently launched space-based sensor that is expected to appreciably enhance SSA. However, it is too early to determine the extent to which these new capabilities or additions will address capability shortfalls. As described below, many of these efforts—those expected to provide the biggest gains in capability—have struggled or are struggling with cost, schedule, and performance challenges and face risks to meeting their acquisition goals, potentially exacerbating SSA capability shortfalls. Two new SSA acquisition efforts are scheduled to begin product development within the next 2 years— Space Fence and JMS, which are described below, together with five other key efforts. JMS will be essential to providing and enhancing future space command and control and SSA capabilities, while Space Fence is to be the single largest SSA investment. The challenges and risks these programs face include the potential employment of immature critical technologies, program office staffing and skill shortages, complex integration tasks, the integration of data from numerous heterogeneous sources, operations in a multiple security level environment (information assurance), not utilizing an incremental development approach, and overloading of DOD’s current space object tracking system with data from new sensor systems coming on line over the next 5 years. Table 1 describes, in more detail, the status of SSA development efforts that are expected to deliver large gains in capability over the next 5 years and the challenges and risks they face. Page 12 GAO-11-545 Space Acquisitions Table 1: Descriptions, Status, and Challenges and Risks of SSA Programs and Projects that Are Expected to Deliver Large Gains in Capability in Fiscal Years 2010 through 2015 New sensors Space Based Space Surveillance (SBSS) Description/Status: • The Air Force’s initial SBSS effort consists of a single satellite—using an electro-optical telescope—and associated command, control, communications, and ground processing equipment, to collect positional and characterization data on Earth-orbiting objects, replacing a predecessor, the Midcourse Space Experiment Space Based Visible sensor, which significantly contributed to the detection and tracking of deep space objects and which ended its mission in July 2008. SBSS is expected to provide timely detection, tracking, and identification data to significantly increase DOD’s ability to understand the location and mission capabilities of satellites and other objects, particularly in geosynchronous Earth orbits. The space vehicle was launched in September 2010. The expected duration of the satellite mission is about 5.5 years. The Air Force and DOD are studying options to provide a follow-on capability to SBSS. Challenges and risks: • Cost and schedule: The on-orbit SSA sensing capability is being replaced by SBSS when it becomes operational, estimated for the end of May 2011. SBSS experienced a delay of over 3 years—along with about a 163 percent cost increase, from about $332 million at development start in 2003 to about $873 million. The SBSS program was restructured in 2006 after an independent review team found that the program’s original cost and schedule baseline was not executable; the assembly, integration, and test plan was risky; and the requirements were overstated. The restructure provided for increased funding and schedule margin; streamlined the assembly, integration, and test plan; and relaxed requirements. The SBSS program office attributes the causes of the schedule delay and cost increase that led to the restructure to technical requirements volatility (including a change to a much more complex sensor design, which became the program’s largest cost driver); a late development contract award; and a change in the planned launch vehicle type (from a Delta II to a Minotaur IV) which required the program to fund the launch. Subsequent to the restructure, technical issues relating to the Minotaur IV caused additional delays. • Data processing: The Air Force’s Joint Space Operations Center Mission System (described below) will need to be available to process all SBSS data. Rapid Attack Identification Detection and Reporting System (RAIDRS) a Description/status: • The Air Force’s initial RAIDRS effort is to develop ground-based systems consisting of antennas and data processing equipment that are to rapidly detect and report electromagnetic interference attacks on DOD satellite communication assets in the C, X, and Ku radio frequency bands. The Air Force initiated the program in March 2005 with a development cost estimate of $226 million and initial operational capability estimated for 2008. Challenges: • Cost and schedule: The program has undergone multiple rebaselines, the most recent in 2009, because of contract cost increases totaling about $78.5 million and about 4 years of schedule growth. The RAIDRS program office attributes the cost increases and schedule delay to technical requirements and design instability; overly optimistic cost estimates; incorrect assumption of utilizing government-furnished antennas which proved nonviable and which required producing new antennas; and an inexperienced and substandard prime contractor. Initial operational capability is estimated for fiscal year 2012 and a revised cost estimate was expected to be developed by August 2010. • Performance: The most recent program rebaseline resulted in a simplified system: from nine systems— six fixed and three deployable—to five deployable systems. The program estimates the simplified system will satisfy 92 percent of the program requirements, with reduced simultaneous geolocation and detection capabilities; no off-line processing, test, and exercise functions; and reduced ultra high Page 13 GAO-11-545 Space Acquisitions frequency (UHF) interference capabilities (the latter was a Key Performance Parameter (KPP) under the previous Capability Development Document (CDD) b —according to the program office, the CDD is being updated to revise the UHF requirement). Space Fence Description/status: • The Air Force’s Space Fence is to be a new system of ground-based phased-array radars costing potentially as much as $6.1 billion, according to the Air Force Electronic Systems Center (the product center responsible for acquiring Space Fence). Space Fence is intended to replace and expand coverage provided by the aging Air Force Space Surveillance System using higher radio frequencies to detect and track smaller Earth-orbiting objects. The system was to consist originally of up to three geographically dispersed radars (notionally located in Australia; Ascension Island, south Atlantic Ocean; or Kwajalein Atoll, Marshall Islands); however, recent analysis shows that a three-site system may not provide adequate cost-benefit over a two-site system and, therefore, the Air Force considers the likelihood of a two-site solution is very high. Currently, the effort is in the technology development phase, where the Air Force is actively assessing trade-off options between system performance—such as detection altitude and accuracy—and affordability. System development is scheduled to begin in June 2012, with the first Space Fence radar site providing initial operational capability by the end of fiscal year 2015, and the final site providing full capability by 2020. Challenges and risks: • Data processing: The primary program risk, according to the Electronic Systems Center, is that the new Joint Space Operations Center Mission System (described below) will need to be available to process Space Fence data, as the amount of data provided will result in an increase in uncued detection and tracking capacity from 10,000 to 100,000 objects. • Integration, information assurance: The Space Fence program office states other risks of the program include large-scale integration and calibration of radar arrays, scalability of the design for the digital beam former, c and development of information assurance certification criteria. • Technology: All five critical Space Fence technologies identified by the program office are immature— one at technology readiness level (TRL) 4 and four at TRL 5 d —which increases risk to cost and schedule goals. Given that technology discovery cannot be scheduled, the immature technologies raise the risk of having to defer product development until these technologies become mature. Although mature backup critical technologies exist which could be used if the primary technologies do not mature by the start of system development, all have potentially higher acquisition costs and in some cases, higher operating costs as well, according to the program office. While the program has a critical technology maturity goal of TRL 6 prior to preliminary design review (which is in accordance with DOD’s acquisition policy), e our best practices work has shown technology development to TRL 7 could significantly reduce risk to meeting cost, schedule and performance goals. </span>


==<span class="Underline">Contention 2- Deterrence</span>== 

<span class="Underline">Space has been militarized- space assets will be attacked </span>
<span class="Underline">Lynn 11- William J. Lynn III , U.S. Deputy Secretary of Defense, (2011): A Military Strategy for the New Space Environment, The Washington Quarterly, 34:3, 7-16 To link to this article: http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/0163660X.2011.586933 hnasser </span>
<span class="Underline">During the Cold War, space largely remained the private preserve of the United States and the Soviet Union, with space assets as tools of superpower control. Missile warning and imagery satellites enabled us to detect missile launches and to verify the arms control arrangements meant to lessen the risk of conflict. During this period, each nation developed hit-to-kill, anti-satellite weapons that had the potential to generate large clouds of space debris. Since the space domain was inextricably linked with our understanding of nuclear escalation, the employment of such weapons was believed to serve as the harbinger of a nuclear first-strike. Although in the past information derived from space capabilities went almost exclusively to national decisionmakers, today we rely on space for almost everything we do. Space systems are critical to operations on the ground, at sea, and in the air, whether enforcing a no-fly zone over Libya or countering insurgents in Afghanistan. With such widespread reliance comes potential vulnerability. A greater number of potential adversaries now employ a wider spectrum of weapons capable of countering U.S. space capabilities. As a result, physically shooting down a satellite is no longer the most likely threat to our military systems.</span>
<span class="Underline">Electronically jamming GPS and communications signals are among a range of relatively low-cost options for states seeking counterspace weapons. The threshold for using these weapons has been lowered, with a number of nations employing them for political purposes in peacetime or during crises. For example, Iran has recently jammed the BBC’s Persian television service in an effort to limit information about regional unrest. Furthermore, counterspace weapons are no longer the weapon of last resort in a geo-strategic conflict. Instead, they are becoming tools that advanced nations and sub-regional powers alike are incorporating into conventional military doctrine. Even non-state actors have found utility in employing jammers and manipulating communications satellites. For instance, the Tamil Tigers in Sri Lanka have been accused of hijacking transponders on commercial communications satellites to broadcast propaganda, demonstrating a sophisticated understanding of space technology. Irregular warfare has come to space.</span>
<span class="Underline">To respond to the proliferation of counterspace weapons, the United States is employing new ways to prevent and deter aggression against U.S. and allied space systems. In the contested space environment of today, we can no longer rely solely on the threat of retaliation to protect space systems from attack. We must expand our traditional concepts of deterrence. Accordingly, the National Security Space Strategy outlines the multilayered approach we will take to deter aggression. This approach includes several important initiatives. First, we are assessing diplomatic initiatives such as the EU Code of Conduct to promote international norms of responsible behavior. These initiatives define how responsible space-faring nations are expected to conduct themselves and should over time discourage destabilizing acts that threaten the overall stability of the space domain. Nations willfully acting contrary to such norms can expect to be isolated as rogue actors. Second, we can utilize alliances in space to serve the same deterrent function as basing troops in allied countries. They can ensure an attack on one is an attack on all. As with terrestrial defense alliances, partnerships in space also can add resilience and capabilities, without relinquishing the strategic advantage our systems provide. At their fullest, these partnerships could consist of completely interoperable systems in which costs, benefits, and risks are shared among trusted participants. For instance, Australia recently became a full partner in the Wideband Global Satellite Communications System (WGS), which directly supports warfighters. The cost-savings from our partnership with Australia allowed the Pentagon to procure an additional satellite for the WGS constellation. By sharing the benefits and risks of developing this system, we enhanced our operational capability and raised the cost of aggression against it. Increasingly, we will want to operate in coalitions in space, just as we do in other domains. To achieve this, the department will examine all mission areas to identify where shared interests open the door to greater levels of cooperation. One way to foster greater cooperation is to transform the Joint Space Operations Center, which provides command and control for our space forces, into a Combined Space Operations Center run in concert with international partners. Such an arrangement will allow our partners to work side-by-side with U.S. commanders, improving our situational awareness while integrating a multilateral approach to day-to-day operations. Networking our space operations center with those of our allies offers a further way to expand collaboration. But even as we increasingly work in partnerships, we will maintain some U.S.-only capabilities for our most sensitive national security missions.</span>
<span class="Underline">Third, we need to make our space systems more resilient, and our combat power less reliant on their full functioning. This will help deny adversaries the benefit from an attack in space. Just as in the cyber domain, denying the benefit of attack in space can join retaliatory deterrence as a disincentive to adversaries. To maintain our combat power, we are learning how to operate in a degraded information environment. Training exercises where we disrupt space-based capabilities help our forces become proficient at operating with interference. To improve resiliency, we are developing technology to help us mitigate the loss or degradation of on-orbit systems. For instance, we now have ground, air, and naval-based platforms which can increasingly augment or replace space assets. The U.S. military is one of the few militaries today with the capability to operate in all domains on a global basis, and this ability provides a strategic advantage when space capabilities come under threat.</span>
<span class="Underline">Responsive space capabilities which rapidly launch replacements can also play an important role in reconstituting functionality either during or after an attack. And broader partnerships with commercial firms which enable national security payloads to ride on commercial satellites will further improve our resiliency. Hosting military payloads on commercial spacecraft, as we are already doing with a missile warning sensor, is not only cost-effective, it also enables a more diverse, robust, and distributed set of space systems.</span>
<span class="Underline">Finally, the United States views free access to space as a vital national interest. Consistent with our inherent right of self-defense, we will respond accordingly to attacks on it, at a time and place of our choosing and not necessarily in space. Ultimately, deterrence must impact the decision-making of particular countries and leaders in specific scenarios. A multilayered approach to deterrence offers the greatest likelihood of encouraging restraint, and thereby protecting our vital space capabilities from attack.</span>

<span class="Underline">Scenario 1- Conventional Deterrence </span>
<span class="Underline">LIDAR technology solves- awareness allows us to leverage instruments of power and prevent ASAT attacks </span>
<span class="Underline">Wiest 7- Todd E. Wiest, Maj, USAF, Upon this Rock… a Foundational Space Situational Awareness Technology for 2030, Air Command and Staff College Air University, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama April 2007 hnasser </span>
<span class="Underline">In March 2003, the 3 rd Infantry Division (3d ID) pushed toward Baghdad. During this push, the 3d ID suddenly lost communications. 1 Since Milstar provided their connectivity, the call went out to the 4th Space Operations Squadron (4 SOPS) to fix the problem. 2 Air Force (AF) space personnel at 4 SOPS controlling the Milstar constellation quickly identified the problem; for some reason the Milstar spot beam moved. 3 After only 15 minutes, 3d ID regained connectivity. 4 The knowledge of the situation in space allowed a quick diagnosis and remedy to this communication problem. This support was possible because the AF had space situational awareness (SSA) of the Milstar system configuration. Rudimentary SSA allowed 4 SOPS personnel to diagnose and quickly remedy the problem maintaining the ground forces momentum as they pushed toward Baghdad. This example shows the importance of SSA to the military instrument of power (IOP), but the United States (U.S.) relies on SSA to support all IOPs. According to the current U.S. National Space Policy, countries that “effectively utilize space will enjoy added prosperity and security and will hold a substantial advantage to those who do not.”</span>
<span class="Underline">5 Space-based communications allow one country to affect another country’s economy because of information passed through space. This same communication path allows a country to influence how another country’s populace view their own government. These space-dependent communications link the space domain to both the Economic and Information IOPs. The U.S. derives its Diplomatic power from the other IOPs. Consequently, space, and therefore SSA, is fundamental to the U.S. IOPs. President George W. Bush entrusts the DOD with maintaining SSA for the U.S. Government. 6 While maintaining the joint aspect of SSA, the Department of Defense identified the AF “as Executive Agent for Space.” 7 Based on this policy, the entire U.S. Government depends on the AF to provide SSA to support all of the U.S. IOPs. The AF has some SSA capabilities, but complete SSA is difficult to obtain. The Milstar example highlights AF SSA on its own systems, but complete SSA requires considerably more information. To achieve complete SSA, the AF needs knowledge of much more than its own systems or even that of the sister services. Beyond the status of U.S. space systems, SSA includes space intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) data as well as analysis of the space environment. 8 Given today’s strategic environment, SSA must help diagnose problems when surprise is the norm and the threats are less predictable.</span>
<span class="Underline">In this reality, the AF requires additional SSA capabilities to gain knowledge of adversary systems and intent as well as the space environment to diagnose future problems. From a resource and capability perspective, obtaining adequate SSA of all space objects is difficult. For example, the increasingly diminutive nature of future satellites complicates the space ISR problem. Taken in total, obtaining SSA for the U.S. Government is a daunting task for the AF. Additional SSA capabilities are also necessary to remedy future space events because not all of them will be easy to diagnose or remedy. In the Milstar example, the diagnosis was a misaligned spot beam; the solution was to move the spot beam back in place. 10 This was relatively simple problem to diagnose and remedy; unfortunately, harder problems exist. Consider the recent Chinese test of an Anti-satellite (ASAT) system. 11 For the ASAT test, U.S. detected a missile launch from China and found a debris cloud in the location of a satellite. 12 Since China’s ASAT weapon was ground launched, the diagnosis attributes China as the originator of the test. This problem has two solutions. First, preventing future ASAT tests, and second, avoiding the resulting debris cloud. The first solution for future Chinese ASAT tests is much more difficult; it will require all of the U.S. IOPs. For the second solution, the U.S. will rely on SSA to characterize the debris cloud to minimize space object collisions with this cloud. This ASAT event would have been even more difficult to diagnose and remedy if it originated from another satellite. In the 2030 timeframe, satellites may attack other satellites.</span>
<span class="Underline">13 How will the AF diagnose and attribute future space events so the U.S. can remedy the situation? What if the diagnosis shows the attack occurred from a region in space? How will the U.S. be able to attribute the attack to facilitate the use of its IOPs against the perpetrator? The U.S. can only answer these questions with complete SSA. In particular, the U.S. needs knowledge of small objects and the ability to enhance satellite intelligence collection. This leads to a capability question. How will the U.S. increase small object awareness and enhance object satellite intelligence collection to improve SSA in the 2030 timeframe to support all U.S. IOPs? </span>
<span class="Underline">Loss of space assets prohibits military deployment- causes nuclear escalation </span>
<span class="Underline">Lewis 4- Jeffrey Lewis CENTER FOR DEFENSE INFORMATION Washington, D.C. July 2004 “What if Space Were Weaponized? Possible Consequences for Crisis Scenarios” http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf hnasser </span>
<span class="Underline">Although ASAT attacks might not be enough to tip the balance against the more sophisticated U.S. military in a conﬂict with North Korea, the loss of space-based assets would be a major constraint on the operation of U.S. forces – and result in unnecessary American casualties. Army Gen. Tommy Franks, then CENTCOM commander, testiﬁed before the Senate in 2003 that “the pieces of this operation [Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan] which have been successful would not have been so without space-based assets. It’s just very simply a fact.” 6 It is not difﬁcult to understand his outlook. Consider the role of constellation of Global Positioning System (GPS) satellites that provide for precise navigation: almost one-third of all the munitions dropped in Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom were satellite-guided (See table). This reliance, in fact, would be much greater except that the U.S. inventory of such weapons is limited. In smaller operations in Bosnia (Deliberate Force) and Iraq (Desert Fox), nearly 90 percent of munitions were “precision” weapons of one sort or another. By 2010, it is possible that a majority of munitions used by the United States in any conﬂict will utilize satellite guidance. 7 GPS is also essential to enabling troops to maneuver around the battleﬁeld. During Operation Iraqi Freedom, the U.S. Army employed more than 100,000 Precision Lightweight GPS Receivers (PLGRs) – one PLGR for each nineperson squad. During Operation Desert Storm, there was only one GPS receiver for each company – about 180 soldiers. 8 The U.S. military is also heavily dependent on communications satellites (including commercial ones) to carry the enormous load of trafﬁc required by modern weapons systems. For example, just one Global Hawk unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) requires about 500 megabits per second of bandwidth – that is ﬁve times the total bandwidth required by the entire U.S. military during the Gulf War. The demand for bandwidth has become one of the principle constraints on U.S. military operations. The Wall Street Journal reported that the Pentagon was forced to keep half its ﬂeet of Predator and Global Hawk UAVs grounded at any given time because too little bandwidth existed to ﬂy all eight aircraft simultaneously. Global Hawk pilots reportedly turned off some sensors and transmitted lower-resolution video under bandwidth constraints. 9 In the future, demands for bandwidth will be stunning. A Defense Science Board (DSB) study predicted that, by 2010, the Pentagon would need 16 gigabits per second of bandwidth – the equivalent of about 208,000 simultaneous phone calls – to prosecute a major theater war. Just three years later, an Army ofﬁcer heading a classiﬁed study to update the DSB projection told a trade publication that the requirement is now “signiﬁcantly higher than what we forecast” in 2000. 10 The Pentagon is also looking at moving tactical intelligence and reconnaissance systems into space. By 2010, the Pentagon anticipated the launch of the ﬁrst satellites in a space-based radar constellation that will replace the Airborne Warning and Command System (AWACs) aircraft. The Pentagon is also hoping to deploy the ﬁrst R&D satellites for a space-based tracking and surveillance system to support its missile defense architecture. 11 These systems would make tempting targets for a North Korea that was able to develop ASATs. A scenario like this essentially unfolded in a 1997 “Army After Next Winter Wargame” – which envisioned a 2020 Russian invasion of the Ukraine. First, the opposing “Red” team was able to launch a coordinated attack on NATO space systems that allowed it to over-run its smaller opponent leaving NATO unable and unwilling to intervene – ending the game on the second day. NATO was “completely paralyzed,” leaving one Blue participant to explain what had happened: “everything just ground to a halt.” 12 The lesson was an important one: the United States, more than any other country, has the most to lose from a shoot-out in space. One phenomenon that did not occur in the 1997 war game, but has occurred elsewhere, is the risk that an ASAT attack against U.S. satellites might provoke the United States to dramatically escalate a conﬂict. Another war game demonstrates this “non-intuitive insight about information ﬂow.” The disruption of information ﬂow could “contribute to the rapid escalation of the war, eventually triggering nuclear weapon use.” As one participant explained, as either a Blue or Red commander, if “I don’t know what’s going on, I have no choice but to hit everything, using everything I have.” 13</span>

<span class="Underline">Loss of hegemony makes great power conflict inevitable </span>
<span class="Underline">Zhang and Shi 11 – *Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Currently on leave from Graduate School in Economic and Political Development, Lin Shi, MA from Columbia in International Affairs, also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/</span>
<span class="Underline">This does not necessarily mean that the US is in systemic decline, but it encompasses a trend that appears to be negative and perhaps alarming. Although the US still possesses incomparable military prowess and its economy remains the world’s largest, the once seemingly indomitable chasm that separated America from anyone else is narrowing. Thus, the global distribution of power is shifting, and the inevitable result will be a world that is less peaceful, liberal and prosperous, burdened by a dearth of effective conflict regulation. Over the past two decades, no other state has had the ability to seriously challenge the US military. Under these circumstances, motivated by both opportunity and fear, many actors have bandwagoned with US hegemony and accepted a subordinate role. Canada, most of Western Europe, India, Japan, South Korea, Australia, Singapore and the Philippines have all joined the US, creating a status quo that has tended to mute great power conflicts. However, as the hegemony that drew these powers together withers, so will the pulling power behind the US alliance. The result will be an international order where power is more diffuse, American interests and influence can be more readily challenged, and conflicts or wars may be harder to avoid. As history attests, power decline and redistribution result in military confrontation. For example, in the late 19th century America’s emergence as a regional power saw it launch its first overseas war of conquest towards Spain. By the turn of the 20th century, accompanying the increase in US power and waning of British power, the American Navy had begun to challenge the notion that Britain ‘rules the waves.’ Such a notion would eventually see the US attain the status of sole guardians of the Western Hemisphere’s security to become the order-creating Leviathan shaping the international system with democracy and rule of law. Defining this US-centred system are three key characteristics: enforcement of property rights, constraints on the actions of powerful individuals and groups and some degree of equal opportunities for broad segments of society. As a result of such political stability, free markets, liberal trade and flexible financial mechanisms have appeared. And, with this, many countries have sought opportunities to enter this system, proliferating stable and cooperative relations. However, what will happen to these advances as America’s influence declines? Given that America’s authority, although sullied at times, has benefited people across much of Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, the Balkans, as well as parts of Africa and, quite extensively, Asia, the answer to this question could affect global society in a profoundly detrimental way. Public imagination and academia have anticipated that a post-hegemonic world would return to the problems of the 1930s: regional blocs, trade conflicts and strategic rivalry. Furthermore, multilateral institutions such as the IMF, the World Bank or the WTO might give way to regional organisations. For example, Europe and East Asia would each step forward to fill the vacuum left by Washington’s withering leadership to pursue their own visions of regional political and economic orders. Free markets would become more politicised — and, well, less free — and major powers would compete for supremacy. Additionally, such power plays have historically possessed a zero-sum element. In the late 1960s and 1970s, US economic power declined relative to the rise of the Japanese and Western European economies, with the US dollar also becoming less attractive. And, as American power eroded, so did international regimes (such as the Bretton Woods System in 1973). A world without American hegemony is one where great power wars re-emerge, the liberal international system is supplanted by an authoritarian one, and trade protectionism devolves into restrictive, anti-globalisation barriers. This, at least, is one possibility we can forecast in a future that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.</span>


<span class="Underline">Scenario 2- Nuclear Deterrence </span>
<span class="Underline">First strike stability in space is worsening- adversaries will covertly attack- only ssa solves</span>
<span class="Underline">Morgan 10-Forrest E. Morgan, Ph.D. in policy studies 2010 “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space A Preliminary Assessment” RAND hnasser </span>
<span class="Underline">First-strike instability is made worse by limitations in space situational awareness (SSA). While the United States enjoys better SSA than any other spacefaring nation, it is still dangerously limited. Not all satellites are monitored constantly, and only limited diagnostic and environmental monitoring capabilities exist even for those that are, making it diicult to diagnose causes of sudden satellite failure. Knowing this, adversaries might be tempted to attack satellites covertly, believing that uncertainty regarding the causes of failure would impede retribution, or perhaps even that attacks would be misdiagnosed as naturally occurring failures. Alternatively, a natural failure that occurs during a confrontation or conlict could lead operators or policymakers to assume that the satellite was attacked, prompting unjustiied retribution and subsequent escalation of the crisis. his dangerous combination of continued vulnerability, growing dependence, and limited SSA indicate that irst-strike stability in space has diminished, and further indications suggest that the rate of erosion is accelerating. While the diiculty of attacking orbital assets remains a stabilizing factor, that factor is shrinking as an increasing 16 Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space: A Preliminary Assessment number of states acquire capabilities to interrupt space services. Several states are now attempting to develop directed-energy weapons. One of them, Russia, also retains the co-orbital ASAT capability that the Soviet Union developed during the Cold War and has since sold GPS jammers to anyone with the funds to purchase them. As has been the case since the dawn of the space age, any state with ballistic missiles and nuclear weapons has the basic components to ield a crude but highly destructive ASAT weapon.</span>
<span class="Underline">The proliferation of such threats is troubling, and anxieties have become more acute now that China has begun experimenting with directed-energy weapons and has demonstrated a capability to destroy satellites in low earth orbit (LEO) with a direct-ascent kinetic ASAT weapon. 17 Unfortunately, the infrastructure, policies, and attitudes that both enable and constrain U.S. space operations in the current environment are, in many ways, unchanged from when they were developed during the MAD-induced stability of the Cold War. his leaves the United States exposed to the risk of a surprise attack in space unless a deterrence regime can be developed to restore irst-strike stability in that domain. 18</span>

<span class="Underline">Attacks on early warning satellites destroy nuclear deterrence- eliminates strategic stability </span>
<span class="Underline">Mowthrope 4- Matthew Mowthorpe, research associate at the Centre for Security Studies at University of Hull, The militarization and weaponization of space 2004 pg 110 hnasser </span>
<span class="Underline">Antisatellite weapons are sometimes deemed to have a similar impact on strategic stability as ballistic missile defense, in that they are seen as de stabilizing.2 ASAT weapons threaten the satellites which are said to en hance strategic stability namely early warning satellites, communication satellites, and photoreconnaissance satellites. Early warning satellites are vital to strategic stability in that they provide warning of an impending attack, especially in a nuclear context. In a nuclear arena warning time is essential to strategic stability in that it prevents one side achieving a sur prise first-strike attack on the other side’s more vulnerable retaliatory nuclear assets, namely ICBMs and nuclear-equipped aircraft. An ASAT capability targeting early warning satellites is seen as extremely destabi lizing in that it undermines a central essence of nuclear deterrence, namely that a surprise attack is unachievable. Also, the targeting of photoreconnaissance satellites which are important in the context of arms control verification, undermines the stability of the international security environment which arms control can provide. It is for these rea sons that ASAT weapons are deemed to be destabilizing in an interna tional security context.</span>

<span class="Underline">Credible American deterrence is the pinnacle of international peace- the alternative makes conflict inevitable </span>
<span class="Underline">Craig 09 (Campbell craig, professor of international relations at the university of Southampton 09 “American power preponderance and the nuclear revolution,” Review of International Studies, 35, 27-44)</span>
<span class="Underline">As Keir Lieber and Daryl Press have suggested, the US may be on the verge of acquiring a first-strike nuclear capability, which, combined with an effective system of anti-ballistic missile defence, could allow the US to destroy a rival’s nuclear capabilities and intercept any remaining retaliatory missiles before they hit American cities. While this possibility clearly reduces the likelihood of other states seeking to match American power with the aim of fighting and winning a nuclear war, and, if their argument becomes widely accepted, could lead American policy-makers to reject the logic of the nuclear revolution and consider pre-emptive nuclear strikes against large nuclear rivals, it clearly is less germane to the question of small-state deterrence.33 Lieber and Press contend that the US may have the capability to destroy the entire nuclear arsenal of another large nuclear state lest that state use it on America first for the purposes of winning a great war. That, as they say, would mean the end of Mutual Assured Destruction as it existed during the Cold War. However, Washington would have much less reason to use its new first-strike capability against a nation that cannot threaten to destroy the US, and has no ambition to defeat America in a war, but only possesses a second-strike minimum deterrent. Such an attack would turn much of the world against a US willing to use nuclear weapons and kill hundreds of thousands or millions in order to defeat a nation that did not threaten its survival. Perhaps more to the point, an attack like this would be tremendously risky. Even after a perfect first strike some retaliation might get through, which could mean the nuclear destruction of an American city or perhaps the city of an American ally. At the very least, survivors of the attacked state and their allies would seek to unleash destruction upon the US in other ways, including an unconventional delivery of a nuclear, chemical, or biological weapon. An imperfect first strike, or, even worse, a failure of the US anti-missile system, would constitute a total disaster for the US: not only would it incur the world’s wrath and suffer the destruction of one or more of its cities, but such a failure would also expose America as both a brutal and vulnerable state, surely encouraging other states to acquire nuclear weapons or otherwise defy it. The US might have reason to launch a first strike against a large rival that deployed a major arsenal and appeared ready to attack America, as implausible as this scenario is. It would have little reason to do so against a small nation with a second-strike minimum deterrent arsenal. The nuclear revolution delivers a clear message to any large state considering major war with a powerful nuclear rival. The message is that such a war is likely to escalate to total nuclear exchange, and that in this event a large percentage of its citizenry will be killed or injured, its ability to govern what remains of the nation will be weakened or destroyed, and its power relative to other states that stayed out of the war will be radically diminished. It also delivers a message to any advanced small state eager to obtain security from the possible predation of large ones. The message is that if the small state possesses, or can quickly get its hands on, a few invulnerable and deliverable nuclear weapons, any large state contemplating invading it will have to weigh the benefits of invasion against a new kind of cost – not just a difficult or stalemated conventional war, such as the US faced in Vietnam and faces in Iraq, but the destruction of perhaps one, three, or five of its cities, and the death and injury of millions of its citizens. Unless it is able to obtain an absolutely fool-proof defence against any kind of nuclear retaliation, the choice that any large state is going to make when faced with this new circumstance is so likely to be peace that the small nuclear state can feel confident that it will be safe from conquest.34 The general relevance of these messages to American unipolar preponderance is clear. At the ‘great power’ level, rising states are unlikely to regard major war as a suitable means for overturning the international system and overthrowing American preponderance. The classic means of systemic change – hegemonic war – will not be an attractive option to any state hoping to survive, and the very existence of nuclear arsenals will make all states cautious about provoking conflict with nuclear rivals, especially the heavily armed US.35 Moreover, advanced smaller states know that they can provide for their own security, if they come to believe that it is endangered, not by embarking on large military build-ups or forming alliances with larger states, but by developing a small and invulnerable nuclear arsenal, or at least preparing the way to obtain such an arsenal quickly. This means that small states have a far greater ability to defend themselves from, and therefore be less afraid of, American predation today than comparable states facing dominant powers in previous eras.36 The main effects of the nuclear revolution, then, bolster the general claim of Power Preponderance that unipolarity is enduring. To support their claim, Brooks and Wohlforth specify three factors that dissuade would-be rivals to the US from balancing against it in traditional military terms: the effect of America’s relative geographical isolation from these potential rivals; the fact that American preponderance happened as a fait accompli about which no other nation could do anything; and the vast and growing ‘power gap’ between the US and all other rivals. The next section will describe each factor, and show how the nuclear revolution specifically reinforces each of them. Nuclear Reinforcement Power Preponderance contends that the distance between the US and potential rivals on the Eurasian landmass discourages these rivals from balancing against America. On one hand, the relative remoteness of the US reduces the threat these states feel from American power, especially when contrasted with threats they previously faced from contiguous continental powers, such as Napoleonic France, Nazi Germany or the Soviet Union. Because it is so far away and separated from these states by large oceans, the US could not easily embark upon a campaign of conquest against a Eurasian state, perhaps apart from one based primarily upon nuclear blackmail. On the other hand, because Eurasian states are so relatively close to one another, any attempt they make to balance against American power is likely to antagonise their neighbours and runs the risk of triggering regional conflict among states that would rather remain on good terms. Therefore, simple geography plays a key role in explaining unipolarity, as states feel less urgency to build up their military capabilities against a distant rival then they would against one on their borders. As John Mearsheimer has argued, the geographical isolation of the US with respect to its potential rivals in Eurasia is decisively shaped by what he calls ‘the stopping power of water’.37 As it is far more difficult to launch campaigns of military conquest overseas than it is across land, the vast oceans discourage would-be world conquerors from waging global war. So even though the US is not much further away from France in terms of simple mileage than is Russia, the Atlantic Ocean provides to France a kind of security from America that it does not possess on its east. Though Mearsheimer deduces from this observation a far different conclusion than do Brooks and Wohlforth, they agree on a key point: the oceans play an important role in persuading both the US and its key rivals that a major war of conquest between them is unlikely. The nuclear revolution clearly reinforces this persuasion. The vast distance between the US and its rivals, together with the stopping power of water, not only discourages them from considering wars of conquest; it also leads them to conclude that a global conventional war between them is untenable. Before the nuclear era, the oceans made – as Mearsheimer shows – a true global war of conquest practically impossible, as a sustained campaign across the Atlantic or Pacific was too formidable even for the most powerful state.38 With the advent of intercontinental ballistic missiles in the 1950s, this barrier was surmounted, but only if the attacking state was willing to wage nuclear war. Because the geographical distance between the US and its Eurasian rivals continues to make a conventional war for global preponderance between them implausible, and because of the invention and continued presence of nuclear missiles, states on either side will tend to equate a major war among them with nuclear war – as both superpowers did during the Cold War.39 Since the US is invulnerable to conquest by conventional invasion, and since it also, for all of its military power, is poorly-positioned to wage a sustained conventional invasion of a large and advanced Eurasian state, it is impractical for any of these large nations to plan for a global war waged only with conventional weaponry. Geography encourages America and its potential rivals in the nuclear age not only to avoid balancing against one another, but also to believe that a major war between them, should it occur, will be a nuclear war.40 As the latter consideration raises the spectre of the nuclear revolution, it naturally and strongly reinforces the geopolitical logic Brooks and Wohlforth identify. The second factor which Brooks and Wohlforth argue contributes to unipolarity is the sudden and non-violent emergence of American preponderance in the 1990s, following the demise of the USSR. Whereas great powers often fiercely sought to balance against their rivals in previous eras, so determined to prevent them from achieving preponderance that they were willing to resort to major war, the accomplished fact of American dominance means, Brooks and Wohlforth write, that the familiar obstacles to balancing will be dramatically magnified. . . . Classical balancing coalitions were always vulnerable to the collective action problem, as members would seek to ride free on the efforts of others. These challenges would be multiplied in any attempt to counterbalance the United States today.41 The point made here is a subtle one. In previous competitive balance-of-power systems, states would be more tempted to balance actively against rivals rather than ‘ride free’ because balancing offered the real prospect of attaining great-power status. Today, the fact that American preponderance was simply presented to potential rivals as an existing reality after the end of the Cold War, that there was nothing they could do about it, discourages states from being the first to embark upon the enormously expensive and dangerous project of balancing against the US, especially when they would prefer to ride free on the back of another state doing so. The collective action problem – the tendency of actors to want others to deal with a common problem and so enjoy the benefits without cost – is one thing, Brooks and Wohlforth suggest, in a dynamic and competitive system, and another entirely in a system as imbalanced and uncompetitive as unipolarity today. The inclination of potential rivals to deal with the accomplished fact of American preponderance by ‘riding free’ rather than matching US power is also reinforced strongly by the logic of the nuclear revolution, in a way that highlights the difference between today’s imbalance and the rivalry between the US and the Soviet Union during the early Cold War. After 1945, the US possessed a significant power advantage over the Soviet Union, an ‘accomplished fact’ of sorts following the surrender of Germany and Japan that was enhanced by its monopoly over the atomic bomb. Yet the Soviet Union, rather than accepting this preponderance, dedicated tremendous efforts over the ensuing two decades to build its own nuclear weaponry and attain military parity with the US. What explains its willingness to balance against American military superiority in the 1940s, while other states, including Russia, accede to it today? There are several important answers to this central question, including the key claim that rivals to the US, particularly China, hope to wear down the US by means of economic competition rather than military struggle. But surely the nuclear revolution underlies this strategy. In the aftermath of the second world war, neither the leaders of the Soviet Union nor anyone else knew that in the space of a decade or so both sides would be well on their way to developing intercontinental missiles and megatonne thermonuclear weaponry.42 During the first decade of the Cold War the Soviet Union tried to balance against the US, as weaker and ambitious states have often done against their more powerful rivals, and it achieved a rough parity with America at about the same time that both sides were beginning to recognise the salience of the nuclear revolution.43 The Soviet Union, in other words, began a sustained campaign of balancing against superior American power before it could anticipate the revolutionary aspects of thermonuclear weaponry, and by the time it did recognise this, it had already caught up to America. The question then became one of who would back down first, a question finally answered by an exhausted USSR in the late 1980s. Today, nations such as China can see little point in imitating the Soviet experience. The incentives facing would-be rivals today are radically altered by the fact that the nuclear revolution exists and is apparent to all. Unlike the Soviet Union of the 1940s, these states understand that a major war with a pre-eminent rival is likely to lead to their total destruction, and this knowledge deeply intensifies their inclination to ‘ride free’ rather than try to build up power to American levels. In prenuclear eras, free riders had to face the fact that their military weakness and dependence upon protection provided by other states might later haunt them.44 Today, they can wait indefinitely for others to do the dirty and dangerous work of balancing, knowing that if things go badly they can obtain a small nuclear arsenal and feel confident that they can avoid the fate free riders sometimes faced in earlier eras.45 The promise of minimum nuclear deterrence strongly intensifies the ongoing temptation to ride free, presenting weaker states today with substantially more promising security prospects than the Soviet Union, for example, faced sixty years ago. The third, and most evident factor stressed by Brooks and Wohlforth in their case for Power Preponderance is the vast gap in capabilities between the US and any potential rival. If the fait accompli factor emphasises the sudden emergence of American primacy and the absence of a balancing spiral, the ‘power gap’ stresses more simply that the distance between the US and all other states is so great that potential rivals regard the prospects of serious balancing as too formidable to be worth commencing. Even had the US begun the race for preponderance with these other states at the same time, to present the issue metaphorically, it is so many laps ahead now that states have no other choice but to conclude that they can no longer compete. The basis of the power gap argument presented by Brooks and Wohlforth is simple: cost. The US is so far ahead in terms of military capabilities and advanced technologies that potential rivals understand that a campaign of serious balancing is likely to require decades of onerous military expenditures. What is more, the US is not a garrison state like the Soviet Union was during the Cold War, spending a large percentage of its wealth on its military and ignoring its domestic economy. Instead, despite its recent profligacy, the US spends, in historically relative terms, a fairly small percentage of its wealth on its military, and could easily spend much more if it wanted to pull away from an approaching rival. Not only is the US several laps ahead, but it still has petrol left in its tank.46 The ‘power gap’ factor – the emphasis upon the insurmountable costs required to contend with the US – is even more obviously reinforced by the nuclear revolution. To understand why this is so, it is necessary to clarify what one means when one speaks of the costs associated with balancing. Balancing is not done simply for the sake of it, not just to win a race. Rather, it is done to prepare for major war. States pursue a balance of power by building up their own military capabilities, and/or by forming alliances with other militarily strong states. John Mearsheimer has defined this activity as the determination of states to ‘seriously commit themselves to containing their dangerous opponent. In other words, they are willing to shoulder the burden of deterring, or fighting if need be, the aggressor’.47 Randall Schweller states simply that ‘balancing requires that states target their military hardware at each other in preparation for a potential war’.48 According to standard Realist theory, the point of balancing is to build up military power, by oneself or in alliance with others, in order to contend with powerful rivals by presenting them with the ultima ratio of major war. When Wohlforth and Brooks identify the absence of balancing among potential rivals to the US, this is what they are describing. Thus, the costs of balancing are not only, or even primarily, the economic expenditures required to keep up militarily. Balancing means preparing for major war, a war that may lead to devastation and defeat. Why have nations so often tried to ride free on the backs of others balancing against a dangerous rival? Economic costs have certainly been one key reason, but another is that riding free offers the prospect of avoiding bearing the brunt of a major war should it occur.49 If smaller nations have declined to balance in the past not just to save money, but also to avoid dangerous military confrontation with a powerful rival, then it is easy to discern how the nuclear revolution reinforces the logic of the ‘power gap’ in today’s international setting. In the past, military confrontation with a powerful state raised the possibility of sustained major war and conventional defeat. Now, it portends nuclear war. As we have seen, a general war between the US and a Eurasian great-power rival would likely escalate to general nuclear war, given the difficulties of waging conventional war across the oceans and of keeping nuclear war limited. What is more, the US deploys a massive nuclear arsenal, one that can easily be used to destroy the major cities and government apparatus of any hypothetical rival over the foreseeable future.50 The US is so far ahead in the balancing ‘race’ that it is true other nations might still have concluded that it was no use trying to catch up even had nuclear weapons never been invented.51 However, when the real-world purpose of balancing – preparing for major war against a dominant nuclear power – is added to this calculation, the power gap disincentive becomes overwhelming.</span>


<span class="Underline">Scenario 3- Air Force Integration</span>
<span class="Underline">Air and space forces are fragmented- ssa is necessary to coordinate command and control for air power </span>
<span class="Underline">Teehan 7- Russell F. Teehan, Major, USAF April 2007 “RESPONSIVE SPACE SITUATION AWARENESS IN 2020” http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/cst/bh_teehan.pdf hnasser </span>
<span class="Underline">The U.S. military, intelligence, civil, and commercial sectors are heavily reliant on space. In fact, space systems have transformed the military’s ability to fight and win wars by delivering precision navigation for surgical attack, secure communication linking command and control (C2) nodes and enabling blue force tracking, missile warning, weather services, and intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR). The civil and commercial markets have benefited from GPS-enabled navigation, wireless communication, satellite television and radio, and commercial ISR ventures such as Google Maps. The Industrial Technology Research Institute predicts that GPS business revenues alone will grow to $21.5 billion in 2008. 1</span>
<span class="Underline"> According to the U.S. National Space Policy, the U.S. “national security is critically dependent on space capabilities, and this dependence will grow.” 2 Many, including our enemies, view this critical dependence on space as a critical vulnerability. To ensure freedom of action in space, General Chilton (commander, AFSPC) and Major General Shelton (commander, 14 th AF, and STRATCOM’s JF-CC Space) have made space situation awareness (SSA) their number one priority. 3 After all, defense and response are not enabled without a network of sensors to detect, track, and disseminate a shared situation awareness. The goal of this paper is to show that despite much investment in the near and mid-term, a critical shortfall of SSA in 2020 will continue to be responsiveness unless the Air Force invests now in artificial cognition technology for autonomous operations. 1.1 Space Situation Awareness Background The definition of SSA has evolved to mean much more than space surveillance given the array of spacecraft and threats projected in future operations. In the past, the space surveillance network (SSN) primarily conducted routine space catalog maintenance to support collision avoidance. The mission of the 1 st Space Control Squadron required “detecting, identifying, and 2 tracking more than 8,500 objects in space, some as small as a few centimeters in diameter.”</span>
<span class="Underline">4 A less publicized fact is that there are 11,001 known objects, leaving 2,625 objects not cataloged, including 38 satellites lost in near earth orbits and 131 satellites lost in deep space orbits. 5 Additionally, the proliferation of small satellites is stressing the sensitivity and resolution of the existing sensors. “Since 1991, about 10 nations have launched 373 small satellites into orbit, each weighing less than 1000 lbs.” 6 Matters get worse with time as the number of small satellites orbited per launch increases with inventions such as the ESPA ring and miniaturization efforts ongoing at universities such as Surrey reduce the size of spacecraft for niche missions to the nano-satellite class (<10 kg, 1m 3 ). 7 Further, the threat of various ground and orbital attack scenarios continues to increase, including anti-satellites (ASATs), high altitude nuclear bursts, ground-based lasers, and satellites with secondary intent. 8 To keep up with these trends, General Chilton believes SSA requires much more than surveillance, it requires the capability to “identify what’s up there, understand its mission and, ultimately, determine its intent.” 9 The following scenario, highlighted recently in much of the media coverage of the Chinese ASAT tests, 10 shows the huge challenges faced by SSA. If an ASAT launches today without warning against an intelligence asset, a Defense Satellite Program (DSP) spacecraft detects the launch, provides missile warning, and Missile Defense Agency (MDA) assets track it. This is nearly autonomous and controlled primarily within a single C2 node (the Joint National Intelligence Center, JNIC).</span>
<span class="Underline">11 The breakdown comes in the lack of connectivity between the various ground stations and C2 nodes of the USAF, MDA, and the intelligence community (IC). In all likelihood, the ASAT destroys the intelligence asset long gone before the ground station receives an alert email or phone call. According to General Chilton, “the key element is time. It takes us six months to figure out the capability of a [newly launched space platform]. Our vision 3 is, we’ll know in one rev [orbit].” 12 Further, the amount of coordination required and the short timelines for these events demonstrate the need to collaborate to create a single space picture and create a common C2 network to synergize the array of space assets for the greater defense of all. According to the Counterspace Mission Area Plan: SSA encompasses traditional space surveillance (satellite/debris positional data, maneuvers, changes in space order of battle [SOB], etc.), more detailed reconnaissance of specific space assets (mission identification, capabilities, vulnerabilities, etc.) and analysis of the space environment and its effects (solar storms, meteor showers, etc.). It also includes the use of traditional intelligence sources to provide insight into adversary space operations and the fusion of all data and information into actionable knowledge that can be used by the warfighter or decision maker… [It] involves the collection, processing, fusion and assessment of data and information from many different sources and disseminates information to decision makers and various users. 13</span>
<span class="Underline">SSA consists of four sub-mission areas: surveillance and reconnaissance (S&R), environmental monitoring (EM), intelligence, and C2; each with their own significant hurdles in the near term. Key challenges in S&R include finding 100 percent of the catalogue (at least the satellites) and providing the persistence, accuracy, and responsiveness required to characterize high interest spacecraft and tactical events. Providing persistent EM coverage and in tegrating with S&R and intelligence data for anomaly resolution will be even harder in the near and mid term as the number of dedicated sensors decreases. 14 Intelligence refers to the use of traditional intelligence sources to provide insight into satellite characteristics, capabilities, users and networks, ground operations, and intent as well as any information pertaining to ground or space based threats. Providing timely and actionable intelligence and integrating across multiple intelligence sources and the rest of the SSA sensors (e.g. S&R, EM) continues to be a significant hurdle. Finally, C2 contains perhaps the greatest challenge of collecting and fusing the information, creating a single integrated space picture, and disseminating the information in time to enable a defense or appropriate response. </span>

<span class="Underline">Integrating air and space power prevents nuclear war , WMD proliferation and chemical and biological warfare </span>
<span class="Underline">Tellis 98.(Ashley, Senior Political Scientist – RAND, Sources of Conflict in the 21s t Century , http://www.rand.org/publications/MR/MR897/MR897.chap3.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">The first key implication derived from the analysis of trends in Asia suggests that American air and space power will continue to remain critical for conventional and unconventional deterrence in Asia. This argument is justified by the fact that several subregions of the continent still harbor the potential for full-scale conventional war. This potential is most conspicuous on the Korean peninsula and, to a lesser degree, in South Asia, the Persian Gulf, and the South China Sea. In some of these areas, such as Korea and the Persian Gulf, the United States has clear treaty obligations and, therefore, has preplanned the use of air power should contingencies arise. U.S. Air Force assets could also be called upon for operations in some of these other areas. In almost all these cases, U.S. air power would be at the forefront of an American politico-military response because (a) of the vast distances on the Asian continent; (b) the diverse range of operational platforms available to the U.S. Air Force, a capability unmatched by any other country or service; (c) the possible unavailability of naval assets in close proximity, particularly in the context of surprise contingencies; and (d) the heavy payload that can be carried by U.S. Air Force platforms. These platforms can exploit speed, reach, and high operating tempos to sustain continual operations until the political objectives are secured. The entire range of warfighting capability—fighters, bombers, electronic warfare (EW), suppression of enemy air defense (SEAD), combat support platforms such as AWACS and J-STARS, and tankers—are relevant in the Asia-Pacific region, because many of the regional contingencies will involve armed operations against large, fairly modern, conventional forces, most of which are built around largeSources of Conflict in Asia 165 land armies, as is the case in Korea, China-Taiwan, India-Pakistan, and the Persian Gulf. In addition to conventional combat, the demands of unconventional deterrence will increasingly confront the U.S. Air Force in Asia. The Korean peninsula, China, and the Indian subcontinent are already arenas of WMD proliferation. While emergent nuclear capabilities continue to receive the most public attention, chemical and biological warfare threats will progressively become future problems. The delivery systems in the region are increasing in range and diversity. China already targets the continental United States with ballistic missiles. North Korea can threaten northeast Asia with existing Scud-class theater ballistic missiles. India will acquire the capability to produce ICBM-class delivery vehicles, and both China and India will acquire long-range cruise missiles during the time frames examined in this report. The second key implication derived from the analysis of trends in Asia suggests that air and space power will function as a vital rapid reaction force in a breaking crisis. Current guidance tasks the Air Force to prepare for two major regional conflicts that could break out in the Persian Gulf and on the Korean peninsula. In other areas of Asia, however, such as the Indian subcontinent, the South China Sea, Southeast Asia, and Myanmar, the United States has no treaty obligations requiring it to commit the use of its military forces. But as past experience has shown, American policymakers have regularly displayed the disconcerting habit of discovering strategic interests in parts of the world previously neglected after conflicts have already broken out. Mindful of this trend, it would behoove U.S. Air Force planners to prudently plan for regional contingencies in nontraditional areas of interest, because naval and air power will of necessity be the primary instruments constituting the American response. Such responses would be necessitated by three general classes of contingencies. The first involves the politico-military collapse of a key regional actor, as might occur in the case of North Korea, Myanmar, Indonesia, or Pakistan. The second involves acute politicalmilitary crises that have a potential for rapid escalation, as may occur in the Taiwan Strait, the Spratlys, the Indian subcontinent, or on the Korean peninsula. The third involves cases of prolonged domestic166 Sources of Conflict instability that may have either spillover or contagion effects, as in China, Indonesia, Myanmar, or North Korea. In each of these cases, U.S. responses may vary from simply being a concerned onlooker to prosecuting the whole range of military operations to providing post-conflict assistance in a permissive environment. Depending on the political choices made, Air Force contributions would obviously vary. If the first response is selected, contributions would consist predominantly of vital, specialized, airbreathing platforms such as AWACS, JSTARS, and Rivet Joint—in tandem with controlled space assets—that would be necessary for assessment of political crises erupting in the region. The second response, in contrast, would burden the entire range of U.S. Air Force capabilities, in the manner witnessed in Operation Desert Storm. The third response, like the first, would call for specialized capabilities, mostly in the areas of strategic lift and airborne tanker support. The third key implication derived from the analysis of trends in Asia suggests that despite increasing regional air capabilities, U.S. Air Force assets will be required to fill gaps in critical warfighting areas. The capabilities of the Asian states, including those of U.S. allies and neutral states, have been steadily increasing in the last two decades. These increases have occurred largely through the acquisition of late-generation, advanced combat aircraft such as the MiG-29, and the F-15, F-16, and F/A-18 together with short-range infrared and medium-range semi-active air-to-air missiles. Despite such acquisitions, however, the states that possess these aircraft have not become truly effective users of air power, in part because acquiring advanced combat aircraft and their associated technologies is a small part of ensuring overall proficiency in the exploitation of air power. The latter includes incorporating effective training regimes, maintaining large and diverse logistics networks, developing an indigenous industrial infrastructure capable of supporting the variegated air assets, and integrating specific subspecialties such as air-to-air refueling, electronic warfare, suppression of enemy air defenses, airspace surveillance and battle management capabilities in a hostile environment, and night and adverse weather operations. Most of the Asian air forces lack full air-power capabilities of the sort described above. The Japanese and South Korean air forces are, as a rule, optimized mostly for air defense operations. Both air forces areSources of Conflict in Asia 167 generally proficient in all-weather defensive counterair operations, and they possess relatively modest day ground-attack capabilities as well. Because of their specific operating environments, however, the Japanese air force is particularly proficient in maritime air operations, whereas the South Korean air force has some close air support (CAS) experience as well. The Chinese air force (People’s Liberation Army Air Force, [PLAAF]) is still a predominantly daylight defensive counterair force with limited daylight attack capabilities, as are most of the Southeast Asian air forces, but the PLAAF has recently demonstrated an impressive ability to integrate its new weapon systems (e.g., the Su-27) much faster than most observers expected. The air forces of the Indian subcontinent have somewhat greater capabilities. Most squadrons of the Indian and Pakistani air forces are capable of daylight defensive counterair, a few are capable of all-weather defensive counterair, and several Indian units are capable of battlefield air interdiction and deep penetration-interdiction strike. None of these air forces, however, is particularly proficient at night and all-weather ground attack, especially at operational ranges. They lack advanced munitions, especially in the air-to-surface regime. With the exception of Japan and Singapore, they lack battle management command, control and communications (BMC3 ) platforms as well as the logistics and training levels required for successful, extended, high-tempo operations. The brittle quality of Asian air forces implies that U.S. Air Force assets will be required to fill critical gaps in allied air capabilities as well as to counter both the growing capabilities of potential adversaries such as China and the new nontraditional threats emerging in the form of ballistic and cruise missiles, information warfare, WMD, and possibly even the revolution in military affairs.</span>

<span class="Underline">Your turns are non-unique- no willful restraint of hegemony- only a risk the plan prevents nuclear lash out </span>
<span class="Underline">Goldstein ‘7 (Avery, Professor of Global Politics and International Relations @ University of Pennsylvania, “Power transitions, institutions, and China's rise in East Asia: Theoretical expectations and evidence,” Journal of Strategic Studies, Volume 30, Issue 4 & 5 August)</span>
<span class="Underline">Two closely related, though distinct, theoretical arguments focus explicitly on the consequences for international politics of a shift in power between a dominant state and a rising power. In War and Change in World Politics, Robert Gilpin suggested that peace prevails when a dominant state’s capabilities enable it to ‘govern’ an international order that it has shaped. Over time, however, as economic and technological diffusion proceeds during eras of peace and development, other states are empowered. Moreover, the burdens of international governance drain and distract the reigning hegemon, and challengers eventually emerge who seek to rewrite the rules of governance. As the power advantage of the erstwhile hegemon ebbs, it may become desperate enough to resort to the ultima ratio of international politics, force, to forestall the increasingly urgent demands of a rising challenger. Or as the power of the challenger rises, it may be tempted to press its case with threats to use force. It is the rise and fall of the great powers that creates the circumstances under which major wars, what Gilpin labels ‘hegemonic wars’, break out.13 Gilpin’s argument logically encourages pessimism about the implications of a rising China. It leads to the expectation that international trade, investment, and technology transfer will result in a steady diffusion of American economic power, benefiting the rapidly developing states of the world, including China. As the US simultaneously scurries to put out the many brushfires that threaten its far-flung global interests (i.e., the classic problem of overextension), it will be unable to devote sufficient resources to maintain or restore its former advantage over emerging competitors like China. While the erosion of the once clear American advantage plays itself out, the US will find it ever more difficult to preserve the order in Asia that it created during its era of preponderance. The expectation is an increase in the likelihood for the use of force – either by a Chinese challenger able to field a stronger military in support of its demands for greater influence over international arrangements in Asia, or by a besieged American hegemon desperate to head off further decline. Among the trends that alarm those who would look at Asia through the lens of Gilpin’s theory are China’s expanding share of world trade and wealth (much of it resulting from the gains made possible by the international economic order a dominant US established); its acquisition of technology in key sectors that have both civilian and military applications (e.g., information, communications, and electronics linked with the ‘revolution in military affairs’); and an expanding military burden for the US (as it copes with the challenges of its global war on terrorism and especially its struggle in Iraq) that limits the resources it can devote to preserving its interests in East Asia.14 Although similar to Gilpin’s work insofar as it emphasizes the importance of shifts in the capabilities of a dominant state and a rising challenger, the power-transition theory A. F. K. Organski and Jacek Kugler present in The War Ledger focuses more closely on the allegedly dangerous phenomenon of ‘crossover’– the point at which a dissatisfied challenger is about to overtake the established leading state.15 In such cases, when the power gap narrows, the dominant state becomes increasingly desperate to forestall, and the challenger becomes increasingly determined to realize the transition to a new international order whose contours it will define. Though suggesting why a rising China may ultimately present grave dangers for international peace when its capabilities make it a peer competitor of America, Organski and Kugler’s power-transition theory is less clear about the dangers while a potential challenger still lags far behind and faces a difficult struggle to catch up. This clarification is important in thinking about the theory’s relevance to interpreting China’s rise because a broad consensus prevails among analysts that Chinese military capabilities are at a minimum two decades from putting it in a league with the US in Asia.16 Their theory, then, points with alarm to trends in China’s growing wealth and power relative to the United States, but especially looks ahead to what it sees as the period of maximum danger – that time when a dissatisfied China could be in a position to overtake the US on dimensions believed crucial for assessing power. Reports beginning in the mid-1990s that offered extrapolations suggesting China’s growth would give it the world’s largest gross domestic product (GDP aggregate, not per capita) sometime in the first few decades of the twentieth century fed these sorts of concerns about a potentially dangerous challenge to American leadership in Asia.17 The huge gap between Chinese and American military capabilities (especially in terms of technological sophistication) has so far discouraged prediction of comparably disquieting trends on this dimension, but inklings of similar concerns may be reflected in occasionally alarmist reports about purchases of advanced Russian air and naval equipment, as well as concern that Chinese espionage may have undermined the American advantage in nuclear and missile technology, and speculation about the potential military purposes of China’s manned space program.18 Moreover, because a dominant state may react to the prospect of a crossover and believe that it is wiser to embrace the logic of preventive war and act early to delay a transition while the task is more manageable, Organski and Kugler’s powertransition theory also provides grounds for concern about the period prior to the possible crossover.19</span>


==<span class="Underline">Contention 3- Cooperation</span>== 
<span class="Underline">A code of conduct is inevitable but will fail- republicans and the pentagon are lobbying for offensive weapons deployment </span>
<span class="Underline">CFR 11- A Code of Conduct for Outer Space Policy Innovation Memorandum No. 10 Micah Zenko, Fellow for Conflict Prevention Publisher: Council on Foreign Relations November 2011 http://www.cfr.org/space/code-conduct-outer-space/p26556 hnasser </span>
<span class="Underline">In 2008, the EU published a draft Code of Conduct for Outer Space Activities, which it revised in September 2010. The code calls on member states to establish "policies and procedures to minimize the possibility of accidents … or any form of harmful interference with other States' right to the peaceful exploration and use of outer space." It is based on three principles: 1) freedom of access to space for peaceful purposes; 2) preservation of the security and integrity of space objects in orbit; and 3) due consideration for the legitimate defense interests of states. The code is not legally binding, but is rather a voluntary agreement among states with no formal enforcement mechanisms. In February 2011, thirty-seven Republicans noted that they were "deeply concerned" about the code because inadequate Obama administration briefings led to the mistaken belief that it could constrain missile defenses or antisatellite weapons. These misimpressions have been and must continue to be sufficiently addressed with relevant congressional members and staff; according to Obama administration space officials, the code's provisions are consistent with all existing practices of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Pentagon, and State Department. They believe that the code would lend order and predictability to the space domain by promoting norms of responsible behavior, facilitating the dissemination of best practices, and increasing transparency. The United States and the EU have also engaged in four rounds of consultations about the code, after which the EU incorporated suggested U.S. language, such as on the right to self-defense in space. For two years, the Obama administration has debated whether to endorse the EU code, pending a Pentagon assessment as to whether it would have an operational impact on the military's uses of space; most officials believe that it would not, as its provisions concur with all Pentagon space plans and policies. Given that the EU code is in U.S. national interest, if the Pentagon confirms that it would not have any negative impact, President Barack Obama should endorse it as the first step toward negotiations on an international code of conduct for outer space activities. Furthermore, the majority of spacefaring countries, including Australia, Canada, and Japan, have already endorsed the EU code.</span>

<span class="Underline">The plan prevents it </span>
<span class="Underline">a) It provides enough deterrence to forgo weapons while still allowing cooperation </span>
<span class="Underline">Nardon 7- Laurence, Senior Research Fellow and the Head of the Space Policy Program at Ifri. She teaches at the Institut d'études politiques of Paris, “Transparency Measures in Space?” Novembre 2007</span>
<span class="Underline">Sea, land and air are currently covered by transparency regimes. It seems only logical that transparency in space should be next. After being an instrument for transparency measures, space could become a new environment where transparency measures are applied.</span>
<span class="Underline">Developing transparency measures in space is even more pressing, given that space is far away and events are physically harder to monitor. Moreover, military activities in space have long been heavily classified, reinforcing the hidden and unknown character of that environment. For these reasons, mistakes are technically more bound to happen. Besides, an important and worrying evolution is currently underway in space. The China tests of the Summer 2006 and January, 2007 as well as the US weaponization plans are signaling a possible arms race in space.</span>
<span class="Underline">The potential for accidental collisions and misperception of maneuver should be reduced to the minimum in this context, and transparency measures should be studied. SSA is a very flexible instrument however: SSA architectures can serve different purposes, and cooperative transparency is only one of them.</span>
<span class="Underline">• According to different US Air Force plans7, SSA should be the first step of a three step approach. First would come an SSA architecture, which would bring information to the warfighter; second would come “Defensive Counter Space,” which would allow US satellites to escape potential aggressors; third would come “Offensive Counter Space,” i.e. the capacity for the US to strike in space. SSA in that context is an information system that serves defensive and offensive actions.</span>
<span class="Underline">SSA can also be an instrument for transparency, providing that the information gathered by this architecture is shared to a sufficient degree amongst countries. Information about launches, moves and maneuvers would preclude accidents and misperceptions. It would reassure space actors and allow trust and confidence to grow between space powers. • A third possible use of SSA should also be mentioned. It has been theoretically possible in the past to attack other countries’ satellites covertly. It was difficult to check if a satellite failure was due to a deliberate attack, a space debris hit or a solar flare. With sufficient SSA means, this will no longer be possible. The attackers will know for certain that they can be found out. This could produce a kind of deterrence in space. A deliberate attack on a satellite would indeed be followed by a response by the attacked country. The response would not necessarily have to take place in space as economic or diplomatic response can be developed. The deterrence effect could therefore allow the country to forgo development of weapons in space.</span>
<span class="Underline">Whereas SSA for transparency focuses on reassuring potential victims by making all threats visible, SSA for deterrence focuses on scaring potential attackers by persuading them that their actions will be punished. Space Situational Awareness is thus a flexible instrument, that can support either military options or transparency measures, as well as creating a degree of deterrence in space. It is impossible to say which of these three possibilities will prevail in the future. A combination of these elements may perhaps be observed in a few years.</span>
<span class="Underline">Given that the efficiency of cooperative transparency measures depends to a degree on the international climate, the establishment of such measures in space will probably depend on the evolution of relations between space-faring nations. In this day and age, this means that much will depend on the evolution of the relationship between the United States and China.</span>

<span class="Underline">b) Funding- SSA tradeoffs with counter-space weapons </span>
<span class="Underline">Hitchens 7- Theresa Hitchens, Director of World Security Institute?s Center for Defense Information, “U.S.-Sino Relations in Space: From “War of Words” to Cold War in Space?” China Security, Winter 2007, pp. 12 - 30 ©2007 World Security Institute Hnasser</span>
<span class="Underline">At the same time, it is unclear that the up-tick in U.S.-Sino tensions spurred by the test will result in an all-out U.S. drive for an arsenal of offensive counterspace weapons – including similarly destructive ASATs. As most space experts recognize, ASATs cannot protect U.S. space assets because there are myriad terrestrially-based ways to threaten space systems including satellites. It is also highly unclear that ASATs would serve to deter potential adversaries from seeking to target U.S. space assets, as most other nations (including China) are not as dependent on space. Certainly, the China test has raised questions about whether U.S. policy to keep its options open regarding space weapons, and to “dissuade or deter others from either impeding [U.S.] rights or developing capabilities intended to do so,”26 has already failed. On the other hand, U.S. National Space Policy also states that the United States will take action to “deny, if necessary, adversaries the use of space capabilities hostile to U.S. national interests”27 – and the Chinese ASAT test seems to be a sign that Beijing intends to do just that, raising the issue of how the United States might opt to implement, and possibly use, counter-space capabilities. The problem for the U.S. Air Force, which is the “keeper of the keys” on this “space control” policy, is that a build up of counter-space weapons will require major investment (not to mention time to develop technology) at a time when the Pentagon budget is under severe pressure from the ongoing costs of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. And as noted above, the first priorities for space are programs to improve space situational awareness and to protect U.S. satellites, commercial and military, from attack. These two factors suggest that funding for development of a counter-space arsenal may be difficult to garner, at least in the short-term.</span>

<span class="Underline">SSA solves international weaponization- it verifies all existing space treaties </span>
<span class="Underline">Baines and Cote 2009- Phillip J. and Adam, Promising confidence- and security-building measures for space security http://www.unidir.org/pdf/articles/pdf-art2906.pdf Philip J. Baines is Deputy Director of the Non-proliferation and Disarmament Division at the Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade Canada. Adam Côté is a researcher in the same division and an MA candidate at the Norman Paterson School of International Affairs at Carleton University.</span>
<span class="Underline">Verification and governance are crucial to the success of any space security treaty. A violation of its provisions could undermine the purposes of the agreement. In the context of outer space, there are two types of verification: adequate and effective. Although the differences between the two are not spelled out, it is generally understood that effective verification entails stricter requirements and more rigorous inspections.</span>
<span class="Underline">35 Adequate, however, is a verification standard consistent with the standard needed to wage war in outer space. 36 Essentially, in order to conduct physical conflict in space, one would need to be able to discern between military and civilian targets (as required by the Geneva Conventions).</span>
<span class="Underline">37 Moreover, in the absence of a ban on space weapons, militaries would be required to have robust space situational awareness in order to maintain a targeting list of possible threats. This ability to discriminate between military and civilian targets, or to establish an order of priority for targets based on their ability to harm other objects, can also be used as a verification standard for ensuring that space-based weapons are never deployed. The first step toward a robust verification and governance system is a collection of robust SSA systems. As discussed above, it is important to know what functions objects perform in outer space, who is in control of them, what orbits they occupy and how they behave in these orbits. This knowledge will not only act as a deterrent to the weaponization of space, but also reduce the risk of accidental collisions or interference.</span>
<span class="Underline">38 The independent SSA systems of China, the Russian Federation and the United States could become the basis for Regional Space Operation Centres (RSpOCs) that would each maintain extensive knowledge of what activities are taking place in outer space on a real-time basis. These RSpOCs could serve as a form of clearing house, in which sufficient space information would be made available to other states in a format that is consistent with the national security and foreign policy interests of these three major space powers. As every state will have a significant relationship with at least one of these powers, every spacefaring state could gain access to the necessary and sufficient information for its safe and sustainable use of outer space. This would be particularly true were both China and the Russian Federation to make similar data available to third parties as the United States currently does under its Commercial and Foreign Entities project.</span>
<span class="Underline">39 Looking forward, these RSpOCs, enhanced by Joint Data Exchange Centres established among them, could serve as the foundation for the multilateral verification of a space security treaty. 40 The second step toward a robust verification and governance system for space security is an executive council established under a space security treaty designed to report to the UN Security Council on compliance matters relating to the treaty. This executive council could serve as a basis for consultations concerning both compliance and whether or not a given satellite qualifies as a weapon based on its design and behaviour. This sort of governance system would be much more mutually beneficial and adhere to the spirit of Article IX of the OST, in contrast to a system of deterrence and tit-for-tat reprisals which may, in turn, lead to an arms race in outer space.</span>

<span class="Underline">Space weaponization makes extinction inevitable- causes WMD proliferation, collapses relations with Russia and china, and a nuclear first strike likely </span>
<span class="Underline">Krepon, ’04 [2004, Michael Krepon is a researcher for Stimson Center in Space Security and South Asia Programs “Avoiding the Weaponization of Space”,http://www.stimson.org/images/uploads/research-pdfs/Avoiding_the_Weaopnization_of_Space.pdf,</span>
<span class="Underline">If Rumsfeld’s plans to weaponize space are carried to fruition, America’s armed forces, economy, and diplomacy will face far greater burdens, while controls over proliferation would be weakened further. Although everybody loses if the heavens become a shooting gallery, no nation loses more than the United States, which is the primary beneficiary of satellites for military and commercial purposes. If the United States leads the way in flight-testing and deploying new anti-satellite (ASAT) weapons, other states will surely follow suit because they have too much to lose by allowing the Pentagon sole rights to space warfare. US programs will cost more and be far more sophisticated than the ASAT weapons of potential adversaries, who will opt to kill satellites cheaply and crudely. The resulting competition would endanger US troops that depend on satellites to an unprecedented degree for battlefield intelligence, communication, and targeting to win quickly and with a minimum of casualties. Space warfare would have far-reaching adverse effects for global commerce, especially commercial transactions and telecommunication services that use satellites. Worldwide space industry revenues now total almost $110 billion a year, $40 billion of which go to US companies. 4 These numbers do not begin to illuminate how much disruption would occur in the event of space warfare. For a glimpse of what could transpire, the failure of a Galaxy IV satellite in May 1998 is instructive. Eighty-nine percent of all US pagers used by 45 million customers became inoperative, and direct broadcast transmissions, financial transactions, and gas station pumps were also affected. 5 Weaponizing space would poison relations with China and Russia, whose help is essential to stop and reverse proliferation. ASAT weapon tests and deployments would surely reinforce Russia’s hair-trigger nuclear posture, and China would likely feel compelled to alter its relaxed nuclear posture, which would then have negative repercussions on India and Pakistan. The Bush Administration’s plans would also further alienate America’s friends and allies, which, with the possible exception of Israel, strongly oppose the weaponization of space. The fabric of international controls over weapons of mass destruction, which is being severely challenged by Iran’s and North Korea’s nuclear ambitions, could rip apart if the Bush Administration’s interest in testing space and nuclear weapons is realized.16 | A Code of Conduct for Responsible Space-Faring Nations This highly destabilizing and dangerous scenario can be avoided, as there is no pressing need to weaponize space and many compelling reasons to avoid doing so. If space becomes another realm for the flight-testing and deployment of weapons, there will be no sanctuary in space and no assurance that essential satellites will be available when needed for military missions and global commerce. Acting on worst-case assumptions often can increase this likelihood. Crafting a space assurance 6 posture, including a hedging strategy in the event that others cheat, offers more potential benefits and lower risks than turning the heavens into a shooting gallery. Charting a Dangerous Course During the Cold War, no weapons were deployed in space, and the last test of an ASAT weapon occurred almost two decades ago, in 1985. This record of restraint reflects international norms and widespread public sentiment to keep space free of weapons. The 1967 Outer Space Treaty calls on the exploration and use of outer space to be conducted “for the benefit and in the interests of all countries” and mandates that space may not be subject to “national appropriation” by any means. Why, then, would space warriors now seek to chart a different and far more dangerous course? If the weaponization of space were inevitable, it would have occurred decades ago when Washington and Moscow competed intensively in other domains. Indeed, the record of restraint since the Cold War ended suggests that the Outer Space Treaty’s injunctions against placing weapons of mass destruction in space could be broadened if they are championed by the United States, China, and Russia. The prediction that warfare follows commerce and that the burgeoning of space-aided commerce will produce hostilities is also suspect. 7 To the contrary, most of the world’s strife takes place in poor regions. Space-aided commerce occurs primarily between nations with advanced commercial sectors, which generally have peaceful relations. Moreover, commercial space activities are often collaborative undertakings where risks and costs are shared. No nation that has invested heavily in space-aided commerce stands to gain if these orbital planes are endangered by space weapons debris or space mines. Any country that flight-tests, deploys, or uses space weapons threatens the activities of all other space-faring nations. A third argument for weaponizing space rests on the unparalleled position that the United States now enjoys in terrestrial warfare. Consequently, the Rumsfeld Commission and space warriors argue that weaker nations will carry out surprise attacks in space to neutralize US nuclear war-fighting advantages. The best way to secure US interests, the proponents say, is to transition from superiority to dominance. Worries about a surprise attack in space cannot be written off, but there are far easier, less traceable, and more painful ways for America’s enemies to engage in asymmetric warfare than by attacking US satellites. Weapons in space and weapons on Earth specifically designed to neutralize or destroy objects in space are being pursued for another reason as well: to help US armed forces win quickly and with a minimum of casualties. This rationale only makes sense if America’s adversaries will refrain from fighting back in space. If they return fire, however, US troops are likely to be punished rather than helped because of their greater reliance on satellites. Similarly, the clear preference of US space warriors is to use nondestructive techniques that disorient, dazzle, or disable an adversary’s satellites without producing debris that could destroy the space shuttle, the international space station, and satellites. America’s weaker foes, however, have far less incentive to be so fastidious about debris in their approach to space warfare. 8 States possessing nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles could explode a nuclear weapon in space to wreak havoc on satellites. Hair Trigger in the Heavens To prevent adversaries from shooting back, the United States would need to know exactly where all threatening space objects are located, to neutralize them without producing debris that can damage US or allied space objects, and to target and defeat all ground-based military activities that could join the fight in space. In other words, successful space warfare mandates pre-emptive strikes and a preventive war in space as well as on the ground. War plans and execution often go awry here on Earth. It takes enormous hubris to believe that space warfare Avoiding the Weaponization of Space | 17 would be any different. If ASAT and space-based, ground-attack weapons are flight-tested and deployed, space warriors will have succeeded in the dubious achievement of replicating the hair-trigger nuclear postures that plagued humankind during the Cold War. Armageddon nuclear postures continue to this day, with thousands of US and Russian nuclear weapons ready to be launched in minutes to incinerate opposing forces, command and control nodes, and other targets, some of which happen to be located within large metropolitan areas. If the heavens were weaponized, these nuclear postures would be reinforced and elevated into space. US space warriors now have a doctrine and plans for counterspace operations, but they do not have a credible plan to stop inadvertent or uncontrolled escalation once the shooting starts. Like US war-fighting scenarios, there is a huge chasm between plans and consequences, in which requirements for escalation dominance make uncontrolled escalation far more likely. A pre-emptive strike in space on a nation that possesses nuclear weapons would invite the gravest possible consequences. Attacks on satellites that provide early warning and other critical military support functions would most likely be viewed either as a surrogate or as a prelude to attacks on nuclear forces. International Consequences Even if space weapons are not used, their flight-testing or presence overhead, capable of impairing a country’s ability to see, hear, navigate, detect impending danger, and fight, would have profound implications for international relations. The medium of space is not country-specific. The placement of space weapons in low-Earth orbit will be of concern to any country over which the space weapon passes or could pass with orbital adjustments. Washington policy-makers do not talk often or publicly about space warfare, and China and Russia continue to seek improved ties to the United States. There is, however, considerable awareness in Moscow and Beijing about the Pentagon’s plans and deep skepticism that the Pentagon’s interest in space warfare is directed solely at states such as North Korea and Iran. Instead, the Air Force’s new counterspace doctrine is widely viewed in the broader context of the Bush Administration’s endorsement of pre-emptive strikes and preventive wars, open-ended national missile defense deployments, and the integration of improved broad-area surveillance and conventional deep-strike capabilities alongside US nuclear forces, which remain on high states of alert. If US counterspace programs proceed, Russia and China can be expected to forge closer ties, pursuing joint diplomatic initiatives to prevent the weaponization of space, alongside military research and development programs to counter US military options. Instead of engaging in a Cold War-like nuclear arms race with Washington, Moscow and Beijing will compete asymmetrically, using less elaborate and expensive techniques, such as by trailing expensive US space weapons and satellites with cheap space mines. 9</span>

<span class="Underline">Current data is not adequate- LIDAR technology provides information on satellite intent</span>
<span class="Underline">Wiest 7- Todd E. Wiest, Maj, USAF, Upon this Rock… a Foundational Space Situational Awareness Technology for 2030, Air Command and Staff College Air University, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama April 2007 hnasser </span>
<span class="Underline">The second sensor necessary for the collection of space ISR data relies on Light Detection and Ranging (LIDAR). This sensor provides reconnaissance and surveillance data. Using a LIDAR concept allows measurements of the distance, speed, rotation, and chemical 13 AU/ACSC/1464/AY07 composition of an illuminated object. 53 For example, the distance from the SSA satellite to a space object provides the object’s current position. Using LIDAR also provides considerable information about an object in space, especially if the laser wavelength is in the visible region of the electromagnetic spectrum. This part of the spectrum allows for the direct measurement of optical characteristics of the object. 54 This sensor combination captures data for space ISR. The data provided by the conceptual SSA system supports the diagnosis and attribution of space events. The passive optical sensor records the object’s orientation, which provides clues to a satellite’s current mission. Similarly, the satellite’s rotation and chemical composition, provided by the LIDAR sensor, provides space ISR. The rotation information could indicate either the satellite’s mission or its current tasking, and the chemical composition of the object may provide indications of the satellite’s mission or, if the object is space debris, could help identify a way to eliminate it. This information could diagnose and attribute a space event to a space debris collision or a satellite action taken by its owner. Control of the space segment will be vital for the conceptual SSA system because near real-time tasking is necessary for diagnosing and attributing anomalies in space. Control enables the satellite to look at a particular object to collect additional SSA information. This tasking must be available in near real-time to respond to the potentially dynamic threats of 2030. If a U.S. satellite experiences an anomaly, this constellation must rapidly collect data on space objects to diagnose the situation. Based on this data, the AF can attribute the anomaly to the appropriate cause; if caused by another satellite, the U.S. can then use the appropriate IOPs to remedy the situation. The ability to make this diagnosis and attribution relies on control. The ground station’s command and control must be responsive to the changing space situation and be able to attribute the cause of an anomaly. </span>

<span class="Underline">This transitions the defense sector towards transparency </span>
<span class="Underline">Roberts 5- Maj Tommy A. Roberts Space and Missile Force Programmer, Directorate of Plans and Programs, HQ Air Force, Space Situation Awareness: How Much Should the US Share?, High Frontier Winter High Frontier Winter 2005 hnasser </span>
<span class="Underline">Recent operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as the tragic terrorist attacks on 11 September 2001, confirm that many of the US military’s Cold War paradigms are no longer valid. In fact, as pointed out in the Air Force’s Transformation Flight Plan, the transition to a post-Cold War force is one of two on-going transformations within the US military. 15 In addition to the shift to a post-Cold War force, the US military is undergoing a transformation from an industrial age force to an information age force. 16 The long-term ability of the US military to properly adjust to these transformations will ultimately spell the difference between victory and defeat in future operations, and space will certainly play a vital role.</span>
<span class="Underline">Despite some positive results, there are still a number of areas where the space community needs to further embrace transformation. Specifically, within the SSA context, the lingering Cold War-mindset of tightly controlling information must change. This mindset encouraged a space culture that relied heavily on classification as a method of restricting enemy access to US capabilities. Such a culture served the US well during the Cold War. That mindset must now change to get in line with today’s global reality--the whole world is now dependent on space. If the US wants to retain its long-term leadership position in that global reality, it must find ways to embrace the global community and persuade others to rely on US space capabilities. One such way is through the sharing of American SSA with the world.</span>
<span class="Underline">In the context of SSA, the US is at an important crossroads. As noted in a recent RAND study, “Nations are facing important choices in deciding whether to acquire independent aerospace capabilities, whether to depend on other nations for aerospace support, whether potential costs and vulnerabilities are incurred for those relationships, and whether they are willing politically to accept both the benefits and the risks of dependence.”</span>
<span class="Underline">17 The US also faces an important choice. Is it willing to share its SSA capabilities in order to drive foreign and commercial dependence, or will it continue to hide behind its Cold War-era security blanket and fail to adjust to the changing global environment? It is clear a policy of sharing is the answer…now the devil will be in the details.</span>

<span class="Underline">Contention 4- Traffic Control</span>

<span class="Underline">Debris has reached a tipping point- current tracking is ineffective- collisions will make space unusable </span>
<span class="Underline">Aviation Week 12/1- Orbital Debris Expert Urges Retrieval Dec 1, 2011 By Mark Carreau http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_channel.jsp?channel=space&id=news/asd/2011/12/01/11.xml&headline=Orbital%20Debris%20Expert%20Urges%20Retrieval hnasser </span>
<span class="Underline">HOUSTON – The world’s space-faring nations must forge a cooperative strategy for the costly and technically challenging elimination of orbital debris that poses a growing threat to strategically important robotic as well as manned spacecraft, according to Nicholas L. Johnson, NASA’s chief scientist for orbital debris and the top U.S. representative to the United Nation on the issue. Efforts over the past two decades to mitigate the growth through changes in the design and operation of launch systems and satellites have given way to a new concern – the increasing risk of collision between existing debris in Earth orbit, adding to the fragment population faster than the junk can make a destructive descent into the atmosphere naturally. “It took a lot of effort, energy and money to get these things into space, and by golly, it will take a lot of that to get it out,” Johnson told a Nov. 29 gathering of the Houston section of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics. “That is our challenge right now.” A failure to methodically address the issue could place future generations of vital communications, navigation and weather satellites in jeopardy, he said. Johnson’s concerns echo those of a Sept. 1 report issued by the National Research Council, Limiting Future Collision Risk to Spacecraft: An Assessment of NASA’s Meteoroid and Orbital Debris Programs. The prospect of new debris from collisions between existing space junk has reached a “tipping point,” according to the NRC, which urged a re-examination of internationally recognized restrictions that prevent any one nation from sweeping away the debris from another country’s spacecraft. Last year, the Obama administration’s national space policy recognized the threat as well and assigned NASA and the Department of Defense with the responsibility of developing remediation technologies and techniques. NASA’s Johnson Space Center, where Johnson leads NASA’s orbital debris assessment efforts, was recently charged by the agency’s chief technologist with forging a response that includes contributions from experts throughout the agency. “It’s not a sense of urgency, but is a sense of responsibility,” said Johnson, who consults regularly on the issue with the Inter Agency Space Debris Coordination Committee and the International Academy of Astronautics as well as the U.N. “We know we can’t do it today, surely not economically and in some cases the technology is not quite there yet either,” he said. “But we know in the the long term we have to do something. So we need to start thinking about the problem seriously.” The Pentagon’s U.S. Surveillance Network currently tracks 22,000 large objects in Earth orbit, with a combined mass exceeding 13.4 million lb. Only 1,000 of the total represent operational satellites. Experts place the population of debris greater than a half inch in size at 500,000, any one of which could prove lethal to the six-person International Space Station. The debris threat has leaped in the past four years as a result of two major events. In 2009, a defunct Russian spacecraft collided with an active U.S. communications satellite. Two years earlier, China blasted one of its own polar orbiting weather satellites in an anti-satellite demonstration that prompted worldwide alarm. Twice this year, the space station has been forced to make an evasive maneuver to avoid a debris collision threat – doubling the previous annual average for evasive action. Last week, a collision threat to the station appeared, then disappeared so quickly that the crew was nearly forced to take refuge in their Soyuz transport capsule. Last year, NASA carried out six debris avoidance maneuvers among its 60 various robotic spacecraft, Johnson said. The debris population grows by a “couple of hundred” fragments annually, mostly in response to an average half dozen “fragmentation” events, typically the result of a propulsion system explosion or weakened pressure tank.</span>

<span class="Underline">LIDAR technology solves- it can track objects smaller than a centimeter </span>
<span class="Underline">Wiest 7- Todd E. Wiest, Maj, USAF, Upon this Rock… a Foundational Space Situational Awareness Technology for 2030, Air Command and Staff College Air University, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama April 2007 hnasser </span>
<span class="Underline">Laser technology does not have the limitation radar has; the laser can find, track, and collect information about objects smaller than 0.75 cm. A laser placed in space eliminates the shortcomings imposed by the atmosphere. Most of the problems associated with previous spacebased laser systems resulted from the bulk solid-state laser source. To make a future space-based laser system viable, a different source is necessary; this source is a fluoride fiber laser. With a fluoride fiber laser, laser design and alignment are simpler in a smaller, more lightweight package. Because fluoride fiber lasers are small, lightweight, and can produce multiple wavelengths, this is the best laser source to enhance SSA capability in 2030. Conceptualizing an SSA system with a fluoride fiber laser payload can identify if a strategic imperative for change exists by 2030. The orbit selected for this system is a medium earth orbit (MEO). MEO is appropriate for three reasons. First, MEO is approximately midway between satellites operating in low earth orbit (LEO) and high earth orbit (HEO). In addition, one can assume earth-sensing satellites have first priority for LEO positions if LEO is not already full by 2030. Finally, this orbit reduces the opportunity for laser light to affect LEO satellite imaging payloads of because the conceptual SSA satellite is above and behind the LEO satellite. For these reasons, the conceptual system is in MEO. This section describes important sensor and command and control portions of the conceptual SSA system and outlines the fluoride fiber developments necessary to realize the system</span>

<span class="Underline">Enhanced SSA leads to traffic control- tracking allows leads to satellite maneuvering and the prevention of debris </span>
<span class="Underline">Stout 11 - Researcher and analyst @ Air University’s National Space Studies Center [Mark Stout, “Space Traffic Control: The Next Free Global Utility?” The Wright Stuff, Posted: April 4, 2011, pg. http://www.au.af.mil/au/aunews/archive/2011/0607/0607Articles/Stout0607.pdf//edlee]</span>

<span class="Underline">Space traffic control begins with a space surveillance capability and a variety of dedicated, contributing, and collateral radar and optical systems surveil outer space. These sensors, along with an associated command and control system, form a space surveillance network. Today there are over 21,000 space objects (that is, satellites, manned systems, and debris) being tracked. Space situational awareness (SSA) uses space surveillance information (which is largely concerned with observing what’s in space) to create a more useful understanding and awareness of what’s going on in space. </span>
<span class="Underline">Under the auspices of the Space Situational Awareness (SSA) Sharing Program, first begun in 2004 as a pilot program to help ensure safe operations in space, U.S. Strategic Command provides SSA information to commercial and foreign nation “partners” within a limited set of conditions. This SSA information includes basic orbital parameters (called two-line element sets), as well as launch support and conjunction assessments based on a “High Accuracy Catalog.” Could the SSA Sharing Program evolve into in something more complex, like a space traffic control system? </span>
<span class="Underline">A space traffic control system would exceed SSA in cost, ambition, and benefit. If mature, it would provide a way to actively monitor, direct, and redirect space objects in order to help prevent them from running into one another. Such a space traffic control system would help mitigate the risk of collisions in space and while mitigating risk is a good thing (all other things being equal, which they never are) the cost of such mitigation much be balanced against the risks.</span>
<span class="Underline">That’s because space traffic control will be complex and is certain to require plenty “more”: more sensors; a more robust, capable, and connected SSA network; more computational power; better predictive software; more analysts; and, more cooperation and rule-following (for example, which maneuverable space object has the right of way?). Low earth orbits, sun synchronous orbits, and the geostationary belt are the parts of space that are most useful and also the most concerning. For the Air Force, the greatest risk may be that “leadership,” which is normally code for ‘pay for,’ in space traffic control could well become a (wait for it…) funding black hole. </span>
<span class="Underline">How so? Consider the Global Positioning System as a point of departure. While GPS is sometimes touted as a “free global utility,” economic theory holds that there is no such thing as free: at some point, someone has to pay, either with their time or with their money. So while it may be free to those in, say Syria, to use the GPS signal, the activities necessary to create and sustain such a capability are borne by the United States. And in that regard, the President’s Fiscal Year 2012 Budget calls for the Air Force to spend $1.462 billion for GPS in addition to about $200 million of other federal government GPS related funding. Global: yes. Utility: yes. Free: not.</span>
<span class="Underline">Now this is not to say GPS isn’t important: it is exceedingly important. But in fact, the extreme military benefits of GPS almost certainly pale in contrast to the civil and commercial applications, so much so that the UK is described as ‘dangerously reliant’ on GPS. If the estimated 6 to 7 percent of the UK economy which is dependent on GPS also holds true in the United States, about a trillion dollars per year would be somehow touched by GPS.</span>
<span class="Underline">The importance of GPS only serves to highlight the consequences of providing a “free” global utility: others will figure out how to take advantage of it and want more, even to the point of dependence. Could a space traffic control system follow a similar path, with those profiting from the utility (that is, other nations and commercial space) benefitting perhaps disproportionately versus those who pay for it (the U.S.) to the point of dangerous reliance?</span>
<span class="Underline">Lt. Gen. Susan Helms, commander of the U.S. Strategic Command's Joint Functional Component Command for Space said “…the SSA Sharing Program is evidence of the U.S. government's commitment to provide SSA data to the world, free of charge, in order to enhance safe and responsible space operations and promote transparency.” While it’s a noble sentiment, with SSA spending probably around $1B per year (parsing out the actual ongoing costs are difficult given one-time events, the continuing resolution(s), and SSA funding that’s blended with other programs) what are the limits of the government’s commitment? And while we’re at it, how about the logical follow-on to the space traffic control mission--space debris removal--another area where the U.S. is looked to for “leadership”? </span>
<span class="Underline">With space traffic control, the U.S. government is likely to subsidize space risk-reduction with the benefits of the effort being largely privatized. That is, other nations and commercial users get a free ride. A poorly constrained U.S. government “commitment” in subsidizing others’ SSA, space traffic control, or space debris removal needs is simply not feasible and is fact inconsistent with one of the principles from the President’s National Space Policy which offers that space sustainability (in this case, fiscal space sustainability) is vital to our national interests.</span>

<span class="Underline">Two scenarios for extinctions-</span>
<span class="Underline">1- Orbital Slots </span>
<span class="Underline">They are at a minimum- collisions between satellites are likely- traffic control solves</span>
<span class="Underline">Hitchens 3- Making Progress: Opportunities for Improving Space Security by Theresa Hitchens Vice President, Center for Defense Information 22-24 May 2003 http://www.pugwash.org/reports/sc/may2003/space2003-hitchens.htm hnasser </span>
<span class="Underline">Another set of measures (albeit significantly related to debris mitigation) could be lumped together as space access and traffic control, or "rules of the road" for utilizing space. While the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) is responsible for allocating spectrum, there seem to be very few hard and fast rules for how to manage issues such as future orbital crowding, access to slots, avoiding collisions, etc. A recent industry report makes a number of recommendations in this area, noting that "self-interest alone is often insufficient to encourage safe and responsible operation of space systems" and noting that the current U.N. space treaties do not provide enough "clear legal guidance." It is indicative of a serious problem when industry is calling for more regulation and control not less! Such a space traffic control regime might include improved coordination and approval of orbital slots; provide tracking of satellites once they were in orbit to ensure that they did not move in an unauthorized way (limiting fear of "cling-on" ASAT systems); create standard practices for de-orbiting; impose sanctions for those who do not comply; and assess liability damages for collisions. Another space traffic control idea has been raised by Air Force Col. John Hyten, now chief of Air Force Space Command's Space Control Division. He has suggested the creation of a "Law of the Sea" for space. This might include creating "territorial" space around satellites - others have called these "keep out" zones - similar to a nation's territorial waters, as a means for ensuring against physical crowding and radio interference, but also boosting confidence against possible space-based ASAT attack. For example, if a satellite or space object crossed into such "territorial" space during its orbit or maneuvers, damages could be assessed - or, at the extreme end, the owners of the space asset whose territory was violated might have the right to disable and/or remove the violating object (though not in a manner that would create debris). Again, a key to such a regime would be keeping tabs on orbital objects, since avoiding collisions with other space objects requires the same sort of space object tracking as does debris. Therefore, space traffic control would need to be underpinned by more transparency among space-faring nations about space launch and orbital parameters, leading to the third related set of initiatives.</span>

<span class="Underline">Satellite collisions cause miscalculation </span>
<span class="Underline">Space Security 2011- Gérard Brachet Institute de l’Air et de l’Espace Peter Hays Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Studies Ram Jakhu Institute of Air and Space Law, McGill University William Marshall NASA – Ames Research Center Paul Meyer The Simons Foundation John Siebert Project Ploughshares Dana Smith Foreign Affairs and International Trade Canada Ray Williamson Secure World Foundation Advisory Board Richard DalBello Intelsat General Corporation Theresa Hitchens United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research Dr. John Logsdon The George Washington University Dr. Lucy Stojak HEC Montreal Project Manager Cesar Jaramillo Project Ploughshares http://www.spacesecurity.org/executive.summary.2011.PDF hnasser </span>
<span class="Underline">The increasing globalization of space technology has led not only to the diversification of suppliers and customers for space applications, but also to a sharp reduction in entry barriers to the space domain for many nations. As the number of space actors able to access space increases, more parties have a direct stake in the need to ensure the sustainability of space activities and preserve this domain for peaceful purposes. However, more space actors means greater overcrowding of space orbits and greater strain on such scarce space resources as orbital slots and radio frequencies. In a more crowded environment, the risk of accidental interference with space assets goes up. Even though the development of civilian space applications is driven mostly by economic development aspirations and public safety considerations, the spread of launch capabilities could exacerbate regional tensions</span>

<span class="Underline">Extinction </span>
<span class="Underline">Mitchell, et al 1 -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span class="Underline">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)</span>

<span class="Underline">A buildup of space weapons might begin with noble intentions of 'peace through strength' deterrence, but this rationale glosses over the tendency that '… the presence of space weapons…will result in the increased likelihood of their use'.33 This drift toward usage is strengthened by a strategic fact elucidated by Frank Barnaby: when it comes to arming the heavens, 'anti-ballistic missiles and anti-satellite warfare technologies go hand-in-hand'.34 The interlocking nature of offense and defense in military space technology stems from the inherent 'dual capability' of spaceborne weapon components. As Marc Vidricaire, Delegation of Canada to the UN Conference on Disarmament, explains: 'If you want to intercept something in space, you could use the same capability to target something on land'. 35 To the extent that ballistic missile interceptors based in space can knock out enemy missiles in mid-flight, such interceptors can also be used as orbiting 'Death Stars', capable of sending munitions hurtling through the Earth's atmosphere. The dizzying speed of space warfare would introduce intense 'use or lose' pressure into strategic calculations, with the spectre of split-second attacks creating incentives to rig orbiting Death Stars with automated 'hair trigger' devices. In theory, this automation would enhance survivability of vulnerable space weapon platforms. However, by taking the decision to commit violence out of human hands and endowing computers with authority to make war, military planners could sow insidious seeds of accidental conflict. Yale sociologist Charles Perrow has analyzed 'complexly interactive, tightly coupled' industrial systems such as space weapons, which have many sophisticated components that all depend on each other's flawless performance. According to Perrow, this interlocking complexity makes it impossible to foresee all the different ways such systems could fail. As Perrow explains, '[t]he odd term "normal accident" is meant to signal that, given the system characteristics, multiple and unexpected interactions of failures are inevitable'.36 Deployment of space weapons with pre-delegated authority to fire death rays or unleash killer projectiles would likely make war itself inevitable, given the susceptibility of such systems to 'normal accidents'. It is chilling to contemplate the possible effects of a space war. According to retired Lt. Col. Robert M. Bowman, 'even a tiny projectile reentering from space strikes the earth with such high velocity that it can do enormous damage — even more than would be done by a nuclear weapon of the same size!'. 37 In the same Star Wars technology touted as a quintessential tool of peace, defence analyst David Langford sees one of the most destabilizing offensive weapons ever conceived: 'One imagines dead cities of microwave-grilled people'.38 Given this unique potential for destruction, it is not hard to imagine that any nation subjected to space weapon attack would retaliate with maximum force, including use of nuclear, biological, and/or chemical weapons. An accidental war sparked by a computer glitch in space could plunge the world into the most destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>
<span class="Underline">Additionally, space debris is the biggest threat to early warning- false alarms would cause nuclear responses </span>
<span class="Underline">Lewis 4 - a postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Security Program</span>
<span class="Underline">(Jeffrey, “What if Space Were Weaponized? Possible Consequences for Crisis Scenarios, Center for Defense Information Washington, D.C. July 2004 http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf) </span>
<span class="Underline">What would happen if a piece of space debris were to disable a Russian early-warning satellite under these conditions? Could the Russian military distinguish between an accident in space and the first phase of a U.S. attack? Most Russian early-warning satellites are in elliptical Molniya orbits (a few are in GEO) and thus difficult to attack from the ground or air. At a minimum, Moscow would probably have some tactical warning of such a suspicious launch, but given the sorry state of Russia’s warning, optical imaging and signals intelligence satellites there is reason to ask the question. Further, the advent of U.S. on-orbit ASATs, as now envisioned50 could make both the more difficult orbital plane and any warning systems moot. The unpleasant truth is that the Russians likely would have to make a judgment call. No state has the ability to definitively determine the cause of the satellite’s failure. Even the United States does not maintain (nor is it likely to have in place by 2010) a sophisticated space surveillance system that would allow it to distinguish between a satellite malfunction, a debris strike or a deliberate attack – and Russian space surveillance capabilities are much more limited by comparison. Even the risk assessments for collision with debris are speculative, particularly for the unique orbits in which Russian early-warning satellites operate. During peacetime, it is easy to imagine that the Russians would conclude that the loss of a satellite was either a malfunction or a debris strike. But how confident could U.S. planners be that the Russians would be so calm if the accident in space occurred in tandem with a second false alarm, or occurred during the middle of a crisis? What might happen if the debris strike occurred shortly after a false alarm showing a missile launch? False alarms are appallingly common – according to information obtained under the Freedom of Information Act, the U.S.-Canadian North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD) experienced 1,172 “moderately serious” false alarms between 1977 and 1983 – an average of almost three false alarms per week. Comparable information is not available about the Russian system, but there is no reason to believe that it is any more reliable.51 Assessing the likelihood of these sorts of coincidences is difficult because Russia has never provided data about the frequency or duration of false alarms; nor indicated how seriously earlywarning data is taken by Russian leaders. Moreover, there is no reliable estimate of the debris risk for Russian satellites in highly elliptical orbits.52 The important point, however, is that such a coincidence would only appear suspicious if the United States were in the business of disabling satellites – in other words, there is much less risk if Washington does not develop ASATs. The loss of an early-warning satellite could look rather ominous if it occurred during a period of major tension in the relationship. While NATO no longer sees Russia as much of a threat, the same cannot be said of the converse. Despite the warm talk, Russian leaders remain wary of NATO expansion, particularly the effect expansion may have on the Baltic port of Kaliningrad. Although part of Russia, Kaliningrad is separated from the rest of Russia by Lithuania and Poland. Russia has already complained about its decreasing lack of access to the port, particularly the uncooperative attitude of the Lithuanian government. 53 News reports suggest that an edgy Russia may have moved tactical nuclear weapons into the enclave.54 If the Lithuanian government were to close access to Kaliningrad in a fit of pique, this would trigger a major crisis between NATO and Russia. Under these circumstances, the loss of an early-warning satellite would be extremely suspicious. It is any military’s nature during a crisis to interpret events in their worst-case light. For example, consider the coincidences that occurred in early September 1956, during the extraordinarily tense period in international relations marked by the Suez Crisis and Hungarian uprising.55 On one evening the White House received messages indicating: 1. the Turkish Air Force had gone on alert in response to unidentified aircraft penetrating its airspace; 2. one hundred Soviet MiG-15s were flying over Syria; 3. a British Canberra bomber had been shot down over Syria, most likely by a MiG; and 4. The Russian fleet was moving through the Dardanelles. Gen. Andrew Goodpaster was reported to have worried that the confluence of events “might trigger off … the NATO operations plan” that called for a nuclear strike on the Soviet Union. Yet, all of these reports were false. The “jets” over Turkey were a flock of swans; the Soviet MiGs over Syria were a smaller, routine escort returning the president from a state visit to Moscow; the bomber crashed due to mechanical difficulties; and the Soviet fleet was beginning long-scheduled exercises. In an important sense, these were not “coincidences” but rather different manifestations of a common failure – human error resulting from extreme tension of an international crisis. As one author noted, “The detection and misinterpretation of these events, against the context of world tensions from Hungary and Suez, was the first major example of how the size and complexity of worldwide electronic warning systems could, at certain critical times, create momentum of its own.” Perhaps most worrisome, the United States might be blithely unaware of the degree to which the Russians were concerned about its actions and inadvertently escalate a crisis. During the early 1980s, the Soviet Union suffered a major “war scare” during which time its leadership concluded that bilateral relations were rapidly declining. This war scare was driven in part by the rhetoric of the Reagan administration, fortified by the selective reading of intelligence. During this period, NATO conducted a major command post exercise, Able Archer, that caused some elements of the Soviet military to raise their alert status. American officials were stunned to learn, after the fact, that the Kremlin had been acutely nervous about an American first strike during this period.56 All of these incidents have a common theme – that confidence is often the difference between war and peace. In times of crisis, false alarms can have a momentum of their own. As in the second scenario in this monograph, the lesson is that commanders rely on the steady flow of reliable information. When that information flow is disrupted – whether by a deliberate attack or an accident – confidence collapses and the result is panic and escalation. Introducing ASAT weapons into this mix is all the more dangerous, because such weapons target the elements of the command system that keep leaders aware, informed and in control. As a result, the mere presence of such weapons is corrosive to the confidence that allows national nuclear forces to operate safely. </span>

<span class="Underline">US-Russia nuclear war foremost existential risk </span>
<span class="Underline">Bostrom 2- Nick, Recipient of the Gannon Award, Professor of Philosophy and Global Studies 2002 "Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards," 38, www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html. </span>
<span class="Underline">A much greater existential risk emerged with the build-up of nuclear arsenals in the US and the USSR. An all-out nuclear war was a possibility with both a substantial probability and with consequences that might have been persistent enough to qualify as global and terminal. There was a real worry among those best acquainted with the information available at the time that a nuclear Armageddon would occur and that it might annihilate our species or permanently destroy human civilization. Russia and the US retain large nuclear arsenals that could be used in a future confrontation, either accidentally or deliberately. There is also a risk that other states may one day build up large nuclear arsenals. Note however that a smaller nuclear exchange, between India and Pakistan for instance, is not an existential risk, since it would not destroy or thwart humankind’s potential permanently. </span>
==<span class="Underline">Contention 5- Solvency</span>== 

<span class="Underline">LIDAR technology solves- increases information accuracy and tracking </span>
<span class="Underline">Gast 8- David, NAVAL POSTGRADUATE SCHOOL MONTEREY, CALIFORNIA THESIS, “Lidar Design for Space Situational Awareness” September 2008 </span>
<span class="Underline">Space Situational Awareness (SSA) is vital to the United States of America. More than any other country, the U.S. utilizes space for military command and control, military and civilian navigation, communications, intelligence, and a host of other applications (Rumsfeld 9). Knowing what is orbiting our planet and the orbits in which those objects are located is essential to maintaining those capabilities. To date, most efforts in detecting, tracking and cataloging objects in orbit have been carried out by earthborn means. Radar emplacements like The Fence track every object of sufficient size that passes overhead, then update the catalogues in a more or less automated fashion. Other radar and optical sites can track orbiting objects as they pass within their fields of view, and some can even locate objects as far out as the GEO belt. Unfortunately, each of these methods requires the object to be tracked to pass overhead. Any object in an orbit that does not do so cannot be tracked. For instance, The Fence cannot track anything in an inclination low enough not to cross it. Furthermore, most of these methods require a tracked object to be correlated to a launch in order to identify the object. Any significant maneuver while out of sight of a ground station could easily generate an uncorrelated track. The limitations of earthborn sensors grow out of three facts. First, any such sensor must be, by definition, on the ground. The highest piece of ground is only 8.85 km above sea level, and is hardly an ideal location for building anything. Most satellites, on the other hand, have a perigee at or above 600 km, due to atmospheric drag considerations. Thus, to be useful, any such sensor must be able to detect objects at least that far away.</span>
<span class="Underline">Second, the range of orbits visible to any given site is constrained by its physical location. Furthermore, many such sensors require multiple passes before a solid track is developed, and all require periodic revisits to maintain their tracks. Mobile sensors can help to alleviate the first problem, but not the second, since moving them to cover different orbits would cause them to lose track on those objects spotted previously. There 2 are also practical and political issues with the placement of such systems. A given location may be ideally situated to observe a particular range or orbits, but it may present a challenging environment for constructing and operating such a system. Other locations may be ideal both positionally and environmentally, but may be controlled by someone who would prefer not to have a space observation sensor located there. Third, and of particular concern for optical systems, though not inconsequential to radars, is the fact that any earthborn system must look up through the atmosphere. The atmosphere distorts, disperses, reflects and absorbs various electromagnetic wavelengths to different degrees.</span>
<span class="Underline">Figure 1. EM Transmissivity in Atmosphere (From: Olsen 66) As a result of these inherent limitations of earthborn sensors, a great deal of interest has developed in improving Space Situational Awareness through space-based means. Space-based sensors can operate at shorter ranges, allowing lower power requirements for active sensors and better resolution with smaller apertures for both active and passive sensors. These sensors can be launched into almost any orbit without dealing with territorial issues. They do not, in most cases, have to deal with atmospheric effects. They also move very quickly compared to satellites not in similar orbits, 3 allowing a relatively small constellation of satellites, correctly deployed, to cover every orbit from short-term LEO orbits out to the GEO belt. The exact nature and composition of such a constellation is outside the scope of this thesis. However, along with more traditional SSA sensors, Laser Imaging, Detection And Ranging devices (LIDARs) could be used to great effect in such a constellation. LIDARs possess the optical resolution and imaging capabilities of passive optical sensors while also providing the range information and independence from light sources of RADAR. Incidentally, depending on whom you ask, LIDAR stands either for LIght Detection And Ranging or Laser Imaging, Detection And Ranging. The same technology is also known as LADAR (LAser Detection and Ranging) and Laser Radar</span>






= = 





=Affirmative- Glenbrooks/Northwestern Round Robin= 
==Plan Text== 
======The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its development of space situational awareness by deploying====== 
======<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Laser Imaging, Detection And Ranging devices above the earth's mesosphere </span>====== 
==Inherency== 
<span class="Underline">**All status quo SSA efforts fail- despite DOD funding all programs have capability shortfalls** </span>
<span class="Underline">**GAO 11-** United States Government Accountability Office, GAO Report to the Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, Committee on Armed Services, House of Representatives, “SPACE ACQUISITIONS Development and Oversight Challenges in Delivering Improved Space Situational Awareness Capabilities” May 2011 http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d11545.pdf</span>
<span class="Underline">Despite recent investments, existing SSA capabilities continue to fall short of operational needs and space policy objectives. In the past 5 fiscal years, while DOD continued its investments in SSA, it has not delivered significant new SSA capabilities to the warfighter as originally expected. Capabilities that were delivered served to sustain or modernize existing systems versus closing gaps. For example, DOD has extended the service lives of some sensors supporting SSA capabilities and has added 12 The Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) accounts for the remainder. Page 11 GAO-11-545 Space Acquisitions additional processors and servers to the SSA’s command and control system’s computer, as well as adding analysts and operational personnel. However, Joint Functional Component Command for Space officials did not characterize these efforts as delivering significant increases in capability. DOD plans to begin delivering major new additions in capability in the coming 5 years, including the Air Force’s recently launched space-based sensor that is expected to appreciably enhance SSA. However, it is too early to determine the extent to which these new capabilities or additions will address capability shortfalls. As described below, many of these efforts—those expected to provide the biggest gains in capability—have struggled or are struggling with cost, schedule, and performance challenges and face risks to meeting their acquisition goals, potentially exacerbating SSA capability shortfalls. Two new SSA acquisition efforts are scheduled to begin product development within the next 2 years— Space Fence and JMS, which are described below, together with five other key efforts. JMS will be essential to providing and enhancing future space command and control and SSA capabilities, while Space Fence is to be the single largest SSA investment. The challenges and risks these programs face include the potential employment of immature critical technologies, program office staffing and skill shortages, complex integration tasks, the integration of data from numerous heterogeneous sources, operations in a multiple security level environment (information assurance), not utilizing an incremental development approach, and overloading of DOD’s current space object tracking system with data from new sensor systems coming on line over the next 5 years. Table 1 describes, in more detail, the status of SSA development efforts that are expected to deliver large gains in capability over the next 5 years and the challenges and risks they face. Page 12 GAO-11-545 Space Acquisitions Table 1: Descriptions, Status, and Challenges and Risks of SSA Programs and Projects that Are Expected to Deliver Large Gains in Capability in Fiscal Years 2010 through 2015 New sensors Space Based Space Surveillance (SBSS) Description/Status: • The Air Force’s initial SBSS effort consists of a single satellite—using an electro-optical telescope—and associated command, control, communications, and ground processing equipment, to collect positional and characterization data on Earth-orbiting objects, replacing a predecessor, the Midcourse Space Experiment Space Based Visible sensor, which significantly contributed to the detection and tracking of deep space objects and which ended its mission in July 2008. SBSS is expected to provide timely detection, tracking, and identification data to significantly increase DOD’s ability to understand the location and mission capabilities of satellites and other objects, particularly in geosynchronous Earth orbits. The space vehicle was launched in September 2010. The expected duration of the satellite mission is about 5.5 years. The Air Force and DOD are studying options to provide a follow-on capability to SBSS. Challenges and risks: • Cost and schedule: The on-orbit SSA sensing capability is being replaced by SBSS when it becomes operational, estimated for the end of May 2011. SBSS experienced a delay of over 3 years—along with about a 163 percent cost increase, from about $332 million at development start in 2003 to about $873 million. The SBSS program was restructured in 2006 after an independent review team found that the program’s original cost and schedule baseline was not executable; the assembly, integration, and test plan was risky; and the requirements were overstated. The restructure provided for increased funding and schedule margin; streamlined the assembly, integration, and test plan; and relaxed requirements. The SBSS program office attributes the causes of the schedule delay and cost increase that led to the restructure to technical requirements volatility (including a change to a much more complex sensor design, which became the program’s largest cost driver); a late development contract award; and a change in the planned launch vehicle type (from a Delta II to a Minotaur IV) which required the program to fund the launch. Subsequent to the restructure, technical issues relating to the Minotaur IV caused additional delays. • Data processing: The Air Force’s Joint Space Operations Center Mission System (described below) will need to be available to process all SBSS data. Rapid Attack Identification Detection and Reporting System (RAIDRS) a Description/status: • The Air Force’s initial RAIDRS effort is to develop ground-based systems consisting of antennas and data processing equipment that are to rapidly detect and report electromagnetic interference attacks on DOD satellite communication assets in the C, X, and Ku radio frequency bands. The Air Force initiated the program in March 2005 with a development cost estimate of $226 million and initial operational capability estimated for 2008. Challenges: • Cost and schedule: The program has undergone multiple rebaselines, the most recent in 2009, because of contract cost increases totaling about $78.5 million and about 4 years of schedule growth. The RAIDRS program office attributes the cost increases and schedule delay to technical requirements and design instability; overly optimistic cost estimates; incorrect assumption of utilizing government-furnished antennas which proved nonviable and which required producing new antennas; and an inexperienced and substandard prime contractor. Initial operational capability is estimated for fiscal year 2012 and a revised cost estimate was expected to be developed by August 2010. • Performance: The most recent program rebaseline resulted in a simplified system: from nine systems— six fixed and three deployable—to five deployable systems. The program estimates the simplified system will satisfy 92 percent of the program requirements, with reduced simultaneous geolocation and detection capabilities; no off-line processing, test, and exercise functions; and reduced ultra high Page 13 GAO-11-545 Space Acquisitions frequency (UHF) interference capabilities (the latter was a Key Performance Parameter (KPP) under the previous Capability Development Document (CDD) b —according to the program office, the CDD is being updated to revise the UHF requirement). Space Fence Description/status: • The Air Force’s Space Fence is to be a new system of ground-based phased-array radars costing potentially as much as $6.1 billion, according to the Air Force Electronic Systems Center (the product center responsible for acquiring Space Fence). Space Fence is intended to replace and expand coverage provided by the aging Air Force Space Surveillance System using higher radio frequencies to detect and track smaller Earth-orbiting objects. The system was to consist originally of up to three geographically dispersed radars (notionally located in Australia; Ascension Island, south Atlantic Ocean; or Kwajalein Atoll, Marshall Islands); however, recent analysis shows that a three-site system may not provide adequate cost-benefit over a two-site system and, therefore, the Air Force considers the likelihood of a two-site solution is very high. Currently, the effort is in the technology development phase, where the Air Force is actively assessing trade-off options between system performance—such as detection altitude and accuracy—and affordability. System development is scheduled to begin in June 2012, with the first Space Fence radar site providing initial operational capability by the end of fiscal year 2015, and the final site providing full capability by 2020. Challenges and risks: • Data processing: The primary program risk, according to the Electronic Systems Center, is that the new Joint Space Operations Center Mission System (described below) will need to be available to process Space Fence data, as the amount of data provided will result in an increase in uncued detection and tracking capacity from 10,000 to 100,000 objects. • Integration, information assurance: The Space Fence program office states other risks of the program include large-scale integration and calibration of radar arrays, scalability of the design for the digital beam former, c and development of information assurance certification criteria. • Technology: All five critical Space Fence technologies identified by the program office are immature— one at technology readiness level (TRL) 4 and four at TRL 5 d —which increases risk to cost and schedule goals. Given that technology discovery cannot be scheduled, the immature technologies raise the risk of having to defer product development until these technologies become mature. Although mature backup critical technologies exist which could be used if the primary technologies do not mature by the start of system development, all have potentially higher acquisition costs and in some cases, higher operating costs as well, according to the program office. While the program has a critical technology maturity goal of TRL 6 prior to preliminary design review (which is in accordance with DOD’s acquisition policy), e our best practices work has shown technology development to TRL 7 could significantly reduce risk to meeting cost, schedule and performance goals.</span>

<span class="Underline">**LIDAR technology solves- increases information accuracy and tracking** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Gast 8**- David, NAVAL POSTGRADUATE SCHOOL MONTEREY, CALIFORNIA THESIS, “Lidar Design for Space Situational Awareness” September 2008 </span>
<span class="Underline">Space Situational Awareness (SSA) is vital to the United States of America. More than any other country, the U.S. utilizes space for military command and control, military and civilian navigation, communications, intelligence, and a host of other applications (Rumsfeld 9). Knowing what is orbiting our planet and the orbits in which those objects are located is essential to maintaining those capabilities. To date, most efforts in detecting, tracking and cataloging objects in orbit have been carried out by earthborn means. Radar emplacements like The Fence track every object of sufficient size that passes overhead, then update the catalogues in a more or less automated fashion. Other radar and optical sites can track orbiting objects as they pass within their fields of view, and some can even locate objects as far out as the GEO belt. Unfortunately, each of these methods requires the object to be tracked to pass overhead. Any object in an orbit that does not do so cannot be tracked. For instance, The Fence cannot track anything in an inclination low enough not to cross it. Furthermore, most of these methods require a tracked object to be correlated to a launch in order to identify the object. Any significant maneuver while out of sight of a ground station could easily generate an uncorrelated track. The limitations of earthborn sensors grow out of three facts. First, any such sensor must be, by definition, on the ground. The highest piece of ground is only 8.85 km above sea level, and is hardly an ideal location for building anything. Most satellites, on the other hand, have a perigee at or above 600 km, due to atmospheric drag considerations. Thus, to be useful, any such sensor must be able to detect objects at least that far away.</span>
<span class="Underline">Second, the range of orbits visible to any given site is constrained by its physical location. Furthermore, many such sensors require multiple passes before a solid track is developed, and all require periodic revisits to maintain their tracks. Mobile sensors can help to alleviate the first problem, but not the second, since moving them to cover different orbits would cause them to lose track on those objects spotted previously. There 2 are also practical and political issues with the placement of such systems. A given location may be ideally situated to observe a particular range or orbits, but it may present a challenging environment for constructing and operating such a system. Other locations may be ideal both positionally and environmentally, but may be controlled by someone who would prefer not to have a space observation sensor located there. Third, and of particular concern for optical systems, though not inconsequential to radars, is the fact that any earthborn system must look up through the atmosphere. The atmosphere distorts, disperses, reflects and absorbs various electromagnetic wavelengths to different degrees.</span>
<span class="Underline">Figure 1. EM Transmissivity in Atmosphere (From: Olsen 66) As a result of these inherent limitations of earthborn sensors, a great deal of interest has developed in improving Space Situational Awareness through space-based means. Space-based sensors can operate at shorter ranges, allowing lower power requirements for active sensors and better resolution with smaller apertures for both active and passive sensors. These sensors can be launched into almost any orbit without dealing with territorial issues. They do not, in most cases, have to deal with atmospheric effects. They also move very quickly compared to satellites not in similar orbits, 3 allowing a relatively small constellation of satellites, correctly deployed, to cover every orbit from short-term LEO orbits out to the GEO belt. The exact nature and composition of such a constellation is outside the scope of this thesis. However, along with more traditional SSA sensors, Laser Imaging, Detection And Ranging devices (LIDARs) could be used to great effect in such a constellation. LIDARs possess the optical resolution and imaging capabilities of passive optical sensors while also providing the range information and independence from light sources of RADAR. Incidentally, depending on whom you ask, LIDAR stands either for LIght Detection And Ranging or Laser Imaging, Detection And Ranging. The same technology is also known as LADAR (LAser Detection and Ranging) and Laser Radar. </span>

==<span class="Underline"> Contention 2 Cooperation</span>== 
<span class="Underline">**China and the U.S. have entered a cold war- regardless of Chinese intent, policymakers perceive belligerence and will retaliate- recent satellite interference proves** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Discovery News 11/1**- “SATELLITE BATTLEGROUND IN SPACE? China may be tinkering with U.S. satellites and experts say other countries are likely doing the same.” Tue Nov 1, 2011 http://news.discovery.com/space/satellites-cold-war-hacking-china.html</span>
<span class="Underline">Space has long been a battleground for disputes between the United States and its rivals, but news this week that the Chinese military may have been behind a hacking attack on NASA satellites has confirmed for some experts that a technological Cold War is well underway. "The reason why space is the must-win region is because, especially for the West, much of our information is collected, transmitted and controlled through space," said Dean Cheng, a research fellow at the Heritage Foundation in Washington. NEWS: China Starts Work on Its Own Space Hangout Space "is where things are happening. The Chinese have been close analysts of foreign wars and they have reached the conclusion that the ability to establish space superiority is key to victory." Cheng and other experts point to a growing number of suspicious incidents that have occurred to satellites in the past few years. -In 2007, China fired a missile against one of its defunct weather satellites, blowing it up and creating a huge debris field that menaces other nations' satellites. </span>
<span class="Underline">WATCH VIDEO: NASA Puts Satellites Through Wringer -In October 2007 and June 2008, NASA experienced several minutes of interference on its Landsat-7 and Terra AM-1 earth observation satellites on several occasions, according to Bloomberg News, which cited a draft report by the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission. The report doesn't blame China, but says the attack is consistent with Chinese military writings. Chinese officials denied the report, saying, "This report is untrue and has ulterior motives." -In January 2010, there was another collision of a Chinese missile and a satellite. -In August 2010, China figured out how to bump two of their satellites together without destroying them, a potential dress rehearsal for satellite hunter-killer technology. NEWS: NASA Banned From Working With China While some incidents involve the Chinese disabling their own space vehicles, the latest information about the loss of control of NASA's satellites is more worrisome, Cheng said.</span>
<span class="Underline">“It demonstrates the vulnerability of our satellites," he said. "Somebody who has the ability to hack into a satellite and take control of it can do several things. You could turn off the cameras, you could point the camera away from what you are looking for. Those are the least bad things you could do. You could orient the solar panels away so the whole thing powers down, then you have a dead piece of satellite." Other experts say we shouldn't be surprised that China is testing U.S. capabilities in orbit. James Lewis, a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, says that such probes are probably a routine occurrence, but are often not made public. He said that communications from the ground to most U.S. military satellites are encrypted, and therefore more protected against hackers. He said that earlier satellites, such the ones operated by NASA, may be using outdated security measures. "These weren't military satellites," Lewis said in an email. "And if hacking Landsat is the best you can do, it's not very scary. There are probably a half dozen countries that have experimented with interfering with satellites and that may include the United States." Andrew D'Uva, president of Providence Access Co., an Arlington, Va.-based consulting firm to satellite companies, says that most commercial satellites also have encrypted protection measures to prevent hacker attacks. He says that the interference with NASA's satellites could have come from other nations besides China or from private individuals.</span>
<span class="Underline">If China is fingered as the culprit, should the U.S. retaliate? If there is unambiguous proof, yes, it should be discouraged through escalating steps," D'Uva said. "But we are a long way from that." To deter such attacks or probes or incidents, the Pentagon recently set up the Joint Space Protection Program (JSPP). National Reconnaissance Office Director Bruce Carlson said the JSPP is trying to figure out how to differentiate between attacks and accidents in space. "It's becoming very congested (and) we recognize that it's becoming very congested because other countries are launching a lot of stuff, sometimes more than we do, and it's becoming very competitive," Carlson said at a recent press event, according to the blog Defense Tech. "I don't think it's any secret that the Chinese are becoming more active in space and that concerns us because we're not absolutely sure of their intent." But truth be told, U.S. officials are probably well aware of China's intentions in space, according to Lewis. "The Chinese plan to attack our space assets in the event of a conflict. They also plan to attack our carriers and maybe critical infrastructure. This is pretty basic stuff -- militaries plan to fight their opponents, so it's hard to be too indignant."</span>

<span class="Underline">**Cooperative frameworks are inevitable but will fail without the plan- countries will only perceive the NSP with an ssa policy** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Rendleman and Ryals 2k11** (Col. James Randleman is a J.D. and BS and was second lieutenant through the Air Force ROTC, Col. Robert Ryals is a BSEE, JD, and MA and a Force Space Command as a contractor in space control and as an instructor for the past five years at the Space Innovation and Development Center’s Advanced Space Operations School, “The New National Space Policy: More is Needed” February 2011, High Frontier Volume 7, No. 2, pg online </span>
<span class="Underline"> Interest in international space cooperation is not new. International cooperation has been an important and long-standing hallmark of the US national space policies. International cooperation and associated multinational operations have been important components of an effective global engagement strategy to assure access to space capabilities for the US, its allies, and partners. The US engages in a wide range of such activities, not because of their benign nature but rather they are in its best national interests to do so. US collaborative efforts have been part of the space age since its beginning. Cooperation allows space-faring states to combine resources and reduce risk; improve efficiency; expand diplomatic engagement; and enhance prestige of engaged states, improve political sustainability of space projects, and provide workforce stability. With the end of the Cold War, space and Earth science research and space exploration activities are no longer con by an overarching competition between superpowers. The George H. W. Bush, Clinton, George W. Bush, and now Obama administrations have each attempted to capitalize on the post Cold War opportunities and leverage the expertise of other nations. The US scientific community has entered into a new multi-polar world, creating diverse international space alliances and partnerships. The Obama administration supports this trend by reaching out to growing global space powers like India and China, both emerging economic and engineering powerhouses. It hopes such engagement will shape their future space, engineering and political activities in positive ways. The US has also reached out to old friends. For example, Secretaries of State and Defense, Clinton and Robert M. Gates, have announced the Australians will be more fully integrated into US space situational awareness activities. 7 The sentiments to support international cooperation and collaboration are growing and evolving, much more so than in past policy declarations. Participants expect international projects will generate a calculus that one plus one will equal three— that diverse resources, skills, and technologies of the partners will provide synergy, adding up to more than the sum of their parts. 8</span>
<span class="Underline"> NASA, commercial, and European space activities have already achieved considerable success with their cooperative endeavors. 9 Fans of the new policy may think that the number of times “international cooperation” or “cooperation” is mentioned is very important. Yes, the new policy does contain numerous references to “cooperation.” Grand pronouncements and simplistic interpretation of the number of references relating to cooperation are not enough. The old and current reality is that cooperative programs are expensive, difficult at times to resource, and many times very hard to manage. Shrewd partners know that the direction to engage in cooperation is not worth much unless tied to real money and programs. Potential and even current partners are thus taking a judicious wait and see attitude to the new policy. They have been closely watching the US space politics for well over 50 years and will not act rashly. Changing their business plans to respond to fickle US executive and legislative international cooperative initiatives could be considered too much risk to assume.</span>
<span class="Underline">Successful international cooperation is not easily achieved. Considering the space debris, SSA, collision avoidance, and TCBM foundational points identified above, the new policy provides no thought guideposts on how to proceed. The new policy cries out for a strategy to obtain these goals. Knowledgeable diplomats and policy analysts understand that US government agencies do not always support policy directives. This creates uncertainty and unpredictability for potential partners who are considering cooperative ventures with the US. For example, one need only look to the fight over acquiring space imaging via the National Reconnaissance Office (NRO) broad area space-based imagery collection (BASIC) satellite system against using a commercial remote sensing solution. The Office of the Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics objected to the proposed BASIC acquisition suggesting the NRO was not following US Commer-37 High Frontier cial Remote Sensing Policy which provided the US would first look to the commercial community to satisfy its remote sensing needs.</span>
<span class="Underline">10 The NRO position to acquire the system despite the policy eventually prevailed within the interagency. 11 Then Congress interceded, pointing again to the Commercial Remote Sensing Policy. It refused to fund the system. 12 A new space strategy must anticipate comparable bureaucratic foot-dragging to cooperation initiatives and associated reforms. The implementing strategy must advocate changes in laws and regulations to better enable international cooperation. The Arms Export Control Act and its associated International Traffic in Arms Regulations still stymie US and international interests in cooperation. The strategy must also anticipate that many in the US security community will not see cooperation as a benefit. </span>
<span class="Underline">The new policy does not adequately confront the point that many US space professionals still have difficulty spelling “international cooperation.” They have a historical bias to first look to integrate international capabilities on a US platform, rather than comprehensively plan and employ an integrated approach. A strategy needs to enable the US space community to internalize an appreciation of the opportunities that international cooperative programs offer. One of the authors participated in a recent conference panel presentation on the “role of international cooperation” with senior NASA and industry officials where it was difficult to get the other speakers to discuss or mention any international component to their program activities. These officials, while very earnest and capable, felt much more comfortable just talking to the US components of their program portfolios. In due time, a winning international cooperation effort will require the entire US space community to fully embrace the concept.</span>

<span class="Underline">**The plan solves an arms race** </span>
<span class="Underline">**1) Solidifies all existing space treaties- SSA distinguishes between military and civilian uses of space systems, leads to effective verification**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Baines and Cote 2009**- Phillip J. and Adam, Promising confidence- and security-building measures for space security http://www.unidir.org/pdf/articles/pdf-art2906.pdf Philip J. Baines is Deputy Director of the Non-proliferation and Disarmament Division at the Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade Canada. Adam Côté is a researcher in the same division and an MA candidate at the Norman Paterson School of International Affairs at Carleton University.</span>
<span class="Underline">Verification and governance are crucial to the success of any space security treaty. A violation of its provisions could undermine the purposes of the agreement. In the context of outer space, there are two types of verification: adequate and effective. Although the differences between the two are not spelled out, it is generally understood that effective verification entails stricter requirements and more rigorous inspections.</span>
<span class="Underline">35 Adequate, however, is a verification standard consistent with the standard needed to wage war in outer space. 36 Essentially, in order to conduct physical conflict in space, one would need to be able to discern between military and civilian targets (as required by the Geneva Conventions).</span>
<span class="Underline">37 Moreover, in the absence of a ban on space weapons, militaries would be required to have robust space situational awareness in order to maintain a targeting list of possible threats. This ability to discriminate between military and civilian targets, or to establish an order of priority for targets based on their ability to harm other objects, can also be used as a verification standard for ensuring that space-based weapons are never deployed. The first step toward a robust verification and governance system is a collection of robust SSA systems. As discussed above, it is important to know what functions objects perform in outer space, who is in control of them, what orbits they occupy and how they behave in these orbits. This knowledge will not only act as a deterrent to the weaponization of space, but also reduce the risk of accidental collisions or interference.</span>
<span class="Underline">38 The independent SSA systems of China, the Russian Federation and the United States could become the basis for Regional Space Operation Centres (RSpOCs) that would each maintain extensive knowledge of what activities are taking place in outer space on a real-time basis. These RSpOCs could serve as a form of clearing house, in which sufficient space information would be made available to other states in a format that is consistent with the national security and foreign policy interests of these three major space powers. As every state will have a significant relationship with at least one of these powers, every spacefaring state could gain access to the necessary and sufficient information for its safe and sustainable use of outer space. This would be particularly true were both China and the Russian Federation to make similar data available to third parties as the United States currently does under its Commercial and Foreign Entities project.</span>
<span class="Underline">39 Looking forward, these RSpOCs, enhanced by Joint Data Exchange Centres established among them, could serve as the foundation for the multilateral verification of a space security treaty. 40 The second step toward a robust verification and governance system for space security is an executive council established under a space security treaty designed to report to the UN Security Council on compliance matters relating to the treaty. This executive council could serve as a basis for consultations concerning both compliance and whether or not a given satellite qualifies as a weapon based on its design and behaviour. This sort of governance system would be much more mutually beneficial and adhere to the spirit of Article IX of the OST, in contrast to a system of deterrence and tit-for-tat reprisals which may, in turn, lead to an arms race in outer space.</span>


<span class="Underline">**2) Data Sharing- U.S. leadership and data processing facilities are vital for success**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Robinson 11 -** Resident Fellow @ European Space Policy Institute (ESPI) [Jana Robinson, “Transparency and confidence-building measures for space security,” Space Policy 27 (2011) 27e37//]//</span>

//<span class="Underline"> Build space TCBMs with like-minded partners. Presently some countries are calling for a treaty banning weapons in space or a treaty preventing an arms race in outer space. Others focus on promoting a code of conduct and the responsible use of space. Europe and the USA should continue to take the lead in promoting safe and sustainable space-related activities. The USA can promote this effort through its advanced space capabilities, initially through comprehensive implementation of its SSA Data Sharing Program. Europe can, in turn, apply its longstanding experience in mediating stabilisation arrangements in multilateral bodies to promote specific TCBM measures for space. Space security can thereby be advanced more quickly as trust among spacefaring nations will be more easily established. The EU and ESA could offer an overarching cooperative structure to coordinate member states. Such a structure could embody advanced and funded SSA and other architectures necessary for the implementation of bolder TCBMs in the future.</span>//
//<span class="Underline"> Improve information exchanges related to collision avoidance. Governments could seek to implement national standards, in part, through closer collaboration with industry, which has spearheaded establishment of a prototype multi-partner collision avoidance system. Data exchanges could be geared to improving space object databases; establishing common international data standards and data harmonisation; and cooperating on dissemination of orbital tracking information and formulating predictive modelling tools. Moreover, an institutionalised structure should be contemplated to facilitate a smoother interface among member states, the EU, industry and the Space Data Association.</span>//
//<span class="Underline"> TCBM measures to mitigate interference with space activities. This objective could be implemented via establishment of an International Interference Information Center and similar structures for priority concerns. For example, strengthening of the Consultative Committee for Space Data Systems (CCSDS) offers an opportunity for more effective exchanges of data among space operators. This could, in turn, lead to greater government and commercial interoperability and mutual support. This kind of venue was proposed at the COPUOS in early 2010 in the context of its work on “Preliminary Reflections on Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities”.74</span>//
//<span class="Underline"> Avoid space becoming an area of conflict. Countries could reorient their attention from debates on prevention of an arms race in outer space (where little progress is expected in the near term) to individual declarations, gestures, and actions that make clear their peaceful intent in space. This could be accomplished through the timely sharing of space, national security and defence policies; bilateral visits during important, defence-related occasions, and even bilateral and multilateral military exercises testing the potential interoperability of deterrent space capabilities. The SchrieverWargame series could serve as a useful template for such military-to-military exchanges.</span>//
//<span class="Underline"> Improve compliance with OST and other obligations. Individual spacefaring nations could strengthen their oversight of nongovernmental entities in space through stricter technical standards, licensing requirements and financial penalties in cases of non-compliance. Nations should request consultations when planning conduct of riskier activities in space. A standing body should be considered to facilitate compliance with OST obligations. UN members could likewise be urged to seek sanctions against those nations that do not comply and/or endanger the space activities of other nations.</span>//
//<span class="Underline">5.1.2. Specific measures Establish an international center for sharing SSA data. In order to mitigate collision risks, space operators need awareness of near-term situations and orbital paths; and a propagation ability. A new data center could improve communications among operators as well as between governments and operators through the coordinated tracking of space objects. Such a center could also coordinate collision avoidance activities by integrating various sources of SSA data, including ground- and space-based space surveillance networks (SSN), space observers75 and satellite operators. This concept has already been suggested,76 and even partially implemented. A prototype data centre was established by seven major commercial owners and operators which regularly contribute data from some 120 satellites in GEO orbit.77 An important next step should be to identify and institutionalise the best means of coordinating, on an ongoing basis, with the Joint Space Operations Center (JSpOC) in the USA to take advantage of the overlapping of missions and value-added capabilities. Pg. 36-37</span>//

//<span class="Underline">**3) Miscalculation** </span>//
//<span class="Underline">**Rendleman 10 –** Retired Colonel in U.S. Air Force [James R. Rendleman, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Astropolitics: The International Journal of Space Politics & Policy, Volume 8, Issue 2 & 3, 2010, Pages 220 - 255 </span>//]

<span class="Underline">Samuel Black argues that ‘‘space assurance’’ should be the ultimate objective of a space strategy. According to Black: ‘‘A space assurance strategy strives to ensure that the president, U.S. armed forces, and U.S. citizens, allies, and friends can call upon space assets when needed.’’1 As is discussed herein, this strategic space assurance objective is more comprehensive and proactive, and provides for a more complete end state, than that offered by a pure deterrence and protection-based strategy. A strategy framework rooted in a space assurance context can respond more effectively to security scenarios and concerns. This objective can apply whether the threats to space capabilities come from peer, near-peer, or developing-world adversaries, bandits, and miscreants, problems posed just by the space environment and the debris the spacefaring community has already inserted on orbit, or even well meaning, but irresponsible spacefaring states.</span>
<span class="Underline">Black’s thinking echoes Bruce MacDonald’s who contends that the United States goal for space security should be to achieve a secure, stable environment. This encourages conflict prevention, and reinforces deterrence among international competitors, adversaries, friends, and the ambivalent. MacDonald suggests the focus should instead be placed on achieving strategic and crisis stability, deterrence, and transparency. This promotes behaviors that maximize the United States ability to utilize space and minimize operational and other problems. This would also include pursuing efforts to develop codes of conduct and rules of the road, minimize debris, and manage space traffic. He suggests these activities would be accompanied by confidence building measures, and involves agreements that constrain the ‘‘most destabilizing dimensions of offensive space capabilities.’’</span>
<span class="Underline">MacDonald also argues the United States must be able to deter others from attacking its space systems. He suggests that space-based offensive capabilities create vulnerabilities, and are destabilizing and best avoided. He argues the United States should seek to reduce adversary incentives to strike its space assets or take other destabilizing actions, and ensure continuity for space services. This would entail the use of distributed capabilities, multiple system nodes, and defense in depth with back-ups. This would also require enhanced attribution techniques to identify the sources of threats, and more robust space situational awareness (SSA) and intelligence capabilities. MacDonald opines that offensive space capability, if ever employed, should only involve the application of reversible effects.2</span>
<span class="Underline">By combining and supplementing the best of the Black and MacDonald arguments, a more proactive strategy can be synthesized, one that better secures the space domain. The strategy need not depend solely on seeking to persuade others from courses of action by invoking a threat of force, or on preparing for conflict or defense in event an undesirable act occurs. Preventing unwelcome actions by instilling fear of the consequences is brought about by the existence of a credible threat of unacceptable counteraction. The proffered threat does not deter an adversary if it is not believed or if its risks can be accepted. In contrast, a strategy that employs a more positive, proactive, and collaborative approach may be more effective in the long-term. Focusing on fostering space benefits for all may encourage potential adversaries to join as partners to preserve access to the space domain for all. Such an approach may foster the use of best practices and standards that mitigate the dangers of space-related conflict, frequency fratricide, and space debris. Such a strategy to assure access by all to space would also be sufficiently agile and robust to respond to problems in the domain posed by human-made threats or natural hazards.</span>
<span class="Underline">Considering the complexity of the threat and hazard environment, and satisfying the Black and MacDonald’s concerns, a strategy to assure the United States and its allies have access to space capabilities should have a number of attributes. Space systems must be protected so they can operate for the short-term and long-term. This involves more than just dissuading, deterring, defending against, and defeating potential adversaries seeking to neutralize, disable, or destroy space systems. By far, the greatest risk to U.S. space assets comes from the space environment, such as space weather and orbital debris, and then irresponsible actions and accidents caused by other space actors. The global space community should be encouraged to operate safely in a manner conducive to operations by all members. Vexing orbital debris and spectrum management issues, as well as safe spacelift and de-orbit operations, must be addressed. Finally, the strategy must empower the United States industrial base to be vibrant and robust, and flex its muscles, to ensure it can deliver space capabilities when needed.</span>
<span class="Underline">Ultimately, a space assurance strategy depends on four mutually supportive elements, or pillars: (1) deterrence and defense; (2) global engagement; (3) situational awareness; and (4) responsive infrastructure.3 Employing these four pillars should enable U.S. and friendly spacefaring nations to continue to perform their missions for the short-term and long-term. The yin and yang of space deterrence and protection will always be an important pillar of space assurance, and its attributes are discussed below.4 Global engagement leverages long-standing approaches to secure and protect the space domain through recognized international law, policy, and diplomacy. Situational awareness employs the monitoring of environmental and intelligence factors, and prediction of threats essential to decision making to assure mission success. This allows a policy maker or commander to differentiate between purposeful attacks and natural environmental hazards; to anticipate space events and clarify intentions; to reduce the potential for misperception or miscalculation; and to enhance opportunities to avoid disruptive or destructive events. A robust infrastructure enables spacefaring nation abilities to present agile responses to changes in the space environment, to threats, and to assure viability of its systems. Pg. 221-223</span>

<span class="Underline">**Now the Impacts-**</span>
<span class="Underline">**War is space occurs through miscalculation, risks extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Mitchell, et al 1 -**Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span class="Underline">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)</span>

<span class="Underline">A buildup of space weapons might begin with noble intentions of 'peace through strength' deterrence, but this rationale glosses over the tendency that '… the presence of space weapons…will result in the increased likelihood of their use'.33 This drift toward usage is strengthened by a strategic fact elucidated by Frank Barnaby: when it comes to arming the heavens, 'anti-ballistic missiles and anti-satellite warfare technologies go hand-in-hand'.34 The interlocking nature of offense and defense in military space technology stems from the inherent 'dual capability' of spaceborne weapon components. As Marc Vidricaire, Delegation of Canada to the UN Conference on Disarmament, explains: 'If you want to intercept something in space, you could use the same capability to target something on land'. 35 To the extent that ballistic missile interceptors based in space can knock out enemy missiles in mid-flight, such interceptors can also be used as orbiting 'Death Stars', capable of sending munitions hurtling through the Earth's atmosphere. The dizzying speed of space warfare would introduce intense 'use or lose' pressure into strategic calculations, with the spectre of split-second attacks creating incentives to rig orbiting Death Stars with automated 'hair trigger' devices. In theory, this automation would enhance survivability of vulnerable space weapon platforms. However, by taking the decision to commit violence out of human hands and endowing computers with authority to make war, military planners could sow insidious seeds of accidental conflict. Yale sociologist Charles Perrow has analyzed 'complexly interactive, tightly coupled' industrial systems such as space weapons, which have many sophisticated components that all depend on each other's flawless performance. According to Perrow, this interlocking complexity makes it impossible to foresee all the different ways such systems could fail. As Perrow explains, '[t]he odd term "normal accident" is meant to signal that, given the system characteristics, multiple and unexpected interactions of failures are inevitable'.36 Deployment of space weapons with pre-delegated authority to fire death rays or unleash killer projectiles would likely make war itself inevitable, given the susceptibility of such systems to 'normal accidents'. It is chilling to contemplate the possible effects of a space war. According to retired Lt. Col. Robert M. Bowman, 'even a tiny projectile reentering from space strikes the earth with such high velocity that it can do enormous damage — even more than would be done by a nuclear weapon of the same size!'. 37 In the same Star Wars technology touted as a quintessential tool of peace, defence analyst David Langford sees one of the most destabilizing offensive weapons ever conceived: 'One imagines dead cities of microwave-grilled people'.38 Given this unique potential for destruction, it is not hard to imagine that any nation subjected to space weapon attack would retaliate with maximum force, including use of nuclear, biological, and/or chemical weapons. An accidental war sparked by a computer glitch in space could plunge the world into the most destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Even the most skeptical hawks in the DOD have an incentive to share- increased information as a result of the plan causes a transition towards transparency** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Roberts 5-** Maj Tommy A. Roberts Space and Missile Force Programmer, Directorate of Plans and Programs, HQ Air Force, Space Situation Awareness: How Much Should the US Share?, High Frontier Winter High Frontier Winter 2005</span>
<span class="Underline">Recent operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as the tragic terrorist attacks on 11 September 2001, confirm that many of the US military’s Cold War paradigms are no longer valid. In fact, as pointed out in the Air Force’s Transformation Flight Plan, the transition to a post-Cold War force is one of two on-going transformations within the US military. 15 In addition to the shift to a post-Cold War force, the US military is undergoing a transformation from an industrial age force to an information age force. 16 The long-term ability of the US military to properly adjust to these transformations will ultimately spell the difference between victory and defeat in future operations, and space will certainly play a vital role.</span>
<span class="Underline">Despite some positive results, there are still a number of areas where the space community needs to further embrace transformation. Specifically, within the SSA context, the lingering Cold War-mindset of tightly controlling information must change. This mindset encouraged a space culture that relied heavily on classification as a method of restricting enemy access to US capabilities. Such a culture served the US well during the Cold War. That mindset must now change to get in line with today’s global reality--the whole world is now dependent on space. If the US wants to retain its long-term leadership position in that global reality, it must find ways to embrace the global community and persuade others to rely on US space capabilities. One such way is through the sharing of American SSA with the world.</span>
<span class="Underline">In the context of SSA, the US is at an important crossroads. As noted in a recent RAND study, “Nations are facing important choices in deciding whether to acquire independent aerospace capabilities, whether to depend on other nations for aerospace support, whether potential costs and vulnerabilities are incurred for those relationships, and whether they are willing politically to accept both the benefits and the risks of dependence.”</span>
<span class="Underline">17 The US also faces an important choice. Is it willing to share its SSA capabilities in order to drive foreign and commercial dependence, or will it continue to hide behind its Cold War-era security blanket and fail to adjust to the changing global environment? It is clear a policy of sharing is the answer…now the devil will be in the details.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Other countries want data sharing and TCBMS- china is calling for verification** </span>
<span class="Underline">**UN 10/17-** Sixty-sixth General Assembly First Committee 13th & 14th Meetings (AM & PM) FIRST COMMITTEE HEARS INTRODUCTION OF EIGHT DRAFTS ON RANGE OF TOPICS, FROM THREAT OF OUTER SPACE ARMS RACE TO TERRORIST ACQUISITION OF MASS DESTRUCTION WEAPONS Oct 17, 2011 http://www.un.org/News/Press/docs/2011/gadis3439.doc.htm</span>
<span class="Underline">WANG QUN, Ambassador for Disarmament Affairs of China, said that outer space was the common wealth of mankind as the global public space. The permanent peace of outer space was correlated to all nations’ security, development and prosperity. With the growing reliance of mankind on outer space, the risk of weaponization of outer space and an arms race there were on the rise, and the uncertainties concerning outer space security were also accumulating. Safeguarding the peaceful use of outer space and preventing its weaponization were the common interest and obligations of all countries. He said his country firmly opposed the weaponization of outer space and an arms race in outer space, and dedicated itself to efforts for maintaining peace and security in outer space. China had traditionally co</span><span style="font-family: 'MS Mincho';">‑</span><span class="Underline">sponsored the General Assembly resolution on prevention of an arms race in outer space, calling for negotiations on an international legally binding instrument to be negotiated at the Conference for Disarmament. China and Russia had also jointly submitted to the Conference the draft of “Treaty on the Prevention of the Placement of Weapons in Outer Space, the Threat or Use of Force against Outer Space Objects”, in 2008. His country hoped the Conference would start substantive discussion, based on that text, on the effective way to deal with the issues, including verification. China attached importance to outer space transparency and confidence</span><span style="font-family: 'MS Mincho';">‑</span><span class="Underline">building measures and was open to relevant initiatives and discussions, he said. Such appropriate and viable measures would enhance mutual trust, reduce accidental errors, regulate outer space activities and maintain outer space security, and were the useful supplements to an internationally binding instrument on the prevention of the weaponization of outer space and an arms race in outer space. Transparency and confidence</span><span style="font-family: 'MS Mincho';">‑</span><span class="Underline">building measures and preventing an outer space arms race were two parallel processes, he explained. A set of the first arrangements could eventually be reached on the basis of consensus through broadly</span><span style="font-family: 'MS Mincho';">‑</span><span class="Underline">participated, open and equal international deliberations. However, such measures were not legally binding and could not substitute for the negotiation of a new legally binding instrument in outer space. </span>
==<span class="Underline"> Contention 3 Deterrence </span>== 
<span class="Underline">**A. Conventional Deterrence** </span>
<span class="Underline">**ISR capabilities are inadequate- SSA technology isn’t sufficient- LIDAR solves** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Wiest 7**- Todd E. Wiest, Maj, USAF, Upon this Rock… a Foundational Space Situational Awareness Technology for 2030, Air Command and Staff College</span>
<span class="Underline">Air University, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama April 2007 </span>
<span class="Underline">The AF has some SSA capabilities, but complete SSA is difficult to obtain. The Milstar example highlights AF SSA on its own systems, but complete SSA requires considerably more information. To achieve complete SSA, the AF needs knowledge of much more than its own systems or even that of the sister services. Beyond the status of U.S. space systems, SSA includes space intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) data as well as analysis of the space environment.8 Given today’s strategic environment, SSA must help diagnose problems when surprise is the norm and the threats are less predictable.9 In this reality, the AF requires additional SSA capabilities to gain knowledge of adversary systems and intent as well as the space environment to diagnose future problems. From a resource and capability perspective, obtaining adequate SSA of all space objects is difficult. For example, the increasingly diminutive nature of future satellites complicates the space ISR problem. Taken in total, obtaining SSA for the U.S. Government is a daunting task for the AF. Additional SSA capabilities are also necessary to remedy future space events because not all of them will be easy to diagnose or remedy. In the Milstar example, the diagnosis was a misaligned spot beam; the solution was to move the spot beam back in place.10 This was relatively simple problem to diagnose and remedy; unfortunately, harder problems exist. Consider the recent Chinese test of an Anti-satellite (ASAT) system.11 For the ASAT test, U.S. detected a missile launch from China and found a debris cloud in the location of a satellite.12 Since China’s ASAT weapon was ground launched, the diagnosis attributes China as the originator of the test. This problem has two solutions. First, preventing future ASAT tests, and second, avoiding the resulting debris cloud. The first solution for future Chinese ASAT tests is 2 AU/ACSC/1464/AY07 much more difficult; it will require all of the U.S. IOPs. For the second solution, the U.S. will rely on SSA to characterize the debris cloud to minimize space object collisions with this cloud. This ASAT event would have been even more difficult to diagnose and remedy if it originated from another satellite. In the 2030 timeframe, satellites may attack other satellites.13 How will the AF diagnose and attribute future space events so the U.S. can remedy the situation? What if the diagnosis shows the attack occurred from a region in space? How will the U.S. be able to attribute the attack to facilitate the use of its IOPs against the perpetrator? The U.S. can only answer these questions with complete SSA. In particular, the U.S. needs knowledge of small objects and the ability to enhance satellite intelligence collection. This leads to a capability question. How will the U.S. increase small object awareness and enhance object satellite intelligence collection to improve SSA in the 2030 timeframe to support all U.S. IOPs? One way the AF can increase space debris and satellite awareness to diagnose and attribute a satellite-to-satellite attack is placing a fleet of active sensor systems into orbit. Using lasers as the active source, these systems can locate smaller objects and enhance SSA. Developing fluoride fiber lasers as the active source for these systems will significantly reduce the size and the weight of the laser while allowing multi-spectral imagery of the space object. This paper recommends the AF investigate infrared and visible fluoride fiber lasers as the active source for a fleet of small satellites to increase SSA by tracking and imaging objects as small as 0.1 centimeter (cm). </span>

<span class="Underline">**LIDAR technology is the best way to achieve ISR- causes stable deterrence** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Wiest 7-** Todd E. Wiest, Maj, USAF, Upon this Rock… a Foundational Space Situational Awareness Technology for 2030, Air Command and Staff College</span>
<span class="Underline">Air University, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama April 2007 </span>

<span class="Underline">The second sensor necessary for the collection of space ISR data relies on Light Detection and Ranging (LIDAR). This sensor provides reconnaissance and surveillance data. Using a LIDAR concept allows measurements of the distance, speed, rotation, and chemical 13 AU/ACSC/1464/AY07 composition of an illuminated object.53 For example, the distance from the SSA satellite to a space object provides the object’s current position. Using LIDAR also provides considerable information about an object in space, especially if the laser wavelength is in the visible region of the electromagnetic spectrum. This part of the spectrum allows for the direct measurement of optical characteristics of the object.54 This sensor combination captures data for space ISR. The data provided by the conceptual SSA system supports the diagnosis and attribution of space events. The passive optical sensor records the object’s orientation, which provides clues to a satellite’s current mission. Similarly, the satellite’s rotation and chemical composition, provided by the LIDAR sensor, provides space ISR. The rotation information could indicate either the satellite’s mission or its current tasking, and the chemical composition of the object may provide indications of the satellite’s mission or, if the object is space debris, could help identify a way to eliminate it. This information could diagnose and attribute a space event to a space debris collision or a satellite action taken by its owner.</span>
<span class="Underline">Control of the space segment will be vital for the conceptual SSA system because near real-time tasking is necessary for diagnosing and attributing anomalies in space. Control enables the satellite to look at a particular object to collect additional SSA information. This tasking must be available in near real-time to respond to the potentially dynamic threats of 2030. If a U.S. satellite experiences an anomaly, this constellation must rapidly collect data on space objects to diagnose the situation. Based on this data, the AF can attribute the anomaly to the appropriate cause; if caused by another satellite, the U.S. can then use the appropriate IOPs to remedy the situation. The ability to make this diagnosis and attribution relies on control. The ground station’s command and control must be responsive to the changing space situation and be able to attribute the cause of an anomaly. </span>

<span class="Underline">**ISR capabilities control the I/L to all of your DA’s- it’s the enabler for every military function and provides defense against a bioterror attack**</span>
<span class="Underline">**DOD 10** (Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissancehttp://space.au.af.mil/guides/stg/stg_isr.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Joint Vision 2020 depends on information superiority for virtually every aspect of military activity. The combination of intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR), together with real-time communications and information processing technologies, is its enabler. It involves primarily electronic systems to find, watch and collect data from sources and provide it as information to users. ISR permeates almost every area of national security activity, from peace through war. It involves techniques and systems operating both passively and actively in all operational environments from subsurface to space. A key benefit of this capability, from data collection through warning to its timely use by warfighters, is political and/ or military success — through knowing more and knowing it sooner than opponents. ISR includes information about: all operational threats to U.S. and Allied lives, assets, and interests; military force movements; all spacelift vehicles, missile systems (mobile or fixed), and spacecraft; all aircraft types, land-operating systems, and surface/submerged maritime vessels; nuclear detonations; threats to friendly space assets; chemical and/or biological weapons; and other significant space, surface and subsurface events. ISR activities support the intelligence and warning needs of all Services, the National Command Authorities (NCA) and other government agencies, support U.S. and Allied operations, and assist in international treaty monitoring. The major goal of ISR is success through information dominance. Increasing demands for precise, finished intelligence on a wide range of defense intelligence requirements strain the resources currently available. Space-based intelligence collection capabilities have matured into powerful and reliable systems, able to meet a much larger fraction of the validated user requirements than ever before. Under today’s exploitation and dissemination paradigms, our available personnel, communications and hardware cannot fully utilize the available data. Thus the Intelligence Community is pursuing a full range of technologies no only to enhance the collection of necessary data but also to examine new ways to produce and disseminate the information our users need. This approach includes: • New and potentially revolutionary collection systems • New analysis and dissemination methods and paradigms • Significant improvements in data processing, storage-retrieval, and request-redistribution functions. An evolving concept to deal with the multiplicity of evolving ISR and related information distribution concepts is contained in the term “infosphere.” This construct involves information collection and integration across all activities (fusion), with followon processing to tailor its disseminated products for specific warfighters and other users. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Its 2013—and our evidence already subsumes the technical barriers terrorists have to overcome o/w nuclear war**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Fox News, 08**—(Fox News, “Nuclear or Bioterror Attack on U.S. Likely by 2013, Panel Warns”, 12-2-08, http://www.foxnews.com/story/0,2933,459927,00.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">Terrorists are likely to attack the United States using nuclear or biological weapons before 2013, according to a report released by a bipartisan commission. Vice President-elect Joe Biden was briefed on the panel's study on Tuesday. Among other things, the report suggests that the incoming Obama administration shore up its counterterrorism efforts to fight against germ warfare. "Our margin of safety is shrinking, not growing," states the report, a copy of which was obtained by FOX News. It is scheduled to be publicly released Wednesday. Click here for the report The commission is also encouraging the new White House to appoint one official on the National Security Council to exclusively coordinate U.S. intelligence and foreign policy on combatting the spread of nuclear and biological weapons The report of the Commission on the Prevention of WMD Proliferation and Terrorism, led by former Sens. Bob Graham of Florida and Jim Talent of Missouri, acknowledges that terrorist groups still lack the needed scientific and technical ability to make weapons out of pathogens or nuclear bombs. But it warns that gap can be easily overcome, if terrorists find scientists willing to share or sell their know-how. "The United States should be less concerned that terrorists will become biologists and far more concerned that biologists will become terrorists," the report states. The commission believes biological weapons are more likely to be obtained and used before nuclear or radioactive weapons because nuclear facilities are more carefully guarded. Civilian laboratories with potentially dangerous pathogens abound, however, and could easily be compromised. "The biological threat is greater than the nuclear; the acquisition of deadly pathogens, and their weaponization and dissemination in aerosol form, would entail fewer technical hurdles than the theft or production of weapons-grade uranium or plutonium and its assembly into an improvised nuclear device," states the report. It notes that the U.S. government's counterproliferation activities have been geared toward preventing nuclear terrorism. The commission recommends the prevention of biological terrorism be made a higher priority. President Bush will meet with the commission on Wednesday, a White House spokesman told FOX News. Democratic Rep. Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts, a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and co-chair of the House Bipartisan Task Force on Nonproliferation, called the report "an urgent call to action." The report "should trigger strong, coordinated steps to improve our country's ability to prevent proliferation and thwart terrorist attacks using nuclear and biological weapons," Markey said in a written statement. Study chairman Graham said anthrax remains the most likely biological weapon. However, he told the AP that contagious diseases — like the flu strain that killed 40 million at the beginning of the 20th century — are looming threats. That virus has been recreated in scientific labs, and there remains no inoculation to protect against it if is stolen and released. Graham said the threat of a terrorist attack using nuclear or biological weapons is growing "not because we have not done positive things but because adversaries are moving at an even faster pace to increase their access" to those materials. He noted last week's rampage by a small group of gunmen in Mumbai. "If those people had had access to a biological or nuclear weapon they would have multiplied by orders of magnitude the deaths they could have inflicted," he said. </span>


<span class="Underline">**Extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Ochs 02 –** MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]</span>
<span class="Underline">Of all the weapons of mass destruction, the genetically engineered biological weapons, many without a known cure or vaccine, are an extreme danger to the continued survival of life on earth. Any perceived military value or deterrence pales in comparison to the great risk these weapons pose just sitting in vials in laboratories. While a "nuclear winter," resulting from a massive exchange of nuclear weapons, could also kill off most of life on earth and severely compromise the health of future generations, they are easier to control. Biological weapons, on the other hand, can get out of control very easily, as the recent anthrax attacks has demonstrated. There is no way to guarantee the security of these doomsday weapons because very tiny amounts can be stolen or accidentally released and then grow or be grown to horrendous proportions. The Black Death of the Middle Ages would be small in comparison to the potential damage bioweapons could cause. Abolition of chemical weapons is less of a priority because, while they can also kill millions of people outright, their persistence in the environment would be less than nuclear or biological agents or more localized. Hence, chemical weapons would have a lesser effect on future generations of innocent people and the natural environment. Like the Holocaust, once a localized chemical extermination is over, it is over. With nuclear and biological weapons, the killing will probably never end. Radioactive elements last tens of thousands of years and will keep causing cancers virtually forever. Potentially worse than that, bio-engineered agents by the hundreds with no known cure could wreck even greater calamity on the human race than could persistent radiation. AIDS and ebola viruses are just a small example of recently emerging plagues with no known cure or vaccine. Can we imagine hundreds of such plagues? HUMAN EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE. Ironically, the Bush administration has just changed the U.S. nuclear doctrine to allow nuclear retaliation against threats upon allies by conventional weapons. The past doctrine allowed such use only as a last resort when our nation’s survival was at stake. Will the new policy also allow easier use of US bioweapons? How slippery is this slope? Against this tendency can be posed a rational alternative policy. To preclude possibilities of human extinction, "patriotism" needs to be redefined to make humanity’s survival primary and absolute. Even if we lose our cherished freedom, our sovereignty, our government or ourConstitution, where there is life, there is hope. What good is anything else if humanity is extinguished? This concept should be promoted to the center of national debate.. For example, for sake of argument, suppose the ancient Israelites developed defensive bioweapons of mass destruction when they were enslaved by Egypt. Then suppose these weapons were released by design or accident and wiped everybody out? As bad as slavery is, extinction is worse. Our generation, our century, our epoch needs to take the long view. We truly hold in our hands the precious gift of all future life. Empires may come and go, but who are the honored custodians of life on earth? Temporal politicians? Corporate competitors? Strategic brinksmen? Military gamers? Inflated egos dripping with testosterone? How can any sane person believe that national sovereignty is more important than survival of the species? Now that extinction is possible, our slogan should be "Where there is life, there is hope." No government, no economic system, no national pride, no religion, no political system can be placed above human survival. The egos of leaders must not blind us. The adrenaline and vengeance of a fight must not blind us. The game is over. If patriotism would extinguish humanity, then patriotism is the highest of all crimes.</span>

<span class="Underline"> **Credible U.S. deployments cause conflict de-escalation- unipolarity prevents rising challengers and provides stability** </span>
<span class="Underline">**KAGAN, 7** - (Robert, senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">The jostling for status and influence among these ambitious nations and would-be nations is a second defining feature of the new post-Cold War international system. Nationalism in all its forms is back, if it ever went away, and so is international competition for power, influence, honor, and status. American predominance prevents these rivalries from intensifying -- its regional as well as its global predominance. Were the United States to diminish its influence in the regions where it is currently the strongest power, the other nations would settle disputes as great and lesser powers have done in the past: sometimes through diplomacy and accommodation but often through confrontation and wars of varying scope, intensity, and destructiveness. One novel aspect of such a multipolar world is that most of these powers would possess nuclear weapons. That could make wars between them less likely, or it could simply make them more catastrophic.</span>
<span class="Underline">It is easy but also dangerous to underestimate the role the United States plays in providing a measure of stability in the world even as it also disrupts stability. For instance, the United States is the dominant naval power everywhere, such that other nations cannot compete with it even in their home waters. They either happily or grudgingly allow the United States Navy to be the guarantor of international waterways and trade routes, of international access to markets and raw materials such as oil. Even when the United States engages in a war, it is able to play its role as guardian of the waterways. In a more genuinely multipolar world, however, it would not. Nations would compete for naval dominance at least in their own regions and possibly beyond. Conflict between nations would involve struggles on the oceans as well as on land. Armed embargos, of the kind used in World War i and other major conflicts, would disrupt trade flows in a way that is now impossible.</span>
<span class="Underline">Such order as exists in the world rests not merely on the goodwill of peoples but on a foundation provided by American power. Even the European Union, that great geopolitical miracle, owes its founding to American power, for without it the European nations after World War ii would never have felt secure enough to reintegrate Germany. Most Europeans recoil at the thought, but even today Europe 's stability depends on the guarantee, however distant and one hopes unnecessary, that the United States could step in to check any dangerous development on the continent. In a genuinely multipolar world, that would not be possible without renewing the danger of world war.</span>
<span class="Underline">People who believe greater equality among nations would be preferable to the present American predominance often succumb to a basic logical fallacy. They believe the order the world enjoys today exists independently of American power. They imagine that in a world where American power was diminished, the aspects of international order that they like would remain in place. But that 's not the way it works. International order does not rest on ideas and institutions. It is shaped by configurations of power. The international order we know today reflects the distribution of power in the world since World War ii, and especially since the end of the Cold War. A different configuration of power, a multipolar world in which the poles were Russia, China, the United States, India, and Europe, would produce its own kind of order, with different rules and norms reflecting the interests of the powerful states that would have a hand in shaping it. Would that international order be an improvement? Perhaps for Beijing and Moscow it would. But it is doubtful that it would suit the tastes of enlightenment liberals in the United States and Europe.</span>
<span class="Underline">The current order, of course, is not only far from perfect but also offers no guarantee against major conflict among the world 's great powers. Even under the umbrella of unipolarity, regional conflicts involving the large powers may erupt. War could erupt between China and Taiwan and draw in both the United States and Japan. War could erupt between Russia and Georgia, forcing the United States and its European allies to decide whether to intervene or suffer the consequences of a Russian victory. Conflict between India and Pakistan remains possible, as does conflict between Iran and Israel or other Middle Eastern states. These, too, could draw in other great powers, including the United States.</span>
<span class="Underline">Such conflicts may be unavoidable no matter what policies the United States pursues. But they are more likely to erupt if the United States weakens or withdraws from its positions of regional dominance. This is especially true in East Asia, where most nations agree that a reliable American power has a stabilizing and pacific effect on the region. That is certainly the view of most of China 's neighbors. But even China, which seeks gradually to supplant the United States as the dominant power in the region, faces the dilemma that an American withdrawal could unleash an ambitious, independent, nationalist Japan.</span>
<span class="Underline">In Europe, too, the departure of the United States from the scene -- even if it remained the world's most powerful nation -- could be destabilizing. It could tempt Russia to an even more overbearing and potentially forceful approach to unruly nations on its periphery. Although some realist theorists seem to imagine that the disappearance of the Soviet Union put an end to the possibility of confrontation between Russia and the West, and therefore to the need for a permanent American role in Europe, history suggests that conflicts in Europe involving Russia are possible even without Soviet communism. If the United States withdrew from Europe -- if it adopted what some call a strategy of "offshore balancing" -- this could in time increase the likelihood of conflict involving Russia and its near neighbors, which could in turn draw the United States back in under unfavorable circumstances.</span>
<span class="Underline">It is also optimistic to imagine that a retrenchment of the American position in the Middle East and the assumption of a more passive, "offshore" role would lead to greater stability there. The vital interest the United States has in access to oil and the role it plays in keeping access open to other nations in Europe and Asia make it unlikely that American leaders could or would stand back and hope for the best while the powers in the region battle it out. Nor would a more "even-handed" policy toward Israel, which some see as the magic key to unlocking peace, stability, and comity in the Middle East, obviate the need to come to Israel 's aid if its security became threatened. That commitment, paired with the American commitment to protect strategic oil supplies for most of the world, practically ensures a heavy American military presence in the region, both on the seas and on the ground.</span>
<span class="Underline">The subtraction of American power from any region would not end conflict but would simply change the equation. In the Middle East, competition for influence among powers both inside and outside the region has raged for at least two centuries. The rise of Islamic fundamentalism doesn 't change this. It only adds a new and more threatening dimension to the competition, which neither a sudden end to the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians nor an immediate American withdrawal from Iraq would change. The alternative to American predominance in the region is not balance and peace. It is further competition. The region and the states within it remain relatively weak. A diminution of American influence would not be followed by a diminution of other external influences. One could expect deeper involvement by both China and Russia, if only to secure their interests. 18 And one could also expect the more powerful states of the region, particularly Iran, to expand and fill the vacuum. It is doubtful that any American administration would voluntarily take actions that could shift the balance of power in the Middle East further toward Russia, China, or Iran. The world hasn 't changed that much. An American withdrawal from Iraq will not return things to "normal" or to a new kind of stability in the region. It will produce a new instability, one likely to draw the United States back in again.</span>
<span class="Underline">The alternative to American regional predominance in the Middle East and elsewhere is not a new regional stability. In an era of burgeoning nationalism, the future is likely to be one of intensified competition among nations and nationalist movements. Difficult as it may be to extend American predominance into the future, no one should imagine that a reduction of American power or a retraction of American influence and global involvement will provide an easier path</span>




<span class="Underline">**B. Nuclear Deterrence** </span>

<span class="Underline">**Gaps in threat attribution and space surveillance ensures an attack- reduction in deterrence affects nuclear and conventional capability** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Burke 06** - Deputy Director in the Missile Defense Agency w/ operational experience in missile operations, space surveillance, space control, missile warning, and command and control [Lieutenant Colonel Alan W. Burke, “Space Threat Warning: Foundation for Space Superiority, Avoiding a Space Pearl Harbor,” Air War College, 17 April 2006, pg. http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA476999&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf/]</span>

<span class="Underline">Implications of the Erosion of US Space Threat Warning Capability - The erosion of the US ability to execute the space threat warning mission has serious implications for US national security to include: the loss of a key early warning indicator of an attack on the US homeland; the loss of space capabilities which would degrade US warfighting effectiveness; the preventable loss of critical high-value satellites, facilities or services; the increased possibility that adversaries could develop new weapons or covertly conduct probing attacks on US space systems; and the lack of a credible means to execute stated US policy in response to an attack against space assets.</span>
<span class="Underline">One of the most serious impacts of the failure to develop or execute a reliable space threat warning and attack verification system is the loss of a key early warning indicator of an attack on the US homeland or an attack that is part of a major regional action by a near-peer adversary such as an attack on Taiwan by the Chinese mainland. The Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, whose goal was the destruction of the Pacific Fleet, was not done as an isolated act, but as part of the start of a larger campaign to establish a Japanese Pacific sphere of influence which included the forceful acquisition of US territories. At this time, the Pacific Fleet was viewed as a US center of gravity whose destruction would enable Japan to achieve regional domination and discourage future US intervention. Today, our space-based assets may represent the equivalent of the WWII Pacific Fleet. Further, other nations have stated they view the US reliance on space as a potential Achilles ’ heel and a center of gravity whose destruction or disruption is critical to future military success against the US.44</span>
<span class="Underline">Although a major attack on the US is not likely, the loss of US space-based early warning capability and ground-based missile warning radars could undermine nuclear deterrence strategy resulting in a devastating miscalculation that the US was vulnerable to a nuclear first strike. The perception that US space capabilities are vulnerable to a surprise attack also weakens conventional deterrence. In the case of a US-China conflict over Taiwan, the Chinese might seek to disrupt or destroy regional space capabilities as part of a delaying strategy to deny US forces access to the region until their military operations were well underway, making the Chinese takeover of Taiwan a fait accompli.45</span>
<span class="Underline">A successful Pearl Harbor-type attack on US space assets would degrade US fighting effectiveness. Today, space represents the ultimate high ground and it is unlikely that a nation, whose military ambitions might provoke US involvement, will willingly cede that high ground. The level of battlespace awareness space-based platforms provide makes any attack using large massed forces difficult to accomplish. The ability to neutralize these platforms would improve the circumstances required to gain a strategic advantage over US and allied forces. As General Lord stated in his Congressional testimony: “A resourceful enemy will look at our centers of gravity and try to attack them. Our adversaries understand our global dependence on space capabilities, and we must be ready to handle any threat to our space infrastructure.”46 With the increased US reliance on space assets for communication, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR); and command and control of our deployed forces; a successful space attack could significantly delay US response to regional aggression. During Operation IRAQI FREEDOM (OIF), over 60% of theater communications traveled via satellites.47 The Defense Satellite Communication System (DSCS) provided 90% of all protected communications and 70% of all military satellite communications into theater.48 These capabilities significantly enhanced command and control of US and allied forces. Further, the employment of the satellite-based Blue Force Tracker system resulted in an unprecedented level of situational awareness which decreased fratricide and facilitating search and rescue operations and reinforcement operations.49</span>
<span class="Underline">The United States also maximized the use of the space-based Global Positioning System (GPS) to enable precision weapons delivery, allowing the use of fewer and smaller weapons to achieve effects; to enhance navigation in featureless terrain; and to aid in the location of both friendly and hostile forces.50 General Lord testified to Congress: “Space capabilities are no longer nice to have, but are now indispensable to how we fight and win our nation’s wars.”51 The failure to develop a credible space threat warning system increases the likelihood that a foreign nation would attack US space assets.</span>
<span class="Underline">The inability to detect and provide timely warning of a space attack could result in the preventable loss of critical high-value satellites, facilities or services. There are a number of scenarios where the timely detection of a threat would allow space operators to intervene, thwarting the attack. In many instances, the ability to find, fix, target and destroy the threat is currently a viable way to counter the attack. However, this is not always possible. In the case of a co-orbital ASAT attack, which involves the launch and maneuver of a satellite into a closing orbit of another satellite to destroy or disrupt it, the countermeasure require a pre-intercept maneuver of the target satellite. The support countermeasures for an attack on space ground facilities include increased physical and information security. Countermeasures for electronic warfare attacks or jamming of the space link segment exist but there is often a significant bandwidth cost when these measures are in effect.52</span>
<span class="Underline">Degradations to space assets could also occur as a result of unintentional sources such as radio frequency interference or from scientific research such as laser research. In these situations, it is important to locate the source and terminate the activity to prevent loss of the space asset or service. The loss of these capabilities during critical operations could result in operational failure, loss of equipment, resources, and lives.</span>
<span class="Underline">The inability to rapidly neutralize sources of satellite communication (SATCOM) interference also has national security implications. In the area of airpower employment, successful SATCOM jamming could disrupt the US ability to command and control air assets in theater from geographically separated air operations centers. A delay of even one to two days might jeopardize US ability to support deployed forces. Satellite communication links to worldwide deployed forces are critical capabilities in protecting US security, sovereignty, and military combat capability.</span>
<span class="Underline">The inability to detect and assess space threats might allow adversaries to develop new weapon systems or conduct probing attacks on US space systems without our knowledge. Although US surveillance technology and systems are more sophisticated today, the US should not assume it will always be able to detect the development of a new weapon. Our experience in post-WW II with the Germans is one example. After the defeat of Nazi Germany, the US and Russia engaged in a race to uncover Germany’s scientific secrets. Major General Hugh-Knerr, deputy commander of the US Air Forces in Europe wrote: “The occupation of German scientific and industrial establishments has revealed the fact that we have been alarmingly backward in many fields of research.”53 Supersonic rockets, nerve gas, jet aircraft, guided missiles, stealth technology and hardened armor were just some of the technologies developed in WWII German laboratories.54 The Soviet Sputnik launches and the deployment of the FOB system are modern examples of technological surprise.55</span>
<span class="Underline">Today, other nations are working to develop new weapons to counter US dominance and to take the lead in what is termed Fourth Generation Warfare—information war. The current coverage gaps in our space surveillance network, a fragmented intelligence network, a lack of discipline in anomaly reporting, the current inability to rapidly detect an attack on on-orbit systems, and overall erosion over the last decade of the space defense mindset makes it more likely an adversary could develop anti-satellite weapons without our knowledge.</span>
<span class="Underline">Finally, without a credible space threat warning capability the US will not have the ability to execute stated US policy to counter an attack against US space assets. In 1999, President Clinton signed into law DoD Directive 3100.10, US Space Policy, which specifically declared an attack on US space systems, to include commercial space systems, an attack on US sovereignty.56 One purposes of this policy is to deter an attack on US space assets. However, the lack of a credible space threat warning system undermines this policy. A senior officer in US Strategic Command recently stated that a nation or group could likely interfere with US satellites without fear of retribution.57 Pg. 8-12</span>



<span class="Underline">**Limited SSA causes first strike instability- lack of attribution encourages covert attacks and miscalculation** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Morgan 10-Forrest E. Morgan, Ph.D. in policy studies 2010 “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space A Preliminary Assessment” RAND** </span>
<span class="Underline">First-strike instability is made worse by limitations in space situational awareness (SSA). While the United States enjoys better SSA than any other spacefaring nation, it is still dangerously limited. Not all satellites are monitored constantly, and only limited diagnostic and environmental monitoring capabilities exist even for those that are, making it diicult to diagnose causes of sudden satellite failure. Knowing this, adversaries might be tempted to attack satellites covertly, believing that uncertainty regarding the causes of failure would impede retribution, or perhaps even that attacks would be misdiagnosed as naturally occurring failures. Alternatively, a natural failure that occurs during a confrontation or conlict could lead operators or policymakers to assume that the satellite was attacked, prompting unjustiied retribution and subsequent escalation of the crisis. his dangerous combination of continued vulnerability, growing dependence, and limited SSA indicate that irst-strike stability in space has diminished, and further indications suggest that the rate of erosion is accelerating. While the diiculty of attacking orbital assets remains a stabilizing factor, that factor is shrinking as an increasing 16 Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space: A Preliminary Assessment number of states acquire capabilities to interrupt space services. Several states are now attempting to develop directed-energy weapons. One of them, Russia, also retains the co-orbital ASAT capability that the Soviet Union developed during the Cold War and has since sold GPS jammers to anyone with the funds to purchase them. As has been the case since the dawn of the space age, any state with ballistic missiles and nuclear weapons has the basic components to ield a crude but highly destructive ASAT weapon.</span>
<span class="Underline">The proliferation of such threats is troubling, and anxieties have become more acute now that China has begun experimenting with directed-energy weapons and has demonstrated a capability to destroy satellites in low earth orbit (LEO) with a direct-ascent kinetic ASAT weapon. 17 Unfortunately, the infrastructure, policies, and attitudes that both enable and constrain U.S. space operations in the current environment are, in many ways, unchanged from when they were developed during the MAD-induced stability of the Cold War. his leaves the United States exposed to the risk of a surprise attack in space unless a deterrence regime can be developed to restore irst-strike stability in that domain. 18</span>

<span class="Underline">**Lack of credible space deterrence implicates the strength of nuclear deterrence- all future attacks will occur in space** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Morgan 10-Forrest E. Morgan, Ph.D. in policy studies 2010 “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space A Preliminary Assessment” RAND** </span>
<span class="Underline">Given the great extent to which the United States depends on space systems for its national security and economic prosperity, U.S. policymakers and military leaders are becoming increasingly concerned that future adversaries might attack those systems. U.S. military forces operate in distant theaters and employ ever more sophisticated equipment and doctrines that rely on advanced surveillance, reconnaissance, communication, navigation, and timing data, most of which is produced or relayed by satellites. he ground infrastructure that supports these assets has long been vulnerable to attack, and a growing number of states now possess or are developing means of attacking satellites and the communication links that connect them to users and control stations. Due to the dramatic warighting advantage that space support provides to U.S. forces, security analysts are nearly unanimous in their judgment that future enemies will likely attempt to “level the playing ield” by attacking U.S. space systems in eforts to degrade or eliminate that support. All of this suggests that irst-strike stability in space may be eroding.</span>
<span class="Underline">First-strike stability is a concept that Glenn Kent and David haler developed in 1989 to examine the structural dynamics of mutual deterrence between two or more nuclear states. 1 It is similar to crisis stability, which Charles Glaser described as “a measure of the countries’ incentives not to preempt in a crisis, that is, not to attack irst in order to beat the attack of the enemy,” 2 except that it does not delve into the psychological factors present in speciic crises. Rather, irststrike stability focuses on each side’s force posture and the balance of capabilities and vulnerabilities that could make a crisis unstable should a confrontation occur.</span>
<span class="Underline">3 Space stability issues difer from the Kent-haler conception of irst-strike stability in that nuclear forces are not directly involved, so the risk of prompt catastrophic damage in the event of a deterrence failure is not nearly as great. However, several other strong parallels exist between irst-strike stability in space and in the nuclear realm. First, space support substantially enhances operational warighting capabilities in the terrestrial domain that are threatening to potential enemies. </span>
<span class="Underline">At the same time, satellites are diicult to defend against adversaries with capabilities to attack them. As a result, space, like the nuclear realm, is an ofense-dominant environment with substantial incentives for striking irst should war appear probable. Second, deterrence failures in space, though not as immediately catastrophic as nuclear deterrence failures, could, nonetheless, be very costly given the resources invested in orbital infrastructure and the many security and economic functions that beneit from space support. And, like nuclear deterrence failures, the costs of warfare in space would likely be shared by third parties due to global economic interdependence and multinational ownership of many space systems—all the more so if kinetic attacks on satellites litter important orbits with debris. Finally, there is a parallel between nuclear and space deterrence in that signiicant thresholds are perceived in both realms, the crossing of which could lead to reprisals, follow-on attacks, and rapid escalation.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Providing credible nuclear deterrence deescalates all conflict**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Lieber & Press 9 [The Nukes We Need. By: Lieber, Keir A., Press, Associate Professor in the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University Daryl G., Associate Professor of Government at Dartmouth College and Coordinator of the War and Peace Studies Program, Foreign Affairs, 00157120, Nov/Dec2009, Vol. 88, Issue 6]**</span>
<span class="Underline">THE PRIMARY purpose of U.S. nuclear forces is to deter nuclear attacks on the United States and its allies. During peacetime, this is not a demanding mission. The chance that leaders in Beijing, Moscow, or even Pyongyang will launch a surprise nuclear attack tomorrow is vanishingly small. But peacetime deterrence is not the proper yardstick for measuring the adequacy of U.S. nuclear forces. Rather, the United States' arsenal should be designed to provide robust deterrence in the most difficult of plausible circumstances: during a conventional war against a nuclear-armed adversary. In the coming decades, the United States may find itself facing nuclear-armed states on the battlefield. U.S. alliances span the globe, and the United States is frequently drawn into regional conflicts. Washington has launched six major military operations since the fall of the Berlin Wall: in Panama, Somalia, Kosovo, Afghanistan, and twice in Iraq. Furthermore, most of the United States' potential adversaries have developed--or seem to be developing--nuclear weapons. Aside from terrorism, the threats that dominate U.S. military planning come from China, North Korea, and Iran: two members of the nuclear club, and one intent on joining it. The central problem for U.S. deterrence in the future is that even rational adversaries will have powerful incentives to introduce nuclear weapons--that is, threaten to use them, put them on alert, test them, or even use them--during a conventional war against the United States. If U.S. military forces begin to prevail on the battlefield, U.S. adversaries may use nuclear threats to compel a cease-fire or deny the United States access to allied military bases. Such threats might succeed in pressuring the United States to settle the conflict short of a decisive victory. Such escalatory strategies are rational. Losing a conventional war to the United States would be a disastrous outcome for any leader, and it would be worth taking great risks to force a cease-fire and avert total defeat. The fate of recent U.S. adversaries is revealing. The ex-dictator of Panama, Manuel Noriega, remains in a Miami prison. The former Bosnian Serb leader, Radovan Karadzic, awaits trial in The Hague, where Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic died in detention three years ago. Saddam Husseins punishment for losing the 2003 war was total: his government was toppled, his sons were killed, and he was hanged on a dimly lit gallows, surrounded by enemies. Even those leaders who have eluded the United States--such as the Somali warlord Muhammad Farah Aidid and Osama bin Laden--have done so despite intense U.S. efforts to capture or kill them. The United States' overseas conflicts are limited wars only from the U.S. perspective; to adversaries, they are existential. It should not be surprising if they use every weapon at their disposal to stave off total defeat. Coercive nuclear escalation may sound like a far-fetched strategy, but it was NATO'S policy during much of the Cold War. The Western allies felt that they were hopelessly outgunned in Europe at the conventional level by the Warsaw Pact. Even though NATO harbored little hope of prevailing in a nuclear war, it planned to initiate a series of escalating nuclear operations at the outbreak of war--alerts, tactical nuclear strikes, and wider nuclear attacks--to force the Soviets to accept a cease-fire. The United States' future adversaries face the same basic problem today: vast conventional military inferiority. They may adopt the same solution. Leaders in Beijing may choose gradual, coercive escalation if they face imminent military defeat in the Taiwan Strait--a loss that could weaken the Chinese Communist Party's grip on power. And if U.S. military forces were advancing toward Pyongyang, there is no reason to expect that North Korean leaders would keep their nuclear weapons on the sidelines. Layered on top of these challenges are two additional ones. First, U.S. conventional military doctrine is inherently escalatory. The new American way of war involves launching simultaneous air and ground attacks throughout the theater to blind, confuse, and overwhelm the enemy. Even if the United States decided to leave the adversary's leaders in power (stopping short of regime change so as to prevent the confrontation from escalating), how would Washington credibly convey the assurance that it was not seeking regime change once its adversary was blinded by attacks on its radar and communication systems and command bunkers? A central strategic puzzle of modern war is that the tactics best suited to dominating the conventional battlefield are the same ones most likely to trigger nuclear escalation. Furthermore, managing complex military operations to prevent escalation is always difficult. In 1991, in the lead-up to the Persian Gulf War, U.S. Secretary of State James Baker assured Iraq's foreign minister, Tariq Aziz, that the United States would leave Saddam's regime in power as long as Iraq did not use its chemical or biological weapons. But despite Baker's assurance, the U.S. military unleashed a major bombing campaign targeting Iraq's leaders, which on at least one occasion nearly killed Saddam. The political intent to control escalation was not reflected in the military operations, which nearly achieved a regime change. In future confrontations with nuclear-armed adversaries, the United States will undoubtedly want to prevent nuclear escalation. But the leaders of U.S. adversaries will face life-and-death incentives to use their nuclear arsenals to force a cease-fire and remain in power. </span>

<span class="Underline"> **Cyber Deterrence**</span>

<span class="Underline"> **A cyberattack is inevitable any day and it’s the most probable scenario for conflict- no deterrence measures exist** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Kouri 10/21- US-Chinese cyber war dismissed by State Department Jim Kouri, Law Enforcement Examiner October 21, 2011 http://www.examiner.com/law-enforcement-in-national/us-chinese-cyber-war-dismissed-by-state-department /HN**</span>
<span class="Underline">While U.S. security officials confirmed there were cyber attacks, they stated that it was practically impossible to discover from where the attackers emanated. The Obama White House is said to be deeply troubled about impending cyber attacks and the U.S. Armed Services will consider cyber attacks as an act of war and are prepared to use force, according to former Secretary of Defense Robert Gates in June. Prior to the U.S.-led bombing missions in Libya last March, the Obama administration had brainstormed the use of cyber attacks to dismantle the Moamar Khadhafi's air-defense system, which posed a danger to U.S. and NATO fighter jets and bombers. The operation called for penetration of the Libyan government's computer networks' firewalls in order to hamper or terminate military communications links and prevent early-warning radar from gathering information and relaying it to missile batteries firing at coalition warplanes. The plan was scrapped due to President Barack Obama's fear of provoking other renegade nations to carry out such offensives against the United States. Vice-Foreign Minister Cui Tiankai told foreign reporters ahead of a meeting with U.S. officials in Hawaii in June that China and the U.S. might suffer from cyber attacks, but they were in no way directed by either government, according to the China Daily newspaper. Both countries were in fact already discussing the problem of hacking during their regular strategic consultations, Cui is quoted as saying. "The international community ought to come up with some rules to prevent this misuse of advanced technology," Cui told the China Daily. Cyberspace is growing in strategic importance as other nations increase their capabilities, the chief of U.S. Strategic Command told Defense Writers Group reporters yesterday. A recent example of cyber threats facing the Defense Department is a computer virus that affected a stand-alone ground control system for the nation’s drone fleet based at Nevada’s Creech Air Force Base, according to Stratcom commander Air Force Gen. C. Robert Kehler. Stratcom systems detected the virus, quarantined it, and it had little to no impact on operations, he noted. Both accidental and targeted attacks on DOD networks are on the rise, he said. “The trend is that we see multiple, deliberate attempts to try to get into our networks almost daily,” he said. Based at Offutt Air Force Base near Omaha, Nebraska, Stratcom serves as U.S. Cyber Command’s headquarters, and also oversees the nation’s missile defense, and global strike and space operations, as well as combating weapons of mass destruction.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Specifically, satellite interference is increasing- cyber-attacks can destroy satellite operation** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Daily Mail 10/30- “Hackers infiltrate 'two US satellites, achieving all steps required to command the satellite'” 30th October 2011 http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2055311/Hackers-infiltrate-US-satellites-taken-complete-control-achieving-steps-required-command-satellite.html#ixzz1cZB8cY5O** </span>
<span class="Underline"> NASA admits one of the two satellites was temporarily accessed twice in the summer and fall that year, though would not comment on the other. 'While we cannot discuss additional details regarding the attempted interference, our satellite operations and associated systems and information are safe and secure' NASA Public Affairs Officer Trent J. Perrotto said in a statement sent to Talking Points Memo. One close satellite: A satellite photo of Washington, DC's capitol building is taken by a Landsat-7 satellite, a possible recent victim of cyber hacking NASA's admittance of the satellite breach comes one month before a report by the US-China Economic and Security Review Commission is released, detailing the attacks which are consistent with Chinese military writings. According to the draft report, however, two satellites were infiltrated four times in 2007 and 2008 for 12 or more minutes. The Terra AM-a which NASA has acknowledged as attacked, studies earth climate change, in addition to weather and surface land use. Multiple attacks: The Landsat 7 satellite is one of the two US satellites suspected of being hacked in 2007 and 2008 for 12 or more minutes 'Access to a satellite‘s controls could allow an attacker to damage or destroy the satellite. 'An attacker could also deny or degrade as well as forge or otherwise manipulate the satellite’s transmission,' the draft report continued. The satellite Terra Am-1 experienced no damage, theft or security breach despite several minutes of interference by the hackers, according to Mr Perrotto. Those responsible for the attacks, however, 'achieved all steps required to command the satellite,' Mr Perrotto stated. A satellite station in Spitsbergen Norway is said to contain a common control center for both of the satellites and be the source of the attacks. The station would serve as an access point for the hackers as it is connected to the public internet and therefore more susceptible than any other control stations -- outside Norway -- to cyber attacks off the public grid. Access point: The Svalbard Satellite Tracking Station in Norway is believed to play as access point to recent cyber attacks on US satellites Despite the breaches consistency with the Chinese writings, the report says 'these relationships do not prove any government affiliation.' It admits that the perpetrators obscured their involvement better hiding their identity. Chinese officials have continually denied any role in cyber attacks.# According to Mr Perrotto, NASA has since created a 'working group to establish and implement an agency-wide space protection program.' They have also notified the Department of Defense responsible for the investigation of satellite operation interference. According to Defense Department reports detailed in the draft report, malicious cyber activity rose to 71,661 attacks in 2009, a high in comparison to just 3,651 in 2001. Attacks this year are expected to hit 55,110, in comparison to 55,812 last year.</span>

<span class="Underline">**The plan creates credible deterrence- data sharing signals interdependence and awareness causes attribution-** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Dudney 2011- Robert S. Dudney is a former editor in chief of Air Force Magazine “Hard Lessons at the Schriever Wargame” February 2011 http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2011/February%202011/0211wargame.aspx/ HN**</span>
<span class="Underline">With some of our strategic nuclear systems, we’ve told the world, ‘You touch those, we are going to respond accordingly,’ " he noted, adding that with nuclear weapons, there is a clear threat of retaliation. "Cyber is a domain where we have to figure out what that means. It might be we can’t [respond fully], because the cyber domain is ... so global. Once you hit the [global information grid], you’re everywhere." The prospect of collateral damage within the web of space and cyber systems was of concern to former Rep. Tom Davis, a Virginia Republican, who played the part of the President in Schriever 2010. "Choosing to initiate an attack, cyber or otherwise, would disrupt this web with inevitable—and potentially significant—adverse effects to both aggressor and victim," said Davis. "Increasingly, a no-holds-barred approach is simply not an option." Indeed, said Nelson, the lesson is obvious: The space-cyberspace theater is global, and can’t be limited. "Whereas, in air, land, and sea, I can confine my fight to a theater, to a geographic area, and there are natural firebreaks there, in space and cyberspace there are no natural firebreaks," he warned. "This underlies our current rules of engagement. We’ve realized that I can start a fire here, and pretty soon it’s everywhere." Officials who took part in Schriever 2010 believe it yielded important conclusions about how to build deterrence in space. One big lesson, said officials, is that the US military should not try to go it alone. A comprehensive system pulling in many different contributors from around the world adds depth and strength to the nation’s space and cyber infrastructure. Maj. David Manhire, SIDC’s deputy director, pointed to the existence of five major groups in the wargame: the US military (combatant commands, Pentagon officials, the services); the commercial space and cyber industries; allies (Britain, Canada, and Australia); other US agencies (Departments of State, Homeland Security, and others); and the US Intelligence Community. Of these five elements, Manhire noted, four fall outside of US military control, making wide cooperation essential. The idea is, should the US lose some of its capability, it would be able to fall back on others. Retired USAF Gen. Lance Lord, a former head of Space Command (l), and Gen. Robert Kehler talk over the wargame at the planning meeting. Kehler led AFSPC at the time, but has since been confirmed to head US Strategic Command. The exercise taught participants that the US should not try to go it alone in space. (SIDC Visualization Lab photo by Dan Santistevan) Consequences, Reactions Joseph D. Rouge, then director of the National Security Space Office, told the STRATCOM audience that the US should become "selectively interdependent" with commercial and foreign operations. In that way, any attacker would have to ponder the fallout from unwanted collateral damage. "When an attack on one is an attack on all, it becomes much more difficult to take on one of the partners, without taking on all," said Rouge. "I think that is a very key part." For these reasons, many are pressing to develop a "space order of battle" that includes both commercial and foreign space systems. Even more important: further development of a so-called Combined Space Operations Center, or "CSpOC," to direct space and cyber moves in a war. In the wargame, foreign and commercial space officials joined in CSpOC deliberations, generating what James called "one of the clear successes" of the exercise. The game also highlighted the need for much greater space situational awareness, officials said. Davis put the matter as bluntly as any: The Commander in Chief "likely will not initially know who is initiating the assault. … What would global reaction be to retaliation if the identity of the aggressor was in doubt? It is safe to say it would be unpredictable, at best." James noted many events, even natural ones such as solar maximum events, can cause disruption. "Unless you have some sort of sensor that tells you this was indeed caused by solar activity, how do you know that that action wasn’t taken by an adversary with something that you couldn’t see?" The upshot: If the US can positively "finger" an attacker, then it can credibly threaten retaliation. If the threat of retaliation is credible, deterrence might hold. As many officials see it, the game also demonstrated the need for much stronger and detailed declaratory policies about space and cyber issues. </span>

<span class="Underline">**None of your defense applies- cyber warfare can only be stopped through attribution- it outweighs nuclear war on every level** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Hoffman 6/1- David E. Hoffman a Pulitzer Prize-winning author and a contributing editor to Foreign Policy “The cyber arms race” Wednesday, June 1, 2011 http://hoffman.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/06/01/the_cyber_arms_race**</span>
<span class="Underline">This week, The Wall Street Journal broke an important story: the Pentagon has concluded computer sabotage from another nation could be considered an act of war, opening the door for the military to respond with conventional force. The decision is contained in a Defense Department strategy document, portions of which will be declassified soon. The Journal said military action against cyber attacks would come if the hackers disrupted industry or caused civilian casualties. “If you shut down our power grid, maybe we will put a missile down one of your smokestacks,” a military official told the Journal. Additional stories followed today in The New York Times and The Washington Post. There is a hidden risk here. When U.S. military officials threaten retaliation for cyber attacks, it sounds logical and reassuring. After all, no one wants to be vulnerable to attack. But conflict in cyberspace offers some complexity that did not exist in the nuclear arms race. First, what is called “attribution,” or figuring out who attacked. As David Clark and Susan Landau noted in a study published by the National Academy of Sciences, “Attribution is central to deterrence, the idea that one can dissuade attackers from acting through fear of some sort of retaliation. Retaliation requires knowing with full certainty who the attackers are.” In cyber conflict, it is not often possible to know who the attackers are. By some accounts, attacks have some from hackers operating under the umbrella of a government, but not directly controlled by it. If a group of hackers in China or Russia carried out an attack on a power grid in the United States, would we really launch a missile, risking escalation into a wider conflict? What if we were wrong? In the nuclear arms race, we knew a lot about our adversaries, if not everything. We set up early warning systems that could track a missile trajectory. We knew where the enemy silos were located. We established “counterforce” targets that could hit those silos with great precision. The Times quoted a participant in the debates in the administration as saying, “Almost everything we learned about deterrence during the nuclear standoffs with the Soviets in the ‘60s, ‘70s and ‘80s doesn’t apply.” Exactly. The United States has created a new Cyber Command, and much of its mission is defensive: to protect U.S. computer networks and build firewalls against attack. But there is also an offensive element, which is not being discussed as much in the open. General Keith B. Alexander, who heads the command, has published an article about the new command in the current issue of Strategic Studies Quarterly. Alexander does not use the word “offensive” once in the piece, but he hints at such a mission. He writes: We cannot afford to allow cyberspace to be a sanctuary where real and potential adversaries can marshal forces and capabilities to use against us and our allies. This is not a hypothetical danger; in conflict areas where US forces are engaged we have indeed seen the Internet used for recruiting, fundraising, operational training, and other activities directed against our service personnel and coalition partners. At Cyber Command much of our focus is on helping our troops in the field limit their vulnerabilities in and from cyberspace. This effort reflects the likelihood that, henceforth, all conflicts will have some cyber aspect, and our efforts to understand this development will be crucial to the future security of the United States. One wonders if the offensive operations will go well beyond taking out a website. Was the Stuxnet worm which damaged the Iranian nuclear facility an example of U.S. offensive cyber operations? That worm was engineered to do damage to infrastructure—to basically destroy the Iranian nuclear enrichment machine. Thus, ever so quietly, begins the cycle of an arms race. If we are engaging in offensive operations, then others will surely follow. For argument’s sake, let’s take the new U.S. strategy that reserves the right to carry out military attacks on anyone who fools with our power grid or nuclear power plants. Let’s assume that Iran adopts exactly the same strategy. What would we think if Iran decided to attack the United States—with a missile down a smokestack—in retaliation for Stuxnet? It may be too late to stop this arms race. Clearly, other nations are also building offensive cyber weapons. The threats are real, but deterrence is going to be very, very difficult. The offensive cyber battlefield promises to be far more chaotic than in the nuclear arms race, with many smaller players and non-state actors, and the risks of retaliation against the United States might be quite high. We need good defenses, no question. But should we be fighting back with cyber warheads and real missiles? Are we ready for what could follow? Is there an alternative? </span>

<span class="Underline">**Cyber warfare escalates to extinction- lack of information processing during war causes miscalculation and use or lose it pressure** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Cimbala 99 (CIMBALA, STEPHEN J. "Accidental/Inadvertent Nuclear War and Information Warfare." Armed Forces & Society: An Interdisciplinary Journal 25.4 (1999): 653. Academic OneFile. Web. 9 Sept. 2010. Document URL** </span>
<span class="Underline">If the two sides in a nuclear crisis get into a sequence of events not correctly foreseen by either and seek to interpret those events correctly, information warfare will be harmful, not helpful, to correct interpretation. An example is perceptions management by one side designed to suggest to the media, public, and legislature of the other side that the first side's intentions are only honorable.^^ The second side, according to this carefully orchestrated set of perceptions fed from one side to another, is really the "aggressor" or the "uncooperative" partner. And the media and political elites of the second side might believe the image created by enemy perceptions management, calling upon leaders to stand down forces and accept the demands of the opponent. Or, leaders of the second side might be outraged at the cyberpropaganda of the first side, escalate their demands, and become more intransigent. As Robert Jervis explains: </span>
<span class="Underline">A state tends to see the behavior of others as more planned, coordinated, and centralized than it is. Actions that are accidental or the product of different parts of the bureaucracy following their own policies are likely to be perceived as part of a coherent, and often devious, plan. In a nuclear crisis, the propensity to see all of the other side's behavior as part of a plan would be especially likely to yield incorrect and dangerous conclusions.^^ </span>
<span class="Underline">Messages may be received as intended, but their political effect is not necessarily predictable. Hitler's propaganda efforts to dissuade British and French military reactions to his occupation of Czechoslovakia worked as intended in the short run, but established in the Nazi dictator's mind misleading impressions of the two states' weakness in resisting any fur-668 Armed Forces & Sodety/Summer 1999 ther tearing up of the map of Europe. Boomeranged perceptions management appeared in Soviet Cold War forgeries of diplomatic and military communications between the U.S. and its allies. Most of these were transparent, and once found out, gave additional evidence of Soviet diplomatic perfidy to hawkish U.S. politicians and commentators. </span>
<span class="Underline">Forces poised for immediate retaliation to possible surprise attack also interact with warning systems looking outward for indications of such an attack. False indicators planted by the other side's infowarriors to bring down air defense systems and missile attack warning radars are harbingers of disaster once forces and command systems have been alerted to war-expectant levels. Under those conditions, the vanishing of information from radar screens or fusion centers could be assumed as the first infowave of a nuclear attack, calling forth a preemptive response. Blank screens and obstructed communications leaving personnel in the dark for orders helped the U.S. in Desert Storm to clear the way for its air strikes against targets in Baghdad and at other locations within Iraqi state territory. The same phenomena might create unacceptable panic if the stakes were vulnerability to nuclear instead of conventional attack. Terrible pressures would rise from lower to higher command levels to "use them or lose them" before communications between and among NCA, CINCs, and geographically dispersed force commanders were completely severed. Positive (reinforcing) feedback within a system of dense interconnections may have unpredictable impacts, as Jervis has noted: Thus warning systems can self-excite when they go on alert: When a decision maker thinks that an attack is likely, he will place more credence in reports indicating that a war is imminent than he would if the same information were received in a period of calm, and actions of the other side that usually would be missed or seen as innocent will be perceived as evincing hostile intentions. And the more such 'information' is received, the greater the fear ^^ </span>
<span class="Underline">High altitude detonation of a small nuclear weapon by an enemy over its own territory and causing no prompt fatalities to U.S. or allied military personnel could nevertheless destabilize U.S. ground and space assets and confuse decisions based on those assets. For example, a nuclear explosion of about 50 Kt above 100 kilometers in altitude would disrupt space assets by prompt radiation effects and by creating atmospheric disturbances. Unhardened satellites in low earth orbit (LEO), even after they survived the initial radiation, would be vulnerable to total dose destruc-Cimbala 669 tion as they passed through aggravated radiation belts. Within weeks to months, all unhardened LEO satellites within a theater of operations could be degraded or inoperative. For example, the electromagnetic pulse (EMP) from a single nuclear burst at an altitude as low as 40 km has the potential to weaken electronics across the entire Persian Gulf region, or throughout the Korean peninsula. Ironically, today's more sophisticated microelectronic systems are more vulnerable to radiation than the cruder and simpler (less integration density, slower operating speed) electronic systems of yesteryear.^^ </span>
<span class="Underline">In theory, no president would authorize the firing of nuclear forces on the basis of ambiguous warning information. But in the exigent circumstances, while clarification of the status of schizoid information systems was sought, force commanders would not be idle. At DefCon 3 or higher, they would be taking appropriate measures to protect their divisions, fleets, and air wings from enemy surprise. These moves would almost certainly be noticed by the other side's intelligence and warning, even if no U.S. or allied nuclear weapons were released, moved, or loaded. Few if any military experts ever thought that a war would begin with a nuclear "bolt from the blue, absent preceding events: by definition, bolt from the blue is not accidental or inadvertent. Any accidental/inadvertent nuclear war in the years between 1946 and 1990 would almost certainly have begun at the level of foot patrols wandering off the map into restricted areas, maritime collisions on the heels of U.S.-Soviet "dodge-em" games at sea, or inadvertent strays by one side into restricted air space of the other.^"^ Confrontations at the tip of the lance have an entirely different meaning higher up the chain of command if links in the chain have been deliberately confused, or their interlink communications distorted, by cyberpathological strikes. As Bruce G. Blair has noted: Central authorities cannot reasonably expect military organizations simply to carry out orders, however rational the orders may be. Organizations are not that pliant. Any attempt to assert positive or negative control in a way that requires major abrupt changes in operating procedures, a situation more likely to occur if operating routines escape attention in peacetime, would invite confusion and Consider, for example, the impression created by Presidents Clinton and Yeltsin, pursuant to their agreement of 1994, that U.S. and Russian strategic nuclear missiles were no longer aimed at targets on one another's state territory. The agreement may have symbolic value, but it did little to670 Armed Forces & Society/Summer 1999 change essential procedures for missile targeting. Although Russian missiles are supposedly set on "zero flight plan," the missiles' memory banks still store wartime targets. The Russian General Staff can, from command posts in Moscow and elsewhere, override the detargeting by means of a Signal-A computer network, re-aiming silo-based missiles at U.S. targets within ten seconds.^^ U.S. missiles can be retargeted against Russia just as rapidly. Russia's command system and early warning network have obviously deteriorated since the end of the Cold War, along with the rest of Russia's military, raising the potential for accidents or inadvertence. Local utility managers have reportedly shut off electric power to Strategic Rocket Forces bases when commanders failed to pay their bills. Frequent malfunctions occur in the equipment that controls nuclear weapons.^^ A retired Strategic Rocket Forces officer charged that at least one recent system malfunction caused parts of the nuclear arsenal to go spontaneously into "combat mode."^^ A number of former Soviet radars for detection of missile attack are no longer operational, making the information provided by Russian early warning systems even less reliable than hitherto. According to some reports, even the nuclear suitcases assigned to President Yeltsin, to the defense minister, and to the chief of the general staff are "falling into disrepair."^^ Finally on the problem of infowar and the avoidance of accidental or inadvertent war or escalation, the problem of delegation of authority or devolution of command is exacerbated by information distortion in the command system of either side. In the case of the U.S. nuclear command system, for example, the "cocked pistol" analogy implies that the pistol will fire back at the highest levels of alert unless authorized commands hold back retaliation.^^ An enemy seeking to paralyze U.S. retaliation by confusing the information networks for nuclear command would, instead, have an equal chance of cutting the command and control system into pieces. Each piece and the forces with which it could connect would then be a sovereign, post-attack entity, firing back with whatever resources remained to it at targets of opportunity. Commanders unable to communicate with one another might assume that their counterparts were already dead or hopelessly cut off from proper orders. A dumb, blinded, disaggregated nuclear response system would then take over from what had been a singular chain of nuclear command and control. </span>


<span class="Underline">**Collapse of dominant position means U.S. lash-out. Hegemonic wars will ensue.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Goldstein ‘7 (Avery, Professor of Global Politics and International Relations @ University of Pennsylvania, “Power transitions, institutions, and** China's rise in East Asia: Theoretical expectations and evidence,” Journal of Strategic Studies, Volume 30, Issue 4 & 5 August)</span>
<span class="Underline">Two closely related, though distinct, theoretical arguments focus explicitly on the consequences for international politics of a shift in power between a dominant state and a rising power. In War and Change in World Politics, Robert Gilpin suggested that peace prevails when a dominant state’s capabilities enable it to ‘govern’ an international order that it has shaped. Over time, however, as economic and technological diffusion proceeds during eras of peace and development, other states are empowered. Moreover, the burdens of international governance drain and distract the reigning hegemon, and challengers eventually emerge who seek to rewrite the rules of governance. As the power advantage of the erstwhile hegemon ebbs, it may become desperate enough to resort to the ultima ratio of international politics, force, to forestall the increasingly urgent demands of a rising challenger. Or as the power of the challenger rises, it may be tempted to press its case with threats to use force. It is the rise and fall of the great powers that creates the circumstances under which major wars, what Gilpin labels ‘hegemonic wars’, break out.13 Gilpin’s argument logically encourages pessimism about the implications of a rising China. It leads to the expectation that international trade, investment, and technology transfer will result in a steady diffusion of American economic power, benefiting the rapidly developing states of the world, including China. As the US simultaneously scurries to put out the many brushfires that threaten its far-flung global interests (i.e., the classic problem of overextension), it will be unable to devote sufficient resources to maintain or restore its former advantage over emerging competitors like China. While the erosion of the once clear American advantage plays itself out, the US will find it ever more difficult to preserve the order in Asia that it created during its era of preponderance. The expectation is an increase in the likelihood for the use of force – either by a Chinese challenger able to field a stronger military in support of its demands for greater influence over international arrangements in Asia, or by a besieged American hegemon desperate to head off further decline. Among the trends that alarm those who would look at Asia through the lens of Gilpin’s theory are China’s expanding share of world trade and wealth (much of it resulting from the gains made possible by the international economic order a dominant US established); its acquisition of technology in key sectors that have both civilian and military applications (e.g., information, communications, and electronics linked with the ‘revolution in military affairs’); and an expanding military burden for the US (as it copes with the challenges of its global war on terrorism and especially its struggle in Iraq) that limits the resources it can devote to preserving its interests in East Asia.14 Although similar to Gilpin’s work insofar as it emphasizes the importance of shifts in the capabilities of a dominant state and a rising challenger, the power-transition theory A. F. K. Organski and Jacek Kugler present in The War Ledger focuses more closely on the allegedly dangerous phenomenon of ‘crossover’– the point at which a dissatisfied challenger is about to overtake the established leading state.15 In such cases, when the power gap narrows, the dominant state becomes increasingly desperate to forestall, and the challenger becomes increasingly determined to realize the transition to a new international order whose contours it will define. Though suggesting why a rising China may ultimately present grave dangers for international peace when its capabilities make it a peer competitor of America, Organski and Kugler’s power-transition theory is less clear about the dangers while a potential challenger still lags far behind and faces a difficult struggle to catch up. This clarification is important in thinking about the theory’s relevance to interpreting China’s rise because a broad consensus prevails among analysts that Chinese military capabilities are at a minimum two decades from putting it in a league with the US in Asia.16 Their theory, then, points with alarm to trends in China’s growing wealth and power relative to the United States, but especially looks ahead to what it sees as the period of maximum danger – that time when a dissatisfied China could be in a position to overtake the US on dimensions believed crucial for assessing power. Reports beginning in the mid-1990s that offered extrapolations suggesting China’s growth would give it the world’s largest gross domestic product (GDP aggregate, not per capita) sometime in the first few decades of the twentieth century fed these sorts of concerns about a potentially dangerous challenge to American leadership in Asia.17 The huge gap between Chinese and American military capabilities (especially in terms of technological sophistication) has so far discouraged prediction of comparably disquieting trends on this dimension, but inklings of similar concerns may be reflected in occasionally alarmist reports about purchases of advanced Russian air and naval equipment, as well as concern that Chinese espionage may have undermined the American advantage in nuclear and missile technology, and speculation about the potential military purposes of China’s manned space program.18 Moreover, because a dominant state may react to the prospect of a crossover and believe that it is wiser to embrace the logic of preventive war and act early to delay a transition while the task is more manageable, Organski and Kugler’s powertransition theory also provides grounds for concern about the period prior to the possible crossover.19</span>






=Affirmative- Umich= 
**Status quo SSA fails even with DOD funding**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">GAO 11</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">- United States Government Accountability Office, GAO Report to the Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, Committee on Armed Services, House of Representatives, “SPACE ACQUISITIONS Development and Oversight Challenges in Delivering Improved Space Situational Awareness Capabilities” May 2011 http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d11545.pdf</span>
__Despite recent investments, existing SSA capabilities continue to fall short of operational needs and space policy objectives__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. In the past 5 fiscal years, while DOD continued its investments in SSA, it has not delivered significant new SSA capabilities to the warfighter as originally expected. Capabilities that were delivered served to sustain or modernize existing systems versus closing gaps. For example, </span>__DOD has extended the service lives of some sensors supporting SSA capabilities and has added 12 The Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) accounts for the remainder__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Page 11 GAO-11-545 Space Acquisitions additional processors and servers to the SSA’s command and control system’s computer, as well as adding analysts and operational personnel. </span>__However, Joint Functional Component Command for Space officials did not characterize these efforts as delivering significant increases in capability__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. DOD plans t</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">o begin delivering major new additions in capability in the coming 5 years, including the Air Force’s recently launched space-based sensor that is expected to appreciably enhance SSA. </span>__However, it is too early to determine the extent to which these new capabilities or additions will address capability shortfalls__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. As described below, </span>__many of these efforts__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">—those expected to provide the biggest gains in capability—</span>__have struggled or are struggling with cost, schedule, and performance challenges and face risks to meeting their acquisition goals, potentially exacerbating SSA capability shortfalls__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Two new SSA acquisition efforts are scheduled to begin product development within the next 2 years— Space Fence and JMS, which are described below, together with five other key efforts. JMS will be essential to providing and enhancing future space command and control and SSA capabilities, while Space Fence is to be the single largest SSA investment. </span>__The challenges and risks these programs face include the potential employment of immature critical technologies, program office staffing and skill shortages, complex integration tasks__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span>__the integration of data from numerous heterogeneous sources, operations in a multiple security level environment (information assurance), not utilizing an incremental development approach__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, and overloading of DOD’s current space object tracking system with data from new sensor systems coming on line over the next 5 years. Table 1 describes, in more detail, </span>__the status of SSA development efforts that are expected to deliver large gains in capability over the next 5 years and the challenges and risks they face.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Page 12 GAO-11-545 Space Acquisitions Table 1: Descriptions, Status, and Challenges and Risks of SSA Programs and Projects that Are Expected to Deliver Large Gains in Capability in Fiscal Years 2010 through 2015 New sensors Space Based Space Surveillance (SBSS) Description/Status: • </span>__The Air Force’s initial SBSS effort consists of a single satellite—using an electro-optical telescope—and associated command, control, communications, and ground processing equipment__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, to collect positional and characterization data on Earth-orbiting objects, replacing a predecessor, the Midcourse Space Experiment Space Based Visible sensor, which significantly contributed to the detection and tracking of deep space objects and which ended its mission in July 2008. </span>__SBSS is expected to provide timely detection, tracking, and identification data to significantly increase DOD’s ability to understand the location and mission capabilities of satellites and other objects, particularly in geosynchronous Earth__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> orbits. The space vehicle was launched in September 2010. The expected duration of the satellite mission is about 5.5 years. The Air Force and DOD are studying options to provide a follow-on capability to SBSS. Challenges and risks: • Cost and schedule: The on-orbit SSA sensing capability is being replaced by SBSS when it becomes operational, estimated for the end of May 2011. SBSS experienced a delay of over 3 years—along with about a 163 percent cost increase, from about $332 million at development start in 2003 to about $873 million. </span>__The SBSS program was restructured in 2006 after an independent review team found that the program’s original cost and schedule baseline was not executable;__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the assembly, integration, </span>__and test plan was risky; and the requirements were overstated__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The restructure provided for increased funding and schedule margin; streamlined the assembly, integration, and test plan; and relaxed requirements. </span>__TheSBSS program office attributes the causes of the schedule delay and cost increase that led to the restructure to technical requirements volatility__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (including a change to a much more complex sensor design, which became the program’s largest cost driver); </span>__a late development contract award; and a change in the planned launch vehicle type__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (from a Delta II to a Minotaur IV) which required the program to fund the launch. </span>__Subsequent to the restructure, technical issues relating to the Minotaur IV caused additional delays__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. • Data processing: The Air Force’s Joint Space Operations Center Mission System (described below) will need to be available to process all SBSS data. Rapid Attack Identification Detection and Reporting System (RAIDRS) a Description/status: • </span>__The Air Force’s initial RAIDRS effort is to develop ground-based systems__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> consisting of antennas and data processing equipment that are to rapidly detect and report electromagnetic interference attacks on DOD satellite communication assets in the C, X, and Ku radio frequency bands. The Air Force initiated the program in March 2005 with a development cost estimate of $226 million and initial operational capability estimated for 2008. Challenges: • Cost and schedule: </span>__The program has undergone multiple rebaselines, the most recent in 2009, because of contract cost increases totaling about $78.5 million and about 4 years of schedule growt__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">h. The RAIDRS program office attributes the cost increases and schedule delay to technical requirements and design instability; overly optimistic cost estimates; incorrect assumption of utilizing government-furnished antennas which proved nonviable and which required producing new antennas; and an inexperienced and substandard prime contractor. Initial operational capability is estimated for fiscal year 2012 and a revised cost estimate was expected to be developed by August 2010. • Performance: The most recent program rebaseline resulted in a simplified system: from nine systems— six fixed and three deployable—to five deployable systems. The program estimates the simplified system will satisfy 92 percent of the program requirements, with reduced simultaneous geolocation and detection capabilities; no off-line processing, test, and exercise functions; and reduced ultra high Page 13 GAO-11-545 Space Acquisitions frequency (UHF) interference capabilities (the latter was a Key Performance Parameter (KPP) under the previous Capability Development Document (CDD) b —according to the program office, the CDD is being updated to revise the UHF requirement). Space Fence Description/status: • The Air Force’s Space Fence is to be a new system of ground-based phased-array radars costing potentially as much as $6.1 billion, according to the Air Force Electronic Systems Center (the product center responsible for acquiring Space Fence). Space Fence is intended to replace and expand coverage provided by the aging Air Force Space Surveillance System using higher radio frequencies to detect and track smaller Earth-orbiting objects. The system was to consist originally of up to three geographically dispersed radars (notionally located in Australia; Ascension Island, south Atlantic Ocean; or Kwajalein Atoll, Marshall Islands); however, recent analysis shows that a three-site system may not provide adequate cost-benefit over a two-site system and, therefore, the Air Force considers the likelihood of a two-site solution is very high. Currently, the effort is in the technology development phase, where the Air Force is actively assessing trade-off options between system performance—such as detection altitude and accuracy—and affordability. System development is scheduled to begin in June 2012, with the first Space Fence radar site providing initial operational capability by the end of fiscal year 2015, and the final site providing full capability by 2020. Challenges and risks: • Data processing: The primary program risk, according to the Electronic Systems Center, is that the new Joint Space Operations Center Mission System (described below) will need to be available to process Space Fence data, as the amount of data provided will result in an increase in uncued detection and tracking capacity from 10,000 to 100,000 objects. • Integration, information assurance: The Space Fence program office states other risks of the program include large-scale integration and calibration of radar arrays, scalability of the design for the digital beam former, c and development of information assurance certification criteria. • Technology: </span>__All five critical Space Fence technologies identified by the program office are immature— one at technology readiness level (TRL) 4 and four at TRL 5 d —which increases risk to cost and schedule goals__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Given that technology discovery cannot be scheduled, the immature technologies raise the risk of having to defer product development until these technologies become mature. </span>__Although mature backup critical technologies exist which could be used if the primary technologies do not mature by the start of system development, all have potentially higher acquisition costs and in some cases__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, higher operating costs as well, according to the program office. </span>__While the program has a critical technology maturity goal of TRL 6 prior to preliminary design review (which is in accordance with DOD’s acquisition policy), e our best practices work has shown technology development to TRL 7 could significantly reduce risk to meeting cost, schedule and performance goals.__

**LIDAR technology solves**
**Gast 8**- <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">David, NAVAL POSTGRADUATE SCHOOL MONTEREY, CALIFORNIA THESIS, “Lidar Design for Space Situational Awareness” September 2008 </span>
__Space Situational Awareness (SSA)____is vital__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> to the United States of America. More than any other country</span>__, the U.S. utilizes space for military command and control, military and civilian navigation, communications, intelligence, and a host of other applications__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Rumsfeld 9). </span>__Knowing what is orbiting our planet__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and the orbits in which those objects are located </span>__is essential to maintaining those capabilities__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. To date, </span>__most efforts in detecting, tracking and cataloging objects in orbit have been carried out by earthborn means.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Radar emplacements like The </span>__Fence track every object of sufficient size that passes overhead__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span>__then update the catalogues in a more or less automated fashion__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Other radar and optical sites can track orbiting objects as they pass within their fields of view, and some can even locate objects as far out as the GEO belt. </span>__Unfortunately, each of these methods requires the object to be tracked to pass overhead__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Any object in an orbit that does not do so cannot be tracked. For instance, The Fence cannot track anything in an inclination low enough not to cross it. </span>__Furthermore, most of these methods require a tracked object to be correlated to a launch in order to identify the object__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__Any significant maneuver while out of sight of a ground station could easily generate an uncorrelated track.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The limitations of earthborn sensors grow out of three facts. First, any such sensor must be, by definition, on the ground. The highest piece of ground is only 8.85 km above sea level, and is hardly an ideal location for building anything. Most satellites, on the other hand, have a perigee at or above 600 km, due to atmospheric drag considerations. </span>__Thus, to be useful, any such sensor must be able to detect objects at least that far away__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Second, </span>__the range of orbits visible to any given site is constrained by its physical location__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Furthermore, many such sensors require multiple passes before a solid track is developed, and all require periodic revisits to maintain their tracks. </span>__Mobile sensors can help to alleviate the first problem, but not the second, since moving them to cover different orbits would cause them to lose track on those objects spotted previously__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. There 2 are also practical and political issues with the placement of such systems. A given location may be ideally situated to observe a particular range or orbits, but it may present a challenging environment for constructing and operating such a system. </span>__Other locations may be ideal both positionally and environmentally, but may be controlled by someone who would prefer not to have a space observation sensor located there__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Third, and of particular concern for optical systems, though not inconsequential to radars, </span>__is the fact that any earthborn system must look up through the atmosphere__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The atmosphere distorts, disperses, reflects and absorbs various electromagnetic wavelengths to different degrees.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Figure 1. EM Transmissivity in Atmosphere (From: Olsen 66) </span>__As a result of these inherent limitations of earthborn sensors, a great deal of interest has developed in improving Space Situational Awareness through space-based means__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__Space-based sensors can operate at shorter ranges, allowing lower power requirements for active sensors and better resolution with smaller apertures for both active and passive sensors__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. These sensors can be launched into almost any orbit without dealing with territorial issues. They do not, in most cases, have to deal with atmospheric effects. </span>__They also move very quickly compared to satellites not in similar orbits, 3 allowing a relatively small constellation of satellites__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, correctly deployed, </span>__to cover every orbit from short-term LEO orbits out to the GEO belt.__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The exact nature and composition of such a constellation is outside the scope of this thesis. However, along with more traditional SSA sensors, Laser Imaging, Detection And Ranging devices (</span>__LIDARs) could be used to great effect in such a constellation.____LIDARs possess the optical resolution and imaging capabilities of passive optical sensors while also providing the range information and independence from light sources of RADAR__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Incidentally, depending on whom you ask, LIDAR stands either for LIght Detection And Ranging or Laser Imaging, Detection And Ranging. The same technology is also known as LADAR (LAser Detection and Ranging) and Laser Radar. </span>


=Plan Text= 
**Plan: The United States federal government should develop its space situational awareness by deploying Laser Imaging, Detection and Ranging Devices**

**China and the U.S. are engaged in a cold space war – brink is now**
**Discovery News 11/1-** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">“SATELLITE BATTLEGROUND IN SPACE? China may be tinkering with U.S. satellites and experts say other countries are likely doing the same.” Tue Nov 1, 2011 http://news.discovery.com/space/satellites-cold-war-hacking-china.html</span>
__Space has long been a battleground for disputes between the United States and its rivals__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, but news this week that </span>__the Chinese military may have been behind a hacking attack on NASA satellites____has confirmed__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> for some experts </span>__that a technological Cold War is well underway__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. "</span>__The reason why space is the must-win region is because__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, especially for the West, </span>__much of our information is collected, transmitted and controlled through space,"__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> said Dean Cheng, a research fellow at the Heritage Foundation in Washington. NEWS: China Starts Work on Its Own Space Hangout </span>__Space "is where things are happening__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The Chinese have been close analysts of foreign wars and they have reached the conclusion that the ability to establish space superiority is key to victory." Cheng and other experts point to a growing number of suspicious incidents that have occurred to satellites in the past few years. -In 2007, China fired a missile against one of its defunct weather satellites, blowing it up and creating a huge debris field that menaces other nations' satellites. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">WATCH VIDEO: NASA Puts Satellites Through Wringer -In October 2007 and June 2008, </span>__NASA experienced several minutes of interference on its Landsat-7 and Terra AM-1 earth observation satellites on several occasions__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, according to Bloomberg News, which cited a draft report by the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission. </span>__The report doesn't blame China, but says the attack is consistent with Chinese military__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">writings. Chinese officials denied the report, saying, "This report is untrue and has ulterior motives." -In January 2010, there was another collision of a Chinese missile and a satellite. -In August 2010, China figured out how to bump two of their satellites together without destroying them, a potential dress rehearsal for satellite hunter-killer technology. NEWS: NASA Banned From Working With China While some incidents involve the Chinese disabling their own space vehicles, the latest information about the loss of control of NASA's satellites is more worrisome, Cheng said.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">“</span>__It demonstrates the vulnerability of our satellites__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">," he said. "</span>__Somebody who has the ability to hack into a satellite and take control of it can do several things__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. You could turn off the cameras</span>__, you could point the camera away from what you are looking for__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Those are the least bad things you could do. You could orient the solar panels away so the whole thing powers down, then you have a dead piece of satellite." Other experts say we shouldn't be surprised that China is testing U.S. capabilities in orbit. James Lewis, a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, says that such probes are probably a routine occurrence, but are often not made public. He said that communications from the ground to most U.S. military satellites are encrypted, and therefore more protected against hackers. </span>__He said that earlier satellites__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, such the ones operated by NASA, </span>__may be using outdated security measures__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. "</span>__These weren't military__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> satellites," Lewis said in an email. "</span>__And if hacking Landsat is the best you can do, it's not very scary__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__There are probably a half dozen countries that have experimented with interfering with satellites and that may include the U__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates." Andrew D'Uva, president of Providence Access Co., an Arlington, Va.-based consulting firm to satellite companies, says that most commercial satellites also have encrypted protection measures to prevent hacker attacks. </span>__He says that the interference with NASA's satellites could have come from other nations besides China or from private individuals.__
__If China is fingered as the culprit, should the U.S. retaliate__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">? If there is unambiguous proof, yes, it should be discouraged through escalating steps," D'Uva said. "But we are a long way from that." </span>__To deter such attacks or probes or incidents, the Pentagon recently set up the Joint Space Protection Program (JSPP).__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> National Reconnaissance Office Director Bruce Carlson said the JSPP is trying to figure out how to differentiate between attacks and accidents in space. "</span>__It's becoming very congested (and) we recognize that it's becoming very congested because other countries are launching a lot of stuff, sometimes more than we do, and it's becoming very competitive__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">," Carlson said at a recent press event, according to the blog Defense Tech. "I </span>__don't think it's any secret that the Chinese are becoming more active in space and that concerns us because we're not absolutely sure of their intent."__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">But truth be told, U</span>__.S. officials are probably well aware of China's intentions in space, according to Lewi__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">s. "</span>__The Chinese plan to attack our space assets in the event of a conflict. They also plan to attack our carriers and maybe critical infrastructure. This is pretty basic stuff -- militaries plan to fight their opponents, so it's hard to be too indignant."__


**Cooperation inevitable but will fail without the plan**
**Rendleman and Ryals 2k11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Col. James Randleman is a J.D. and BS and was second lieutenant through the Air Force ROTC, Col. Robert Ryals is a BSEE, JD, and MA and a Force Space Command as a contractor in space control and as an instructor for the past five years at the Space Innovation and Development Center’s Advanced Space Operations School, “The New National Space Policy: More is Needed” February 2011, High Frontier Volume 7, No. 2, pg online </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Interest in international space cooperation is not new. </span>__International cooperation has been an important and long-standing hallmark of the US national space policies__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. International </span>__cooperation and associated__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> multinational </span>__operations have been important components of an effective global engagement strategy__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> to assure access to space capabilities </span>__for the US, its allies, and partners.____The US engages in a wide range of such activities__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, not </span>__because__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> of their benign nature but rather </span>__they are in its best national interests to do so.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> US </span>__collaborative efforts have been part of the space age since its beginning__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__Cooperation allows space-faring states to__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> combine resources and reduce risk; </span>__improve efficiency; expand diplomatic engagement; and enhance prestige of engaged states, improve political sustainability of space projects, and provide workforce stability.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> With the end of the Cold War, space and Earth science research and space exploration activities are no longer con by an overarching competition between superpowers. The George H. W. Bush, Clinton, George W. Bush, and now Obama administrations have each attempted to capitalize on the post Cold War opportunities and leverage the expertise of other nations. The US scientific community has entered into a new multi-polar world, creating diverse international space alliances and partnerships. </span>__The Obama administration supports this trend by reaching out to growing global space powers like India and China, both emerging economic and engineering powerhouses__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. It hopes such engagement will shape their future space, engineering and political activities in positive ways. The US has also reached out to old friends. For example, </span>__Secretaries of State and Defense, Clinton and Robert M. Gates, have announced the Australians will be more fully integrated into US space situational awareness activities__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. 7 The </span>__sentiments to support international cooperation and collaboration are growing and evolving, much more so than in past policy declaration__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">s. Participants expect international projects will generate a calculus that one plus one will equal three— that diverse resources, skills, and technologies of the partners will provide synergy, adding up to more than the sum of their parts. 8</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> NASA, commercial, and European space activities have already achieved considerable success with their cooperative endeavors. 9 </span>__Fans of the new policy may think that the number of times “international cooperation” or “cooperation” is mentioned is very important__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Yes, the new policy does contain numerous references to “cooperation.” Grand </span>__pronouncements and simplistic interpretation of the number of references relating to cooperation are not enough__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The old and current reality is that cooperative programs are expensive, difficult at times to resource, and many times very hard to manage. </span>__Shrewd partners know that the direction to engage in cooperation is not worth much unless tied to real money and programs__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>__Potential and even current partners are__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> thus taking a judicious wait and see attitude to the new policy. They have been </span>__closely watching the US space politics for well over 50 years and will not act rashly.____Changing their__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> business </span>__plans to respond to fickle US executive and legislative international cooperative initiatives could be considered too much risk to assume.__
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Successful international cooperation is not easily achieved. </span>__Considering the space debris, SSA, collision avoidance, and TCBM foundational points__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> identified above, the new policy provides no thought guideposts on how to proceed. The new policy </span>__cries out for a strategy to obtain these goals.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Knowledgeable diplomats and policy analysts understand that </span>__US government agencies do not always support policy directives.____This creates uncertainty and unpredictability for potential partners who are considering cooperative ventures__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> with the US. For example, one need only look to the fight over acquiring space imaging via the National Reconnaissance Office (NRO) broad area space-based imagery collection (BASIC) satellite system against using a commercial remote sensing solution. The Office of the Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics objected to the proposed BASIC acquisition suggesting the NRO was not following US Commer-37 High Frontier cial Remote Sensing Policy which provided the US would first look to the commercial community to satisfy its remote sensing needs.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">10 The NRO position to acquire the system despite the policy eventually prevailed within the interagency. 11 Then Congress interceded, pointing again to the Commercial Remote Sensing Policy. It refused to fund the system. 12 </span>__A new space strategy must anticipate comparable bureaucratic foot-dragging to cooperation initiatives and associated reforms.__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The implementing strategy must advocate changes in laws and regulations to better enable international cooperation. The Arms Export Control Act and its associated International Traffic in Arms Regulations still stymie US and international interests in cooperation. The strategy must also anticipate that many in the US security community will not see cooperation as a benefit. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The new policy does not adequately confront the point that many </span>__US space professionals still have difficulty spelling “international cooperation.”__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> They have a historical bias to first look to integrate international capabilities on a US platform, rather than comprehensively plan and employ an integrated approach. A strategy needs to enable the US space community to internalize an appreciation of the opportunities that international cooperative programs offer. One of the authors participated in a recent conference panel presentation on the “role of international cooperation” with senior NASA and industry officials where it was difficult to get the other speakers to discuss or mention any international component to their program activities. </span>__These officials, while very earnest and capable, felt much more comfortable just talking to the US components of their program portfolios.__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In due time, </span>__a winning international cooperation effort will require the entire US space community to fully embrace the concept.__

**__The plan solves an arms race –__**

**First, treaty verification**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Baines and Cote 2009- </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Phillip J. and Adam, Promising confidence- and security-building measures for space security http://www.unidir.org/pdf/articles/pdf-art2906.pdf Philip J. Baines is Deputy Director of the Non-proliferation and Disarmament Division at the Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade Canada. Adam Côté is a researcher in the same division and an MA candidate at the Norman Paterson School of International Affairs at Carleton University.</span>
Verification<span class="Underline"> and governance </span>are crucial to <span class="Underline">the success of </span>any<span class="Underline"> space security </span>treaty<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span class="Underline">A violation of its provisions could undermine the purposes of the agreement</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. In the context of outer space, there are two types of verification: adequate and effective. </span><span class="Underline">Although the differences between the two are</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> not </span><span class="Underline">spelled out, it is generally understood that </span>effective verificationentails<span class="Underline"> stricter </span>requirements<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and more rigorous inspections.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">35 Adequate, however, is </span><span class="Underline">a verification standard consistent with the standard needed to wage war in outer space</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. 36 Essentially, </span><span class="Underline">in order to conduct physical conflict in space</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span><span class="Underline">one would need </span>to<span class="Underline"> be able to </span>discern between military and civilian targets<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (as required by the Geneva Conventions).</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">37 Moreover, </span><span class="Underline">in the absence of a ban on space weapons</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span><span class="Underline">militaries would be required to have robust space situational awareness in order to maintain a targeting list of possible threats</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>This ability to discriminate<span class="Underline"> between </span>military and civilian targets<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, or to establish an order of priority for targets based on their ability to harm other objects, </span>can also be used as a verification standard for ensuring that space-based weapons are never deployed<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>The<span class="Underline"> first </span>step <span class="Underline">toward a robust verification and governance system </span>is<span class="Underline"> a collection of </span>robust SSA<span class="Underline"> systems</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. As discussed above, </span><span class="Underline">it is important to know what functions objects perform in outer space,who is in control of them, what orbits they occupy and how they behave in these orbits.This knowledge will not only act as a deterrent to the weaponization of space, but also reduce the risk of accidental collisions or interference.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">38 </span><span class="Underline">The independent </span>SSA systems<span class="Underline"> of </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">China, </span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 8px;">the Russian Federation and the</span><span class="Underline"> United States </span>couldbecome the basis for Regional<span class="Underline"> Space </span>Operation<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Centres (RSpOCs) that would each maintain extensive knowledge of what activities are taking place in outer space on a real-time basis. </span><span class="Underline">These RSpOCs could serve as a form of clearing house</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, in which sufficient </span>space information would be made available<span class="Underline"> to other states in a format that is consistent with the national security</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and foreign policy interests of these three major space powers. </span><span class="Underline">As every state will have a significant relationship with at least one of these powers, </span>every<span class="Underline"> spacefaring </span>state couldgain access to<span class="Underline"> the necessary and </span>sufficient information<span class="Underline"> for its safe and sustainable use of outer space</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. This would be particularly true were both China and the Russian Federation to make similar data available to third parties as the United States currently does under its Commercial and Foreign Entities project.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">39 Looking forward, </span><span class="Underline">these RSpOCs, enhanced by Joint Data Exchange Centres</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> established among them, </span>couldserve as the foundation for<span class="Underline"> the </span>multilateral verification<span class="Underline"> of a space </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">security treaty. 40 </span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The second step toward a robust verification and governance system for space security is an executive council established under a space security treaty</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> designed to report to the UN Security Council on compliance matters relating to the treaty. </span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This executive council could serve as a basis for consultations concerning both complian</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ce and whether </span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 10.6667px;">or not a given satellite qualifies as a weapon based on its design and behaviour.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> This sort of governance system would be much more mutually beneficial and adhere to the spirit of Article IX of the OST, in contrast to a system of deterrence and tit-for-tat reprisals which may, in turn, lead to an arms race in outer space.</span>


**Second, data sharing – U.S. leadership key**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Robinson 11</span><span style="font-family: 'Garamond','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> - Resident Fellow @ European Space Policy Institute (ESPI) [Jana Robinson, “Transparency and confidence-building measures for space security,” __Space Policy__ 27 (2011) 27e37//]</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[1]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Build space TCBMs with like-minded partners. Presently some </span>countries are calling for a treaty banning weapons in space or a treaty preventing an arms race in outer space<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Others focus on promoting a code of conduct and the responsible use of space. Europe and </span>__the USA should__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">continue to</span> __take the lead in promoting safe and sustainable space__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">-related </span>__activities. **The US**A__**__can promote this__** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">effort through its advanced space capabilities, initially </span>**__through__** __**comprehensive implementation** **of**__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> its </span>**__SSA Data Sharing__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Program. Europe can, in turn, apply its longstanding experience in mediating stabilisation arrangements in multilateral bodies to promote specific TCBM measures for space. </span>__Space security can__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> thereby </span>__be advanced__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> more</span> __quickly as trust__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">among spacefaring nations</span> __will be more easily established__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The EU and ESA could offer an overarching cooperative structure to coordinate member states. Such a structure could embody advanced and funded SSA and other architectures necessary for the implementation of bolder TCBMs in the future.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[1]</span>__Improve information exchanges related to collision avoidance__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Governments could seek to implement national standards, in part, through closer collaboration with industry, which has spearheaded establishment of a prototype multi-partner collision avoidance system. </span>__Data exchanges could be geared to improving space object databases__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">; </span>__establishing common international data standards and data harmonisation__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">; </span>__and cooperating on dissemination of orbital tracking information and formulating predictive modelling tools__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Moreover, an institutionalised structure should be contemplated to facilitate a smoother interface among member states, the EU, industry and the Space Data Association.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[1]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> TCBM measures to mitigate interference with space activities. This objective could be implemented via establishment of an International Interference Information Center and similar structures for priority concerns. For example, strengthening of the Consultative Committee for Space Data Systems (CCSDS) offers an opportunity for more effective </span>__exchanges of data__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">among space operators. This </span>__could__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, in turn, </span>__lead to greater government__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">and commercial </span>__interoperability and mutual support__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. This kind of venue was proposed at the COPUOS in early 2010 in the context of its work on “Preliminary Reflections on Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities”.74</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[1]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Avoid space becoming an area of conflict. </span>__Countries could **reorient**__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">their </span>**__attention from debates on__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">prevention of</span> __**an arms race in outer space**__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(where little progress is expected in the near term) </span>__to__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> individual declarations, gestures, and</span> __actions that make clear their peaceful intent in space__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__This could be accomplished through__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">the </span>**__timely__** __**sharing**____of space__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, national security and defence </span>__policies__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">; bilateral visits during important, defence-related occasions, and even bilateral and multilateral military exercises testing the potential interoperability of deterrent space capabilities. The SchrieverWargame series could serve as a useful template for such military-to-military exchanges.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[1]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Improve compliance with OST and other obligations. Individual spacefaring nations could strengthen their oversight of nongovernmental entities in space through stricter technical standards, licensing requirements and financial penalties in cases of non-compliance. Nations should request consultations when planning conduct of riskier activities in space. A standing body should be considered to facilitate compliance with OST obligations. UN members could likewise be urged to seek sanctions against those nations that do not comply and/or endanger the space activities of other nations.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">5.1.2. Specific measures </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[1]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Establish an international center for sharing SSA data. In order to mitigate collision risks, space operators need awareness of near-term situations and orbital paths; and a propagation ability. </span>__A new data center could **improve communications** among__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">operators as well as</span> __between governments__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and operators </span>__through the coordinated tracking of space objects__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__Such a center____could__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> also </span>__coordinate collision avoidance activities by integrating various sources of SSA data__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, including ground- and space-based space surveillance networks (SSN), space observers75 and satellite operators. This concept has already been suggested,76 and even partially implemented. </span>__A prototype data centre was established by seven major commercial owners and operators__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> which regularly contribute data from some 120 satellites in GEO orbit.77 </span>**__An important next step should be to__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> identify and </span>**__institutionalise the__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> best </span>**__means of coordinating__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, on an ongoing basis, </span>**__with__**__the Joint Space Operations Center (JSpOC) in **the US**A to take advantage of the overlapping of missions and value-added capabilities.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Pg. 36-37</span>

The impact is extinction
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Mitchell, et al 1</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span>)</span>

__<span style="color: #000000;">A buildup of space weapons might begin with noble intentions of 'peace through strength' deterrence, but this rationale glosses over the tendency that '… the presence of space weapons…will result in</span>__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;"> the increased likelihood of </span>__<span style="color: #000000;">their use'</span>__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">.33 This drift toward usage is strengthened by a strategic fact elucidated by Frank Barnaby: when it comes to arming the heavens, 'anti-ballistic missiles and anti-satellite warfare technologies go hand-in-hand'.34 </span>__<span style="color: #000000;">The interlocking nature of offense and defense in military space technology stems from the inherent 'dual capability' of spaceborne weapon components</span>__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">. As Marc Vidricaire, Delegation of Canada to the UN Conference on Disarmament, explains: 'If you want to intercept something in space, you could use the same capability to target something on land'. 35 To the extent that ballistic missile interceptors based in space can knock out enemy missiles in mid-flight, such</span>__<span style="color: #000000;"> interceptors can</span>__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;"> also </span>__<span style="color: #000000;">be used as orbiting 'Death Stars', capable of sending munitions hurtling through the Earth's atmosphere. The dizzying speed of space warfare would introduce intense 'use or lose'pressure into strategic calculations, with the spectre of split-second attacks creating incentives to rig orbiting Death Stars with automated 'hair trigger' devices</span>__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">. In theory, this automation would enhance survivability of vulnerable space weapon platforms. However, </span>__<span style="color: #000000;">by taking thedecision to commit violence out of human hands and endowing computers with authority to make war, military planners could sow insidious seeds of accidental conflict</span>__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">. Yale sociologist Charles Perrow has analyzed 'complexly interactive, tightly coupled' industrial systems such as space weapons, which have many sophisticated components that all depend on each other's flawless performance. According to Perrow, this interlocking complexity makes it impossible to foresee all the different ways such systems could fail. As Perrow explains, '[t]he odd term "normal accident" is meant to signal that, given the system characteristics, multiple and unexpected interactions of failures are inevitable'.36 </span>__<span style="color: #000000;">Deployment of space weapons with pre-delegated authority to fire death rays or unleash killer projectiles would likely make war itself inevitable, given the susceptibility of such systems to 'normal accidents'. </span>__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">It is chilling to contemplate the possible effects of a space war. According to retired Lt. Col. Robert M. Bowman, </span>__<span style="color: #000000;">'even a tiny projectile reentering from space strikes the earth with such high velocity that it can do enormous damage — even more than would be done by a nuclear weapon of the same size!'</span>__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">. 37 In the same Star Wars technology touted as a quintessential tool of peace, defence analyst David Langford sees one of the most destabilizing offensive weapons ever conceived: 'One imagines dead cities of microwave-grilled people'.38 Given this unique potential for destruction, it is not hard to imagine that </span>__<span style="color: #000000;">any nation subjected to space weapon attackwould retaliate with maximum force, including use of nuclear, biological, and/or chemical weapons. An accidental war sparked by a computer glitch in space could plunge the world into the most destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>__

**Even war-hawks will share data – DOD is key**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Roberts 5</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">- Maj Tommy A. Roberts Space and Missile Force Programmer, Directorate of Plans and Programs, HQ Air Force, Space Situation Awareness: How Much Should the US Share?, High Frontier Winter High Frontier Winter 2005</span>
<span class="Underline">Recent operations in Iraq and Afghanistan</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, as well as the tragic terrorist attacks on 11 September 2001, </span><span class="Underline">confirm that many of the US military’s</span>Cold War paradigms are no longer valid<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. In fact, as pointed out in the Air Force’s Transformation Flight Plan, </span><span class="Underline">the transition to a post-Cold War force is one of two on-going transformations within the US military</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. 15 In addition to the shift to a post-Cold War force, </span>the<span class="Underline"> US </span>military is undergoing atransformation from an industrial<span class="Underline"> age </span>force to an information<span class="Underline"> age </span>force<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. 16 </span>The long-term ability of the<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> US </span>military to properly adjust to these transformationswill ultimately spell the difference between victory and defeat<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in future operations, and </span><span class="Underline">space will certainly play a vital role.</span>
<span class="Underline">Despite some positive results</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span><span class="Underline">there are still a number of areas where the</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> space </span><span class="Underline">community needs to further embrace transformation</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Specifically, </span>within the SSA context,the<span class="Underline"> lingering Cold War-</span>mindset of<span class="Underline"> tightly </span>controlling information must change<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. This mindset encouraged a space culture that relied heavily on classification as a method of restricting enemy access to US capabilities. </span><span class="Underline">Such a culture served the US well during the Cold War. That mindset must now change to get in line with today’s global realit</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">y--the whole world is now dependent on space. </span>If the US wants to retain its<span class="Underline"> long-term </span>leadership position<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in that global reality, </span>it mustfind waysto<span class="Underline"> embrace the global community and </span>persuade others to rely on US space capabilities<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span class="Underline">One</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> such </span><span class="Underline">way is through the sharing of American SSA with the world.</span>
<span class="Underline">In the context of SSA, </span>the US is at an important crossroads<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. As noted in a recent RAND study, “</span>Nations arefacing<span class="Underline"> important </span>choices<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in deciding whether to acquire independent aerospace capabilities, </span>whether to depend onother nations for aerospace suppor<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">t, whether potential costs and vulnerabilities are incurred for those relationships</span><span class="Underline">, and whether they are willing politically to accept both the benefits and the risks of dependence.”</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">17 </span>The US<span class="Underline"> also </span>faces an important choice<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>Is it willing to share<span class="Underline"> its SSA capabilities </span>in order to drive<span class="Underline"> foreign and commercial </span>dependence, or will it continue to hide behindits Cold Wa<span class="Underline">r-era security </span>blanket<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and fail to adjust to the changing global environment? It is clear a policy of sharing is the answer…now the devil will be in the details.</span>

**Other countries want U.S. data-sharing**
**UN 10/17-**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Sixty-sixth General Assembly First Committee 13th & 14th Meetings (AM & PM) FIRST COMMITTEE HEARS INTRODUCTION OF EIGHT DRAFTS ON RANGE OF TOPICS, FROM THREAT OF OUTER SPACE ARMS RACE TO TERRORIST ACQUISITION OF MASS DESTRUCTION WEAPONS Oct 17, 2011 http://www.un.org/News/Press/docs/2011/gadis3439.doc.htm</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">WANG QUN, </span>__Ambassador for Disarmament Affairs of China, said that__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> outer </span>__space was the common wealth of mankind as the global public space.__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The permanent peace of outer space was correlated to all nations’ security, development and prosperity. </span>__With the growing reliance of mankind on outer space, the risk of weaponization of outer space and an arms race there were on the rise__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, and the uncertainties concerning outer space security were also accumulating. Safeguarding the peaceful use of outer space and preventing its weaponization were the common interest and obligations of all countries. </span>__He said his country firmly opposed the weaponization of outer space and an arms race in outer space, and dedicated itself to efforts for maintaining peace and security in outer space.____China had traditionally co____<span style="font-family: 'MS Mincho';">‑</span>sponsored the General Assembly resolution on prevention of an arms race in outer space__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, cal</span>__ling for negotiations on an international legally binding instrument to be negotiated at the Conference for Disarmament.____China and Russia had also jointly submitted to the Conference the draft of “Treaty on the Prevention of the Placement of Weapons in Outer Space,__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the Threat or Use of Force against Outer Space Objects”, in 2008. </span>__His country hoped the Conference would start substantive discussio__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">n, based on that text, </span>__on the effective way to deal with the issues, including verification__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__China attached importance to outer space transparency and confidence____<span style="font-family: 'MS Mincho';">‑</span>building measures__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">and </span>__was open to relevant initiatives__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and discussions, he said. </span>__Such appropriate and viable measures would enhance mutual trust, reduce accidental errors, regulate outer space activities and maintain outer space security__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span>__and were the useful supplements to an internationally binding instrument on the prevention of the weaponization of outer space__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and an arms race in outer space. </span>__Transparency and confidence____<span style="font-family: 'MS Mincho';">‑</span>building measures and preventing an outer space arms race were two parallel processe__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">s, he explained. A set of the first arrangements could eventually be reached on the basis of consensus through broadly</span><span style="font-family: 'MS Mincho'; font-size: 10.6667px;">‑</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">participated, open and equal international deliberations. However, such measures were not legally binding and could not substitute for the negotiation of a new legally binding instrument in outer space. </span>

=Contention 3 – Solvency= 

**We solve it –**

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">First, Tropospheric data </span>
**Hays et al 5-** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Paul Hays, Michael Dehring, Len Fisk, Pete Tchoryk, Michigan Aerospace Corporation, Ivan Dors, James Ryan University of New Hampshire, Jinxue Wang Raytheon Space and Airborne Systems Santa Barbara, Michael Hardesty NOAA Environmental Technology Laboratory, Bruce Gentry </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Floyd Hovis Fibertek, Inc, Remote Sensing Space-based Doppler Winds LIDAR: A Vital National Need May 2005 http://space.hsv.usra.edu/LWG/Splash%20Papers/Hays.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Throughout history, </span>__various wind measurement techniques have been employed, ranging from human observation to sophisticated wind LIDARs__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Wind vanes were used by the ancient Egyptians and Chinese to measure the direction of air flow. The Greeks measured winds by observing the directions and deformation of trees and grass fields. Aristotle wrote about relationships between cloud formation and winds. </span>__Despite this long history of interest, there is still no direct measurement of global wind profiles throughout the troposphere and lower stratosphere__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (approximately 0 to 30 km</span>__). Today such measurements are critical for improving long-range weather forecasting, hurricane tracking, troposphere-stratosphere exchange studies, global pollution tracing, and climate studies__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The World Meteorological Organization (WMO) has consistently ranked direct observation of global winds profiles from satellites as one of the most challenging and important observations. </span>__The current knowledge of atmospheric dynamics and processes can be gauged by the effectiveness of modern Numerical Weather Prediction (NWP__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">).</span>__NWP relies on input data to characterize the initial state of the atmosphere, and computational models to predict its spatiotemporal evolution__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Advancements in atmospheric models and computing power over the years have far out-gained the improvement in atmospheric observations. </span>__Thus, the most productive step toward an improved understanding of atmospheric processes, weather, and climate change involves new atmospheric measurements that can fill the gaps of our data__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Accurate modeling of atmospheric dynamics requires 4-dimensional input data (volumetric data over time) for the balancing of energy, mass, and momentum. </span>__These measurements include temperature, radiance, albedo, composition, humidity, pressure, and wind velocity, all of which are measured from ground, ocean, balloon, and satellite platforms.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Modern wind measurements are limited and do not provide the volumetric density nor the sampling to reach the full potential of NWP</span>__. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and WMO recognizes that global tropospheric wind data are the single most important input measurement required to improve NWP.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The current wind measurements include ground stations, buoys, ships, radiosondes, aircraft, ground-based wind profilers, and radiometer, scatterometer, and cloud tracking satellites. Table 1 summarizes these measurements. The ground stations (ASOS, Weather Bug), buoys networks (MON, TAO), ships (VOS), and scatterometers (NSCAT, SeaWinds) provide good coverage; however offer little atmospheric profile information. Ground-based wind profilers (NEXRAD) offer superior wind measurements when aerosols or clouds are present. </span>__Cloud tracking satellites (Meteosat) provide wind measurements at locations and altitudes where clouds or aerosols exist but with poor altitude resolution__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Water vapor channels on space-based radiometers (SMMR, TOV) provide wind velocity as a secondary data product, but again with poor accuracy and resolution. Radiosondes (RaObs) and aircraft (ACARS) measurements provide good wind profiles, but are primarily performed over well-populated regions in the northern hemisphere. </span>__Few wind measurements are performed in the clear-air over the oceans and southern hemisph__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ere. Figure 1 illustrates the sparseness of these measurements, and </span>__the capability of a global tropospheric wind LIDAR to fill the measurement void__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">s. </span>__The high value of tropospheric wind for improvedweather predictionand climate studies is highlighted by the fact that it is ranked as the highest priority unmet measurement by NPOESS/IPO, a joint office representing DOD, NOAA, and NASA.__

**Second, water vapor observations**
**Wessel and Simmons 10-** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">John, Ph.D. in chemical physics from the University of Chicago Fred, Ph.D. in aerospace science from the University of Michigan “Water-Vapor Lidar Extends to the Tropopause” May 14, 2007 http://www.aero.org/publications/crosslink/summer2000/02.html</span>
__Lidar's role in obtaining accurate measurements of water vapor in the upper troposphere is becoming increasingly important as the issue of global warming heats up__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The question of whether Earth is dangerously heating up has become a subject of debate in our time. </span>__But is global warming fact or fiction?__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> One thing is certain: The surface temperature of Earth has increased 0.45 to 0.6 degrees Kelvin in the past century. </span>__A recent study supported by The National Science Foundation predicts our planet will warm by 2 degrees Kelvin in the 21st century.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Recent research conducted by The Aerospace Corporation to validate Defense Meteorological Satellite Program (DMSP) measurements could shed some light on global warming issues. </span>__Global warming takes place when heat becomes increasingly trapped in Earth's atmosphere. It is now widely believed that "greenhouse gases"__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (so called because these atmospheric constituents produce a "greenhouse effect" over Earth) </span>__contribute to this warming__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__Water is the most influential component of the greenhouse gas mixture: Water vapor absorbs infrared radiation emitted from Earth's surface and lower atmosphere more than any other constituent, thereby trapping heat best__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__Accurate knowledge of the amount of atmospheric water must be obtained to improve and test global-warming models.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> A radiosonde is an instrument package carried by a balloon that ascends to altitudes of 20 to 30 kilometers. It measures temperature, humidity, and pressure in the atmosphere and broadcasts the information back to a ground station. The Global Positioning System is used to record the trajectory during ascent to determine wind speed and direction.</span>
__Aerospace recently made significant advances in the ability to measure the distribution of water vapor in the upper troposphere__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (upper portion of the lower atmosphere). </span>__Using__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> a ground-based </span>__lidar__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (light detection and ranging) system, which operates much like radar, </span>__the researchers discovered significantly more water content in the upper reaches of the troposphere than was previously thought to exist.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> This capability was developed to improve calibration of U.S. Air Force meteorological satellites. Lidar vs. Weather Balloons </span>__The combined use of lidar and satellites provides many advantages__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> over conventional balloon-borne radiosondes, which measure humidity, temperature, and air pressure. First, radiosondes do not operate correctly at the low temperatures typically encountered above an altitude of 8 kilometers. Second, they are one-shot attempts at measuring atmospheric conditions, and they take one hour to reach their zenith. The lidar system measures water vapor continuously over the entire altitude range. </span>__This is important because the lidar can capture data from a satellite as the satellite moves overhead, and satellites are only in view for five minutes. During this brief time, the "ground footprint" of the satellite must be in line with the lidar__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__The lidar then calibrates the data derived from the satellite.____Essentially, it verifies whether or not a satellite is measuring water vapor properly.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (See sidebar "How Lidar Works") Finally, water-vapor data can now be derived from multiple satellites that measure water vapor all over the world. </span>__Before the advent of satellites, data were derived from radiosondes routinely launched over land by national weather services.__
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Improving Computer Models Combining accurate ground-based lidar measurements with high-quality imagery obtained by satellites promises to improve both global-climate and weather-forecast modeling. </span>__One way to determine the causes (and the only way to predict the future extent) of global warming is to have accurate models__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, which presupposes having accurate knowledge of the initial atmospheric conditions. </span>__Global-climate-change studies rely heavily on computer-generated models__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">that predict the future state of the atmosphere based on initial data retrieved from ground- </span>__and satellite-based weather measurements__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Although these models are largely based on thoroughly tested principles of physics, </span>__a number of simplifications are used to improve calculation speed and bypass scientific problem area__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">s. In addition, adequate computer power is not yet available to process the volume of data required for accurate prediction. </span>__The result is that computer-generated weather-forecast and global-climate-change models yield oversimplified results.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> As more computer power becomes available, more complete data on initial conditions can be processed, resulting in improved models. </span>__The most reliable calibration occurs when the lidar measures moisture in the satellite "ground footprint" area as the satellite passes overhead__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. A lidar set up over water works best during calibration of satellite data because the water's surface emits less interfering microwave energy than land. For this reason, setting up the lidar on a small island or on a shipboard platform is ideal. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Microwave Sounders vs. Radiosondes DMSP recognized in 1979 the need for accurate data to feed numerical (computer) global-weather-prediction models and pioneered a microwave-sounding instrument, the SSM/T-1 (Special Sensor Microwave/ Temperature), to measure temperature in the atmosphere. Until then, radiosondes alone were relied upon to gather data about atmospheric temperatures. Microwave sounders are passive devices, radio receivers that listen for emissions at various frequencies. Water vapor emits microwaves, the intensity of which is used to estimate water content in the atmosphere, particularly over oceans, where conventional methods of obtaining measurements are in short supply. (Radiosondes, which provide a more direct means of measuring atmospheric properties, are in widespread use over land.) In 1991, DMSP launched the SSM/T-2, which measures water vapor. SSM/T-1 and SSM/T-2 now serve as eyes on worldwide weather, providing the data needed to initialize the computer models. Although the SSM/T-1 temperature sounder has a long history of success, the SSM/T-2 is newer and has had limited development. Because water vapor is highly variable in the atmosphere, measurements of it are generally neglected in computer-generated forecast models. This is unfortunate because water provides the principal means of energy transport in the troposphere and plays a critical role in global warming. Additionally, water vapor induces cloud formation and violent weather events, determines atmospheric visibility, causes icing, and influences aircraft contrail formation. In processing water-vapor data derived from SSM/T-2 measurements, serious discrepancies were observed between microwave and radiosonde water-vapor data. The problem was traced to radiosonde humidity transducers. Errors show up in the water-vapor data derived from satellites because satellites are calibrated against radiosondes. Water-Vapor Lidar Raman lidar is a specialized type of lidar named after Sir Chandrasekhara Raman, who won the Nobel Prize for physics in 1930 for his discovery of the shifts in the wavelength of light that occur when a light beam interacts with molecular vibrations and rotations. Whereas lidar typically measures light that remains at one frequency, Raman </span>__lidar can measure wavelength-shifted light__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__Because each constituent of the atmosphere correlates to a characteristic wavelength shift, Raman lidar is useful in measuring the constituents of the atmosphere.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Raman </span>__lidar was initially developed at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center. Aerospace confirmed its feasibility for use in DMSP applications__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">in experiments performed during 1993 at the Air Force Malabar facility. Plans were then made to develop a mobile lidar system capable of calibrating satellites from a variety of remote locations, and Aerospace designed and constructed the system in-house. </span>__This mobile lidar is housed in a surplus Air Force transportable radar container.__

**Data collection causes policy action to solve warming- causes awareness**
**Lewis et al 10**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">James A, Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program at the CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program at the CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer at Salary Data [“Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]</span>
__Managing climate-related risks requires accurate, robust, sustained, and wide-ranging climate information__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Sustained and continuous observations are needed for researchers to evaluate and test climate model accuracy and to identify causes of particular elements of climate change. </span>__The international community must address four key uncertainties and gaps in climate research if we are to significantly improve our confidence in climate change prediction and understanding__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">: 2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">■</span>__Incomplete global data sets for analysis and modeling uncertainties restrict the types of studies that can be performed__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">■</span>__The lack of observational data restricts the types of climate change that can be analyzed.__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">■</span>__Multi-decadal changes in daily temperature range are not well understood.__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">■</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Co</span>__nfidence in attributing some climate change phenomena to anthropogenic__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(man-made) </span>__influences is limited__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__These gaps and uncertainties are directly related to the availability of adequate Earth observations__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__Earth observationprovides the evidence necessary for informed decisionmaking__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. It supports the monitoring and verification of emission reductions. A comprehensive and global perspective in climate monitoring is needed to understand the interconnectivity of Earth’s terrestrial, atmospheric, and oceanic systems. Understanding the climate problem requires accurate, robust, sustained, and wide-ranging climate information. Masses of data are already collected for atmospheric, oceanic, and terrestrial phenomena.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">These data are shared among the research community through various international data centers, but the informational needs of policymakers are different from those of researchers. </span>__The primary requirements for policy are timely and consistent access to data for assessing actions and reducing uncertainty__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The data (and improved models to use that data) that policymakers will need fall into several categories: </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">■</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Trend data that track the shrinking of the polar ice caps or forests, the presence of gases in the upper environment, or changes in ocean temperature or currents. Depending on the adequacy of predictive models, these data would allow assessment of the rate and nature of climate change. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">■</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Regional data that enable the identification of specific regional problems to allow for tailored solutions or aid programs. The need for cross border collection complicates the gathering of these regional data. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">■</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Effects assessment data that would reduce uncertainty and allow policymakers to determine whether mitigation or adaptation policies implemented to address climate change are having any effect. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">■</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Compliance data to monitor progress in support of an agreement. One </span>__of the lessons of the recent climate negotiations in Copenhagen is that ensuring compliance with any future agreement to limit emissions will be politically sensitive for some countries and beyond the technical or financial means of many others__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">■</span>__Planning data__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> that provide consistent and timely information that insurance companies, farmers, urban planners, major corporations, and others </span>__will need to reduce uncertainty.__
__These data would allow local planners, governments, businesses, and private sector consumers like the insurance industry to assess the likelihood of certain impacts__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and conduct cost-benefit analysis of different response options (see appendix A for a more detailed discussion of such options). On the international level, </span>__this type of regional information is necessary for determining____which areas of the world will be most affected__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and should receive a higher priority for aid, financing, technology, and capacity building. Monitoring and verifying of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions is of particular importance. </span>__Reaching an agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is complicated because of the inherent scientific uncertainty and incomplete understanding of the carbon cycle and warming of the Earth__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Recent scientific advancements, however, allow us to conclude with a high level of certainty that climate change and global warming are unequivocal and that the primary driver is carbon dioxide produced by burning of fossil fuels and, to a lesser degree, by deforestation; </span>__Currently, identifying trends in GHG emissions relies on weaving together data collected from existing ground-based networks and space-borne instruments, using a process called “trace-transport inversion.”__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> As the United States and other nations consider whether to adopt cap-and-trade policies, </span>__they will need a coordinated and efficient system for collecting and distributing data to support carbon markets and to promote transparency and accountability through accessible public information.__
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Better </span>__climate information has helped__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> us move </span>__beyond the question of whether action to manage climate change is warranted to what types of actions and polices are needed__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__Information is key to an effective approach to climate change__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. At a national and international level, many countries are preoccupied with how to ensure that decisionmakers and user communities have access 4 | earth observation for climate change to the types of information that will make the climate efforts successful. </span>__This includes coordinated systems for Earth observatio__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">n, enhanced modeling capabilities, an organizational structure that allows science to be more responsive to relevant policy questions or functions, and places where information can be gathered and made accessible to broad-based user communities. </span>__Meeting the needs of climate policy requires a transformation in how climate research is incorporated into public policymaking__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. 4</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> “Operationalizing” information systems—</span>__investing in the Earth observation systems necessary for producing the right data over the right time and space horizons__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, coordinating data collection, interpreting and sharing to maximize the data’s benefits, focusing on the human and social science effects of climate change, improving modeling capabilities, and making this information accessible and relevant for a wide range of users—</span>__is a necessary step in designing effective U.S. climate policy__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__It also represents an opportunity for America to demonstrate global leadership and contribute to building global capacity to understand and more effectively respond to the climate.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The climate negotiations in Copenhagen, Denmark, in December 2009, failed because of differences over how to share responsibilities and burdens. The challenges inherent in these negotiations will not be easily overcome. However, the troubled negotiations in Copenhagen present the United States with an opportunity. The 2008 CSIS report, CSIS Commission on Smart Power: A Smarter, More Secure America, called for the United States to use its technology and scientific prowess to engage other nations in efforts that serve both U.S. interests and the interests of the global community. </span>__This report identifies Earth observation and climate change as one such opportunity and provides recommendations on how the United States can__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, working with other nations, </span>__acquire the technology and build the institutions needed to assess and manage climate change. It suggests three steps that the United States can take__

**Warming causes extinction- its try or die**
**Morgan 09**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Professor of Current Affairs @ Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, South Korea(Dennis Ray, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race”, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693, ScienceDirect) </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Indeed, 12 years later, </span>__the 2007 report not only conﬁrms global warming__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span>__with a stronger scientiﬁc consensus__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> that the slow burn is ‘‘very likely’’ human caused, </span>__but it also ﬁnds that the ‘‘amount of carbon in the atmosphere is now increasing at a faster rate even than before’’__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and the temperature increases would be ‘‘considerably higher than they have been so far were it not for the blanket of soot and other pollution that is temporarily helping to cool the planet.’’ [17]. Furthermore, </span>__almost ‘‘everything frozen on earth is melting__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Heavy rainfalls are becoming more common since the air is warmer and therefore holds more water than cold air, and ‘cold days, cold nights and frost have become less frequent, while hot days, hot nights, and heat waves have become more frequent.’’ [17]. </span>__Unless drastic action is taken soon, the average global temperature is predicted to rise about 5 degrees this century__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, but it could rise as much as 8 degrees. As has already been evidenced in recent years, the rise in global temperature is melting the Arctic sheets. </span>__This runaway polar melting will inﬂict great damage upon coastal areas, which could be much greater than what has been previously forecasted.__
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">However, what is missing in the IPCC report, as dire as it may seem, is sufﬁcient emphasis on the less likely but still plausible worst case scenarios, which could prove to have the most devastating, catastrophic consequences for the long-term future of human civilization. In other words, the IPCC report places too much emphasis on a linear progression that does not take sufﬁcient account of the dynamics of systems theory, which leads to a fundamentally different premise regarding the relationship between industrial civilization and nature. As a matter of fact, as early as the 1950s, Hannah Arendt [18] observed this radical shift of emphasis in the human-nature relationship, which starkly contrasts with previous times because the very distinction between nature and man as ‘‘Homo faber’’ has become blurred, as man no longer merely takes from nature what is needed for fabrication; instead, he now acts into nature to augment and transform natural processes, which are then directed into the evolution of human civilization itself such that we become a part of the very processes that we make. </span>__The more human civilization becomes an integral part of this dynamic system, the more difﬁcult it becomes to extricate ourselves from it__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. As Arendt pointed out, this dynamism is dangerous because of its unpredictability. </span>__Acting into nature to transform natural processes brings about an__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> . . . </span>__endless new change of happenings whose eventual outcome the actor is entirely incapable of knowing or controlling beforehand__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The moment we started natural processes of our own - and the splitting of the atom is precisely such a man-made natural process - we not only increased our power over nature, or became more aggressive in our dealings with the given forces of the earth, but for the ﬁrst time have taken nature into the human world as such and obliterated the defensive boundaries between natural elements and the human artiﬁce by which all previous civilizations were hedged in’’ [18].</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">So, </span>__in as much as we act into nature, we carry our own unpredictability into our world__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">; thus, Nature can no longer be thought of as having absolute or iron-clad laws. We no longer know what the laws of nature are because the unpredictability of Nature increases in proportion to the degree by which industrial civilization injects its own processes into it; through selfcreated, dynamic, transformative processes, </span>__we carry human unpredictability into the future with a precarious recklessness that may indeed end in human catastrophe or extinction__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, for elemental forces that we have yet to understand may be unleashed upon us by the very environment that we experiment with. Nature may yet have her revenge and the last word, as the Earth and its delicate ecosystems, environment, and atmosphere reach a tipping point, which could turn out to be a point of no return. This is exactly the conclusion reached by the scientist, inventor, and author, James Lovelock. The creator of the wellknown yet controversial Gaia Theory, Lovelock has recently written that it may be already too late for humanity to change course since climate centers around the world, . . . which are the equivalent of the pathology lab of a hospital, have reported the Earth’s physical condition, and the climate specialists see it as seriously ill, and soon to pass into a morbid fever that may last as long as 100,000 years. I have to tell you, as members of the Earth’s family and an intimate part of it, that you and especially civilisation are in grave danger. It was ill luck that we started polluting at a time when the sun is too hot for comfort. We have given Gaia a fever and soon her condition will worsen to a state like a coma. She has been there before and recovered, but it took more than 100,000 years. </span>__We are responsible and will suffer the consequences: as the century progresses, the temperature will rise 8 degrees centigrade in temperate regions and 5 degrees in the tropics.__
__Much of the tropical land mass will become scrub and desert__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, and will no longer serve for regulation; this adds to the 40 per cent of the Earth’s surface we have depleted to feed ourselves. D.R. Morgan / Futures 41 (2009) 683–693 689. . . Curiously, aerosol pollution of the northern hemisphere reduces global warming by reﬂecting sunlight back to space. This ‘global dimming’ is transient and could disappear in a few days like the smoke that it is, leaving us fully exposed to the heat of the global greenhouse. We are in a fool’s climate, accidentally kept cool by smoke, and before this century is over billions of us will die and the few breeding pairs of people that survive will be in the Arctic where the climate remains tolerable. [19] Moreover, Lovelock states that the task of trying to correct our course is hopelessly impossible, for we are not in charge. </span>__It is foolish and arrogant to think that we can regulate the atmosphere, oceans and land surface in order to maintain the conditions right for life. It is as impossible as trying to regulate your own temperature and the composition of your blood__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, for those with ‘‘failing kidneys know the never-ending daily difﬁculty of adjusting water, salt and protein intake. The technological ﬁx of dialysis helps, but is no replacement for living healthy kidneys’’ [19]. Lovelock concludes his analysis on the fate of human civilization and Gaia by saying that we will do ‘‘our best to survive, but sadly I cannot see the United States or the emerging economies of China and India cutting back in time, and they are the main source of emissions. </span>__The worst will happen and survivors will have to adapt to a hell of a climate’’__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [19]. Lovelock’s forecast for climate change is based on a systems dynamics analysis of the interaction between humancreated processes and natural processes. </span>__It is a multidimensional model that appropriately reﬂects the dynamism of industrial civilization responsible for climate change__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. For one thing, it takes into account positive feedback loops that lead to ‘‘runaway’’ conditions. </span>__This mode of analysis is consistent with recent research on how ecosystems suddenly disappear__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. A 2001 article in Nature, based on a scientiﬁc study by an international consortium, reported that changes in ecosystems are not just gradual but are often sudden and catastrophic [20]. </span>__Thus, a scientiﬁc consensus is emerging__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (after repeated studies of ecological change) </span>__that ‘‘stressed ecosystems, given the right nudge, are capable of slipping rapidly from a seemingly steady state to something entirely different__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">,’’ according to Stephen Carpenter, a limnologist at the University of Wisconsin-Madison (who is also a co-author of the report). Carpenter continues, ‘‘We realize that there is a common pattern we’re seeing in ecosystems around the world, . . . Gradual changes in vulnerability accumulate and eventually you get a shock to the system - a ﬂood or a drought - and, boom, you’re over into another regime. It becomes a self-sustaining collapse.’’ [20]. </span>__If ecosystems are in fact mini-models of the system of the Earth, as Lovelock maintains, then we can expect the same kind of behavior__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. As Jonathon Foley, a UW-Madison climatologist and another co-author of the Nature report, puts it, ‘‘Nature isn’t linear. Sometimes you can push on a system and push on a system and, ﬁnally, you have the straw that breaks the camel’s back.’’ Also, once the ‘‘ﬂip’’ occurs, as Foley maintains, then the catastrophic change is ‘‘irreversible.’’ [20].</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">When we expand this analysis of ecosystems to the Earth itself, it’s frightening. What could be the ﬁnal push on a stressed system that could ‘‘break the camel’s back?’’ Recently, another factor has been discovered in some areas of the arctic regions, which will surely compound the problem of global ‘‘heating’’ (as Lovelock calls it) in unpredictable and perhaps catastrophic ways. This disturbing development, also reported in Nature, concerns the permafrost that has locked up who knows how many tons of the greenhouse gasses, methane and carbon dioxide.</span>
__Scientists are particularly worried about permafrost__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> because, as it thaws, it releases these gases into the atmosphere, thus, contributing and accelerating global heating. </span>__It is a vicious positive feedback loop that compounds the prognosis of global warming in ways that could very well prove to be the tipping point of no return.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Seth Borenstein of the Associated Press describes this disturbing positive feedback loop of permafrost greenhouse gasses, as when warming ‘‘. already under way thaws permafrost, soil that has been continuously frozen for thousands of years. </span>__Thawed permafrost releases methane and carbon dioxide. Those gases reach the atmosphere and help trap heat on Earth in the greenhouse effect. The trapped heat thaws more permafrost and so on.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">’’ [21].</span>
__The signiﬁcance and severity of this problem cannot be understated since scientists have discovered that ‘‘the amount of carbon trapped in this type of permafrost called ‘‘yedoma’’ is much more prevalent than originally thought and may be 100 times__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [my emphasis] the amount of carbon released into the air each year by the burning of fossil fuels’’ [21]. Of course, it won’t come out all at once, at least by time as we commonly reckon it, but in terms of geological time, the ‘‘several decades’’ that scientists say it will probably take to come out can just as well be considered ‘‘all at once.’’ Surely, within the next 100 years, much of the world we live in will be quite hot and may be unlivable, as Lovelock has predicted. Professor Ted Schuur, a professor of ecosystem ecology at the University of Florida and co-author of the study that appeared in Science, describes it as a ‘‘slow motion time bomb.’’ [21].</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Permafrost under lakes will be released as methane while that which is under dry ground will be released as carbon dioxide. Scientists aren’t sure which is worse. Whereas methane is a much more powerful agent to trap heat, it only lasts for about 10 years before it dissipates into carbon dioxide or other chemicals. The less powerful heat-trapping agent, carbon dioxide, lasts for 100 years [21]. </span>__Both of the greenhouse gasses present in permafrost represent a global dilemma and challenge that compounds the effects of global warming and runaway climate change__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__The scary thing about it, as one researcher put it, is that there are ‘‘lots of mechanisms that tend to be self-perpetuating and relatively few that tend to shut it off’’__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [21]. 14 In an accompanying AP article, Katey Walters of the University of Alaska at Fairbanks describes the effects as ‘‘huge’’ and, unless we have a ‘‘major 14 As quoted by Borenstein 690 D.R. Morgan / Futures 41 (2009) 683–693cooling,’’ - unstoppable [22]. Also, there’s so much more that has not even been discovered yet, she writes: ‘‘It’s coming out a lot and there’s a lot more to come out.’’ [22]. 4. </span>__Is it the end of human civilization and possible extinction of humankind__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">? What Jonathon Schell wrote concerning death by the ﬁre of nuclear holocaust also applies to the slow burning death of global warming:</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Once we learn that a holocaust might lead to extinction, </span>__we have no right to gamble, because if we lose, the game will be over, and neither we nor anyone else will ever getanother chance__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Therefore, although, </span>__scientiﬁcally speaking, there is all the difference in the world between the mere possibility that a holocaust will bring about extinction and the certainty of it, morally they are the same__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, and we have no choice but to address the issue of nuclear weapons as though we knew for a certainty that their use would put an end to our species [23]. 15 When we consider that beyond the horror of nuclear war, another horror is set into motion to interact with the subsequent nuclear winter to produce a poisonous and super heated planet, the chances of human survival seem even smaller. Who knows, even if some small remnant does manage to survive, what the poisonous environmental conditions would have on human evolution in the future. A remnant of mutated, sub-human creatures might survive such harsh conditions, but for all purposes, human civilization has been destroyed, and the question concerning human extinction becomes moot. Thus, we have no other choice but to consider the ﬁnality of it all, as Schell does: ‘‘Death lies at the core of each person’s private existence, but part of death’s meaning is to be found in the fact that it occurs in a biological and social world that survives.’’ [23].</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">But what if the world itself were to perish, Schell asks. Would not it bring about a sort of ‘‘second death’’ – the death of the species – a possibility that the vast majority of the human race is in denial about? Talbot writes in the review of Schell’s book that it is not only the ‘‘death of the species, not just of the earth’s population on doomsday, but of countless unborn generations. They would be spared literal death but would nonetheless be victims . . .’’ [23]. That is the ‘‘second death’’ of humanity – the horrifying, unthinkable prospect that there are no prospects – that there will be no future. In the second chapter of Schell’s book, he writes that since we have not made a positive decision to exterminate ourselves but instead have ‘‘chosen to live on the edge of extinction, periodically lunging toward the abyss only to draw back at the last second, our situation is one of uncertainty and nervous insecurity rather than of absolute hopelessness.’’ [23]. 17 In other words, the fate of the Earth and its inhabitants has not yet been determined. </span>__Yet time is not on our side. Will we relinquish the ﬁre and our use of it to dominate the Earth and each other, or will we continue to gamble with our future at this game of Russian roulette while time increasingly stacks the cards against our chances of survival__

=Contention 4 – dtrnc= 
**ISR capabilities are inadequate- SSA technology isn’t sufficient- LIDAR solves**
**Wiest 7-**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Todd E. Wiest, Maj, USAF, Upon this Rock… a Foundational Space Situational Awareness Technology for 2030, Air Command and Staff College</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Air University, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama April 2007 </span>
__The AF has some SSA capabilities, but complete SSA is difficult to obtain.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The Milstar example highlights AF SSA on its own systems, but complete SSA requires considerably more information. </span>__To achieve complete SSA, the AF needs knowledge of much more than its own systems or even that of the sister services__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Beyond the status of U.S. space systems, </span>__SSA includes space intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR)__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> data as well as analysis of the space environment.8 Given today’s strategic environment, </span>__SSA must help diagnose problems when surprise is the norm and the threats are less predictable__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.9 In this reality, </span>__the AF requires additional SSA capabilities to gain knowledge of adversary systems and intent as well as the space environment to diagnose future problems.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> From a resource and capability perspective, obtaining adequate SSA of all space objects is difficult. For example, t</span>__he increasingly diminutive nature of future satellites complicates the space ISR problem.__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Taken in total, </span>__obtaining SSA for the U.S. Government is a daunting task__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> for the AF. Additional SSA capabilities are also necessary to remedy future space events because not all of them will be easy to diagnose or remedy. In the Milstar example, the diagnosis was a misaligned spot beam; the solution was to move the spot beam back in place.10 This was relatively simple problem to diagnose and remedy; unfortunately, harder problems exist. Consider the recent Chinese test of an Anti-satellite (ASAT) system.11 For the ASAT test, U.S. detected a missile launch from China and found a debris cloud in the location of a satellite.12 Since China’s ASAT weapon was ground launched, the diagnosis attributes China as the originator of the test. This problem has two solutions. First, preventing future ASAT tests, and second, avoiding the resulting debris cloud. The first solution for future Chinese ASAT tests is 2 AU/ACSC/1464/AY07 much more difficult; it will require all of the U.S. IOPs. For the second solution, the U.S. will rely on SSA to characterize the debris cloud to minimize space object collisions with this cloud. This ASAT event would have been even more difficult to diagnose and remedy if it originated from another satellite. In the 2030 timeframe, satellites may attack other satellites.13 </span>__How will the AF diagnose and attribute future space events so the U.S. can remedy the situation? What if the diagnosis shows the attack occurred from a region in space__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">? </span>__How will the U.S. be able to attribute the attack to facilitate the use of its IOPs against the perpetrator?____The U.S. can only answer these questions with complete SSA.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> In particular, </span>__the U.S. needs knowledge of small objects and the ability to enhance satellite intelligence collection. This leads to a capability question__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__How will the U.S. increase small object awareness and enhance object satellite intelligence collection to improve SSA in the 2030 timeframe to support all U.S. IOPs__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">? One way the AF can increase space debris and satellite awareness to diagnose and attribute a satellite-to-satellite attack is placing a fleet of active sensor systems into orbit. </span>__Using lasers as the active source, these systems can locate smaller objects and enhance SSA.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Developing fluoride fiber </span>__lasers as the active source for these systems will significantly reduce the size and the weight of the laser while allowing multi-spectral imagery of the space object__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. This paper recommends the AF investigate infrared and visible fluoride fiber lasers as the active source for a fleet of small satellites to increase SSA by tracking and imaging objects as small as 0.1 centimeter (cm). </span>

**LIDAR technology is the best way to achieve ISR- causes stable deterrence**
**Wiest 7-**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Todd E. Wiest, Maj, USAF, Upon this Rock… a Foundational Space Situational Awareness Technology for 2030, Air Command and Staff College</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Air University, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama April 2007 </span>

__The second sensor necessary____for the collection of space ISR data relies on Light Detection and Ranging (LIDAR__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">). </span>__This sensor provides reconnaissance and surveillance data__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__Using a LIDAR concept allows measurements of the distance, speed, rotation, and chemical__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> 13 AU/ACSC/1464/AY07 </span>__composition of an illuminated object__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.53 For example, </span>__the distance from the SSA satellite to a space object provides the object’s current position__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__Using LIDAR also provides considerable information about an object in space, especially if the laser wavelength is in the visible region of the electromagnetic spectrum__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. This part of the spectrum allows for the direct measurement of optical characteristics of the object.54 This sensor combination captures data for space ISR. </span>__The data provided by the conceptual SSA system supports the diagnosis and attribution of space events__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__The passive optical sensor records the object’s orientation, which provides clues to a satellite’s current mission__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Similarly, the satellite’s rotation and chemical composition, p</span>__rovided by the LIDAR sensor, provides space ISR__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The rotation information could indicate either the satellite’s mission or its current tasking, and the chemical composition of the object may provide indications of the satellite’s mission or, if the object is space debris, could help identify a way to eliminate it. </span>__This information could diagnose and attribute a space event to a space debris collision or a satellite action taken by its owner.__
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Control of the space segment will be vital for the conceptual SSA system because near real-time tasking is necessary for diagnosing and attributing anomalies in space. Control enables the satellite to look at a particular object to collect additional SSA information. This tasking must be available in near real-time to respond to the potentially dynamic threats of 2030</span>__. If a U.S. satellite experiences an anomaly, this constellation must rapidly collect__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">data</span>__on space objects to diagnose the situation__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Based on this data, the AF </span>__can attribute the anomaly to the appropriate cause; if caused by another satellite, the U.S. can then use the appropriate IOPs to remedy the situation. The ability to make this diagnosis and attribution relies on control.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The ground station’s command and control must be responsive to the changing space situation and be able to attribute the cause of an anomaly. </span>

**ISR capabilities control the I/L to all of your DA’s- it’s the enabler for every military function and provides defense against a bioterror attack**
**DOD 10**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissancehttp://space.au.af.mil/guides/stg/stg_isr.pdf)</span>
__Joint Vision 2020 depends on information superiorityfor virtually every aspect of military activity__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The </span>__combination of intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR), together with real-time communications and information processing technologies, is its enabler__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. It involves primarily electronic systems to find, watch and collect data from sources and provide it as information to users</span>__. ISR permeates almost every area of national security activity, from peace through war__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. It involves techniques and systems operating both passively and actively in all operational environments from subsurface to space. </span>__A key benefit of this capability, from data collection through warning to its timely use by warfighters, is political and/ or military success__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> — through knowing more and knowing it sooner than opponents. </span>__ISR includes information about: all operational threats to U.S. and Allied lives, assets, and interests;____military force movements; all spacelift vehicles, missile systems (mobile or fixed), and spacecraft; all aircraft types, land-operating systems, and surface/submerged maritime vessels; nuclear detonations; threats to friendly space assets; chemical and/or biological weapons; and other significant space, surface and subsurface event__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">s. </span>__ISR activities support the intelligence and warning needs of all Services, the National Command Authorities (NCA) and other government agencies, support U.S. and Allied operations, and assist in international treaty monitoring.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The major goal of ISR is success through information dominance. Increasing demands for precise, finished intelligence on a wide range of defense intelligence requirements strain the resources currently available. </span>__Space-based intelligence collection capabilities have matured into powerful and reliable systems__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, able to meet a much larger fraction of the validated user requirements than ever before. Under today’s exploitation and dissemination paradigms, our available personnel, communications and hardware cannot fully utilize the available data. Thus the Intelligence Community is pursuing a full range of technologies no only to enhance the collection of necessary data but also to examine new ways to produce and disseminate the information our users need. This approach includes: • New and potentially revolutionary collection systems • New analysis and dissemination methods and paradigms • Significant improvements in data processing, storage-retrieval, and request-redistribution functions. </span>__An evolving concept to deal with the multiplicity of evolving ISR and related information distribution concepts is contained in the term “infosphere.”____This construct involves information collection and integration across all activities (fusion), with followon processing to tailor its disseminated products for specific warfighters and other users.__

**Its 2013—and our evidence already subsumes the technical barriers terrorists have to overcome o/w nuclear war**
<span class="Heading2Char">Fox News, 08</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">—(Fox News, “Nuclear or Bioterror Attack on U.S. Likely by 2013, Panel Warns”, 12-2-08, http://www.foxnews.com/story/0,2933,459927,00.html)</span>
<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">Terrorists are likely to attack the U</span>____<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">nited States using nuclear or biological weapons before 2013,</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">according to a report released by a bipartisan commission. </span>__Vice President-elect Joe Biden was briefed on the panel's study on Tuesday. Among other things, the report suggests that the incoming Obama administration shore up its counterterrorism efforts to fight against germ warfare.__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">"Our margin of safety is shrinking, not growing," states the report, a copy of which was obtained by FOX News. It is scheduled to be publicly released Wednesday. Click here for the report The commission is also encouraging the new White House to appoint one official on the National Security Council to exclusively coordinate U.S. intelligence and foreign policy on combatting the spread of nuclear and biological weapons The report</span>__of the Commission on the Prevention of WMD Proliferation and Terrorism, led by former Sens. Bob Graham of Florida and Jim Talent of Missouri__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, acknowledges that terrorist groups still lack the needed scientific and technical ability to make weapons out of pathogens or nuclear bombs. But it warns </span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">that gap can be easily overcome, if terrorists find scientists willing to share or sell their know-how</span>____<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">. </span>__</span>__"The United States should be less concerned that terrorists will become biologists and far more concerned that biologists will become terrorists," the report states. The commission believes biological weapons are more likely to be obtained and used before nuclear or radioactive weapons because nuclear facilities are more carefully guarded. Civilian laboratories with potentially dangerous pathogens abound, however, and could easily be compromised. "__<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">The biological threat is greater than the nuclear; the acquisition of deadly pathogens</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, and their weaponization and dissemination in aerosol form, would entail fewer technical hurdles than the theft or production of weapons-grade uranium or plutonium and its assembly into an improvised nuclear device," states the report. It notes that the U.S. government's counterproliferation activities have been geared toward preventing nuclear terrorism. The commission recommends the prevention of biological terrorism be made a higher priority. President Bush will meet with the commission on Wednesday, a White House spokesman told FOX News. Democratic Rep. Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts, a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and co-chair of the House Bipartisan Task Force on Nonproliferation, called the report "an urgent call to action." The report "should trigger strong, coordinated steps to improve our country's ability to prevent proliferation and thwart terrorist attacks using nuclear and biological weapons," Markey said in a written statement. Study chairman Graham said anthrax remains the most likely biological weapon. </span>__However, he told the AP that__ <span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">contagious diseases — like the flu strain that killed 40 million at the beginning of the 20th century — are looming threats. That virus has been recreated in scientific labs</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, and there remains no inoculation to protect against it if is stolen and released. Graham said the threat of a terrorist attack using nuclear or biological weapons is growing "not because we have not done positive things but </span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">because adversaries are moving at an even faster pace to increase their access"</span>__</span> __to those materials.__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> He noted last week's rampage by a small group of gunmen in Mumbai. "</span><span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">If those people had had access to a biological</span>____<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;"> or nuclear weapon they would have multiplied by orders of magnitude the deaths they could have inflicted,"</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> he said.</span>


**Extinction**
<span class="Heading2Char">Ochs 02</span> – <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Of all the weapons of mass destruction, the genetically engineered </span>bio<span class="Underline">logical </span>weapons<span class="Underline">, many without a known cure or vaccine, </span>are an extreme danger to the continued survival of life on earth.<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Any perceived military value or deterrence pales in comparison to the great risk these weapons pose just sitting in vials in laboratories. While a "nuclear winter," resulting from a massive exchange of nuclear weapons, could also kill off most of life on earth and severely compromise the health of future generations, they are easier to control</span><span class="Underline">. </span>Bio<span class="Underline">logical </span>weapons, on the other hand, can get out of control very easily<span class="Underline">, as the recent anthrax attacks has demonstrated. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">There is no way to guarantee the security of these doomsday weapons because very tiny amounts can be stolen or accidentally released and then grow or be grown to horrendous proportions. The Black Death of the Middle Ages would be small in comparison to the potential damage bioweapons could cause. Abolition of chemical weapons is less of a priority because, while they can also kill millions of people outright, their persistence in the environment would be less than nuclear or biological agents or more localized. Hence, chemical weapons would have a lesser effect on future generations of innocent people and the natural environment. Like the Holocaust, once a localized chemical extermination is over, it is over. With nuclear and biological weapons, the killing will probably never end. Radioactive elements last tens of thousands of years and will keep causing cancers virtually forever. Potentially worse than that, </span>bio-engineered agents<span class="Underline"> by the hundreds with no known cure </span>could wreck even greater calamity on the human race than could persistent radiatio<span class="Underline">n. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">AIDS and ebola viruses are just a small example of recently emerging plagues with no known cure or vaccine. Can we imagine hundreds of such plagues? </span>HUMAN EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Ironically, the Bush administration has just changed the U.S. nuclear doctrine to allow nuclear retaliation against threats upon allies by conventional weapons. The past doctrine allowed such use only as a last resort when our nation’s survival was at stake. Will the new policy also allow easier use of US bioweapons? How slippery is this slope? Against this tendency can be posed a rational alternative policy. To preclude possibilities of human extinction, "patriotism" needs to be redefined to make humanity’s survival primary and absolute. Even if we lose our cherished freedom, our sovereignty, our government or ourConstitution, where there is life, there is hope. What good is anything else if humanity is extinguished? This concept should be promoted to the center of national debate.. For example, for sake of argument, suppose the ancient Israelites developed defensive bioweapons of mass destruction when they were enslaved by Egypt. Then suppose these weapons were released by design or accident and wiped everybody out? As bad as slavery is, extinction is worse. Our generation, our century, our epoch needs to take the long view. We truly hold in our hands the precious gift of all future life. Empires may come and go, but who are the honored custodians of life on earth? Temporal politicians? Corporate competitors? Strategic brinksmen? Military gamers? Inflated egos dripping with testosterone? How can any sane person believe that national sovereignty is more important than survival of the species? </span><span class="Underline">Now that </span>extinction is possible, our slogan should be "Where there is life, there is hope." No government, no economic system<span class="Underline">, no national pride, no religion, </span>no political system can be placed above human<span class="Underline"> survival.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The egos of leaders must not blind us. The adrenaline and vengeance of a fight must not blind us. The game is over. If patriotism would extinguish humanity, then patriotism is the highest of all crimes.</span>

**Cyber attack inevitable – no deterrence now**
**Kouri 10/21**- <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">US-Chinese cyber war dismissed by State Department Jim Kouri, Law Enforcement Examiner October 21, 2011 [[http://www.examiner.com/law-enforcement-in-national/us-chinese-cyber-war-dismissed-by-state-department]] /**HN**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">While </span>__U.S. security officials confirmed there were cyber attacks__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, they stated that </span>__it was practically impossible to discover from wherethe attackers emanated.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The Obama White House is said to be deeply troubled about impending cyber attacks and the </span>__U.S. Armed Services willconsider cyber attacks as an act of warand are prepared to use force__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, according to former Secretary of Defense Robert Gates in June. Prior to the U.S.-led bombing missions in Libya last March, </span>__the Obama administration had brainstormed the use of cyber attacks to dismantle the Moamar Khadhafi's air-defense system__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, which posed a danger to U.S. and NATO fighter jets and bombers. The operation called for penetration of the Libyan government's computer networks' firewalls in order to hamper or terminate military communications links and prevent early-warning radar from gathering information and relaying it to missile batteries firing at coalition warplanes</span>__. The plan was scrapped due to President Barack Obama's fear of provoking other renegade nations to carry out such offensives against the United States__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Vice-Foreign Minister Cui Tiankai told foreign reporters ahead of a meeting with U.S. officials in Hawaii in June that China and the U.S. might suffer from cyber attacks, but they were in no way directed by either government, according to the China Daily newspaper. </span>__Both countries were in fact already discussing the problem of hacking during their regular strategic consultation__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">s, Cui is quoted as saying</span>__. "The international community ought to come up with some rules to prevent this misuse of advanced technology__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">," Cui told the China Daily. </span>__Cyberspace is growing in strategic importance as other nations increase their capabilities__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, the chief of U.S. Strategic Command told Defense Writers Group reporters yesterday. </span>__A recent example of cyber threats facing the Defense Department is a computer virus that affected a stand-alone ground control system for the nation’s drone fleet based at Nevada’s Creech Air Force Base__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, according to Stratcom commander Air Force Gen. C. Robert Kehler. Stratcom systems detected the virus, quarantined it, and it had little to no impact on operations, he noted</span>__. Both accidental and targeted attacks on DOD networks are on the rise__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, he said. “</span>__The trend is that we see multiple, deliberate attempts to try to get into our networks almost daily__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">,” he said. Based at Offutt Air Force Base near Omaha, Nebraska, Stratcom serves as U.S. Cyber Command’s headquarters, and also oversees the nation’s missile defense, and global strike and space operations, as well as combating weapons of mass destruction.</span>

**Interference increasing – kills sattelites**
**Daily Mail 10/30-** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">“Hackers infiltrate 'two US satellites, achieving all steps required to command the satellite'” 30th October 2011 http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2055311/Hackers-infiltrate-US-satellites-taken-complete-control-achieving-steps-required-command-satellite.html#ixzz1cZB8cY5O</span>
__NASA admits one of the two satellites was temporarily accessed twice in the summer and fall that year__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, though would not comment on the other. </span>__'While we cannot discuss additional details regarding the attempted interference, our satellite operations and associated systems and information are safe and secure'__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> NASA Public Affairs Officer Trent J. Perrotto said in a statement sent to Talking Points Memo. One close satellite: A satellite photo of Washington, DC's capitol building is taken by a Landsat-7 satellite, a </span>__possible recent victim of cyber hacking NASA's admittance of the satellite breach comes one month before a report by the US-China Economic and Security Review Commission is release__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">d, detailing the attacks which are consistent with Chinese military writings. </span>__According to the draft report, however, two satellites were infiltrated four times in 2007 and 2008 for 12 or more minutes__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The Terra AM-a which NASA has acknowledged as attacked, studies earth climate change, in addition to weather and surface land use. Multiple attacks: T</span>__he Landsat 7 satellite is one of the two US satellites suspected of being hacked in 2007 and 2008 for 12 or more minutes 'Access to a satellite‘s controls could allow an attacker to damage or destroy the satellite. 'An attacker could also deny or degrade as well as forge or otherwise manipulate the satellite’s transmission,'__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the draft report continued. The satellite Terra Am-1 experienced no damage, theft or security breach despite several minutes of interference by the hackers, according to Mr Perrotto. </span>__Those responsible for the attacks, however, 'achieved all steps required to command the satellite,'__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Mr Perrotto stated. A satellite station in Spitsbergen Norway is said to contain a common control center for both of the satellites and be the source of the attacks. </span>__The station would serve as an access point for the hackers as it is connected to the public internet and therefore more susceptible than any other control stations__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> -- outside Norway </span>__-- to cyber attacks off the public grid__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Access point: The Svalbard Satellite Tracking Station in </span>__Norway is believed to play as access point to recent cyber attacks on US satellites__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Despite the breaches consistency with the Chinese writings, the report says </span>__'these relationships do not prove any government affiliation.'____It admits that the perpetrators obscured their involvement better hiding their identity.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Chinese officials have continually denied any role in cyber attacks.# According to Mr Perrotto, NASA has since created a 'working group to establish and implement an agency-wide space protection program.' </span>__They have also notified the Department of Defense responsible for the investigation of satellite operation interference__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__According to Defense Department reports detailed in the draft report, malicious cyber activity rose to 71,661 attacks in 2009, a high in comparison to just 3,651 in 2001. Attacks this year are expected to hit 55,110, in comparison to 55,812 last year.__


**Plan deters – data-sharing and attribution**
**Dudney 2011-** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Robert S. Dudney is a former editor in chief of Air Force Magazine “Hard Lessons at the Schriever Wargame” February 2011 [[http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2011/February%202011/0211wargame.aspx/]] **HN**</span>
__With__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">some of </span>__our__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> strategic </span>__nuclear systems, we’ve told the world__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, ‘</span>__You touch those, we are going to respond accordingly__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">,’ " he noted, adding that with nuclear weapons, there is a clear threat of retaliation. "</span>__Cyber is a domain where we have to figure out what that means__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__It might be we can’t____[respond fully], because the cyber domain is ... so global.____Once you hit the [global information grid], you’re everywhere."__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The prospect of collateral damage within the web of space and cyber systems was of concern to former Rep. Tom Davis, a Virginia Republican, who played the part of the President in Schriever 2010. "</span>__Choosing to initiate an attack, cyber or otherwise, would disrupt this web with inevitable__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">—and potentially significant—</span>__adverse effects to both aggressor and victim__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">," said Davis. "Increasingly, a no-holds-barred approach is simply not an option." Indeed, said Nelson, the lesson is obvious: </span>__The space-cyberspace theater is global, and can’t be limited__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. "</span>__Whereas, in air, land, and sea, I can confine my fight to a theater, to a geographic are__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">a, </span>__and there are natural firebreaks there__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span>__in space and cyberspace there areno natural firebreaks__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">," he warned. "This underlies our current rules of engagement. We’ve realized that I can start a fire here, and pretty soon it’s everywhere." Officials who took part in Schriever 2010 believe it yielded important conclusions about how to build deterrence in space. One big lesson, said officials, is that the US military should not try to go it alone. A comprehensive system pulling in many different contributors from around the world adds depth and strength to the nation’s space and cyber infrastructure. Maj. David Manhire, SIDC’s deputy director, pointed to the existence of five major groups in the wargame: the US military (combatant commands, Pentagon officials, the services); the commercial space and cyber industries; allies (Britain, Canada, and Australia); other US agencies (Departments of State, Homeland Security, and others); and the US Intelligence Community. Of these five elements, Manhire noted, four fall outside of US military control, making wide cooperation essential. The idea is, should the US lose some of its capability, it would be able to fall back on others. Retired USAF Gen. Lance Lord, a former head of Space Command (l), and Gen. Robert Kehler talk over the wargame at the planning meeting. Kehler led AFSPC at the time, but has since been confirmed to head US Strategic Command. The exercise taught participants that </span>__the US should not try to go it alone in space.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (SIDC Visualization Lab photo by Dan Santistevan) Consequences, Reactions Joseph D. Rouge, then director of the National Security Space Office, told the STRATCOM audience that </span>__the US should become "selectively interdependent" with commercial and foreign operations__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. In that way, </span>__any attacker would have to ponder the fallout from unwanted collateral damage.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> "When an attack on one is an attack on all, it becomes much more difficult to take on one of the partners, without taking on all," said Rouge. "</span>__I think that is a very key part."__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> For these reasons, many are pressing to develop a "space order of battle" that includes both commercial and foreign space systems. Even more important: further development of a so-called Combined Space Operations Center, or "CSpOC," to direct space and cyber moves in a war. In the wargame, foreign and commercial space officials joined in CSpOC deliberations, generating what James called "one of the clear successes" of the exercise. The game also </span>__highlighted the need for much greater space situational awareness__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, officials said. Davis put the matter as bluntly as any: The Commander in Chief "likely will not initially know who is initiating the assault. … What would global reaction be to retaliation if the identity of the aggressor was in doubt? It is safe to say it would be unpredictable, at best." James noted many events, even natural ones such as solar maximum events, can cause disruption. "</span>__Unless you have some sort of sensor__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">that tells you this was indeed caused by solar activity, </span>__how do you know that that action wasn’t taken by an adversary with something that you couldn’t see__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">?" The upshot: If the US can positively "finger" an attacker, then it can credibly threaten retaliation. </span>__If the threat of retaliation is credible, deterrence might hold__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. As many officials see it, </span>__the game also demonstrated the need for much stronger and detailed declaratory policies about space and cyber issues.__

**Attribution key – outweighs nuclear war**
**Hoffman 6/1-** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">David E. Hoffman a Pulitzer Prize-winning author and a contributing editor to Foreign Policy “The cyber arms race” Wednesday, June 1, 2011 http://hoffman.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/06/01/the_cyber_arms_race</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This week, The Wall Street Journal broke an important story: </span>__the Pentagon has concluded computer sabotage from another nation could be considered an act of war__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, opening the door for the military to respond with conventional force. The decision is contained in a Defense Department strategy document, portions of which will be declassified soon. The Journal said military action against cyber attacks would come if the hackers disrupted industry or caused civilian casualties. “</span>__If you shut down our power grid, maybe we will put a missile down one of your smokestacks,__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">” a military official told the Journal. Additional stories followed today in The New York Times and The Washington Post. There is a hidden risk here. </span>__When U.S. military officials threaten retaliation for cyber attacks, it sounds logical and reassuring__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. After all, no one wants to be vulnerable to attack. But conflict in cyberspace offers some complexity that did not exist in the nuclear arms race. </span>__First, what is called “attribution,” or figuring out who attacked__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. As David Clark and Susan Landau noted in a study published by the National Academy of Sciences, “</span>__Attribution is central to deterrence, the idea that one can dissuade attackers from acting through fear of some sort of retaliation__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Retaliation requires knowing with full certainty who the attackers are.” In cyber conflict, it is not often possible to know who the attackers are. By some accounts, </span>__attacks have some from hackers operating under the umbrella of a government, but not directly controlled by it__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__If a group of hackers in China or Russia carried out an attack on a power grid in the United States, would we really launch a missile, risking escalation into a wider conflict__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">? What if we were wrong? </span>__In the nuclear arms race, we knew a lot about our adversaries, if not everything__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__We set up early warning systems that could track a missile trajectory.__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">We knew where the enemy silos were located. We established “counterforce” targets that could hit those silos with great precision. The Times quoted a participant in the debates in the administration as saying, “</span>__Almost everything we learned about deterrence during the nuclear standoffs with the Soviets in the ‘60s, ‘70s and ‘80s doesn’t apply__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.” Exactly. </span>__The United States has created a new Cyber Command, and much of its mission is defensive__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">: to protect U.S. computer networks and build firewalls against attack. </span>__But there is also an offensive element, which is not being discussed as much in the open__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. General Keith B. Alexander, who heads the command, has published an article about the new command in the current issue of Strategic Studies Quarterly. Alexander does not use the word “offensive” once in the piece, but he hints at such a mission. He writes: </span>__We cannot afford to allow cyberspace to be a sanctuary where real and potential adversaries can marshal forces and capabilities to use against us and our allies__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. This is not a hypothetical danger; </span>__in conflict areas where US forces are engaged we have indeed seen the Internet used for recruiting, fundraising, operational training, and other activities directed against our service personnel and coalition partners__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. At Cyber Command much of our focus is on helping our troops in the field limit their vulnerabilities in and from cyberspace. </span>__This effort reflects the likelihood that, henceforth, all conflicts will have some cyber aspect__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span>__and our efforts to understand this development will be crucial to the future security of the United States__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. One wonders if the offensive operations will go well beyond taking out a website. Was the Stuxnet worm which damaged the Iranian nuclear facility an example of U.S. offensive cyber operations? That worm was engineered to do damage to infrastructure—to basically destroy the Iranian nuclear enrichment machine. Thus</span>__, ever so quietly, begins the cycle of an arms race.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> If we are engaging in offensive operations, then others will surely follow. For argument’s sake, let’s take the new U.S. strategy that reserves the right to carry out military attacks on anyone who fools with our power grid or nuclear power plants. Let’s assume that Iran adopts exactly the same strategy. What would we think if Iran decided to attack the United States—with a missile down a smokestack—in retaliation for Stuxnet? It may be too late to stop this arms race. </span>__Clearly, other nations are also building offensive cyber weapons__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. The threats are real, but deterrence is going to be very, very difficult. </span>__The offensive cyber battlefield promises to be far more chaotic than in the nuclear arms race__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, with many smaller players and non-state actors, and the risks of retaliation against the United States might be quite high. </span>__We need good defenses, no question. But should we be fighting back with cyber warheads and real missiles? Are we ready for what could follow? Is there an alternative?__

**Extinction through miscalculation**
**Cimbala 99** (<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">CIMBALA, STEPHEN J. "Accidental/Inadvertent Nuclear War and Information Warfare." Armed Forces & Society: An Interdisciplinary Journal 25.4 (1999): 653. Academic OneFile. Web. 9 Sept. 2010. Document URL</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">If the two sides in a nuclear crisis get into a sequence of events not correctly foreseen by either and seek to interpret those events correctly, </span>__information warfare will be harmful, not helpful, to correct interpretation.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> An example is perceptions management by one side designed to suggest to the media, public, and legislature of the other side that the first side's intentions are only honorable.^^ The second side, according to this carefully orchestrated set of perceptions fed from one side to another, is really the "aggressor" or the "uncooperative" partner. And the media and political elites of the second side might believe the image created by enemy perceptions management, calling upon leaders to stand down forces and accept the demands of the opponent. Or, leaders of the second side might be outraged at the cyberpropaganda of the first side, escalate their demands, and become more intransigent. As Robert Jervis explains: </span>
__A state tends to see the behavior of others as more planned, coordinated, and centralized than it is__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Actions that are accidental or the product of different parts of the bureaucracy following their own policies are likely to be perceived as part of a coherent, and often devious, plan. In a nuclear crisis, the propensity to see all of the other side's behavior as part of a plan would be especially likely to yield incorrect and dangerous conclusions.^^ </span>
__Messages may be received as intended, but their political effect is not necessarily predictable__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Hitler's propaganda efforts to dissuade British and French military reactions to his occupation of Czechoslovakia worked as intended in the short run, but established in the Nazi dictator's mind misleading impressions of the two states' weakness in resisting any fur-668 Armed Forces & Sodety/Summer 1999 ther tearing up of the map of Europe. Boomeranged perceptions management appeared in Soviet Cold War forgeries of diplomatic and military communications between the U.S. and its allies. Most of these were transparent, and once found out, gave additional evidence of Soviet diplomatic perfidy to hawkish U.S. politicians and commentators. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Forces poised for immediate retaliation to possible surprise attack also interact with warning systems looking outward for indications of such an attack. </span>__False indicators planted by the other side's infowarriors to bring down air defense systems and missile attack warning radars are harbingers of disaster once forces and command systems have been alerted to war-expectant levels.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Under those conditions, </span>__thevanishing of information from radar screens or fusion centers could be assumed as the first infowave of a nuclear attack, callingforth a preemptive response__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Blank screens and obstructed communications leaving personnel in the dark for orders helped the U.S. in Desert Storm to clear the way for its air strikes against targets in Baghdad and at other locations within Iraqi state territory. The same phenomena might create unacceptable panic if the stakes were vulnerability to nuclear instead of conventional attack</span>__. Terrible pressureswould rise from lower to higher command levels to "use them or lose them" before communications between and among NCA, CINCs, and geographically dispersed force commanders were completely severed__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Positive (reinforcing) feedback within a system of dense interconnections may have unpredictable impacts, as Jervis has noted: Thus warning systems can self-excite when they go on alert: </span>__When a decision maker thinks that an attack is likely, he will place more credence in reports indicating that a war is imminent than he would if the same information were received in a period of calm, and actions of the other side that usually would be missed or seen as innocent will be perceived as evincing hostile intentions.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> And the more such 'information' is received, the greater the fear ^^ </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">High altitude detonation of a small nuclear weapon by an enemy over its own territory and causing no prompt fatalities to U.S. or allied military personnel could nevertheless destabilize U.S. ground and space assets and confuse decisions based on those assets. For example, a nuclear explosion of about 50 Kt above 100 kilometers in altitude would disrupt space assets by prompt radiation effects and by creating atmospheric disturbances. Unhardened satellites in low earth orbit (LEO), even after they survived the initial radiation, would be vulnerable to total dose destruc-Cimbala 669 tion as they passed through aggravated radiation belts. Within weeks to months, all unhardened LEO satellites within a theater of operations could be degraded or inoperative. For example, the electromagnetic pulse (EMP) from a single nuclear burst at an altitude as low as 40 km has the potential to weaken electronics across the entire Persian Gulf region, or throughout the Korean peninsula. Ironically, today's more sophisticated microelectronic systems are more vulnerable to radiation than the cruder and simpler (less integration density, slower operating speed) electronic systems of yesteryear.^^ </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In theory, no president would authorize the firing of nuclear forces on the basis of ambiguous warning information. B</span>__ut in the exigent circumstances, while clarification of the status of schizoid information systems was sought, force commanders would not be idle__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. At DefCon 3 or higher, they would be taking appropriate measures to protect their divisions, fleets, and air wings from enemy surprise. These moves would almost certainly be noticed by the other side's intelligence and warning, even if no U.S. or allied nuclear weapons were released, moved, or loaded. Few if any military experts ever thought that a war would begin with a nuclear "bolt from the blue, absent preceding events: by definition, bolt from the blue is not accidental or inadvertent. Any accidental/inadvertent nuclear war in the years between 1946 and 1990 would almost certainly have begun at the level of foot patrols wandering off the map into restricted areas, maritime collisions on the heels of U.S.-Soviet "dodge-em" games at sea, or inadvertent strays by one side into restricted air space of the other.^"^ </span>__Confrontations at the tip of the lance have an entirely different meaning higher up the chain of command if links in the chain have been deliberately confused, or their interlink communications distorted, by cyberpathological strikes.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> As Bruce G. Blair has noted: Central authorities cannot reasonably expect military organizations simply to carry out orders, however rational the orders may be. Organizations are not that pliant. Any attempt to assert positive or negative control in a way that requires major abrupt changes in operating procedures, a situation more likely to occur if operating routines escape attention in peacetime, would invite confusion and Consider, for example, the impression created by Presidents Clinton and Yeltsin, pursuant to their agreement of 1994, that U.S. and Russian strategic nuclear missiles were no longer aimed at targets on one another's state territory. The agreement may have symbolic value, but it did little to670 Armed Forces & Society/Summer 1999 change essential procedures for missile targeting. Although Russian missiles are supposedly set on "zero flight plan," the missiles' memory banks still store wartime targets. The Russian General Staff can, from command posts in Moscow and elsewhere, override the detargeting by means of a Signal-A computer network, re-aiming silo-based missiles at U.S. targets within ten seconds.^^ U.S. missiles can be retargeted against Russia just as rapidly. Russia's command system and early warning network have obviously deteriorated since the end of the Cold War, along with the rest of Russia's military, raising the potential for accidents or inadvertence. Local utility managers have reportedly shut off electric power to Strategic Rocket Forces bases when commanders failed to pay their bills. Frequent malfunctions occur in the equipment that controls nuclear weapons.^^ A retired Strategic Rocket Forces officer charged that at least one recent system malfunction caused parts of the nuclear arsenal to go spontaneously into "combat mode."^^ </span>__A number of former Soviet radars for detection of missile attack are no longer operational, making the information provided by Russian early warning systems even less reliable than hitherto__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. According to some reports, even the nuclear suitcases assigned to President Yeltsin, to the defense minister, and to the chief of the general staff are "falling into disrepair."^^ </span>__Finally on the problem of infowar and the avoidance of accidental or inadvertent war or escalation, the problem of delegation of authority or devolution of command is exacerbated by information distortion in the command system of either side__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. In the case of the U.S. nuclear command system, for example, the "cocked pistol" analogy implies that the pistol will fire back at the highest levels of alert unless authorized commands hold back retaliation.^^ </span>__An enemy seeking to paralyze U.S. retaliation by confusing the information networks for nuclear command would, instead, have an equal chance of cutting the command and control system into pieces__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Each piece and the forces with which it could connect would then be a sovereign, post-attack entity, firing back with whatever resources remained to it at targets of opportunity. </span>__Commanders unable to communicate with one another might assume that their counterparts were already dead or hopelessly cut off from proper orders. A dumb, blinded, disaggregated nuclear response systemwould then take over from what had been a singular chain of nuclear command and control.__
=Contention 5 – S= 

**LIDAR key – solves climate models and deterrence – U.S. needs to take the lead now**
**Gast 8**- <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">David, NAVAL POSTGRADUATE SCHOOL MONTEREY, CALIFORNIA THESIS, “Lidar Design for Space Situational Awareness” September 2008 </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In response to the National Research Council (NRC) Decadal Study Request for Information (RFI), we would like to propose a space-based Doppler winds LIght Detection And Ranging </span>__(LIDAR)__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> demonstration mission with a targeted launch date of 2011-2012. The mission </span>__will address our vital national needs for high-resolution global tropospheric wind observation__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span>__which will lead to improved long-range weather forecasting, more accurate hurricane landfall prediction__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span>__improved climate models, better battlefield environmental predictions for military operations, more accurate upper-tropospheric/lower-stratospheric winds for Air Force operations, and potential chemical-biological release trajectory prediction for homeland security operations__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__The launch of a space-based winds LIDAR__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> demonstration mission in the 2011-2012 time frame </span>__is critical to enable operational winds LIDAR on the National Polar Orbiting Environmental Satellite Systems (NPOESS) in____the 2015-2016 time frame.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Global tropospheric wind profiles are the #1 unmet Environmental Data Record (EDR) of NPOESS. </span>__This is especially urgent since the US, as a world leader in space technology and Earth observation, is falling behind Europe and Japan inspace-based winds LIDAR development and deployment__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. As a result of strong government and private industry investment in the last 5-10 years, all key technologies for spacebased direct-detection Doppler winds LIDAR have reached Technology Readiness Levels (TRL) of 5-7. </span>__The cost of such a mission, estimated at about $200M, is clearly well justified based on its very strong national needs and significant societal benefits. There is a strong consensus in the operational agencies and user communities that space-based winds LIDAR mission should be considered as a top priority forfuture space missions__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Mission planning and phase A/B study must commence immediately to enable a launch in 2011-2012. </span>


<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">We solve every internal link to an arms race</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Rendleman 10</span><span style="font-family: 'Garamond','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">– Retired Colonel in U.S. Air Force [James R. Rendleman, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” __Astropolitics: The International Journal of Space Politics & Policy__, Volume 8, Issue 2 & 3, 2010, Pages 220 - 255 //]</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Samuel Black argues that </span>__‘‘space assurance’’ should be the **ultimate objective** of a space strategy__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. According to Black: ‘‘A space assurance strategy strives to ensure that the president, U.S. armed forces, and U.S. citizens, allies, and friends can call upon space assets when needed.’’1 As is discussed herein, this strategic space assurance objective is more comprehensive and proactive, and provides for a more complete end state, than that offered by a pure deterrence and protection-based strategy. </span>__A strategy__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> framework </span>__rooted in__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> a </span>__space assurance context can **respond more effectively** to security scenarios and concerns__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__This objective can apply whether the threats to space capabilities come from peer__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, near-peer, </span>__or developing-world adversaries, bandits__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, and miscreants, problems posed just by the space environment and the </span>__debris__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the spacefaring community has already inserted on orbit, </span>__or__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> even </span>__well meaning__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span>__but____irresponsible__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> spacefaring </span>__states__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Black’s thinking echoes Bruce MacDonald’s who contends that </span>__the__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> United States </span>__goal__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> for space security should be to achieve a secure, stable environment. This </span>__encourages conflict prevention, and reinforces deterrence among international competitors, adversaries, friends, and the ambivalent__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. MacDonald suggests </span>__the focus should__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> instead </span>__be placed on__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> achieving strategic and </span>__crisis stability__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, deterrence, </span>__and transparency__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. This promotes behaviors that maximize the United States ability to utilize space and minimize operational and other problems. </span>__This would__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> also i</span>__nclude pursuing efforts to develop codes of conduct__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">and rules of the road, </span>__minimize debris, and manage space traffic__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. He suggests </span>__these activities would__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> be accompanied by confidence building measures, and involves agreements that </span>**__constrain the ‘‘most destabilizing dimensions of offensive space capabilities.’’__**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">MacDonald also argues the United States must be able to deter others from attacking its space systems. He suggests that space-based offensive capabilities create vulnerabilities, and are destabilizing and best avoided. He argues </span>__the U__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates </span>__should__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> seek to </span>__reduce adversary incentives to strike its space assets or take other destabilizing actions__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, and ensure continuity for space services. This would entail the use of distributed capabilities, multiple system nodes, and defense in depth with back-ups. </span>__This would__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> also </span>__require__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> enhanced attribution techniques to identify the sources of threats, and </span>__more robust space situational awareness__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(SSA)</span>__and intel__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ligence </span>__capabilities__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. MacDonald opines that offensive space capability, if ever employed, should only involve the application of reversible effects.2</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">By combining and supplementing the best of the Black and MacDonald arguments, a more proactive strategy can be synthesized, one that better secures the space domain. The strategy need not depend solely on seeking to persuade others from courses of action by invoking a threat of force, or on preparing for conflict or defense in event an undesirable act occurs. Preventing unwelcome actions by instilling fear of the consequences is brought about by the existence of a credible threat of unacceptable counteraction. The proffered threat does not deter an adversary if it is not believed or if its risks can be accepted. In contrast, </span>__a strategy that employs a__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> more positive, proactive, and </span>__collaborative approach may be more effective in the long-term__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__Focusing on fostering space benefits for all may encourage potential adversaries to join as partners to preserve access to the space domain for all.____Such an approach may **foster the use of best practices and standards that mitigate the dangers of space-related conflict**__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, frequency fratricide, </span>**__and space debris__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__Such a strategy to assure access by all to space would__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> also </span>__be sufficiently agile and robust to respond to problems in the domain posed by human-made threats or natural hazards__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Considering the complexity of the threat and hazard environment, and satisfying the Black and MacDonald’s concerns, </span>__a strategy to assure__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the United States and its allies have access to space capabilities should have a number of attributes. Space systems must be protected so they can operate for the short-term and long-term. This </span>__involves more than just__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> dissuading, </span>__deterring__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, defending against, and defeating potential </span>__adversaries__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> seeking to neutralize, disable, or destroy space systems. </span>**__By far, the greatest risk to U.S. space assets comes from__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the space environment, such as </span>**__space weather and orbital debris__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, and then irresponsible actions and accidents caused by other space actors. The global space community should be encouraged to operate safely in a manner conducive to operations by all members. Vexing </span>__orbital debris__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and spectrum management </span>__issues__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, as well as safe spacelift and de-orbit operations, </span>__must be addressed__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Finally, the strategy must empower the United States industrial base to be vibrant and robust, and flex its muscles, to ensure it can deliver space capabilities when needed.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Ultimately, a space assurance strategy depends on four mutually supportive elements, or pillars: (1) deterrence and defense; (2) global engagement; (3) situational awareness; and (4) responsive infrastructure.3 Employing these four pillars should enable U.S. and friendly spacefaring nations to continue to perform their missions for the short-term and long-term. The yin and yang of space deterrence and protection will always be an important pillar of space assurance, and its attributes are discussed below.4 Global engagement leverages long-standing approaches to secure and protect the space domain through recognized international law, policy, and diplomacy. </span>__Situational awareness employs the monitoring of environmental and intelligence factors, and prediction of threats essential to decision making to assure mission success__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__This allows a policy maker__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> or commander to differentiate between purposeful attacks and natural environmental hazards</span>__; to anticipate space events__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and clarify intentions; to </span>**__reduce__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">the potential for </span>**__misperception or miscalculation__**__; **and**__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">to enhance opportunities to </span>**__avoid disruptive or destructive events__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. A robust infrastructure enables spacefaring nation abilities to present agile responses to changes in the space environment, to threats, and to assure viability of its systems. Pg. 221-223</span>


=Affirmative- Greenhill= 

=**Plan Text**= 

**Plan: The United States Federal Government should develop its space situational awareness by deploying the space based surveillance system**
=Contention 1- Inherency= 

**Space situational awareness efforts are inevitable- however, they will fail due to immature technology and poor acquisition**
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">GAO 11</span>- United States Government Accountability Office, GAO Report to the Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, Committee on Armed Services, House of Representatives, “SPACE ACQUISITIONS Development and Oversight Challenges in Delivering Improved Space Situational Awareness Capabilities” May 2011 http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d11545.pdf

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Recent events</span>, such as the Chinese antisatellite test and the Iridium and Cosmos satellite collision, <span style="text-decoration: none;">have highlighted the need for better SSA capabilities</span> governmentwide. <span style="text-decoration: none;">DOD has recognized</span> that <span style="text-decoration: none;">its existing SSA systems fall short of capability needs and has significantly increased its dollar investments to enhance SSA capabilities</span>. Moreover, the Air Force successfully launched its SBSS satellite—after several years of delays—which is anticipated to appreciably enhance SSA. <span style="text-decoration: none;">However, most other SSA acquisition efforts</span> that <span style="text-decoration: none;">focus on fielding major additions in capability</span> over the next 5 years have or <span style="text-decoration: none;">are facing significant challenges and risks</span>, <span style="text-decoration: none;">such as the use of immature technologies</span>; planning to deliver all capabilities in a single, large increment, versus smaller and more manageable increments; technical requirements instability; operations in a multiple security level environment; and data integration issues. <span style="text-decoration: none;">If these efforts do not progress as planned</span>, <span style="text-decoration: none;">risk of continuing or worsening SSA capability gaps will result</span>. Therefore, <span style="text-decoration: none;">while it is too early to determine the extent to which these</span> new <span style="text-decoration: none;">capabilities will address existing shortfalls</span>, it <span style="text-decoration: none;">is essential that new SSA system acquisitions are placed on a solid footing</span> at the start of development <span style="text-decoration: none;">to help ensure capabilities</span> from these systems <span style="text-decoration: none;">are delivered to the warfighter</span> as and when promised. Should DOD decide to proceed on a path that leaves open important questions, including those about technologies, then it is important that this footing be based on thorough analyses of the risks involved—such as with the use of backup technologies—including cost, schedule, and performance implications. Such analyses could provide the knowledge needed to determine whether the acquisition program is worth pursuing or what trade-offs would need to be made with other investments should additional resources be required. <span style="text-decoration: none;">We have consistently made recommendations for establishing reliable acquisition</span> business cases, <span style="text-decoration: none;">such as maturing technologies</span> prior to development start, utilizing evolutionary development, and stabilizing requirements, and DOD has already embraced these for its newest major space acquisition—the Global Positioning System IIIA program.

Specifically, the Space Based Surveillance Satellite has been discontinued- this will produce more gaps in SSA
Aviation Week 2/18- USAF Steers Away From Second SBSS Satellite BY NEWS, ON FEBRUARY 18TH, 2011 http://www.emmetfletcher.com/blog/2011/02/18/usaf-steers-away-from-second-sbss-satellite/
<span style="text-decoration: none;">A clone of the Space-Based Space Surveillance (SBSS) </span>satellite made by a Boeing/Ball Aerospace team and launched last year <span style="text-decoration: none;">is not necessary to continue the mission of tracking objects</span> in space from space, says Gen. William Shelton, the new Air Force Space Command chief.
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Debate is ongoing in the Pentagon about how to continue conducting this mission</span> as the number of objects in space — <span style="text-decoration: none;">all of which represent threats to operating satellites</span> — <span style="text-decoration: none;">grows substantially</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The price tag of the first SBSS satellite</span>, with a two-axis visible light sensor, was suppose to be just more than $800 million, but it <span style="text-decoration: none;">eventually crept to about $1 billion</span>. Shelton says that like other senior leaders in the Air Force, this has prompted a case of “sticker shock.”
<span style="text-decoration: none;">The Air Force did not request funding for a follow-on satellite in the fiscal 2012 budget request; time is needed instead to sort out options</span>. Boeing/Ball had urged the service to consider buying a second satellite (Aerospace DAILY, March 17, 2010). Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Marine Gen. James Cartwright said this week that <span style="text-decoration: none;">he wants to see more work done to explore alternatives because the Pentagon must be leery of committing to further expensive satellite systems as budgets flatten</span>. Shelton agrees, adding that “I think we are going to have to go with good enough,” rather than reaching for the best that technology has to offer.
SBSS was borne out of experience the military had operating a visible light sensor on the Missile Defense Agency’s MSX satellite; that sensor was declared dead in the summer of 2008, years past its projected lifespan. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Since then, there has been a gap in space situational awareness collection data from space; ground-based sensors are limited by weather or light conditions.</span> While this mission is increasingly critical to protect allied assets in space and preventing more satellite collisions, the Pentagon lacks the money to field a full-up constellation of cutting-edge satellites, Cartwright says. The space-based visible sensor on MSX was considered simple compared to the SBSS payload, and “it worked just fine,” Shelton says.


=Contention 2- Hegemony= 

Space is becoming vulnerable to attack- countries have already successfully jammed satellites- Space situational awareness is necessary to protect vital satellites
Murphy 10-Tara Murphy, a fellow with the Defense and National Security Group at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies (CSIS) “Security Challenges in the 21st Century Global Commons” Yale Journal of International Affairs Available Online
The fragility of the space commons is the preeminent challenge to its continued openness. The accidental collision of objects in space or an intentional attack of a state’s space capabilities through the use of an anti-satellite (ASAT) weapon can have highly destructive effects, regardless of the size of the debris with which the satellite collides or ASAT weapon that attacks it. Indeed, the potential for destruction in space is such that if an object the size of a marble strikes a satellite orbiting the Earth, it does so with the equivalent energy of a one-ton object dropped from a five-story building.40 <span style="text-decoration: none;">Increasing congestion only increases the likelihood of such collisions taking place.</span> It is estimated that there are over 18,000 manmade objects in space, including approximately 1,300 active satellites operated by over 40 countries, 10 of which are capable of launching satellites.41 <span style="text-decoration: none;">The sheer volume of objects requires improved space situational awareness to preserve the openness of the domain</span>. In addition, several recent events have spurred the United States to take action to increase the ability of satellites to “see” the area around them. The Chinese use of an ASAT weapon to destroy a weather satellite in 2007 created a larger debris field than any other human event in space.42 The February 2009 collision of an Iridium communications satellite and an inactive Russian satellite further intensified debris concerns. It is possible that, unless the issue is addressed, debris creation could eventually render space useless. To guard against this possibility, the U.S. Air Force is investing in a number of programs that improve the ability to detect objects around and approaching satellites.43 The United States currently monitors satellites for risk of collision in space and notifies commercial satellite operators or other governments when there is risk of collision with another satellite or debris.44 Such efforts, in addition to continued advancements in sensor technology, are critical steps to improving space situational awareness and reducing the probability that new and dangerous debris is created. The vulnerability of satellites is an especially grievous problem in light of the significant functions this technology performs. Satellites have revolutionized the way that the world transmits and receives information, and they play a critical role in both the commercial and military spheres. Satellites were initially valued for the strategic information they provided to military affairs; today, they are used to provide tactical- and operational-level information to troops on the ground.45 Satellites provide targeting, reconnaissance, and communications information for offensive and defensive military actions; but they also provide these critical data for humanitarian assistance and disaster relief missions. Satellite images proved invaluable tools to the responders of the 2008 earthquake in China, 2004 tsunami in Southeast Asia, and countless other relief efforts.46 This across-the-board reliance on satellites largely underpins global concerns over ASAT capabilities. On January 11, 2007, China successfully destroyed an inoperative weather satellite using ASAT technology, and they are continuing development of kinetic ASAT capabilities, as well as ground-based ASAT laser systems.47 This research, in combination with their investments in an expansive space exploration program, could lead to technology that is capable of destroying mid-Earth orbit satellites, including U.S. global positioning satellites.48 Although their lack of transparency is concerning, China is not the only state in pursuit of advanced space technology. Lasers and jammers that disrupt satellite operations present another serious concern. Instances of past interference include Iraq’s jamming of U.S. precision-guided munitions in 2003 and Brazilian interference with transponders on a U.S. Navy satellite in 2008. Iran and Turkey have both jammed satellites to prevent the broadcast of programming from political opposition groups. Iran again jammed satellites during the protests following the 2009 presidential elections, when it blocked out the Voice of America broadcasting.49 It is clear that a number of challenges to openness in the space domain exist, and that number is on the rise. Further, the lack of an effective, up-to-date governance regime is perpetuating those concerns. For example, China in 2007 and the United States in 2008 violated an informal twentytwo year moratorium on ASAT testing; absent a larger, more formal international legal framework, these activities will continue with little or no consequence for transgressors. Until such steps are taken, issues related to the threat of attack against space assets and the risk of damage to assets from accidental collision will persist; in either case**, the extreme result could be an obsolete space domain**.

Specially, China will deny our access to space- they will attack systems necessary for power projection- kills hege
Blanchard, 7/11/11 – Ben Blanchard is a Reuters correspondent based in Beijing, cites a report by the Journal of Strategic Studies [Reuters, “China ramps up military use of space with new satellites-report”, http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/07/12/china-satellites-idUSL3E7I902220110712]
(Reuters) - <span style="text-decoration: none;">China is developing cutting-edge satellites that will allow it to project power</span> far <span style="text-decoration: none;">beyond its shores and deter the U</span>nited <span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span>tates <span style="text-decoration: none;">from using aircraft carriers in any future conflict over</span> its rival <span style="text-decoration: none;">Taiwan, </span>a report said. The piece in October's Journal of Strategic Studies, a U.K.-published defence and security journal, runs at odds with China's stated opposition to the militarization of space. But <span style="text-decoration: none;">the report, an advance copy</span> of which was obtained by Reuters, <span style="text-decoration: none;">said that the</span> rapid <span style="text-decoration: none;">development of advanced reconnaissance satellites to enable China to track hostile forces</span> in real time <span style="text-decoration: none;">and guide ballistic missiles has become</span> a <span style="text-decoration: none;">key to the modernisation of its forces</span>. While the United States used to be unrivaled in this area, China is catching up fast, it added. "<span style="text-decoration: none;">China's constellation of satellites is transitioning from</span> the <span style="text-decoration: none;">limited ability to collect general strategic information</span>, into a new era in which it will be able to support tactical operations as they happen," the report said. "<span style="text-decoration: none;">China may already be able to match the U</span>nited <span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span>tates' <span style="text-decoration: none;">ability to image a known, stationary target and will </span>likely <span style="text-decoration: none;">surpass it in the flurry of launches planned for the next two years</span>." <span style="text-decoration: none;">Beijing has consistently denied</span> it has <span style="text-decoration: none;">anything other than peaceful plans</span> for space and <span style="text-decoration: none;">says its growing</span> military <span style="text-decoration: none;">spending and prowess are for defensive purposes and modernisation of outdated forces</span>. But <span style="text-decoration: none;">with the recent unveiling of</span> a stealth <span style="text-decoration: none;">fighter, the expected launch</span> of its first aircraft carriers <span style="text-decoration: none;">and more aggressive posture</span> over territorial disputes such as one in the South China Sea, <span style="text-decoration: none;">Beijing has rattled nerves regionally and globally</span>. China's space program has come a long way since late leader Mao Zedong, who founded Communist China in 1949, lamented that the country could not even launch a potato into space. Since then, it has launched men into orbit and brought them home, sent out its first lunar probe and begun longer-term programmes to explore Mars and establish a space station. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The successful missile "kill" of an old satellite</span> in early 2007 <span style="text-decoration: none;">represented a new level of ability for the Chinese military</span>, and <span style="text-decoration: none;">last year China</span> successfully <span style="text-decoration: none;">tested emerging technology</span> aimed at destroying missiles in mid-air. U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates warned <span style="text-decoration: none;">earlier this year</span> that <span style="text-decoration: none;">advances by China's military</span> in cyber and anti-satellite warfare technology <span style="text-decoration: none;">could challenge</span> the ability of U.S. forces to operate in the Pacific. "STRATEGICALLY DISQUIETING" China's need to use satellites to up its military game became apparent during the 1995-96 Taiwan Straits crisis, when the U.S. dispatched a carrier group after China menaced the self-ruled island with war games, the report said. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Beijing realised it could neither track nor respond to the U.S. ships.</span> The incident also led China to realise it needed the means to keep Washington from using its navy to intervene in a war over Taiwan. Beijing regards the island as a rebel province. "<span style="text-decoration: none;">The most immediate and strategically disquieting application</span> (of reconnaissance satellites) is a targeting and tracking capability in support of the anti-ship ballistic missile, which <span style="text-decoration: none;">could hit U.S. carrier groups</span>," the report said. "But <span style="text-decoration: none;">China's growing capability in space is not designed to support any single weapon; instead it is being developed as a dynamic system, applicable to other long-range platforms. </span>With space as the backbone, <span style="text-decoration: none;">China will be able to expand</span> the range of <span style="text-decoration: none;">its ability to apply force while preserving its policy of not establishing foreign military bases</span>." More broadly speaking, satellites will be able to help China project power. "<span style="text-decoration: none;">As China's capabilities grow</span>, with space reconnaissance as an example, <span style="text-decoration: none;">it will be</span> increasingly <span style="text-decoration: none;">hard to reconcile the rhetoric of a defensive posture and</span> a more <span style="text-decoration: none;">expansive capability</span>." (Editing by Brian Rhoads and Yoko Nishikawa)

Space Situational Awareness is necessary to sustain hegemony

a) Ground Forces
Information superiority is necessary for all warfighting capabilities- SSA enhances support for command and control
Lehto 7-Marta Lehto, “Space as a New Sphere of Future Information Warfare” roceedings of the 8th Australian Information Warfare and Security Conference, Edith Cowan University, perth Western Australia, 3rd-4th December, 2007 ro.ecu.edu.au/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1040&context=iswro.ecu.edu.au/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1040&context=isw
<span style="text-decoration: none;">The vast majority of all</span> the long distance <span style="text-decoration: none;">communications used by the American and Allied forces were routed through space</span>, including both commercial and military communication satellites. With bandwidth, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the most up-to-date intelligence information was sent to troops on the ground</span> and pilots in their cockpits <span style="text-decoration: none;">for nearly real-time strikes on sensitive</span>, fleeting targets. Weather satellites helped forecast conditions that could impact military operations, such as rainstorms that would obscure targets from aircraft or cause tanks to get bogged down in the desert sand. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The first critical component of that protection is space situational awareness (SSA). </span>Currently, <span style="text-decoration: none;">in Air Force Space Command we catalog</span> approximately 14,000 <span style="text-decoration: none;">objects in space but it's just that</span>: a catalog. While we can detect objects as small as a baseball in a low Earth orbit or as small as a basketball in a geosynchronous orbit, we need more than just the location and general direction of an object. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Our aim is to move beyond cataloging to understanding what is "up there." </span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">To further advance our ability to support our field commanders</span>, <span style="text-decoration: none;">we are pursuing this space command and control architecture with an interdependent</span>, <span style="text-decoration: none;">net-centric mindset</span>, realizing we must be able to adapt to the future environment. <span style="text-decoration: none;">To operate in this dynamic tasking environment</span> where we must be <span style="text-decoration: none;">interconnected with the Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (C4ISR) systems</span>, other space systems, the U.S. and Allied forces at every echelon in every corner of the globe, we must also continue to recapitalize our aging space constellations.“ <span style="text-decoration: none;">Battlespace awareness will be gained through space-based intelligence</span> gathered in all spectra to turn battlespace awareness into knowledge. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Battlespace awareness also includes information warfare</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">In a world heavily reliant on satellite communications,</span> sp<span style="text-decoration: none;">ace will be a critical battlefield in any enemy's information war.</span> Enhanced <span style="text-decoration: none;">C4I will rely on space technology to identify important targets, handle data</span> provided by the expansion of sensors, <span style="text-decoration: none;">and transfer information to the weapons or forces</span> best suited <span style="text-decoration: none;">for the engagement</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Precision engagement will invariably be dependent upon</span> enhanced <span style="text-decoration: none;">satellite global positioning data</span>; space assisted targeting capabilities, <span style="text-decoration: none;">and satellite communications to tell the shooter where to put bombs on target</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">This type of war-fighting framework will heavily rely on space capabilities. Any nation wishing to defend itself</span> against a powerful military opponent <span style="text-decoration: none;">will have to try to den</span>y the enemy <span style="text-decoration: none;">the use of space.</span> It will have to destroy or paralyze the enemy’s satellites or by information operation to deny the free use of electromagnetic spectrum on earth and space.
USAF Space Command sees the future very clear: “<span style="text-decoration: none;">Space is at the very core of transforming the Armed Services’ net-centric architectures</span> including the Army’s Future Combat System, Naval Fleet Communication and the Global Information Grid. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Without space</span>, these Service and <span style="text-decoration: none;">DoD programs will simply be less effective.”</span> (USAF Space Command: Strategic Intent, www.afspc.af.mil) The above-described evolution has an effect on the position of manned aircraft in the future. Space-based C4ISR, targeting and positioning systems now already reduce the need for strategic on-board systems. On an operational and strategic level unmanned air vechicles (UAVs) have been fielded. <span style="text-decoration: none;">For example, in the Iraq war UAVs play an essential role in producing situational awareness for operational and strategic purpose</span>s. Space-tosurface weapons being developed reduce the need for conventional assault aircraft and bombers. It has been estimated that Lockheed Martin's F-35 Joint Strike Fighter may be the last manned fighter to be used in future operations.
The development and maintenance costs of space-based systems are so high that only for big powers or alliances (NATO) it is possible to build such systems. At present, the United States is the power having ability to weaponize space. Small countries like Finland can utilize the capability provided by space-based weapons systems by working in close cooperation with such powers; in other words, entering into an alliance. This is the only way to obtain the use of new capabilities. <span style="text-decoration: none;">To be left beyond the development and use of space-based weapons systems leads to an increasing insufficiency of capabilities in such extent which may diminish a credible defense capability.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Enhancing our SSA is key to every military function- space assets connect all battlefield operations </span>**</span>
Pfaltzgraff 9- Robert L. President, Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, Cambridge,MA, Space and U.S. Security A Net Assessment, JAN 2009
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Space is militarily indispensable</span> to the United States. As discussed below, th<span style="text-decoration: none;">e U.S. military relies on a broad range of space technologies</span> not only <span style="text-decoration: none;">to deter and dissuade enemies</span> but a<span style="text-decoration: none;">lso to fight and win the nation’s wars</span>. As Peter L. Hays has pointed out, <span style="text-decoration: none;">military force enhancement</span> “<span style="text-decoration: none;">refers to all</span> military <span style="text-decoration: none;">space activities that help</span> to <span style="text-decoration: none;">increase the warfighting effectiveness of terrestrial forces</span> and is sometimes <span style="text-decoration: none;">referred to as</span> ‘<span style="text-decoration: none;">space support to the warfighter</span>.’”5 <span style="text-decoration: none;">Without</span> assured <span style="text-decoration: none;">access to space, the</span> U.S. <span style="text-decoration: none;">military could not</span> effectively <span style="text-decoration: none;">conduct military operations</span> on land, at sea, or in the air. For example, <span style="text-decoration: none;">s</span>pace <span style="text-decoration: none;">s</span>ituational <span style="text-decoration: none;">a</span>wareness <span style="text-decoration: none;">is essential to our ability to distinguish</span> a <span style="text-decoration: none;">foreign space launch from a missile launch</span>. At the present time there are eight nations capable of launching spacecraft and others who are developing such technology. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Without s</span>pace <span style="text-decoration: none;">s</span>ituational <span style="text-decoration: none;">a</span>wareness <span style="text-decoration: none;">it becomes impossible to anticipate threats</span> such as those from ballistic missiles which travel part of their trajectory in space. <span style="text-decoration: none;">There are more than 17,000 man-made objects that orbit the Earth</span>, together with other objects such as asteroids and comets. <span style="text-decoration: none;">All could inflict substantial and possibly catastrophic damage</span>—manmade or natural—<span style="text-decoration: none;">on the Earth</span>. Although this is not the focus of this net assessment, it is necessary to note that, however remote, the threat to life on Earth would be potentially overwhelming from an asteroid or comet.6 Our <span style="text-decoration: none;">military commands require not only space situational awareness, but also battle space awareness that is based on assets in space. This includes</span> land-, air-, and sea-borne <span style="text-decoration: none;">Command, Control, Communications, intelligence and reconnaissance</span>. Satellite communications capabilities <span style="text-decoration: none;">provide the essential interconnectivity</span> both for <span style="text-decoration: none;">battlefield operations and for emergency responders</span> at the state and local levels. <span style="text-decoration: none;">There is an indispensable link provided by space assets</span> between international <span style="text-decoration: none;">and domestic security</span>. The critical military force enhancement mission can be divided into six key areas that are described and summarized below, based on open-source information:

**Credible U.S. deployments cause conflict de-escalation- unipolarity prevents rising challengers and provides stability**
KAGAN, 7 - (Robert, senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html)
The jostling for status and influence among these ambitious nations and would-be nations is a second defining feature of the new post-Cold War international system. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Nationalism</span> in all its forms <span style="text-decoration: none;">is back</span>, if it ever went away, <span style="text-decoration: none;">and so is</span> international <span style="text-decoration: none;">competition for power</span>, influence, honor, and status. <span style="text-decoration: none;">American predominance prevents these rivalries from intensifying</span> -- its regional as well as its global predominance. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Were the U</span>nited <span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span>tates <span style="text-decoration: none;">to diminish its influence</span> in the regions <span style="text-decoration: none;">where it is currently the strongest power</span>, the <span style="text-decoration: none;">other nations would settle disputes</span> as great and lesser powers have done in the past: sometimes through diplomacy and accommodation but often <span style="text-decoration: none;">through confrontation and wars of varying scope</span>, intensity, <span style="text-decoration: none;">and destructiveness</span>. One novel aspect of such <span style="text-decoration: none;">a multipolar world</span> is that most of these powers <span style="text-decoration: none;">would possess nuclear weapons. That could make wars</span> between them less likely, or it could simply make them <span style="text-decoration: none;">more catastrophic</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: none;">It is</span> easy but also <span style="text-decoration: none;">dangerous to underestimate the role the U</span>nited <span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span>tates <span style="text-decoration: none;">plays in providing</span> a measure of <span style="text-decoration: none;">stability in the world</span> even as it also disrupts stability<span style="text-decoration: none;">. For instance, the U</span>nited <span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span>tates <span style="text-decoration: none;">is the dominant naval power</span> everywhere, such that <span style="text-decoration: none;">other nations cannot compete with it</span> even in their home waters. <span style="text-decoration: none;">They </span>either <span style="text-decoration: none;">happily or grudgingly allow the U</span>nited<span style="text-decoration: none;"> S</span>tates Navy <span style="text-decoration: none;">to be the guarantor of international waterways</span> and trade routes, of international access to markets and raw materials such as oil. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Even when the U</span>nited <span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span>tates <span style="text-decoration: none;">engages in a war, it is able to play its role as guardian</span> of the waterways. <span style="text-decoration: none;">In a</span> more genuinely <span style="text-decoration: none;">multipolar world</span>, however, <span style="text-decoration: none;">it would not</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Nations would compete for naval dominance</span> at least in their own regions and possibly beyond. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Conflict between nations would involve struggles on the oceans as well as on land. Armed embargos,</span> of the kind used in World War i and other major conflicts, <span style="text-decoration: none;">would disrupt trade flows</span> in a way that is now impossible.
Such <span style="text-decoration: none;">order</span> as exists <span style="text-decoration: none;">in the world rests</span> not merely <span style="text-decoration: none;">on the goodwill of peoples</span> but <span style="text-decoration: none;">on a foundation provided by American power</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Even the E</span>uropean <span style="text-decoration: none;">U</span>nion, that great geopolitical miracle, <span style="text-decoration: none;">owes its founding to American powe</span>r, for without it the European nations after World War ii would never have felt secure enough to reintegrate Germany. Most Europeans recoil at the thought, but even today <span style="text-decoration: none;">Europe 's stability depends on the guarantee</span>, however distant and one hopes unnecessary, <span style="text-decoration: none;">that the U</span>nited <span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span>tates <span style="text-decoration: none;">could step in to check any dangerous development on the continent</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">In a</span> genuinely <span style="text-decoration: none;">multipolar world</span>, <span style="text-decoration: none;">that would not be possible</span> without <span style="text-decoration: none;">renewing the danger of world war.</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">People who believe</span> greater <span style="text-decoration: none;">equality among nations would be preferable to</span> the present <span style="text-decoration: none;">American predominance</span> often <span style="text-decoration: none;">succumb to a</span> basic <span style="text-decoration: none;">logical fallacy</span>. They believe the order the world enjoys today exists independently of American power. They imagine that in a world where American power was diminished, the aspects of international order that they like would remain in place. But that 's not the way it works. <span style="text-decoration: none;">International order does not rest on ideas and institutions</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">It is shaped by configurations of power.</span> The international order we know today reflects the distribution of power in the world since World War ii, and especially since the end of the Cold War. <span style="text-decoration: none;">A different configuration of power,</span> a multipolar world in which the poles were Russia, China, the United States, India, and Europe, <span style="text-decoration: none;">would produce its own kind of orde</span>r, with different rules and norms reflecting the interests of the powerful states that would have a hand in shaping it. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Would that international order be an improvement?</span> Perhaps for Beijing and Moscow it would. But <span style="text-decoration: none;">it is doubtful that it would suit the tastes of enlightenment liberals </span>in the United States and Europe.
The current order, of course, is not only far from perfect but also offers no guarantee against major conflict among the world 's great powers. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Even under the umbrella of unipolarity</span>, regional conflicts involving the large powers may erupt. <span style="text-decoration: none;">War could erupt between China and Taiwa</span>n and draw in both the United States and Japan. <span style="text-decoration: none;">War could erupt between Russia and Georgia</span>, forcing the United States and its European allies to decide whether to intervene or suffer the consequences of a Russian victory. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Conflict between India and Pakistan remains possible</span>, <span style="text-decoration: none;">as does conflict between Iran and Israel</span> or other Middle Eastern states. These, too, could draw in other great powers, including the United States.
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Such conflicts</span> may be unavoidable no matter what policies the United States pursues. But they <span style="text-decoration: none;">are more likely to erupt if the U</span>nited <span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span>tates <span style="text-decoration: none;">weakens or withdraws from its positions of regional dominance.</span> This is especially true in East Asia, where most nations agree that a reliable American power has a stabilizing and pacific effect on the region. That is certainly the view of most of China 's neighbors. But <span style="text-decoration: none;">even China</span>, which <span style="text-decoration: none;">seeks gradually to supplant the U</span>nited <span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span>tates <span style="text-decoration: none;">as the dominant power</span> in the region, faces the dilemma that an <span style="text-decoration: none;">American withdrawal could unleash an ambitious</span>, independent, nationalist <span style="text-decoration: none;">Japan.</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">In Europe</span>, too, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the departure of the U</span>nited <span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span>tates from the scene -- even if it remained the world's most powerful nation -- <span style="text-decoration: none;">could be destabilizing</span>. It <span style="text-decoration: none;">could tempt Russia to an even more overbearing and</span> potentially <span style="text-decoration: none;">forceful approach to unruly nations</span> on its periphery. Although some realist theorists seem to imagine that the disappearance of the Soviet Union put an end to the possibility of confrontation between Russia and the West, and therefore to the need for a permanent American role in Europe, <span style="text-decoration: none;">history suggests that conflicts in Europe</span> involving Russia are <span style="text-decoration: none;">possible even without Soviet communism</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">If the U</span>nited <span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span>tates <span style="text-decoration: none;">withdrew from Europe</span> -- <span style="text-decoration: none;">if it adopted</span> what some call a strategy of "<span style="text-decoration: none;">offshore balancing</span>" -- this could in time increase the likelihood of conflict involving Russia and its near neighbors, which could in turn draw the United States back in under unfavorable circumstances.
<span style="text-decoration: none;">It is also optimistic to imagine</span> that <span style="text-decoration: none;">a retrenchment of the American position in the Middle East and the assumption of a more passive, "offshore" role would lead to greater stability</span> there. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The vital</span> interest the United States has in access to oil and the role it plays in keeping access open to other nations in Europe and Asia make it unlikely that American leaders could or would stand back and hope for the best while the powers in the region battle it out. Nor would a more "even-handed" policy toward Israel, which some see as the magic key to unlocking peace, stability, and comity in the Middle East, obviate the need to come to Israel 's aid if its security became threatened. That <span style="text-decoration: none;">commitment, paired with the American commitment</span> to protect strategic oil supplies <span style="text-decoration: none;">for most of the world,</span> practically <span style="text-decoration: none;">ensures a heavy American military presence in the region</span>, both on the seas and on the ground.
<span style="text-decoration: none;">The subtraction of American power from any region would not end conflict but would simply change the equation</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">In the Middle East</span>, <span style="text-decoration: none;">competition for influence</span> among powers both i<span style="text-decoration: none;">nside and outside the region has raged for at least two centuries.</span> The rise of <span style="text-decoration: none;">Islamic fundamentalism</span> doesn 't change this. It only <span style="text-decoration: none;">adds a new and more threatening dimension to the competition</span>, which neither a sudden end to the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians nor an immediate American withdrawal from Iraq would change. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The alternative to American predominance in the region is not balance and peace. It is further competition.</span> The region and the states within it remain relatively weak. <span style="text-decoration: none;">A diminution of American influence would not be followed by a diminution of other external influences</span>. One could expect deeper involvement by both China and Russia, if only to secure their interests. 18 And one could also expect the more powerful states of the region, particularly Iran, to expand and fill the vacuum. It is doubtful that any American administration would voluntarily take actions that could shift the balance of power in the Middle East further toward Russia, China, or Iran. The world hasn 't changed that much. <span style="text-decoration: none;">An American withdrawal</span> from Iraq will not return things to "normal" or to a new kind of stability in the region. <span style="text-decoration: none;">It will produce a new instability, one likely to draw the United States back in again.</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">The alternative to</span> American <span style="text-decoration: none;">regional predominance</span> in the Middle East and elsewhere is <span style="text-decoration: none;">not a new regional stability</span>. In an era of burgeoning nationalism, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the future is likely to be one of intensified competition</span> among nations and nationalist movements. Difficult as it may be to extend American predominance into the future, <span style="text-decoration: none;">no one should imagine that a reduction of American power</span> or a retraction of American influence and global involvement <span style="text-decoration: none;">will provide an easier path</span>

b) First Strike Primacy

**<span style="color: #000000;">Gaps in threat attribution and space surveillance ensures an attack- reduction in deterrence affects nuclear and conventional capability </span>**
Burke 06 - Deputy Director in the Missile Defense Agency w/ operational experience in missile operations, space surveillance, space control, missile warning, and command and control [Lieutenant Colonel Alan W. Burke, “Space Threat Warning: Foundation for Space Superiority, Avoiding a Space Pearl Harbor,” Air War College, 17 April 2006, pg. [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA476999&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf//edlee|http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA476999&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf/]]]


Implications of the Erosion of US Space Threat Warning Capability - The erosion of the US ability to execute the space threat warning mission has serious implications for US national security to include: the loss of a key early warning indicator of an attack on the US homeland; the loss of space capabilities which would degrade US warfighting effectiveness; the preventable loss of critical high-value satellites, facilities or services; the increased possibility that adversaries could develop new weapons or covertly conduct probing attacks on US space systems; and the lack of a credible means to execute stated US policy in response to an attack against space assets.
One of the most serious impacts of the failure to develop or execute a reliable space threat warning and attack verification system is the **loss of a** **key early warning indicator** of an attack on the US homeland or an attack that is part of a major regional action by a near-peer adversary such as an attack on Taiwan by the Chinese mainland. The Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, whose goal was the destruction of the Pacific Fleet, was not done as an isolated act, but as part of the start of a larger campaign to establish a Japanese Pacific sphere of influence which included the forceful acquisition of US territories. At this time, the Pacific Fleet was viewed as a US center of gravity whose destruction would enable Japan to achieve regional domination and discourage future US intervention. Today, our space-based assets may represent the equivalent of the WWII Pacific Fleet. Further, other nations have stated they view the US reliance on space as a potential Achilles ’ heel and a center of gravity whose destruction or disruption is critical to future military success against the US.44
Although a major attack on the US is not likely, the loss of US space-based early warning capability and ground-based missile warning radars could undermine nuclear deterrence strategy resulting in a **devastating miscalculation** that the US was vulnerable to a **nuclear first strike**. The perception that US space capabilities are vulnerable to a surprise attack also **weakens conventional deterrence**. In the case of a US-China conflict over Taiwan, the Chinese might seek to disrupt or destroy regional space capabilities as part of a delaying strategy to deny US forces access to the region until their military operations were well underway, making the Chinese takeover of Taiwan a fait accompli.45
A successful Pearl Harbor-type attack on US space assets would degrade US fighting effectiveness. Today, space represents the ultimate high ground and it is unlikely that a nation, whose military ambitions might provoke US involvement, will willingly cede that high ground. The level of battlespace awareness space-based platforms provide makes any attack using large massed forces difficult to accomplish. The ability to neutralize these platforms would improve the circumstances required to gain a strategic advantage over US and allied forces. As General Lord stated in his Congressional testimony: “A resourceful enemy will look at our centers of gravity and try to attack them. Our adversaries understand our global dependence on space capabilities, and we must be ready to handle any threat to our space infrastructure.”46 With the increased US reliance on space assets for communication, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR); and command and control of our deployed forces; a successful space attack could significantly delay US response to regional aggression. During Operation IRAQI FREEDOM (OIF), over 60% of theater communications traveled via satellites.47 The Defense Satellite Communication System (DSCS) provided 90% of all protected communications and 70% of all military satellite communications into theater.48 These capabilities significantly enhanced command and control of US and allied forces. Further, the employment of the satellite-based Blue Force Tracker system resulted in an unprecedented level of situational awareness which decreased fratricide and facilitating search and rescue operations and reinforcement operations.49
The United States also maximized the use of the space-based Global Positioning System (GPS) to enable precision weapons delivery, allowing the use of fewer and smaller weapons to achieve effects; to enhance navigation in featureless terrain; and to aid in the location of both friendly and hostile forces.50 General Lord testified to Congress: “Space capabilities are no longer nice to have, but are now indispensable to how we fight and win our nation’s wars.”51 **The failure to develop a credible space threat warning system increases the likelihood that a foreign nation would attack US space assets**.
The inability to detect and provide timely warning of a space attack could result in the preventable loss of critical high-value satellites, facilities or services. There are a number of scenarios where the timely detection of a threat would allow space operators to intervene, thwarting the attack. In many instances, the ability to find, fix, target and destroy the threat is currently a viable way to counter the attack. However, this is not always possible. In the case of a co-orbital ASAT attack, which involves the launch and maneuver of a satellite into a closing orbit of another satellite to destroy or disrupt it, the countermeasure require a pre-intercept maneuver of the target satellite. The support countermeasures for an attack on space ground facilities include increased physical and information security. Countermeasures for electronic warfare attacks or jamming of the space link segment exist but there is often a significant bandwidth cost when these measures are in effect.52
Degradations to space assets could also occur as a result of unintentional sources such as radio frequency interference or from scientific research such as laser research. In these situations, it is important to locate the source and terminate the activity to prevent loss of the space asset or service. The loss of these capabilities during critical operations could result in operational failure, loss of equipment, resources, and lives.
The inability to rapidly neutralize sources of satellite communication (SATCOM) interference also has national security implications. In the area of airpower employment, successful SATCOM jamming could disrupt the US ability to command and control air assets in theater from geographically separated air operations centers. **A delay of even one to two days might jeopardize US ability to support deployed forces**. Satellite communication links to worldwide deployed forces are critical capabilities in protecting US security, sovereignty, and military combat capability.
The inability to detect and assess space threats might allow adversaries to develop new weapon systems or conduct probing attacks on US space systems without our knowledge. Although US surveillance technology and systems are more sophisticated today, the US should not assume it will always be able to detect the development of a new weapon. Our experience in post-WW II with the Germans is one example. After the defeat of Nazi Germany, the US and Russia engaged in a race to uncover Germany’s scientific secrets. Major General Hugh-Knerr, deputy commander of the US Air Forces in Europe wrote: “The occupation of German scientific and industrial establishments has revealed the fact that we have been alarmingly backward in many fields of research.”53 Supersonic rockets, nerve gas, jet aircraft, guided missiles, stealth technology and hardened armor were just some of the technologies developed in WWII German laboratories.54 The Soviet Sputnik launches and the deployment of the FOB system are modern examples of technological surprise.55
Today, other nations are working to develop new weapons to counter US dominance and to take the lead in what is termed Fourth Generation Warfare—information war. The current **coverage gaps in our space surveillance network**, a fragmented intelligence network, a lack of discipline in anomaly reporting, the current inability to rapidly detect an attack on on-orbit systems, and overall erosion over the last decade of the space defense mindset **makes it more likely an adversary could develop anti-satellite weapons** without our knowledge.
Finally, without a credible space threat warning capability the US will not have the ability to execute stated US policy to counter an attack against US space assets. In 1999, President Clinton signed into law DoD Directive 3100.10, US Space Policy, which specifically declared an attack on US space systems, to include commercial space systems, an attack on US sovereignty.56 One purposes of this policy is to deter an attack on US space assets. However, the lack of a credible space threat warning system undermines this policy. A senior officer in US Strategic Command recently stated that a nation or group could likely interfere with US satellites without fear of retribution.57 Pg. 8-12

SSA is key to effective deterrence
a) Cooperation
Enhanced surveillance capability for SSA bolsters deterrence through cooperation- data sharing reduces the risk of attack
Schwartz 10 - Chief of Staff of the US Air Force. The senior uniformed Air Force officer responsible for the organization, training and equipping of 680,000 active-duty, Guard, Reserve and civilian forces serving in the United States and overseas. [Norty Schwartz, “Space, Cyberspace, and National Security,” Thursday, 18 February 2010, pg. [[http://www.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-100219-034.pdf/edlee|http://www.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-100219-034.pdf//edlee]]]

To address these challenges, **we must** continue to **focus attention on enhanced space situational awareness**. Our ability to conduct this vital mission not only helps us to characterize threats as either an intentional act by an adversary or the result of electromagnetic radiation, space debris, or any number of other hazards in outer space; they also help us to recognize anomalies in our own space constellations and evaluate options for such contingencies.
Our ability to track space objects – currently, over 20,000 of them – has operational implications uses of space not only for military and civil, but also for the enormously lucrative space system industry. Including sales of business communications, navigation through Global Positioning System handsets, remote sensing, and digital television and music for tens of millions of consumers, this segment of the industry topped 33 billion dollars of revenue in 2008 – neither a small nor completely mature undertaking at this point.
To enhance our space situational awareness, **we must** continue to **nurture our** resurgence in **space intelligence analytical and collection capabilities**. This process will take time, as decades of knowledge and experience are imparted from senior analysts to new ones, and new technical ways and means of collection are developed, managed, and implemented. This enhanced situational awareness not only will provide our Nation with the ability to evaluate our adversaries’ space orders of battle and clarify our understanding of their intent, but also to detect, mitigate, and otherwise respond to threats to our space assets.
Increased space situational awareness capabilities will also **bolster our space cooperation** with key international partners and allies. Through the sharing of our surveillance data, for example, we **provide mission assurance** for our cooperative efforts with enduring international partners.
Also, to maintain our current ability to leverage space, we must continue to nurture and further develop our technological superiority. In all likelihood, any sort of “space competition” in the foreseeable future will entail some elements of protecting and preserving our own space-borne capabilities. This demands that we maintain the cutting edge in technology, both from a government perspective, as well as with our industrial base. For example, it is well-known that our dependency on the Global Positioning System has also created certain vulnerabilities that our adversaries can exploit through jamming and other tactical denial techniques. While we remain unequivocally committed to proper stewardship and use of the world’s unparalleled standard in precision navigation and timing, as well as advancing enhanced capabilities with new GPS Block II-F satellites and next-generation GPS-III concepts, we also recognize the need to be able to continue to operate effectively, through improvement to GPS and other methods, in a denied or degraded localized environment.
Future Efforts for National Security Space
Current realities continue to suggest the inevitability of contested space. To prepare, we are starting at the very top. Back in December, Secretary Donley ordered a top-down evaluation of our management of military space responsibilities. Since 2001, when the last significant restructuring took place, new legal and regulatory requirements, as well as new agencies and authorities, have affected the structure of roles and responsibilities in our stewardship of national security space. We will ensure that, from the Pentagon to our space wings and centers, the appropriate structures and relationships are present to address the various challenges that I have just discussed, as well as other issues.
Our overall approach for the future must be capabilities-based; that is, instead of an emphasis solely on protecting satellites, we should also focus on preserving – through appropriate redundancies – the force-enhancing capabilities that our space systems provide. For example, space-based ISR capabilities should at least in part be backed up by other systems. In some situations, our highly-capable, remotely-piloted systems might be able to provide some compensating capabilities. They might not be identical, but we need to think in cross-domain terms when seeking such resilience.
Also, while we continue to pursue our efforts on Operationally Responsive Space, to build reliable and responsive operational enablers, and focus them “on timely satisfaction of Joint Force Commanders’ needs,” true agile responsiveness should emphasize effectiveness in meeting operational demands, irrespective of whether the solution is space-based or otherwise. And, because equipping our satellites with defensive capabilities requires tradeoffs with takeoff weight, fuel capacity, service life, and system utility, we should also take a capabilities-based approach to space defense. Protecting spacecraft certainly is a consideration, and in some cases may be the best approach, but we must first emphasize protecting capabilities. If a defensible posture can be achieved not only by hardening and improving maneuverability of large, complex satellites, but also by smaller, simpler satellites, then we might emphasize further development of some less exquisite augmentation systems. With flattening budgets and likely declining purchasing power, these sorts of tradeoffs, while difficult, must be considered.
Also, perhaps some solutions to satellite defensibility can be found in broader efforts to address root causes of potential rivalries in space, or in other efforts to deter broader conflict. Perhaps **through** bilateral or multilateral **cooperation, we can** end up **creat**ing **disincentives to attacking** our shared **space capabilities**. These partnerships can be political, financial, material, or all of the above. There are numerous options to be discovered with international engagement and partnerships in space.
Finally, in addition to technological superiority, there also must be **significant investment in human capital**. We benefit from over 46,000 Total Force Airmen, including contract employees, who are dedicated to space – from acquisition to operations to logistics – and who must continue to be strengthened through robust training and education, and equipped to tackle these challenges and others. While space and cyberspace certainly showcase our innovation and advanced technology, let us not forget that it is our Airmen, through their daily professional efforts, who make it all happen. The American people rightly expect unwavering devotion and excellence from them. It is our responsibility to ensure that our Airmen have the breadth of knowledge, tools, and cross-domain perspective that they will need to succeed. Pg. 4-7

c) First Strike Stability
Limited SSA causes first strike instability- lack of attribution encourages covert attacks and miscalculation
Morgan 10-Forrest E. Morgan, Ph.D. in policy studies 2010 “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space A Preliminary Assessment” RAND
<span style="text-decoration: none;">First-strike instability is made worse by limitations in</span> space situational awareness <span style="text-decoration: none;">(SSA).While the U</span>nited <span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span>tates <span style="text-decoration: none;">enjoys better SSA than any other spacefaring nation</span>, <span style="text-decoration: none;">it is still dangerously limited</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Not all satellites are monitored constantly</span>, and only limited diagnostic and environmental monitoring capabilities exist even for those that are, <span style="text-decoration: none;">making it diicult to diagnose causes of sudden satellite failure.</span> Knowing this, <span style="text-decoration: none;">adversaries might be tempted to attack satellites covertly</span>, <span style="text-decoration: none;">believing that uncertainty regarding the causes of failure would impede retribution</span>, or perhaps even that attacks would be misdiagnosed as naturally occurring failures<span style="text-decoration: none;">. Alternatively, a natural failure that occurs during a confrontation or conlict could lead operators or policymakers to assume that the satellite was attacked, prompting unjustiied retribution</span> and subsequent escalation of the crisis. <span style="text-decoration: none;">his dangerous combination of continued vulnerability, growing dependence, and limited SSA indicate that irst-strike stability in space has diminished,</span> and further indications suggest that <span style="text-decoration: none;">the rate of erosion is accelerating</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">While the diiculty of attacking orbital assets remains a stabilizing factor</span>, <span style="text-decoration: none;">that factor is shrinking</span> as an increasing 16 Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space: A Preliminary Assessment <span style="text-decoration: none;">number of states acquire capabilities to interrupt space service</span>s. Several states are now attempting to develop directed-energy weapons. One of them, <span style="text-decoration: none;">Russia, also retains the co-orbital ASAT capability that the Soviet Union developed during the ColdWar and has since sold GPS jammers to anyone with the funds to purchase them</span>. As has been the case since the dawn of the space age<span style="text-decoration: none;">, any state with ballistic missiles and nuclear weapons has the basic components to ield a crude but highly destructive ASAT weapon.</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">The proliferation of such threats is troubling</span>, and <span style="text-decoration: none;">anxieties have become more acute now that China has begun experimenting with directed-energy weapons</span> and has demonstrated a capability to destroy satellites in low earth orbit (LEO) with a direct-ascent kinetic ASAT weapon. 17 Unfortunately, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the infrastructure, policies, and attitudes that both enable and constrain U.S. space operations in the current environment are, in many ways, unchanged</span> from when they were developed during the MAD-induced stability of the Cold War. <span style="text-decoration: none;">his leaves the United States exposed to the risk of a surprise attack in space unless a deterrence regime can be developed to restore irst-strike stability in that domain. 18</span>

Lack of credible space deterrence implicates the strength of nuclear deterrence- all future attacks will occur in space
Morgan 10-Forrest E. Morgan, Ph.D. in policy studies 2010 “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space A Preliminary Assessment” RAND
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Given the</span> great <span style="text-decoration: none;">extent to which the U</span>nited <span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span>tates <span style="text-decoration: none;">depends on space systems for</span> its <span style="text-decoration: none;">national security</span> and economic prosperity, <span style="text-decoration: none;">U.S. policymakers and military leaders are becoming</span> increasingly <span style="text-decoration: none;">concerned that</span> future <span style="text-decoration: none;">adversaries might attack</span> those systems. <span style="text-decoration: none;">U.S. military forces operate in distant theaters and employ</span> ever more <span style="text-decoration: none;">sophisticated equipment</span> and doctrines <span style="text-decoration: none;">that rely on advanced surveillance</span>, reconnaissance, communication, navigation, and timing data, <span style="text-decoration: none;">most of which is produced</span> or <span style="text-decoration: none;">relayed by satellites</span>. he <span style="text-decoration: none;">ground infrastructure</span> that supports these assets <span style="text-decoration: none;">has long been vulnerable to attack</span>, and a growing number of states now possess or are developing means of attacking satellites and the communication links that connect them to users and control stations. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Due to the dramatic warighting advantage that space support provides</span> to U.S. forces, <span style="text-decoration: none;">security analysts are nearly unanimous in their judgment that future enemies wil</span>l likely <span style="text-decoration: none;">attempt to “level the playing ield” by attacking</span> U.S. <span style="text-decoration: none;">space systems</span> in eforts to degrade or eliminate that support. All of this suggests that ir<span style="text-decoration: none;">st-strike stability in space may be eroding.</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">First-strike stability is a concept</span> that Glenn Kent and David haler <span style="text-decoration: none;">developed in 1989 to examine</span> the <span style="text-decoration: none;">structural dynamics of mutual deterrence between two or more nuclear</span> states. 1 It is similar to crisis stability, which Charles Glaser described as “a measure of the countries’ incentives not to preempt in a crisis, that is, not to attack irst in order to beat the attack of the enemy,” 2 except that it does not delve into the psychological factors present in speciic crises. Rather, <span style="text-decoration: none;">irststrike stability focuses on each side’s force posture and the balance of capabilities and vulnerabilities</span> that could make a crisis unstable should a confrontation occur.
3 Space stability issues difer from the Kent-haler conception of irst-strike stability in that nuclear forces are not directly involved, so the risk of prompt catastrophic damage in the event of a deterrence failure is not nearly as great. However, <span style="text-decoration: none;">several other strong parallels exist between irst-strike stability in space and in the nuclear realm</span>. First, s<span style="text-decoration: none;">pace support substantially enhances operational warighting capabilities in the terrestrial domain that are threatening to potential enemies</span>.
At the same time, <span style="text-decoration: none;">satellites are diicult to defend against adversaries with capabilities to attack them</span>. As a result, <span style="text-decoration: none;">space, like the nuclear realm, is an ofense-dominant environment</span> with substantial incentives for striking irst should war appear probable. Second, dete<span style="text-decoration: none;">rrence failures in space, though not as immediately catastrophic as nuclear deterrence failures, could, nonetheless, be very costly given the resources invested in orbital infrastruct</span>ure and the many security and economic functions that beneit from space support. And, <span style="text-decoration: none;">like nuclear deterrence failures, the costs of warfare in space would likely be shared by third parties</span> due to global economic interdependence and multinational ownership of many space systems—all the more so if kinetic attacks on satellites litter important orbits with debris. Finally, <span style="text-decoration: none;">there is a parallel between nuclear and space deterrence in that signiicant thresholds are perceived in both realms</span>, the crossing of which could lead to reprisals, <span style="text-decoration: none;">follow-on attacks, and rapid escalation.</span>

Providing credible nuclear deterrence deescalates all conflict
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Lieber & Press 9</span> [The Nukes We Need. By: Lieber, Keir A., Press, Associate Professor in the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University Daryl G., Associate Professor of Government at Dartmouth College and Coordinator of the War and Peace Studies Program, Foreign Affairs, 00157120, Nov/Dec2009, Vol. 88, Issue 6]
THE PRIMARY purpose of U.S. nuclear forces is to deter nuclear attacks on the United States and its allies. During peacetime, this is not a demanding mission. The chance that leaders in Beijing, Moscow, or even Pyongyang will launch a surprise nuclear attack tomorrow is vanishingly small. But peacetime deterrence is not the proper yardstick for measuring the adequacy of U.S. nuclear forces. Rather, the United States' arsenal should be designed to provide robust deterrence in the most difficult of plausible circumstances: during a conventional war against a nuclear-armed adversary. In the coming decades, the United States may find itself facing nuclear-armed states on the battlefield. U.S. alliances span the globe, and the United States is frequently drawn into regional conflicts. Washington has launched six major military operations since the fall of the Berlin Wall: in Panama, Somalia, Kosovo, Afghanistan, and twice in Iraq. Furthermore, most of the United States' potential adversaries have developed--or seem to be developing--nuclear weapons. Aside from terrorism, the threats that dominate U.S. military planning come from China, North Korea, and Iran: two members of the nuclear club, and one intent on joining it. The central problem for U.S. deterrence in the future is that even rational adversaries will have powerful incentives to introduce nuclear weapons--that is, threaten to use them, put them on alert, test them, or even use them--during a conventional war against the United States. If U.S. military forces begin to prevail on the battlefield, U.S. adversaries may use nuclear threats to compel a cease-fire or deny the United States access to allied military bases. Such threats might succeed in pressuring the United States to settle the conflict short of a decisive victory. Such escalatory strategies are rational. Losing a conventional war to the United States would be a disastrous outcome for any leader, and it would be worth taking great risks to force a cease-fire and avert total defeat. The fate of recent U.S. adversaries is revealing. The ex-dictator of Panama, Manuel Noriega, remains in a Miami prison. The former Bosnian Serb leader, Radovan Karadzic, awaits trial in The Hague, where Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic died in detention three years ago. Saddam Husseins punishment for losing the 2003 war was total: his government was toppled, his sons were killed, and he was hanged on a dimly lit gallows, surrounded by enemies. Even those leaders who have eluded the United States--such as the Somali warlord Muhammad Farah Aidid and Osama bin Laden--have done so despite intense U.S. efforts to capture or kill them. The United States' overseas conflicts are limited wars only from the U.S. perspective; to adversaries, they are existential. It should not be surprising if they use every weapon at their disposal to stave off total defeat. Coercive nuclear escalation may sound like a far-fetched strategy, but it was NATO'S policy during much of the Cold War. The Western allies felt that they were hopelessly outgunned in Europe at the conventional level by the Warsaw Pact. Even though NATO harbored little hope of prevailing in a nuclear war, it planned to initiate a series of escalating nuclear operations at the outbreak of war--alerts, tactical nuclear strikes, and wider nuclear attacks--to force the Soviets to accept a cease-fire. The United States' future adversaries face the same basic problem today: vast conventional military inferiority. They may adopt the same solution. Leaders in Beijing may choose gradual, coercive escalation if they face imminent military defeat in the Taiwan Strait--a loss that could weaken the Chinese Communist Party's grip on power. And if U.S. military forces were advancing toward Pyongyang, there is no reason to expect that North Korean leaders would keep their nuclear weapons on the sidelines. Layered on top of these challenges are two additional ones. First, U.S. conventional military doctrine is inherently escalatory. The new American way of war involves launching simultaneous air and ground attacks throughout the theater to blind, confuse, and overwhelm the enemy. Even if the United States decided to leave the adversary's leaders in power (stopping short of regime change so as to prevent the confrontation from escalating), how would Washington credibly convey the assurance that it was not seeking regime change once its adversary was blinded by attacks on its radar and communication systems and command bunkers? A central strategic puzzle of modern war is that the tactics best suited to dominating the conventional battlefield are the same ones most likely to trigger nuclear escalation. Furthermore, managing complex military operations to prevent escalation is always difficult. In 1991, in the lead-up to the Persian Gulf War, U.S. Secretary of State James Baker assured Iraq's foreign minister, Tariq Aziz, that the United States would leave Saddam's regime in power as long as Iraq did not use its chemical or biological weapons. But despite Baker's assurance, the U.S. military unleashed a major bombing campaign targeting Iraq's leaders, which on at least one occasion nearly killed Saddam. The political intent to control escalation was not reflected in the military operations, which nearly achieved a regime change. In future confrontations with nuclear-armed adversaries, the United States will undoubtedly want to prevent nuclear escalation. But the leaders of U.S. adversaries will face life-and-death incentives to use their nuclear arsenals to force a cease-fire and remain in power.

Collapse of dominant position means U.S. lash-out. Hegemonic wars will ensue.
Goldstein ‘7(Avery, Professor of Global Politics and International Relations @ University of Pennsylvania, “Power transitions, institutions, and China's rise in East Asia: Theoretical expectations and evidence,” Journal of Strategic Studies, Volume 30, Issue 4 & 5 August)
Two closely related, though distinct, theoretical arguments focus explicitly on the consequences for international politics of a shift in power between a dominant state and a rising power. In War and Change in World Politics, Robert Gilpin suggested that <span style="text-decoration: none;">peace prevails when a dominant state’s capabilities enable it to ‘govern’</span> an international order that it has shaped. Over time, however, <span style="text-decoration: none;">as</span> economic and technological diffusion proceeds during eras of peace and development, <span style="text-decoration: none;">other states are empowered</span>. Moreover, the burdens of international governance drain and distract the reigning hegemon, <span style="text-decoration: none;">and challengers</span> eventually <span style="text-decoration: none;">emerge</span> who seek to rewrite the rules of governance. As the power advantage of the erstwhile hegemon ebbs, <span style="text-decoration: none;">it may become desperate enough to resort to</span> the ultima ratio of international politics, <span style="text-decoration: none;">force, to forestall the increasingly urgent demands of a rising challenger</span>. Or as the power of the challenger rises, it may be tempted to press its case with threats to use force. It is <span style="text-decoration: none;">the</span> rise and <span style="text-decoration: none;">fall of</span> the <span style="text-decoration: none;">great powers</span> that <span style="text-decoration: none;">creates</span> the circumstances under which major wars, what Gilpin labels ‘<span style="text-decoration: none;">hegemonic wars’</span>, break out.13 Gilpin’s argument logically encourages pessimism about the implications of a rising China. It leads to the expectation that international trade, investment, and technology transfer will result in a steady diffusion of American economic power, benefiting the rapidly developing states of the world, including China. As the US simultaneously scurries to put out the many brushfires that threaten its far-flung global interests (i.e., the classic problem of overextension), it will be unable to devote sufficient resources to maintain or restore its former advantage over emerging competitors like China. <span style="text-decoration: none;">While the erosion of the once clear American advantage plays itself out, the US will find it ever more difficult to preserve</span> the <span style="text-decoration: none;">order</span> in Asia that it created during its era of preponderance. The expectation is an increase in the likelihood for the use of force – either by a Chinese challenger able to field a stronger military in support of its demands for greater influence over international arrangements in Asia, or by a besieged American hegemon desperate to head off further decline. Among the trends that alarm those who would look at Asia through the lens of Gilpin’s theory are <span style="text-decoration: none;">China’s expanding share of</span> world trade and <span style="text-decoration: none;">wealth</span> (much of it resulting from the gains made possible by the international economic order a dominant US established); its <span style="text-decoration: none;">acquisition of technology in key sectors that have</span> both civilian and <span style="text-decoration: none;">military applications</span> (e.g., information, communications, and electronics linked with the ‘revolution in military affairs’); <span style="text-decoration: none;">and</span> an <span style="text-decoration: none;">expanding military burden for the US</span> (as it copes with the challenges of its global war on terrorism and especially its struggle in Iraq) that limits the resources it can devote to preserving its interests in East Asia.14 Although similar to Gilpin’s work insofar as it emphasizes the importance of shifts in the capabilities of a dominant state and a rising challenger, the power-transition theory A. F. K. Organski and Jacek Kugler present in The War Ledger focuses more closely on the allegedly dangerous phenomenon of ‘crossover’– the point at which a dissatisfied challenger is about to overtake the established leading state.15 In such cases, <span style="text-decoration: none;">when the power gap narrows, the dominant state becomes increasingly desperate to forestall, and the challenger becomes increasingly determined to realize the transition to a new international order whose contours it will define. </span>Though suggesting why a rising China may ultimately present grave dangers for international peace when its capabilities make it a peer competitor of America, Organski and Kugler’s power-transition theory is less clear about the dangers while a potential challenger still lags far behind and faces a difficult struggle to catch up. This clarification is important in thinking about the theory’s relevance to interpreting China’s rise because <span style="text-decoration: none;">a broad consensus prevails</span> among analysts <span style="text-decoration: none;">that Chinese military capabilities are at a minimum two decades from putting it in a league with the US</span> in Asia.16 Their <span style="text-decoration: none;">theory</span>, then, <span style="text-decoration: none;">points with alarm to trends in China’s growing wealth and power relative to the U</span>nited <span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span>tates, but especially looks ahead to what it sees as the period of maximum danger – that time when a dissatisfied China could be in a position to overtake the US on dimensions believed crucial for assessing power. Reports beginning in the mid-1990s that offered extrapolations suggesting China’s growth would give it the world’s largest gross domestic product (GDP aggregate, not per capita) sometime in the first few decades of the twentieth century fed these sorts of concerns about a potentially dangerous challenge to American leadership in Asia.17 <span style="text-decoration: none;">The huge gap between Chinese and American military capabilities </span>(especially in terms of technological sophistication) <span style="text-decoration: none;">has</span> so far <span style="text-decoration: none;">discouraged prediction of comparably disquieting trends on this dimension, but inklings of similar concerns may be reflected in occasionally alarmist reports about purchases of</span> advanced <span style="text-decoration: none;">Russian air and naval equipment, as well as concern that Chinese espionage may have undermined the American advantage</span> in nuclear and missile technology, and speculation about the potential military purposes of China’s manned space program.18 Moreover, <span style="text-decoration: none;">because a dominant state may react to the prospect of a crossover and believe that it is wiser to embrace the logic of preventive war and act early to delay a transition while the task is more manageable</span>, Organski and Kugler’s powertransition theory also provides grounds for concern about the period prior to the possible crossover.19


=Contention 3- Miscalculation= 

Space debris has increased- no mechanism exists for tracking- SSA is necessary
Omaha World Herald 7/17<span style="color: #000000;">, [2011 StratCom battles space crunch By Matthew Hansen WORLD-HERALD STAFF WRITER[[http://www.omaha.com/article/20110717/NEWS01/707179907]]]</span>

<span style="color: #000000;"> Lately, these </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">StratCom space debris experts must feel like they are dodging very large bullets</span><span style="color: #000000;">. A</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> chunk of an old Soviet satellite appeared to be careering toward the International Space Statio</span><span style="color: #000000;">n — and Atlantis, the American space shuttle currently docked there — before military and NASA officials determined last week that the </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">space junk would fly past harmlessly.</span><span style="color: #000000;"> That close call comes on the heels of a much scarier situation in June, when </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">a largely undetected piece of space rock speeding at a rate of 29,000 mph passed within about three football fields of the space station</span><span style="color: #000000;">. It forced the station's six-man crew to climb into escape capsules and prepare for an emergency evacuation. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">The goal of StratCom's Joint Space Operations Center is to prevent these close calls, detecting potential space collisions days in advance and notifying NASA or a satellite owner to steer clear.</span><span style="color: #000000;"> But the reality, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">StratCom officials say, is that space has grown more cluttered and dangerous</span><span style="color: #000000;">, especially since </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the military's current technology can detect less than 10 percent of the objects adrift in space</span><span style="color: #000000;">. "We're trying to work this as a global community, because this affects everybody," said Maj. Duane Bird, a space situational awareness officer stationed at Offutt Air Force Base's StratCom headquarters. "</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">The long-term impact of us not being able to use the space environment is huge</span><span style="color: #000000;">," Bird said. "</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">We need to take some action so we can continue to use the space environment for generations</span><span style="color: #000000;">. So that's what we're doing." </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">About 80 people</span><span style="color: #000000;">, including 60 members of the U.S. military, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">spend their time working in an area the military calls "space situational awareness</span><span style="color: #000000;">." The group's web of space sensors tracks all the space debris it can and sends that raw data to a computer system housed at Vandenberg Air Force Base in Southern California. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">The computers run a variety of tests, trying to determine whether two objects in space are on a collision course</span><span style="color: #000000;">. If they are, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the space situational awareness team overseen by StratCom sends a warning message to NASA</span><span style="color: #000000;">, an American satellite provider or even a foreign government alerting them that their space shuttle or satellite is endangered. The group sends out 20 to 30 such warnings every day, Bird said. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Those warnings cause a government or company to maneuver a satellite, avoiding a possible collision, once every other day, according to Micah Zenko, a fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations</span><span style="color: #000000;">. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">The amount of debris polluting space has nearly doubled in the past five years</span><span style="color: #000000;">, thanks to two significant events, say military officials and defense experts: » In 2007 the Chinese government shot down one of its old satellites with a missile, splintering thousands of pieces of satellite debris into orbit. » In 2009 a defunct Soviet satellite collided with a communications satellite — the worst-ever collision of its kind — </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">prompting the U.S. military to better track space debris and notify governments and companies of other potential crashes</span><span style="color: #000000;">. But </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the growing space debris problem isn't easily solved</span><span style="color: #000000;">, Zenko wrote in a recent blog post. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Sixty countries own or operate satellites</span><span style="color: #000000;">, he wrote, so </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">no one country has sovereignty in space</span><span style="color: #000000;">, leading to a "classic global governance dilemma." </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Outdated technology adds to the problem</span><span style="color: #000000;">, military officials say. The U.S. space surveillance network can't detect many objects smaller than a football. That wouldn't be a problem, except smaller objects — maybe as many as 200,000, according to Gen. Robert Kehler, StratCom's commander — clutter the orbit used by the space shuttle, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">the International Space Station and many satellites</span><span style="color: #000000;">. Kehler compared the highly used parts of space to Interstate 80, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">in testimony to a Senate Armed Services subcommittee last month</span><span style="color: #000000;">. Responding to a question from Sen. Ben Nelson, D-Neb., he pointed out that the tiny pieces of space debris rushing down the space highway aren't going the speed limit. "When you are talking about things moving at 17,000 mph, for example, collisions can occur at those speeds. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">That is faster than a .30-06 round, by the way</span><span style="color: #000000;"> . Those kind of speeds are particularly damaging if you talk about the unintended collision," Kehler said. Help is on the way, but it isn't cheap or controversy-free. The "space fence," which is in the development phase, is a comprehensive radar system that will allow the military to detect between 200,000 and 500,000 pieces of space debris when fully operational in 2020. The current radar system can detect about 22,000, according to Bird. The new space fence will be able to see smaller objects and see them for a longer period of time because of advanced sensors placed around the globe.</span>

SSA solves collisions- awareness and data sharing allows detection and monitoring
Stout 11 - Researcher and analyst @ Air University’s National Space Studies Center [Mark Stout, “Space Traffic Control: The Next Free Global Utility?” The Wright Stuff, Posted: April 4, 2011, pg. http://www.au.af.mil/au/aunews/archive/2011/0607/0607Articles/Stout0607.pdf//edlee]

Space traffic control begins with a space surveillance capability and a variety of dedicated, contributing, and collateral radar and optical systems surveil outer space. These sensors, along with an associated command and control system, form a space surveillance network. Today there are over 21,000 space objects (that is, satellites, manned systems, and debris) being tracked. Space situational awareness (SSA) uses space surveillance information (which is largely concerned with observing what’s in space) to create a more useful understanding and awareness of what’s going on in space.
Under the auspices of the Space Situational Awareness (SSA) Sharing Program, first begun in 2004 as a pilot program to help ensure safe operations in space, U.S. Strategic Command provides SSA information to commercial and foreign nation “partners” within a limited set of conditions. This SSA information includes basic orbital parameters (called two-line element sets), as well as launch support and conjunction assessments based on a “High Accuracy Catalog.” Could the SSA Sharing Program evolve into in something more complex, like a space traffic control system?
A space traffic control system would exceed SSA in cost, ambition, and benefit. If mature, it would provide a way to actively monitor, direct, and redirect space objects in order to help prevent them from running into one another. Such a space traffic control system would help **mitigate the risk of collisions** in space and while mitigating risk is a good thing (all other things being equal, which they never are) the cost of such mitigation much be balanced against the risks.
That’s because space traffic control will be complex and is certain to require plenty “more”: more sensors; a more robust, capable, and connected SSA network; more computational power; better predictive software; more analysts; and, more cooperation and rule-following (for example, which maneuverable space object has the right of way?). Low earth orbits, sun synchronous orbits, and the geostationary belt are the parts of space that are most useful and also the most concerning. For the Air Force, the greatest risk may be that “leadership,” which is normally code for ‘pay for,’ in space traffic control could well become a (wait for it…) funding black hole.
How so? Consider the Global Positioning System as a point of departure. While GPS is sometimes touted as a “free global utility,” economic theory holds that there is no such thing as free: at some point, someone has to pay, either with their time or with their money. So while it may be free to those in, say Syria, to use the GPS signal, the activities necessary to create and sustain such a capability are borne by the United States. And in that regard, the President’s Fiscal Year 2012 Budget calls for the Air Force to spend $1.462 billion for GPS in addition to about $200 million of other federal government GPS related funding. Global: yes. Utility: yes. Free: not.
Now this is not to say GPS isn’t important: it is exceedingly important. But in fact, the extreme military benefits of GPS almost certainly pale in contrast to the civil and commercial applications, so much so that the UK is described as ‘dangerously reliant’ on GPS. If the estimated 6 to 7 percent of the UK economy which is dependent on GPS also holds true in the United States, about a trillion dollars per year would be somehow touched by GPS.
The importance of GPS only serves to highlight the consequences of providing a “free” global utility: others will figure out how to take advantage of it and want more, even to the point of dependence. Could a space traffic control system follow a similar path, with those profiting from the utility (that is, other nations and commercial space) benefitting perhaps disproportionately versus those who pay for it (the U.S.) to the point of dangerous reliance?
Lt. Gen. Susan Helms, commander of the U.S. Strategic Command's Joint Functional Component Command for Space said “…the SSA Sharing Program is evidence of the U.S. government's commitment to provide SSA data to the world, free of charge, in order to enhance safe and responsible space operations and promote transparency.” While it’s a noble sentiment, with SSA spending probably around $1B per year (parsing out the actual ongoing costs are difficult given one-time events, the continuing resolution(s), and SSA funding that’s blended with other programs) what are the limits of the government’s commitment? And while we’re at it, how about the logical follow-on to the space traffic control mission--**space debris removal**--another area where the U.S. is looked to for “leadership”?
With space traffic control, the U.S. government is likely to subsidize space risk-reduction with the benefits of the effort being largely privatized. That is, other nations and commercial users get a free ride. A poorly constrained U.S. government “commitment” in subsidizing others’ SSA, space traffic control, or space debris removal needs is simply not feasible and is fact inconsistent with one of the principles from the President’s National Space Policy which offers that space sustainability (in this case, fiscal space sustainability) is vital to our national interests.

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">GEO is most important to track—most Russian and American satellites are stationed here</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Thomas</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';"> Graham</span><span style="color: #000000;"> Jr. December </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">2005</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Space Weapons and The Risk of Accidental Nuclear War Prior to joining the Carnegie Endowment, Mr. Graham was a foreign service officer on academic leave with RAND in Moscow from 1997 to 1998. He previously had several assignments in the U.S. Embassy in Moscow, including head of the Political/Internal Unit and acting political counselor. Between tours in Moscow, he worked on Russian/Soviet affairs as a member of the policy planning staff of the State Department and as a policy assistant in the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy. Mr. Graham has a Ph.D. in political science from Harvard University and a B.A. in Russian studies from Yale University.[[http://www.gsinstitute.org/docs/Graham_Space_ACT_12-05.pdfMStef]]</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">These dangers would be particularly worrisome for those components that are placed in geosynchronous orbits (GEO).</span><span style="color: #000000;"> Space </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">objects in GEO are</span><span style="color: #000000;"> sufﬁciently </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">far from the</span><span style="color: #000000;"> earth (about 36,000 kilometers) </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">so that their speed roughly matches the rotational speed of the Earth</span><span style="color: #000000;"> and they remain “stationary” above one location. To be sure, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">any country that can place a satellite in these farther orbits</span><span style="color: #000000;">—and there are several—</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">could potentially threaten another country’s satellites there</span><span style="color: #000000;">. Yet, it would be easier to do so, and p</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">erhaps more importantly, the threat perception would be greater with weapons based in space</span><span style="color: #000000;"> than with existing ground-based technology. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">The 15 U.S. early warning satellites are almost entirely in GEO</span><span style="color: #000000;">. The </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">three functioning Russian early warning satellites utilize two different orbits</span><span style="color: #000000;">. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Two of the satellites use a highly elliptical orbit</span><span style="color: #000000;">, which ranges from low-Earth orbit (LEO)—100 to 2,000 kilometers above the Earth where space objects travel at about 8 kilometers per second—</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">out to GEO</span><span style="color: #000000;">. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">The</span><span style="color: #000000;"> other </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">satellite is permanently stationed in GEO</span><span style="color: #000000;">. Moreover</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">, a space arms competition could hinder the ﬂow of satellite imagery</span><span style="color: #000000;"> that can be used to track activities that might reveal programs to develop weapons of mass destruction in countries of concern. For example, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">activities detected through space-based collection systemscan be used to trigger requests for inspections pursuant to the Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC) (</span><span style="color: #000000;">implicitly) or the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty (explicitly), should that treaty be brought into force. It is important in this respect to recall that the suspicions that Israel and South Africa may have conducted an atmospheric nuclear test in 1979 were driven by readout from a U.S. VELA satellite. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Similarly, the United States has beneﬁted from the revolution in national intelligence that began with and is based on photographic reconnaissance satellites and related systems, which has helped bring to an end the worst-case analysis and close calls with nuclear war that existed throughout the Cold War</span><span style="color: #000000;">. If a truly peaceful and stable world order is ever achieved, the advent of this technology beginning in the late 1950s will be regarded by future generations as a major historical turning point.</span>

Russia’s early warning is eroding- makes the risk of escalation and accidental launch likely
Podvig 04 -<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;"> an affiliate at the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford University, worked at the Center for Arms Control Studies at the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology (MIPT)</span>**</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;">(Pavel, “Reducing the Risk of Accidental Launch,” November 2004, http://www.gwu.edu/~ieresgwu/assets/docs/ponars/pm_0328.pdf)</span>**

<span style="text-decoration: none;">The Soviet Union and the United States were the only nuclear states that created the infrastructure required to implement launch-on-warning, early warning systems </span>to detect a missile attack and command and control systems to ensure that the decision to launch a retaliatory attack is made in time. The United States and Russia have preserved the technical capability to launch-on-warning and seem to rely on this option for operations of their strategic forces. Moreover,<span style="text-decoration: none;"> Russia is widely believed to have been increasing its reliance on launch-on-warning </span>in an attempt to compensate for the decline in its strategic forces and for deployment of the U.S. missile defense system.<span style="text-decoration: none;"> Concerns about the possibility of a catastrophic accident are exacerbated by the decline of the Russian earlywarning system and the reports about problems questioning the ability of the command and control system to prevent an accidental launch of strategic missiles. </span>Despite an almost universal recognition of the dangers associated with keeping strategic forces in a high degree of readiness, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the issue of reducing the level of readiness, known as de-alerting, has never come to the forefront of the U.S.-Russian arms control and disarmament agenda. </span>In large part, this is a result of the changed nature of the U.S.Russian relationship, which effectively removed incentives to enter into any bilateral arms control agreements. In general, this change should be considered positive, for it indicates that Russia and the United States no longer consider each other adversaries of the Cold War days. The problem is, however, that it now prevents our countries from eliminating the relics of the past adversarial relationship.<span style="text-decoration: none;"> The launch-on-warning posture is admittedly one of the most dangerous of these. This memo examines the practical problems of de-alerting and suggests that the current approach to the problem should be reconsidered</span>. First, the U.S. launch-onwarning posture may represent a bigger problem than that of Russia. Second<span style="text-decoration: none;">, the efforts to repair or augment the Russian early-warning system should not be pursued as part of the de-alerting agenda, since they probably increase risk of an accidental launch. </span>Finally, the notion of transparency in de-alerting should be reconsidered, for verification prevents de-alerting from being effective.

Space debris is the biggest threat to early warning- false alarms would cause nuclear responses
Lewis 4<span style="text-decoration: none;"> - </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">a postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Security Program</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">(Jeffrey, “What if Space Were Weaponized? Possible Consequences for Crisis Scenarios, Center for Defense Information Washington, D.C. July 2004 http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf</span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">) </span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">What would happen if a piece of space debris were to disable a Russian early-warning satellite under these conditions? Could the Russian military distinguish between an accident in space and the first phase of a U.S. attack</span>? Most Russian early-warning satellites are in elliptical Molniya orbits (a few are in GEO) and thus difficult to attack from the ground or air. At a minimum<span style="text-decoration: none;">, Moscow would probably have some tactical warning of such a suspicious launch, but given the sorry state of Russia’s warning, optical imaging and signals intelligence satellites there is reason to ask the question. Further, the advent of U.S. on-orbit ASATs, as now envisioned50 could make both the more difficult orbital plane and any warning systems moot. The unpleasant truth is that the Russians likely would have to make a judgment call. No state has the ability to definitively determine the cause of the satellite’s failure. Even the United States does not maintain (nor is it likely to have in place by 2010) a sophisticated space surveillance system that would allow it to distinguish between a satellite malfunction, a debris strike or a deliberate attack – and Russian space surveillance capabilities are much more limited by comparison</span>. Even the risk assessments for collision with debris are speculative, particularly for the unique orbits in which Russian early-warning satellites operate. During peacetime, it is easy to imagine that the Russians would conclude that the loss of a satellite was either a malfunction or a debris strike<span style="text-decoration: none;">. But how confident could U.S. planners be that the Russians would be so calm if the accident in space occurred in tandem with a second false alarm, or occurred during the middle of a crisis? What might happen if the debris strike occurred shortly after a false alarm showing a missile launch? False alarms are appallingly common – </span>according to information obtained under the Freedom of Information Act, the U.S.-Canadian North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD) experienced 1,172 “moderately serious” false alarms between 1977 and 1983 – an average of almost three false alarms per week. Comparable information is not available about the Russian system, but there is no reason to believe that it is any more reliable.51 Assessing the likelihood of these sorts of coincidences is difficult because Russia has never provided data about the frequency or duration of false alarms; nor indicated how seriously earlywarning data is taken by Russian leaders. Moreover, there is no reliable estimate of the debris risk for Russian satellites in highly elliptical orbits.52 The important point, however, is that <span style="text-decoration: none;">such a coincidence would only appear suspicious if the United States were in the business of disabling satellites – </span>in other words, there is much less risk if Washington does not develop ASATs. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The loss of an early-warning satellite could look rather ominous if it occurred during a period of major tension in the relationship. While NATO no longer sees Russia as much of a threat, the same cannot be said of the converse. Despite the warm talk, Russian leaders remain wary of NATO expansion, particularly the effect expansion may have on the Baltic port of Kaliningrad. </span>Although part of Russia, Kaliningrad is separated from the rest of Russia by Lithuania and Poland<span style="text-decoration: none;">. Russia has already complained about its decreasing lack of access to the port, particularly the uncooperative attitude of the Lithuanian government. 53 News reports suggest that an edgy Russia may have moved tactical nuclear weapons into the enclave.54 If the Lithuanian government were to close access to Kaliningrad in a fit of pique, this would trigger a major crisis between NATO and Russia. Under these circumstances, the loss of an early-warning satellite would be extremely suspicious. It is any military’s nature during a crisis to interpret events in their worst-case light. </span>For example, consider the coincidences that occurred in early September 1956, during the extraordinarily tense period in international relations marked by the Suez Crisis and Hungarian uprising.55 On one evening the White House received messages indicating: 1. the Turkish Air Force had gone on alert in response to unidentified aircraft penetrating its airspace; 2. one hundred Soviet MiG-15s were flying over Syria; 3. a British Canberra bomber had been shot down over Syria, most likely by a MiG; and 4. The Russian fleet was moving through the Dardanelles. Gen. Andrew Goodpaster was reported to have worried that the confluence of events “might trigger off … the NATO operations plan” that called for a nuclear strike on the Soviet Union. Yet, all of these reports were false. The “jets” over Turkey were a flock of swans; the Soviet MiGs over Syria were a smaller, routine escort returning the president from a state visit to Moscow; the bomber crashed due to mechanical difficulties; and the Soviet fleet was beginning long-scheduled exercises. In an important sense, these were not “coincidences” but rather different manifestations of a common failure – human error resulting from extreme tension of an international crisis. As one author noted, <span style="text-decoration: none;">“The detection and misinterpretation of these events, against the context of world tensions from Hungary and Suez, was the first major example of how the size and complexity of worldwide electronic warning systems could, at certain critical times, create momentum of its own.” Perhaps most worrisome, the United States might be blithely unaware of the degree to which the Russians were concerned about its actions and inadvertently escalate a crisis</span>. During the early 1980s, the Soviet Union suffered a major “war scare” during which time its leadership concluded that bilateral relations were rapidly declining. This war scare was driven in part by the rhetoric of the Reagan administration, fortified by the selective reading of intelligence. During this period, NATO conducted a major command post exercise, Able Archer, that caused some elements of the Soviet military to raise their alert status. American officials were stunned to learn, after the fact, that the Kremlin had been acutely nervous about an American first strike during this period.56 All of these incidents have a common theme – that confidence is often the difference between war and peace<span style="text-decoration: none;">. In times of crisis, false alarms can have a momentum of their own.</span> As in the second scenario in this monograph<span style="text-decoration: none;">, the lesson is that commanders rely on the steady flow of reliable information. When that information flow is disrupted – whether by a deliberate attack or an accident – confidence collapses and the result is panic and escalation. </span>Introducing ASAT weapons into this mix is all the more dangerous, because such weapons target the elements of the command system that keep leaders aware, informed and in control. As a result,<span style="text-decoration: none;"> the mere presence of such weapons is corrosive to the confidence that allows national nuclear forces to operate safely. </span>

Sharing SSA data is the best means to achieve transparency- provides accurate and decision making due to knowledge of the environment
Brown 8- Maj Patrick A. Brown, USAF Space Protection Program (Integration) Headquarters Air Force Space Command/National Reconnaissance Office Peterson AFB, Colorado ,Promoting the Safe and Responsible Use of Space: Toward a 21st Century Transparency Framework , High Frontier November 2008 Volume 5, Number 1
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Past proposals for international confidence</span> building space activities <span style="text-decoration: none;">include more stringent debris mitigation, collision, and explosion avoidance measures</span>, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the development of safer traffic management practices, improved information exchanges</span>, <span style="text-decoration: none;">One could envision an international space community embracing earthly “green” practices to make space “environmentally friendly</span>” and find methods and capabilities to “recycle” space debris. and notification measures related to space safety. In this regard, <span style="text-decoration: none;">SSA is foundational. SSA is “the requisite current and predictive knowledge of the space environment upon which space operations depend</span>—including physical, virtual, and human domains—as well as factors, activities, and <span style="text-decoration: none;">events of friendly and adversary space forces across the spectrum of conflict.”</span>
4 Simply, <span style="text-decoration: none;">shared SSA is the ability to discern the true nature of an event in space and take positive, full spectrum actions from notification, maneuver, and demarche to last resort military action to prevent a disruption to space services</span>. The Department of Defense’s June 2008 National Defense Strategy tempers this best: The best way to achieve security is to prevent war when possible and to encourage peaceful change within the international system. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Our strategy emphasizes building the capacities of a broad spectrum of partners as the basis for long-term security</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">We must also seek to strengthen the resiliency of the international system to deal with conflict when it occurs</span>. We must be prepared to deal with sudden disruptions, to help prevent them from escalating or endangering international security, and to find ways to bring them swiftly to a conclusion.
5 For the US, <span style="text-decoration: none;">SSA enables command and control of space resources to ensure timely and accurate decision making</span> for both military and non-military space operators and users. It <span style="text-decoration: none;">enables decision makers the ability to fully leverage</span> and protect <span style="text-decoration: none;">American and allied space capabilities</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">SSA is developed by integrating, fusing, exploiting, analyzing, and displaying traditional and non-traditional space surveillance,</span> reconnaissance, intelligence, and environmental sensor information and data sources along with system health and status information provided by space system operators.
6 Finally, <span style="text-decoration: none;">SSA promotes open communications and understanding providing a mechanism for escalation control and exclusion of misunderstandings</span>. The challenges and opportunities of shared SSA can be illustrated by the pilot program, Commercial and Foreign Entities (CFE). Approved by the Office of the Secretary of Defense in October 2004, CFE provides two-line element sets, decay predications, <span style="text-decoration: none;">launch support conjunction assessment and reentry support and anomaly resolution to qualified customers.</span> However, balancing national security requirements of the US, allies and friends against the desire for transparency has resulted in less than complete information sharing. A renewed effort toward CFE would continue to function as a baseline to greater cooperation and collaboration on space surveillance data. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The US should seek out and engage in mutually beneficial space partnerships and space engagement activities in order to promote sustainable space safety</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Collaborative programs with allies, friends, and other states will be used to promote continuity of service, interoperability, and development of collaborative space systems</span>, including grounds segments, when possible. <span style="text-decoration: none;">These are important ways to share the cost of space capabilities, lower tensions, promote economic development through the use of commercial space activities and foster transparency</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">These actions will increase the use and value of space for the international community and assist in achieving key US assurance, dissuasion, and deterrence objectives. And with multinational cooperation to SSA, the value of shared SSA will increase exponentially</span>. All <span style="text-decoration: none;">space users have a vested interest in space, and unlike any other domain, we must continue to educate them on the cataclysmic effects of irresponsible use of space</span>. Unlike a massive oil spill along a coastal plain or effects of irresponsible manufacturing plant runoff into rivers that Mother Nature can correct over time, <span style="text-decoration: none;">effects in space are mostly permanent.</span> In fact, <span style="text-decoration: none;">a collision or massive explosion of large satellites at geosynchronous orbit has the potential to “pollute” the belt with debris for certainly our lifetime or longer without human intervention to “reclaim” the use of space orbits.</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Shared S</span>SA, consistent with the earlier attempts of defining transparency, <span style="text-decoration: none;">will increase predictability in space, allow for timely maneuvering decisions on fuel and longevity concerns</span>, and <span style="text-decoration: none;">reduce uncertainty and misunderstanding for any purposeful interference conditions should they occu</span>r, and they will. Shared SSA, <span style="text-decoration: none;">if successful as a transparency and confidence building measure, also reinforces other sharing efforts in Earth and space science</span>, human space flight and space exploration. Again, the value and benefits are exponential.


US-Russia nuclear war foremost existential risk

Bostrom 2<span style="color: #000000;">- Nick, Recipient of the Gannon Award, Professor of Philosophy and Global Studies 2002 "Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards," 38, www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html. </span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">A much greater existential riskemerged with the build-up of</span> nuclear <span style="text-decoration: none;">arsenals in the US and the USSR.An all-out nuclear warwas a possibility</span> with both a substantial probability and <span style="text-decoration: none;">with consequences thatmight have been persistent enough to qualify as global and terminal</span>. There was a real worry among those best acquainted with <span style="text-decoration: none;">the information available at the time that a nuclear Armageddon would occur and that it might annihilate our species or permanently destroy human civilization</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Russia and the US retain large nuclear arsenals</span> that <span style="text-decoration: none;">could be used</span> in a future confrontation, <span style="text-decoration: none;">either accidentally or deliberately</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">There is also a risk </span>that <span style="text-decoration: none;">other states may</span> one day <span style="text-decoration: none;">build up</span> large <span style="text-decoration: none;">nuclear arsenal</span>s. Note however that <span style="text-decoration: none;">a smaller nuclear exchange</span>, between India and Pakistan for instance, <span style="text-decoration: none;">is not an existential risk</span>, since it would not destroy or thwart humankind’s potential permanently.

=Contention 5- Solvency= 

Space situational awareness is the foundation of all offensive and defense space strategies- awareness increases credibility
Rendleman 10 – Retired Colonel in U.S. Air Force [James R. Rendleman, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Astropolitics: The International Journal of Space Politics & Policy, Volume 8, Issue 2 & 3, 2010, Pages 220 - 255 //
Situational awareness serves as a **powerful foundation** of space assurance. The ability to differentiate between purposeful attacks and natural environmental hazards reduces the potential for misperception or miscalculation. Furthermore, effective deterrence and defense against man-made and environmental threats is strengthened if situational awareness capabilities can show the nature and origins of any attempted attack or threat to a system’s space, terrestrial, or communications links.67
Situational awareness can be obtained through the integration of globally deployed land, air, sea, space, and information systems. Their sensors should not be focused only on space systems, but also on collecting information on terrestrial matters that may affect access to space capabilities. Situational awareness can be augmented by leveraging legacy capabilities not usually considered in the context of SSA, such as using missile defense, airborne, or shipborne radars to identify, track, and target satellite and ASAT threats, or new systems, such as low-cost, mobile optical telescopes, already fielded in direct support of military forces. The global proliferation of such sensors, including capabilities operated by allies and friends, combined with opportunities to affect full-spectrum integration and information fusion, should improve situational awareness. Together, the fused information can provide a complete picture of potential threats to space systems needed to enable effective denial and response actions to adversary actions.
Situational awareness activities performed in support of space assurance objectives depend on supporting intelligence efforts. Intelligence enhances the ability to tailor operations against each potential foe under varying scenarios, including identifying the adversary’s potential attack means and then offer the most appropriate targets to be attacked, to deliver on deterrent cost imposition threats; or, to act in such a way that the adversary is dissuaded or deterred from attacking. This intelligence activity takes two forms. The first is obtaining information regarding an adversary’s underlying perceptions of the benefits, costs, and consequences of restraint on which deterrence operations are based. The second involves obtaining information about adversary assets, capabilities, and vulnerabilities; this provides the background needed by operators to conduct **credible and effective defense and deterrence operations.**
Achieving successful space assurance also requires a comprehensive, or at least much improved understanding, of one’s own capabilities, limitations, and current situation. Such understanding can be achieved by consolidating shared information, awareness, and understanding of the situation to develop a common operating picture. This picture can be shared across a networked infrastructure that also imports information obtained from allies and other international partners. **SSA is crucial to monitoring and predicting threats in space, and is absolutely essential to mission success and protection of space assets**.68 It enables a space power to ‘‘detect, identify, assess, and track space objects and events to support space operations. The awareness is also critical to space support operations, such as placing satellites in orbit,’’69 or performing anomaly or recovery operations.
A basic and fundamental component of establishing SSA is space surveillance. Space surveillance is the ‘‘observation of space and of the activities occurring in space.’’70 Surveillance tasks are accomplished through a variety of ground and space-based radar, and electro-optical sensors. Spacefaring nations can use their awareness to avoid space hazards, or advise other nations on their dangers, and on the means and ways to avoid producing them. Surveillance enables deterrence and defense activities against man-made and environmental threats. A perfect system would ideally provide ‘‘continual awareness of orbiting objects; real-time search and targeting-quality information; threat detection, identification, and location; predictive intelligence analysis of foreign space capability and intent in a geopolitical context; and a global reporting capability for friendly space systems.’’ 71 Yet, the current U.S. and global space surveillance networks cannot observe everything in orbit continuously, nor can it provide any real-time services. It only tracks systems when they pass over or near one of their sensors.72 pg. 242-244

SBSS will solve shortfalls in status quo capabilities- it will enhance the existing infrastructure
Helms 5/11- SUSAN J. HELMS, COMMANDER JOINT FUNCTIONAL COMPONENT COMMAND FOR SPACE, BEFORE THE SUBCOMMITTEE ON STRATEGIC FORCES SENATE ARMED SERVICES COMMITTEE ON SPACE POSTURE SUBCOMMITTEE ON STRATEGIC FORCES SENATE ARMED SERVICES COMMITTEE STATEMENT OF LIEUTENANT GENERAL 11 MAY 2011 [[http://www.dod.mil/dodgc/olc/docs/testHelms05112011.pdf]]

However, <span style="text-decoration: none;">we still suffer from an aged and limited sensor network to gather our most important SSA resource</span>: orbital observations. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Many of our SSN sensors operate on a one-7 object-at-a-time system</span> and a <span style="text-decoration: none;">majority of the SSN sensors are not networked</span> with one another. The CONUS-based space fence and our Eglin SSN sensor are currently the only machine-tomachine network between SSN radars. <span style="text-decoration: none;">These networked sensors are resulting in 30,000 observations per year</span> that would otherwise go undetected due to sensor limitations with Eglin’s space surveillance fence. <span style="text-decoration: none;">We could see a huge benefit to our SSA</span> through <span style="text-decoration: none;">greater machine-tomachine networking between our SSN sensors. The</span> CONUS-based <span style="text-decoration: none;">space fence can detect</span> and observe <span style="text-decoration: none;">multiple objects</span> at one time <span style="text-decoration: none;">and contributes more</span> observations <span style="text-decoration: none;">to our network than any other sensor</span>. Additionally, w<span style="text-decoration: none;">e have considerable gaps in coverage</span> in the southern hemisphere. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Placement of a space fence</span> in the southern hemisphere <span style="text-decoration: none;">will improve our coverage</span> considerably. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Another sensor that will improve our capability is the S</span>pace <span style="text-decoration: none;">Based Space Surveillance satellite</span> launched in September. <span style="text-decoration: none;">This sensor operates</span> from space, <span style="text-decoration: none;">free of boundaries</span>, borders, <span style="text-decoration: none;">or atmospheric effects</span> to distort or obscure viewing. <span style="text-decoration: none;">With a potential</span> capability <span style="text-decoration: none;">to track objects much smaller</span> in size <span style="text-decoration: none;">than what our older sensors can track</span>, <span style="text-decoration: none;">SBSS will dete</span>ct significantly <span style="text-decoration: none;">more objects in orbit and produce a</span> corresponding <span style="text-decoration: none;">increase in the volume of SSA data</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Current</span> analytic and <span style="text-decoration: none;">processing capacity</span> in the JSpOC <span style="text-decoration: none;">is not sufficient to exploit</span> the full capacity of this or other <span style="text-decoration: none;">future sensors</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">This shortfall is driving an urgent need to upgrade JSpOC systems</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The JSpOC</span> Mission <span style="text-decoration: none;">System </span>(JMS) <span style="text-decoration: none;">is the</span> Air Force’s <span style="text-decoration: none;">program of </span>record for solving this problem and <span style="text-decoration: none;">ensuring t</span>he <span style="text-decoration: none;">JSpOC is properly equipped</span> to handle the mission is part of my service function as commander of 14th Air Force.

==2AC- Politics- Link Turns== 
===2AC Kyl Link Turn=== 

Kyl supports the plan- wants increased funding for SSA, specifically SBSS
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Aviation Week 11</span>-<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Kyl Calls For Bigger Space Budgets By Jefferson Morris/Aerospace Daily & Defense Report 2011 [[http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/jsp_includes/articlePrint.jsp?headLine=Kyl%20Calls%20For%20Bigger%20Space%20Budgets&storyID=news/kyl0309.xml]] </span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">In the wake of China's test</span> of a prototype anti-satellite (ASAT) weapon in January, Sen. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Jon Kyl is calling for increases to the D</span>efense <span style="text-decoration: none;">D</span>epartment's <span style="text-decoration: none;">budgets for s</span>pace <span style="text-decoration: none;">s</span>ituational <span style="text-decoration: none;">a</span>wareness and responsive space systems. "<span style="text-decoration: none;">Space situational awareness</span> and operationally responsive space <span style="text-decoration: none;">are</span> both <span style="text-decoration: none;">in need of far greater resources</span> and protection <span style="text-decoration: none;">by the Defense Department</span>," the Arizona Republican said during a March 8 event in Washington sponsored by the Center for Strategic and International Studies. "<span style="text-decoration: none;">Space situational awareness is the sine qua non of effective space policy</span>," <span style="text-decoration: none;">said Kycl, who chairs the Senate Republican Conference</span> and the Judiciary subcommittee on terrorism, technology and homeland security. "<span style="text-decoration: none;">Without this information, we can't plan or execute defensive</span> or offensive counterspace missions." <span style="text-decoration: none;">For reasons that Kyl said "elude" him</span>, in fiscal 2008 <span style="text-decoration: none;">the U.S. Air Force has cut the budgets for</span> both the <span style="text-decoration: none;">Space Based Surveillance System (SBSS)</span> and the so-called "Space Fence" ground-based system <span style="text-decoration: none;">for tracking objects in orbit</span>. Operationally Responsive Space (ORS) focuses on building large numbers of small military satellites that can be launched quickly in response to urgent needs from troops in the field and replenished easily. ORS represents a shift from the traditional military space strategy of launching small numbers of large, very expensive and capable spacecraft, the loss of any one of which would be very significant. ORS "would have a number of salutary effects," Kyl said. "It would raise the requirements, and hence the cost, for example, for China to develop a militarily useful ASAT capability. "In the event that the Chinese or some other adversary decided to go ahead, it would minimize the damage that could be done through a single attack, or even a combination of attacks, and it would decrease the destabilizing effect of space weapons," Kyl said. Also, "if the U.S. could afford to lose a satellite or two without a significant degradation of our warfighting capability, there would be less incentive to launch a pre-emptive attack against" an adversary equipped with ASAT weapons, he said. The <span style="text-decoration: none;">Defense Department must get serious about funding space security and protecting that funding from competing priorities once it's allocated, Kyl said.</span> This will require a "major force program" for space, similar to the budget for special operations, as was recommended by the 2001 Rumsfeld Space Commission, he said. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The nation's space policy</span>, updated by the Bush administration last year, provides "good and relatively clear" guidance on what the U.S. response to China's test should be, Kyl said. The policy reaffirms that unfettered space access is in the best interests of the nation and should be actively defended. But "<span style="text-decoration: none;">I'm still concerned that neither the administration nor the Congress has been adequately vocal about the implications of the test and what our response should be," Kyl said.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kyl is the most influential member of congress- he’d rally enough support for the plan </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">McConnell 11</span><span class="Underline">**-** **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jon Kyl By Mitch McConnell, the senior United States Senator from Kentucky and the Republican Minority Leader Thursday, Apr. 29, 2011 http://www.time.com/time/specials/packages/article/0,28804,1984685_1984864_1984901,00.html</span>**</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">In the Senate, Arizona's Jon Kyl has built a reputation for his encyclopedic knowledge of domestic and foreign policy, and his hard work and leadership. Few people have his command of policy, his knowledge of its nuances or his grip on how they fit together. </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">This is why so many of his Senate colleagues look to him for policy advice</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">. </span>Kyl,<span style="text-decoration: none;"> 68, is a principled conservative who knows what is attainable. He believes in the wisdom contained in a sign on President Reagan's desk that said, "There's no limit to what a man can do or where he can go if he doesn't mind who gets the credit." Jon Kyl is a great persuader. As minority whip, the No. 2 position in the Senate Republican leadership, he is </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">responsible for rallying his Republican colleagues for key legislative votes</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">. What is unique is his single-minded focus on convincing them that a particular vote is in the best interests of their state and the nation. Jon demonstrates continually that the essence of Senate power is the power to persuade.</span>

=== === 

===**2AC Aerospace Lobby Turn**=== 
SSA is advocated by the aerospace industry- view it as essential for space assets
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">PR NewsWire 9</span>- <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Investment Needed to Combat Debris Threats to U.S. Space Assets April 28 http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/investment-needed-to-combat-debris-threats-to-us-space-assets-62012932.html</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Space debris is a</span> current and <span style="text-decoration: none;">growing threat to U.S. exploration activities</span>, and <span style="text-decoration: none;">leaders must make situational awareness a top national priority</span>, <span style="text-decoration: none;">AIA President and CEO</span> Marion Blakey <span style="text-decoration: none;">said in congressional testimony</span> Tuesday.
<span style="text-decoration: none;">In written testimony submitted to the House</span> Space and Aeronautics Subcommittee, <span style="text-decoration: none;">Blakey detailed the challenges</span> created by tens of thousands <span style="text-decoration: none;">of man-made objects orbiting the Earth</span>. These items, which include both functioning satellites as well as debris, must be carefully monitored to ensure the safety of humans traveling in space and aboard the International Space Station, as well as critical U.S. space assets.
"As the number of nations placing objects in space grows, risks to U.S. space systems and our ability to operate in space also increases," Blakey wrote. "<span style="text-decoration: none;">Space technology is a critical infrastructure that contributes to a strong and secure America. It needs to be adequately protected."</span>
Blakey submitted the testimony for a hearing titled "Keeping the Space Environment Safe for Civil and Commercial Users." The subcommittee is exploring ways to minimize the growth of future space debris as well as improving information to civil and commercial users to avoid in-space collisions. Recent incidents have brought attention to - and worsened - the space debris problem. In 2007 China destroyed one of its aging weather satellites with a ballistic missile. Earlier this year, U.S. and Russian satellites collided. Both incidents resulted in large debris fields in space. Crew aboard the space station sometimes have to scramble into the Soyuz spacecraft or even make evasive maneuvers as space debris threatens the orbiting laboratory.
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Blakey called upon lawmakers to provide robust funding for space situational awareness and protection of U.S. space assets.</span> This investment should advance our nation's capabilities, including hardening satellites from attack and establishing contingency plans to provide backup to space assets.
They’re the most powerful lobby in congress- they’d rally bipartisan support for the plan
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Lasker 8</span> <span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">(John, IPS, “Aerospace Lobby Wages Its Own Election Campaign,” Sep 5, [[http://ipsnews.net/news.asp?idnews=43804]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">What is notable about </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">AIA's</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> claim is how it </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">is being used - as part of a stepped-up campaign to convince politicians, voters and aerospace employees that "America's future depends on maintaining space leadership"</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">. It is a broad statement encompassing several aspects of the U.S. space industry, such as educating the aerospace workforce of the future. But some experts say it also means the U.S. needs to somehow find a way to protect its 400-plus satellites - an undertaking that could result in billions for aerospace industry defence contractors. A </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">powerful lobby in Washington, the aerospace industry accounted for over 650,000 jobs and 184 billion dollars in sales in 2006. The AIA's president and CEO, Marion Blakey, was a former head of the Federal Aviation Administration. Her predecessor</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">, John Douglass, is a former assistant secretary of the Navy, and </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">was named one of Washington's top lobbyisdts</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> last year by "The Hill", an influential congressional newspaper. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Patrick McCartan, AIA's director for legislative affairs</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">, is a former aide to Maine Senator Olympia Snowe. He</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">, too, was ranked a "top rainmaker" by The Hill. With election season in full swing, the AIA is calling for "cutting-edge defence research</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">", along with defence spending being "no less than 4 percent of the U.S. GDP", which was 13.8 trillion dollars for 2007, amounting to roughly 550 billion dollars. That is near the current level, if you include the spending for the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">It is widely known that "Star Wars II"</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> - resurrected this decade by George W. Bush administration "space hawks" </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">- has been a cash cow for aerospace industry giants Lockheed Martin and Boeing, the Pentagon's top two defence contractors. Together, they currently have 73 lobbying groups working Capital Hill</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">, according to Opensecrets.org, which tracks campaign funding and its relation to public policy. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">Also telling is the campaign money the aerospace industry has contributed</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> during the 2008 election cycle. Historically, the industry has given more to Republicans than Democrats - millions more. Yet as of mid-summer, OpenSecrets.org reports the </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">aerospace industry has split its staggering total of 6.9 million dollars down the middle: half to Democrats, and half to Republicans</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">. "We have met with every campaign staff for months now - McCain, Obama and every other campaign," Matt Grimison, </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">AIA's communications director, told IPS. "We are casting a wide net to make sure these issues are being considered by everybody."</span>
==2AC- ESA CP== 
<span class="Underline">The DOD is the most well positioned to provide SSA- NSP gives them authority for data sharing and surveillance </span>
<span class="Underline">Tok 11- Jessica S. Tok, space policy analyst in the space policy branch of the Policy and Doctrine Division, Plans and Policy Directorate for the United States Strategic Command (USSTRATCOM), High Frontier-The Journal For Space And Cyberspace Professionals High Frontier,Vol 7, Number 2FEB 2011</span>

<span class="Underline">To foster responsible behavior, the USG decided to share an unprecedented amount of data from its vast space object catalog to assist in global spaceflight safety. Because the Department of Defense (DoD) was the most well-positioned USG space actor with the most accurate space object catalog compiled through the worldwide sensor “space surveillance network” (SSN), the provision of SSA support was a logical outgrowth of USSTRATCOM’s mission to perform space operations. Following that reasoning, the DoD role in SSA was clearly defined in the 2010 NSP.</span>
<span class="Underline">The secretary of defense (SecDef) and the director of national intelligence (DNI) are given the responsibility for “maintain[ing] and integrat[ing] space surveillance, intelligence, and other information to develop accurate and timely SSA” which “shall be used to support national and homeland security, civil space agencies, particularly human space flight activities, and commercial and foreign space operations.” However, the NSP reserves the dissemination of SSA information for the SecDef alone, providing that the SecDef, in consultation with DNI and NASA, “may collaborate with industry and foreign nations to … maintain and improve space object dataImplications of the New National Space Policy … space is a vital interest to the USG, it has a vested interest in supporting those users who uphold the OST’s precept to act in the “common interest of all mankind in the progress of the exploration and use of outer space for peaceful purposes.”41 High Frontier bases ... and provide services and disseminate orbital tracking information to commercial and international entities, including predictions of space object conjunction” (emphasis added). This was a tacit acknowledgment of the DoD leadership in space object tracking and adhered closely to the language from the previous 2006 NSP, which also directed the SecDef to provide SSA support for “the USG … and, as appropriate, commercial and foreign entities.” The 2010 NSP lacks the qualifier of “as appropriate,” and in response, USSTRATCOM sought authorization to work with every space-related entity on an equal basis. Because the NSP states that SSA information shall be used to support commercial and foreign space operations, one of the ways USSTRATCOM accomplishes this policy objective is by providing high-quality conjunction assessments to all owners and operators. </span>
<span class="Underline">Through the open and transparent sharing of SSA to other nations and entities, USSTRATCOM seeks to fulfill one of the main goals of the NSP, which is to strengthen stability in space through international measures to promote safe and responsible operations in space.</span>
<span class="Underline">7</span>
<span class="Underline">The CP can not solve data sharing or hegemony- military control of SSA is necessary to cause a mindset shift towards transparency and sustainable dominance </span>
<span class="Underline">Roberts 5- Maj Tommy A. Roberts Space and Missile Force Programmer, Directorate of Plans and Programs, HQ Air Force, Space Situation Awareness: How Much Should the US Share?, High Frontier Winter High Frontier Winter 2005</span>
<span class="Underline">Recent operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as the tragic terrorist attacks on 11 September 2001, confirm that many of the US military’s Cold War paradigms are no longer valid. In fact, as pointed out in the Air Force’s Transformation Flight Plan, the transition to a post-Cold War force is one of two on-going transformations within the US military. 15 In addition to the shift to a post-Cold War force, the US military is undergoing a transformation from an industrial age force to an information age force. 16 The long-term ability of the US military to properly adjust to these transformations will ultimately spell the difference between victory and defeat in future operations, and space will certainly play a vital role.</span>
<span class="Underline">Despite some positive results, there are still a number of areas where the space community needs to further embrace transformation. Specifically, within the SSA context, the lingering Cold War-mindset of tightly controlling information must change. This mindset encouraged a space culture that relied heavily on classification as a method of restricting enemy access to US capabilities. Such a culture served the US well during the Cold War. That mindset must now change to get in line with today’s global reality--the whole world is now dependent on space. If the US wants to retain its long-term leadership position in that global reality, it must find ways to embrace the global community and persuade others to rely on US space capabilities. One such way is through the sharing of American SSA with the world.</span>
<span class="Underline">In the context of SSA, the US is at an important crossroads. As noted in a recent RAND study, “Nations are facing important choices in deciding whether to acquire independent aerospace capabilities, whether to depend on other nations for aerospace support, whether potential costs and vulnerabilities are incurred for those relationships, and whether they are willing politically to accept both the benefits and the risks of dependence.”</span>
<span class="Underline">17 The US also faces an important choice. Is it willing to share its SSA capabilities in order to drive foreign and commercial dependence, or will it continue to hide behind its Cold War-era security blanket and fail to adjust to the changing global environment? It is clear a policy of sharing is the answer…now the devil will be in the details.</span>

<span class="Underline">Perm do both- solves gaps in ESA capability while forcing cooperation </span>
<span class="Underline">Williamson et al 9- Agnieszka Lukaszczyk, Space Policy Consultant for Secure World Foundation, Laurence Nardon, Senior Research Fellow and the Head of the Space Policy Program at Ifri, Ray Williamson, Executive Director of Secure World Foundation, Towards Greater Security in Outer Space Some Recommendations, November 2009 http://www.ifri.org/files/Espace/Note_Espace_Security.pdf</span>

<span class="Underline">As mentioned, SSA is an area where Europe wants to develop independent capacities. With the exception of the French radar system GRAVES, Europe cannot currently track objects in space without a cue from US SSN systems or the ISON network. The EU, ESA and EDA (European Defense Agency) are eager to demonstrate that Europe can achieve SSA capacities. A European program for SSA was launched during the ESA Ministerial Council of November 2008. Phase one is a 3-year demonstration effort due for completion in 2011. It will cover space surveillance, space weather and NEO (Near Earth Object) threats. The budget for this initial phase is 50 million euros with the expectation that it will evolve into an operational SSA program after 2011.</span>
<span class="Underline">There is a level of cooperation on SSA between ESA and the EU, similar to the Galileo and GMES13 European SSA data policy is currently rather restricted. Many of the existing observing systems and data processes are under military control and military officials tend to be very cautious when discussing data-sharing policies. Conversely, the US SSA data policy seems to be quite open: data is available on websites such as spacetrack.org, although at a reduced level of quality. Also, US SSA data do not include orbital information about US military spacecraft. programs. The exact role of ESA as an operator of a European SSA architecture will be defined in 2011, during the next ESA ministerial council. EU ministers will then decide on continuing the program, managing and funding it, etc. The ESA charter is for “exclusively peaceful purposes,” but this is understood to allow for non-aggressive uses of space. This covers military-support architectures, peacekeeping and peacemaking missions. Developing SSA systems in that context is wholly permissible.</span>
<span class="Underline">Initial talks on a possible collaboration on SSA data sharing are on-going between Europe and the United States.14 13 GMES : Global Monitoring for Environment and Security. The US Air Force, ESA, the EU and private satellite operators are conducting bilateral technical workshops on standards: explaining each other’s models and trying to come up with a degree of interoperability. Eventually, interested states and commercial entities should consider developing an international SSA System of Systems, perhaps in analogy to the Global Earth Observation System of Systems (GEOSS). Existing efforts to cooperate on SSA, such as the current US-EU and US-Russian discussions, could be later extended to other countries.</span>

<span class="Underline">ESA can’t solve- they rely on U.S. data and have limited space capability </span>
<span class="Underline">Nardon 7- Laurence, Senior Research Fellow and the Head of the Space Policy Program at Ifri. She teaches at the Institut d'études politiques of Paris, “Space Situational Awareness and International Policy” October 2007</span>
<span class="Underline">Lack of SSA means has often left European countries in the dark. For instance, in 1996, the French experimental satellite Cerise was hit by a piece of debris from an Ariane 4 rocket that had been launched ten years earlier. A British radar first noticed the hit that was later confirmed by U.S. SSA means. France never had a chance to check the information independently. Since then, France has developed a radar system called Graves (Grand Réseau Adapté à la Veille Spatiale, i.e. large network adapted to space monitoring). It is a demonstrator owned by the French Air Force and operational since 2005. Graves can watch the sky up to 1,000 km above the French territory. It is rumored that Graves did witness the Chinese asat test of January 2007. Specifically, Graves could have seen a missile closing in on the Chinese meteorology satellite and, at the next pass, a cloud of debris where the satellite used to be10.</span>
<span class="Underline">Along with other European radar and telescope systems, Graves may constitute the basis for future European SSA. Acquisition of independent means has always meant a lot for the European space effort. After Ariane and Galileo, SSA seems the logical evolution today. Self-standing SSA means would certainly alter the transatlantic relationship by modifying defense attitudes in Europe. Experts claim SSA would provide European countries with a capacity of space deterrence. The French High Council for Defense (Conseil Supérieur de Défense, CSD) declares that extended space surveillance capabilities would allow France to know in real time what or who has attacked one of its satellites, let the attacking country know that it has been found out and adopt retaliatory measures. CSD assumes this would deter such attacks in the first place.11 This in turn would allow France to forgo deployment of further weapons in space. Also, SSA would give Europeans independent means to verify compliance to an international Code of Conduct for Space, should such a text be adopted in 7 NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory and Goddard Space Flight Center maintain ephemeris of Near Earth Objects (NEO) as well as solar system bodies. They rely partly on data from the Satellite Surveillance System. Indeed CSD proposes that France extends its current limited LEO (Low Earth Orbit) surveillance means to GEO (GEosynchronous Orbit).</span>
<span class="Underline">Europe is a major space power, but remains far behind the U.S.: cooperation ventures between NASA and ESA are fairly asymmetric; European military space developments are limited. Acquisition of independent space surveillance means would change the situation. However, all European countries do not share the same motivation for space or indeed for military independence.</span>

<span class="Underline">Can’t solve miscalculation- Europe won’t share data </span>
<span class="Underline">Selding 9- SPACE NEWS January 19, 2009 Despite SSA Collaboration, Europe Leery of U.S. Intentions PETER B. de SELDING, PARIS</span>
<span class="Underline">The United States and Europe have opened a regular channel for cooperating on space surveillance issues as Europe begins a program that could lead to its own version of the U.S. Space Surveillance Network of ground-based sensors to track satellites and space debris in Earth orbit, U.S. and European government officials said. But European government officials continue to be wary of U.S. intentions following what they say was a U.S. diplomatic effort in late 2008 to scuttle Europe’s fledgling space situational awareness (SSA) program. One European government official said in December that the U.S. effort included visits to European capitals in the months leading up to a European Space Agency (ESA) ministerial conference Nov. 25-26. The diplomatic objective, they said, was to derail, or at least slow down, ESA’s SSA program, which the ministers were to discuss at the conference.</span>
<span class="Underline">At a Jan. 14 press briefing here, ESA Director-General Jean-Jacques Dordain said he too believes that U.S. government authorities undertook efforts along these lines, much as U.S. officials earlier this decade had tried to slow or stop Europe’s Galileo satellite navigation effort.</span>
<span class="Underline">“It’s the same type of situation we had with Galileo,” Dordain said in an interview after the press briefing. “My understanding is that this [U.S. antiSSA initiative] did occur.” In the satellite navigation dispute, U.S. government reservations about Galileo were clear. That is not the case with SSA, however. A U.S. Defense Department official, in a statement addressing the U.S. view of Europe’s SSA program, said Washington has not “backed off a European SSA initiative.” The statement said further: “For the past two years, the U.S. has participated in an expanded and evolving dialogue in Europe on a range of space security issues, including SSA. As part of this dialogue, the U.S. hosted the first U.S.-EU [European Union] Situational Awareness workshop in Washington, D.C., in June 2008.”</span>
<span class="Underline">Another such workshop is planned early this year in Darmstadt, Germany, according to the statement. “These workshops are part of our ongoing U.S.-EU Space Dialogues that are led by the U.S. Department of State. We look forward to continued exchanges on a range of policy, technical, architectural and related issues. “Any endeavor by Europe to enhance Space Situational Awareness will only increase our ability to conduct safe and responsible operations in space. The United States supports international cooperation in SSA.”</span>

==2AC Weaponization Bad DA== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">We control the direction of uniqueness- </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Huntley 2k11</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Wade, Ph.D., is senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress” NGO Commitment on Disarmament, Peace, and Security, pg online @ [http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To some degree, </span><span class="Underline">a turn toward multilateral </span>cooperation<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in U.S. space policy </span>was to be expected<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>China’s<span class="Underline"> 2007 anti-satellite weapon </span>(ASAT) test<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and the 2009 Iridium-Cosmos collision </span>increased awarenessof<span class="Underline"> the</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> challenge of space debris and the </span><span class="Underline">need for </span>better<span class="Underline"> global </span>information sharing on<span class="Underline"> space situational awareness </span>(SSA<span style="font-size: 8pt;">).5 Also, new budget realities and unpromising technological developments have scaled back ambitions in some quarters for solving U.S. space security concerns with new independent capabilities. Finally, the Obama administration has pursued a more cooperative disposition across a wide range of global policy challenges, from Iranian nuclear ambitions to global climate change. But the improved clarity of vision in the 2010 Space Policy suggests that the emphasis on fostering global cooperation on space-related activities is more grounded in deliberate foresight than sailing the prevailing political winds.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The 2011 National Security Space Strategy, released February 4, is best interpreted against this background of the Obama administration’s turn toward both greater international space cooperation and greater attention to space policy in general. This first-of-its-kind strategic statement culminates a congressionally mandated space posture review.6 The initial section portraying the strategic environment to which U.S. security policy must be responsive highlights the growing problems of space debris, orbital congestion and coordination among a growing number of space actors — not state-based security threats per se. The Security Space Strategy features the objective of a “stable space environment in which nations exercise shared responsibility.”7 Specific provisions intended to implement this strategy, relevant to the preceding observations, include:8 • </span><span class="Underline">The strategy presents a full section on </span>“Partnering with Responsible Nations<span class="Underline">, International Organizations, and Commercial Firms.”</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> This category is not wholly multilateral in the traditional sense, displaying a symbiosis of alliance-building and collective cooperation not always carefully distinguished; i.e., “</span>The U<span class="Underline">nited </span>S<span class="Underline">tates </span>will lead in building coalitions<span class="Underline"> of like-minded space-faring nations</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and, where appropriate, work with international institutions to do so.”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">• The strategy intends to “encourage responsible behavior in space and lead by the power of example,” a significant observation given the tendency of U.S. policy-makers (as noted above) not to expect quid pro quo responses to cooperative gestures. Also, the strategy states </span><span class="Underline">the U.S. “</span>will support<span class="Underline"> development of </span>data standards<span class="Underline">, best practices, </span>transparency and confidence-building measures<span class="Underline">, and norms of behavior for responsible space operations.”</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [italics added] In the context of the section on “Preventing and Deterring Aggression,” the strategy similarly intends to “support diplomatic efforts to promote norms of responsible behavior in space</span><span class="Underline">” as well as “pursue international partnerships that encourage potential adversary restraint,”</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> along with other measures. This emphasis on norm-building and the role of example suggests a near-term endorsement of the development of “codes of conduct” for space activities (such as the recently revised European Union Code of Conduct, discussed below), whether or not such concord leads to more formal arms control arrangements in the longer-term. • </span>The D<span class="Underline">epartment </span>of D<span class="Underline">efense </span>is directed to<span class="Underline"> “</span>foster cooperative SSA relationships<span class="Underline">,”</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and to “expand provision of safety of flight services to U.S. Government agencies, other nations, and commercial firms.” </span><span class="Underline">Greater </span>SSA information sharing has been<span class="Underline"> a </span>key<span class="Underline"> suggestion for fostering international cooperation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">; </span>the U.S.possesses <span class="Underline">globally </span>superior SSA capabilities<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, but restricts the sharing of this information on the basis of national security concerns.9 </span><span class="Underline">Hence, this nominal </span>commitment is significant<span class="Underline"> in its own right.</span>

Plan resolves the dual use nature of space technology- leads to a ban on space weapons
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Baines ’05</span> – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Senior Advisor, Science and Technology, Non-Proliferation, Arms Control and Disarmament Division, Department of Foreign Affairs, United Nations Institute of Disarmament Research (Philip J, “Safeguarding Space Security: Prevention of an Arms Race in Outer Space,” March 21-22, kms1.isn.ethz.ch/.../Files/.../2005_SafeguardingSpaceSecurity-full.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This ability to discriminate targets in outer space will also quickly develop because: • the moral constraints of the Laws of Armed Conflict militate against a doctrine directing weapons indiscriminately at counter-value targets; • there is no advantage to be gained from the stalemate represented by parity in strategic weapons; and • one’s own space-based weapons will be vulnerable to a first strike by an adversary’s counterforce space-based weapons. Prospects in this regard will therefore echo those found during the Cold War with first-strike nuclear counterforce weapon systems, such as the Soviet SS-18 Satan and the American MX Peacekeeper intercontinental ballistic missiles. </span><span class="Underline">In the absence of prior agreed constraints,this posture would become necessary for weapons in outer spac</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">e, just as it was for nuclear weapons on the Earth, in order to limit dire consequences of allowing counter-value targets to remain at risk of destruction by counterforce weapons maintaining freedom of action to attack. Ergo, </span><span class="Underline">It will become possible to discriminate space-based weapon systems from non-weapon space-based systems.</span>
<span class="Underline">This </span>ability to discriminate a weapon from a non-weapon<span class="Underline"> space-based system </span>will be<span class="Underline"> further </span>assuredby the development of<span class="Underline"> national </span>s<span class="Underline">pace </span>s<span class="Underline">ituational </span>a<span class="Underline">wareness</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> means to ascertain the threats to orbital assets supporting currently accepted military uses of space—</span><span class="Underline">th</span>e<span class="Underline"> navigation, remote sensing and communications </span>satellites necessary to support<span class="Underline"> military </span>operation<span class="Underline">s on the Earth </span>with<span class="Underline"> global, </span>time-critical information<span class="Underline">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> These national technical means </span><span class="Underline">could also be needed both to protect current assets from harm</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> through reinforcing the capabilities of non-offensive defences and </span><span class="Underline">to guard against the emergence of space-based weapons</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that92 could threaten internationally accepted military uses of outer space. Given the strategic importance of outer space</span><span class="Underline">, I contend that the</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> necessary human, </span><span class="Underline">technical and financial </span>resources will be devoted<span class="Underline"> by all of the major space-faring states </span>to obtain the ability to know what is going on in<span class="Underline"> outer </span>space<span class="Underline"> to a degree of certainty sufficient </span>to identify<span class="Underline"> the emergence of new military </span>threats against satellites<span class="Underline"> and against facilities, forces </span>and<span class="Underline"> other military </span>assets<span class="Underline"> on the Earth. </span>

Space has been weaponized- deployment of the X37B triggered it
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ruyssenaars 10</span>**
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Henk, 5-22, “U.S. AIR FORCE MILITARIZING: SPACE 'PEARL HARBOR' NEXT?,”</span> <span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[@http://forpressfound.livejournal.com/37871.html]]</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">"As usual with this type of thing, there is plenty of speculation about what the military will do with the X-37B. Christian Science Monitor believes the</span> __<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">X-37B</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> rollout</span> __<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">may signal</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> the start of</span> __<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">war</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> in space, quoting arms control advocates who say</span> __<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">it's **clearly the beginning** of the "weaponisation of space</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">."</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">THE U.S. CLAIMED UNIVERSEHenk RuyssenaarsApril 22nd 2010 - For writer Todd Halvarson of Florida Today, what's happening on Cape Canaveral apparently is an enigma: "Next-generation spaceship, X-37B, set for first launch. Now nestled in the protective nosecone of a United Launch Alliance Atlas V rocket, the Air Force X-37B Orbital Test Vehicle is scheduled to blast off from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station's Launch Complex 41. The planned liftoff time is 7:52 p.m. and the launch window will extend through 8:01 p.m."*And the 'Christian Science Monitor' published concerning the Weaponization of Space this: "But whether the X-37 space plane is merely showing off nearly two decades of research and development or is actually a precursor to militarizing the final frontier, is far from clear since the vehicle’s payload is classified. An Air Force official won’t even say when it will return to California or where it will land. But it can “loiter” over the globe for more than nine months.Arms control advocates say it is pretty clearly the beginning of a “weaponization of space” – precursor to a precision global strike capability that would allow the US to hover for months at a time over anywhere it chose with little anyone could do about it." - [end excerpt]*THE TOP 10 SPACE WEAPONSTo better understand all this, one might want to have a look at what they say is - officially - possible now, with the Top 10 Space Weapons. - Url.:</span> <span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">[[@http://www.space.com/businesstechnology/top10_space_weapons.htmlAt]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;"> IPS, the U.S. Institute for Policy Studies, they wrote about the militarization of space too, and it wasn't a pretty picture. The so-called 'Rumsfeld Space Commission' they wrote: "is perhaps most well known for suggesting that unless the United States took threats of space attack seriously, it could not avoid a "Space Pearl Harbor."*BUSH SIGNED CLAIM TO THE WHOLE UNIVERSEHardly any of those writers - like most people on earth - know, that when they are watching the sun, the moon* or the universe for instance, they are looking at what the United States claims is its property. Because, after signing away more human rights and laws than ever in history, former US 'emperor' George Bush signed another unbelievable law. On October 18, 2006, 'front man' George Bush for his bosses by law officially was claiming space. The whole universe for the U.S. and its ruling criminal cartel.*This science-fiction claim - violating all treaties concerning space, like the 'Outer Space Treaty of 1967 - was, as Bush said, "to be enforced by a new military service, the U.S. Space Forces." And again US 'gunboat diplomacy' is to order other nations to support the inhuman US policy, or...And so the moon was bombed.* It will take some time to know what else they have been up to, and what those criminals have done to space this far. But that the universe is used and abused for more power and profit for the criminal cartel is quite clear.This move again fits the malignant global picture, and represents another disturbing step towards total world subjugation by the US' cartel managers. A mentally sick cabal, only motivated by imperialism and global US military expansionism. Dominance of as big a chunk of the world and its population, by fear and through genocides by the cartel's war machine. And they just go on with their arms race in space, as I wrote at that time. And the secret cargo the X-37B has aboard, may be what was earlier described, in August 17, 2005.The source for this 'Mene Tekel' article, is 'Power and Interest News Report' (PINR), which - according to my experience - is an unwashed mouthpiece for the nefarious Pentagon and malignant Washington criminal cartel.*That actually makes the article a 'must read', because it - again - clearly indicates why 'they' and theur sold and bribed Dr. Strangeloves must be stopped at any price, before they kill us all. The serial killings and war crimes by this group, the absolutely inhuman infanticides and global slaughter, resulting in spreading genocides during the past decades should by now have convinced even the most ignorant. Nobody needs a Space Pearl Harbor. - HR & infanticides etc. - Url.:</span> <span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">[[@http://tinyurl.com/2dkr4ffAll]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;"> major media are owned by - and therefore support - the mass murderers.* Who also nearly have killed all honest reporting the world over. The people working for those war criminals share the overwhelming shame and blame. They are guilty by association, and fomenting the neocon's present wave of global deception and terror."THE PENTAGON'S BID TO MILITARIZE SPACE"Giuseppe Anzera wrote this on August 17 - 2005: A series of Pentagon initiatives aimed at space militarization and at the creation of new types of armament - capable of precisely striking small targets in every corner of the world and to neutralize most of today's anti-aircraft defenses - will likely result in a new power battlefield in the near future.While the implementation of space weapons is likely to increase the capability gap between Washington and other powers at first, a broader vision reveals dangers involved in the move that could affect U.S. interests, for it will likely trigger off determined reactions by its competitors</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">. Competitor states could successfully deploy a small number of low cost orbital weapons, thus forcing the U.S. to design an extremely expensive space defense system.</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Atthe moment, a space weaponization policy may generate more troubles than advantages for Washington.WASHINGTON'S TURN TOWARD SPACE MILITARIZATIONThe Pentagon's plans to militarize space have definitely emerged. In mid-May 2005, the U.S. Air Force formally asked President George W. Bush to issue a presidential directive that allows Washington to deploy defensive and offensive weapons into orbit. Formally, the new directive is necessary to replace a precedent decree (PDD-NSC-49 - National Space Policy) issued by the Clinton administration which forbids the indiscriminate militarization of space. While the decree has not yet been issued, speculations over the Pentagon's move already hit the news.After the 2002 unilateral U.S. withdrawal from the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty, worries were raised about Washington's possible start of such a program, for it could transform space into a new battlefield. The U.S. Air Force request, coupled with the April 2005 launch of the XSS-11 orbital micro-satellite, increased the concerns of observers and world powers. XSS-11 is in fact specifically designed to disturb other states' military/reconnaissance or communication satellites.A discontinuance of U.S. traditional policy about the restricted (e.g. peaceful) use of space could engender a new arms race - which appears economically and technologically challenging and way beyond many states' reach.GLOBAL STRIKE AND RODS FROM GODOn the technological level,</span> __<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">the Pentagon's planning</span>____<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">is</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> in the advanced stage: some projects -</span> __<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">aimed atspace weaponization - have already been in place for some</span>__ <span style="color: #222222; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">time. Among the (partially known) Pentagon's new plans, the two most interesting projects are the "Global Strike" program and the "Rods from God" program. Global Strike involves the employment of military space planes capable of carrying about 500 kg (1100 lbs) of high-precision weapons (with a circular error probability less than 3 meters) with the primary use of striking enemy military bases and command and control facilities in any point of the world.The main strength of military space planes is the ability to reach any spot on the globe within 45 minutes. This is a short period of time that could provide U.S. forces with a formidable quick reaction capability, as opposed to the enemy's subsequent inability to organize any effective defense. Such a weapon's primary target would be the enemy's strategic forces and - according to U.S. Air Force sources widely quoted in the press - the Pentagon is inclined to give priority to this project. One of the main reasons, these sources say, is that the Pentagon itself - after spending over US$100 billion - has finally admitted its failure to create an infallible earth-based anti-missile system to protect the American soil from ballistic strikes.The U.S. Air Force often underscores the space plane's wide operational spectrum. In fact, its utilization encompasses that of a strategic weapon as well as that of its defensive uses of neutralizing nuclear missiles; it would have the ability to target and eliminate militant and terrorist leaders. The space plane could also be employed to suppress long-range air defenses, thanks to its high mobility, hyper-fast deployment and its immunity from the defenses of its opponents. Other uses could be envisaged in the Integrated Air Defense System, as well as surveillance tasks. Moreover, space planes could be easily deployed to support the U.S. Army's rapid reaction force and units of Marines during power projection operations and redeployment phases.RODS FROM GOD"Rods from God" is the evolution of a 1980s program. Basically, it consists of orbiting platforms stocked with metal tungsten rods around 6.1 meters long (20 feet) and 30 cm (one foot) in diameter that could be satellite-guided to targets anywhere on the earth within minutes, for the rods would move at over 11,000 km/hr (6,835 mph).This weapon exploits kinetic energy to cause an explosion the same magnitude of that of an earth-penetrating nuclear weapon, but with no radioactive fall-out. The system would function due to two satellites, one of which would work as a communications platform, while the other would contain an arsenal of tungsten rods. Each of the satellites would be seven meters long (23 feet) and its diameter would be approximately 30 cm (one foot).However, serious problems would arise if the Pentagon begins the operational phase - especially from a financial perspective. Some studies maintain that Rods from God could be fully operational in ten years. The targets of the rods would be much more restricted than those of Global Strike. Their main targets remains ballistic missiles stockpiled in hardened sites, or orbital devices and satellite systems deployed by other powers - according to the counter-space operation doctrine. Rods from God can, however, be employed to strike targets in desert areas - be they hardened sites or concentrated hostile forces.Its devastating striking power does not allow such a weapon to be used for other missions, if unsustainable collateral damage is to be avoided.Other projects - which often look like a revisited version of former U.S. President Ronald Reagan's Strategic Defense Initiative's (S.D.I.) programs - could also be undertaken, such as space mirrors satellites redirecting laser beams from earth against any orbit or surface target and satellites that send out radio waves with a high range in power and breadth.PROBLEMSThe White House will face several problems if it wants to pursue the ambitious project of space militarization consisting of both offensive and defensive weapons.The first point is the political issue.</span> __<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">International reactions to U.S. plans have already appeared</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">: Russian Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov recently evoked an immediate reaction from Moscow, and serious consequences were threatened should an orbital weapon deployment be performed by Washington. Such a reaction could consist of a modified version of the SS-18 intercontinental ballistic missile, capable of putting into orbit a remarkable quantity of space vehicles - which could even carry military nukes, thus making the U.S. planned intercepting effort much more difficult.It is easy to imagine that</span> __<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">space weaponization</span>____<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">- once in place - could be employed as well by U.S. rivals at any occasion</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, as these latter will develop mutual strategic ties just like China and Russia are doing in Central Asia.</span>

The plan is necessary to prevent its use
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Nardon 7</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Laurence, Senior Research Fellow and the Head of the Space Policy Program at Ifri. She teaches at the Institut **d'études politiques of Paris, “Transparency Measures in Space?” Novembre 2007**</span>
<span class="Underline">Sea, land and air are</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> currently </span><span class="Underline">covered by transparency regimes</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="Underline">It seems only logical that</span>transparency in space should be next<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. After being an instrument for transparency measures, </span><span class="Underline">space could become a</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> new </span><span class="Underline">environment where transparencymeasures are applied</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
Developing transparency<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> measures </span>in space is<span class="Underline"> even </span>more pressing<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>given that space is<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> far away and events are </span><span class="Underline">physically </span>harder to monitor<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Moreover, </span><span class="Underline">military activities in space have long been</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> heavily </span><span class="Underline">classified, reinforcing the hidden </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">and unknown </span><span class="Underline">character of that environment</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. For these reasons, </span>mistakes are<span class="Underline"> technically </span>more bound to happen<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Besides, </span><span class="Underline">an important and worrying evolution is currently underway in space.The China tests</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of the Summer 2006 and January, 2007 </span><span class="Underline">as well as the </span>US weaponization plans aresignaling a<span class="Underline"> possible </span>arms race in space<span class="Underline">.</span>
The potential for<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> accidental </span>collisions<span class="Underline"> and misperception</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of maneuver </span>should be reduced<span class="Underline"> to theminimum </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">in this context, </span><span class="Underline">and transparency measures should be studied</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>SSA is a very flexibleinstrument<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> however: SSA architectures can serve different purposes, and </span><span class="Underline">cooperative transparency is only one of them.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">• According to different US Air Force plans7, </span>SSA should be the first step<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of a three step approach. First would come an SSA architecture, </span><span class="Underline">which would bring information to the warfighter</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">; </span><span class="Underline">second would come “Defensive Counter Space,” which would allow</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> US </span><span class="Underline">satellites to escape</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> potential </span><span class="Underline">aggressors;third would come</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “</span><span class="Underline">Offensive Counter Space,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">” i.e. </span><span class="Underline">the capacity for the US to strike</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in space. SSA </span><span class="Underline">in that context is an information system that serves defensive and offensive actions</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
SSA can<span class="Underline"> also </span>be an instrument for transparency<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, providing that the </span>information gathered<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by this architecture </span>isshared to a<span class="Underline"> sufficient </span>degre<span class="Underline">e amongst countries</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="Underline">Information about launches, moves and maneuvers would preclude accidents and misperceptions</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>It would reassure space actors<span class="Underline"> and allow trust and confidence</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to grow between space powers. • A third possible use of SSA should also be mentioned. </span><span class="Underline">It has been theoretically possible</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the past </span><span class="Underline">to attack other countries’ satellitescovertly.It was difficult to check if a </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">satellite </span><span class="Underline">failure was due to a deliberate attack, a space debris hit or a solar flare. </span>With sufficient SSA<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> means, </span><span class="Underline">this will no longer be possible. </span>The attackers will know<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for certain </span>that they can be found out<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="Underline">This could produce</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a kind of </span><span class="Underline">deterrence in space</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="Underline">A deliberate attack</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on a satellite </span><span class="Underline">would indeed be followed by a response</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by the attacked country. The response would not necessarily have to take place in space as economic or diplomatic response can be developed.</span>The deterrence effect could therefore allow the country to forgodevelopment of weapons in space.
<span class="Underline">Whereas SSA for transparency focuses</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on </span><span class="Underline">reassuring potential victims</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by making all threats visible, </span>SSA for deterrence focuses on scaring<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> potential a</span><span class="Underline">ttackers by persuading them that their actions will be punished. S</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">pace </span><span class="Underline">S</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">ituational </span><span class="Underline">A</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">wareness </span><span class="Underline">is thus a flexible instrument, that can support</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> either </span><span class="Underline">military</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> options </span><span class="Underline">or transparency measures</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="Underline">as well as creating a degree of deterrence in space</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. It is impossible to say which of these three possibilities will prevail in the future. A </span><span class="Underline">combination of these elements may perhaps be observed in a few years.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Given that the efficiency of cooperative transparency measures depends to a degree on the international climate, </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">the establishment of such measures in space will probably depend on the evolution of relations between space-faring nations</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. In this day and age, </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">this means that much will depend on the evolution of the relationship between the United States and China</span>
==2AC- Private Sector CP== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Privatization leads to space militarization</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Salin 01</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Patrick Salin, doctoral candidate at McGill University (Quebec Canada), 2/19/01, "Privatization and Militarization in the space business environment", [[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0265964600000503]]) </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">We are slowly discovering...</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">answerable to the international community. LB</span>


Commercial satellites are more vulnerable and enough can’t be produced

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gonzales 99-</span> Senior Physical Scientist At RAND, Ph.D. in theoretical physics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Daniel, RAND, “The Changing Role of the U.S. Military in Space” Available Online

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">At the other extreme...</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">capacity is already in short supply.</span>


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Tax cuts fail -- don’t encourage private sector development. </span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The Space Review, 2005</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[an online publication whose focus is on publishing in-depth articles, essays, editorials, and reviews on a wide range of space-related topics, 10-5, “Tax policy and space commercialization”, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/300/1]],]</span>

__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The idea</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> behind both proposals, of course</span>




=Negative= 
[[2011-2012 - Whitney Young (IL) - Hanna Nasser & Marcel Roman - Topicality]]
[[2011-2012 - Whitney Young (IL) - Hanna Nasser & Marcel Roman - Case Negatives]]
[[2011-2012 - Whitney Young (IL) - Hanna Nasser & Marcel Roman - Counterplans]]
[[2011-2012 - Whitney Young (IL) - Hanna Nasser & Marcel Roman - Disadvantages]]
[[2011-2012 - Whitney Young (IL) - Hanna Nasser & Marcel Roman - Generics]]
[[2011-2012 - Whitney Young (IL) - Hanna Nasser & Marcel Roman - Kritiks]]


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]