[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
**CAFOS AC**

__Framework__
Justice... defined as giving each due, requires treating interests of persons as equals 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Peter Singer - * In TOM REGAN & PETER SINGER (eds.), //Animal Rights and Human Obligations. 1989//,</span>

"It is an implication of this principle of equality... how can it entitle humans to exploit nonhumans?" 

Limiting rights to only humans is incoherent/arbitrary

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Gray, Richard. "Animals Can Tell Right from Wrong - Telegraph." Telegraph.co.uk - Telegraph Online, Daily Telegraph and Sunday Telegraph - Telegraph. Telegraph Media Company, 23 May 2009. Web. 17 Aug. 2011. <http://www.telegraph.co.uk/earth/wildlife/5373379/Animals- can-tell-right-from-wrong.html>.</span>

" Scientists studying animal behavior believe.... different species of animals appear to have an innate sense of fairness, display empathy and help other animals that are in distress."

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Gray 2</span>
"Whales have been found to have spindle cells..... complex emotional judgments such as empathy may have evolved considerably earlier in history than previously thought and could be widespread in the animal kingdom."


The only way to avoid irreconcilable rights conflicts is by making rights weighable. This doesn't violate people because even if we use them as means they are still part of a greater end. 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 16px;">Rakowski, Eric. Taking and Saving Lives” Columbia Law Review, Vol. 93, No. 5, (Jun., 1993), pp. 1063-1156, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/1122960]]</span>]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">"In determining what rights people have.... not as independently valuable moral counters."</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">
</span>
Standard is maximizing good. 

__<span style="font-size: 110%;">Inherency</span>__

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Cafos are defined by the EPA as:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations (CAFOs) - What Is a CAFO? | Region 7 | US EPA." //US Environmental Protection Agency//. 2002. Web. 22 Aug. 2011. <http://www.epa.gov/region7/water/cafo/index.htm>.</span>

"agricultural operations where animals are kept and raised in confined situations"

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Cafos are increasing now</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Gurian-Sherman, Doug. senior scientist in the Union of Concerned Scientists (UCS) Food and Environment Program. "CAFOs Uncovered." Union of Concerned Scientists: Citizens and Scientists for Environmental Studies. Union of Concerned Scientists USA, Apr. 2008. Web. 21 Aug. 2011. <http://www.ucsusa.org/assets/documents/food_and_agriculture/cafos-uncovered.pdf>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "</span>The increasing size of animal farms and geographic concentration of CAFOs... trend is facilitated by a wide array of subsidies both direct and indirect paid for by the public."


<span style="font-size: 110%;">CAFOs Abuse Animals</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Mench, J. A, H. James, E. A. Pajor, and P.B. Thompson, 2008. The Welfare of Animals in Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations. In Report to the Pew Commission on Industrial Farm Animal Production. Pew Commission on Industrial Farm Animal Production, Washington, D.C.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> "The scientific assessment of welfare involves evaluating the welfare of both individual animals and groups...</span>without pain relief, and stress and mortality during transport."


<span style="font-size: 120%;">__Plan Text:__ CAFOs should be banned in recognition of animal rights.</span>
Texuality (recognize)

__Plans Good:__
- Ground
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span style="color: #000000;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">- AFC is justified:</span> O’DONNELL, “</span><span style="color: #000000;">And the Twain Shall Meet: Affirmative Framework Choice and the Future of Debate”</span><span style="color: #000000;">. Timothy M. O’Donnell. Director of Debate. University of Mary Washington</span></span>
- Plans most real world


Evaluate T through reasonability

<span style="font-size: 120%;">__ADV 1: Public Health__</span>
CAFOs increase influenza mutation

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Wong-Gibbons, Donna. Public Health Specialist at Plains Justice (Nonprofit Environmental Law Firm) PHD, Executive Director Iowa Chpater American Academy of Pediatrics. “Public Health and CAFOs." //PlainsJustice.org//. Plains Justice, 2010. Web. 22 Aug. 2011. <http://plainsjustice.org/files/PublicHealthandCAFOs.pdf>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> " </span>Although H1N1 mortality has been relatively low... the risk of emergence of a new variation of influenza that could be passed among populations and could contain genetic material from multiple species."

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Flu pandemic leads to extinction</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Hanlon, Michael. Journalist. “How Swine Flu Could Be Greater Threat to Humanity than Nuclear War." //Daily Mail UK//. Daily Mail, 1 May 2009. Web. 22 Aug. 2011. <http://www.dailymail.co.uk/debate/article-1173758/MICHAEL-HANLON-This-bigger-threat-nuclear-warfare.html>.</span>

"For it remains the fact that in a world awash with new and exotic fears.... Nothing, short of perhaps nuclear war, has the potential to kill so many."

<span style="font-size: 110%;">__ADV 2: Water Pollution__</span>

CAFOs contaminate local water supplies
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Lohan, Tara. Senior editor at AlterNet.org "Factory Farms Get a Free Pass to Pollute Our Water." //Change.org News//. 15 Oct. 2010. Web. 22 Aug. 2011. <http://news.change.org/stories/factory-farms-get-a-free-pass-to-pollute-our-water>.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> "One of the most overlooked but crucially important issues about why we need to end our dependence on CAFOs...fields tainted by naimal waste that's loaded with pesticides, antibiotics, and hormones." </span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Leads to severe health problems, including death</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 110%;">"Marks, Robbin. Policy and Promotion officer for the national Resources Defense Council, July 2011 [//Cesspools of Shame: How Factory Farm Lagoons and Sprayfields Threaten Environmental and Public Health//, </span>Executive Summary, Pg.1 Lexis, Accessed 7/31/08]</span>
"People living near factory farms are placed at risk...antibiotic resistant genes in groundwater downstream from hog oeprations." 



==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]