[[toc]]
=Updates= 
We have added a new solvency agent to Heidegger. It's Terrestrial Planet Finder. I will try to update soon.
=Questions?= 
**If you have any questions feel free to email us:**

**Jonathan Cook:** [[mailto:Joncookdebate@gmail.com|Joncookdebate@gmail.com]]
**Heath Reinl:** [[mailto:heathreinl@gmail.com|heathreinl@gmail.com]]
=Affirmative= 
==Heideggerean SETI Aff== 
===<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">**Contention 1 The Status is Not Quo (Inherency)**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">1. The Allen Telescope search for extra – terrestrial intelligence has been taken off line die to funding shortfalls</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;">Krieger 4/25 </span>**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[</span></span><span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Lisa Reporter for the San Jose Mercury News: “SETI Institute to shut down alien-seeking radio dishes” Lexis 4-25-2011 MLF 6-25-11]</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">If E.T. Phones...the telescope facility.</span>


<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">**2. The Earth, when seen in an objective or Copernican manner, forces us to view the world in a technological mindset**</span>

<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">**Turnbull 6**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Neil, Cool Dude, “The Ontological Consequences of Copernicus”, Theory, Culture & Society Journal, 2006, Vol. 23(1): 125-139, DOI: 10.1177/0263276406063232, Page 125-126, JCOOK]</span></span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Essentially, Nietzsche’s claim... cosmos’ (Lyotard, 1991: 10).</span>

<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">**THUS THE PLAN: The USFG should fully fund and enforce the Allen Telescope Array. We reserve the right to clarify our intent.**</span>

===<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">**Advantage 1: Technik Mindsets!**</span>=== 

====<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">**Scenerio 1. Your being is damned (Ontological Damnation)**</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">**1. Viewing space and Earth in a technological mindset destroys our view on ontology**</span>

<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">**Turnbull 6**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Neil, Cool Dude, “The Ontological Consequences of Copernicus”, Theory, Culture & Society Journal, 2006, Vol. 23(1): 125-139, DOI: 10.1177/0263276406063232, Page 126-127, JCOOK]</span></span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thus the modern...</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">__**and lived reality**____**.**__</span></span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">2. This Technik Managerial approaches to ecology and the Earth constitutes a </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">mode of concealing that pushes us into a spiral of meanginglessness that robs all beings of value.</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">McWhorter '92</span>**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Ladell, Prof. of Philosophy @ Univ. of Richmond, Heidegger and the Earth: Essays in Environmental Philosophy, p. vii]</span></span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">__**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The danger of...may never dream.</span>**__</span>


**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">3. </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">A loss of value to life precedes all other impacts – death is preferable to a valueless life</span></span>**

<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">**Mitchell '05**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Andrew J. Mitchell, Post-Doctoral Fellow in the Humanities at Stanford University, "Heidegger and Terrorism," </span></span><span style="color: #000080;">__[[@http://www.ingentaconnect.com/content/brill/rip;jsessionid=7macig5us3335.victoria|Research in Phenomenology]]__</span><span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Volume 35, Number 1, 2005 , pp. 171-217]</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">__**Devastation**__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Verwistung) </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">__**is**____**...**__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> being is malevolent</span></span>


====<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">**Scenerio 2. War, Violence and Nukes! Oh my!**</span>==== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">1.Technological thought allows humans themselves to become standing-reserve. It is the root cause of war and genocide.</span>**</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Thiele ’95</span>****<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [</span>**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Leslie, Professor of Political Science at the University of Florida, __Timely Meditations: Martin Heidegger and Postmodern Politics__, pg 197-198]</span></span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">__Technology has the__</span>****<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">__...__</span>**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> increasingly untenable (EP 107). </span></span>


<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">**2. The forgetting of being makes all acts of destruction not events in and of themselves but rather merely signs of a new age defined by technological comportment—an unworld that justifies nuclear annihilation.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Milchman and Rosenberg '96</span>**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[Alan, </span></span><span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Alan. Professor of Political Science at Queens College and Assistant Professor of Philosophy at Queens College. “Heidegger, Planetary Technics, Holocaust.” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">//<span style="text-decoration: none;">Martin Heidegger and the Holocaust</span>//</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">. Ed. Milchman and Rosenberg. </span></span><span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">1996. pp. 225-226]</span></span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">__<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">**The Holocaust can...**</span>____<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">the Heideggerian text.</span>__</span>


===<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">**Contention 2 is Solvin these bad things (Solvency)**</span>=== 

====<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">**Subpoint 1: Solving the Allen Telescope Array Funding Problem:**</span>==== 

**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">A. Federal funding for the Allen telescope array solves!</span>**

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Wagenhofer '11</span>**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> [</span></span><span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Ross, Copy Editor at The Emersonian, “Exobiology Blues”, May 10, </span><span style="color: #000080;">__[[http://thecommonvoice.net/?p=458]]__</span><span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">]</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">To let the...we weren’t listening?</span>


<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">**B. Allen telescope array means contact likely before 2025!**</span>

**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">McKie '10</span>**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Robin, Science Editor, February 7, p6, The Guardian, “First contact: will we ever hear from aliens?”, </span><span style="color: #000080;">__[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/culture/2010/feb/07/extraterrestrial-life-robin-mckie]]__</span><span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">]</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"><span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">However, </span>__**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Seti scientists ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">from Men in Black.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">**C. The Allen Telescope Array is key to searching for extra-terrestrial intellegence. Chances increase by a hundred!**</span>

**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Pescovitz '04 </span>**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Dec. 23, 2004, David, writer and researcher for UC Berkeley, writer and researcher for UC Berkeley, “Scientists: 'We'll detect an extraterrestrial transmission within 20 years”, </span><span style="color: #000080;">__[[http://www.physorg.com/news2493.html]]__</span><span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, 6.27.11, Swolff]</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">__**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The SETI Institute...</span>**__<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">of life on it." </span></span>

====<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">**Subpoint 2: Solving Ontological Damnation and War and Violence and Nukes!:**</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">**When the United States Federal Government declares the findings of the SETI program, one of three things could happen. Either...** </span>

<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">**A. 1. If the search for ET fails it will successfully allow us to once again see Earth as the only place of ontological dwelling**</span>

<span style="color: #000000;"><span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">**NASA '77**</span><span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [NASA: National Aeronautics and Space Association. “SETI: The Search For Extra-Terrestrial Intellegence” 1977. Page 7. JCOOK]</span></span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">__**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Whether the search...of our time.</span>**__</span>


<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">**2. Once the Earth is seen as the only place for an ontological dwelling, people will fall out of this Technik Mindset. This will solve all of our harms.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">**Turnbull '06**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Neil, Cool Dude, “The Ontological Consequences of Copernicus”, Theory, Culture & Society Journal, 2006, Vol. 23(1): 125-139, DOI: 10.1177/0263276406063232, Page 131, JCOOK]</span></span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">__**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">However, </span>**____**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">the question</span>**____**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">... and animal’</span>**____**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (1971: 149–50).</span>**__</span>

<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;">**Or...**</span>

<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;">**B. 1.** <span style="font-size: 11pt;">**We will find extraterrestrial life** </span><span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">**forcing us** **to** </span></span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">**redefine ontology, removing us from the technological mindset as well.** </span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">It solves all impacts.</span>**

**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Greer '09 </span>****<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Stephen Greer, Emergency physician and former chairman of the Department of Emergency Medicine at Caldwell Memorial Hospital. He has met with and provided briefings for senior members of government, military and intelligence operations in the United States and around the world, including senior CIA officials, Joint Chiefs of Staff, White House staff, senior members of Congress and congressional committees, senior United Nations leadership and diplomats, senior military officials in the United Kingdom and Europe and cabinet-level staff members of the Japanese government, among others, Implications of Extraterrestrial Disclosure, 2009, </span><span style="color: #000080;">__[[http://www.bluealien.net/aliens-and-ufos/implications-of-extraterrestrial-disclosure|http://www.bluealien...rial-disclosure]]__</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">.]</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">__<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">**The near-term...**</span>____<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">**functional, peaceful civilization.**</span>__</span>


<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">**C. Just engaging in the search results in a new view of ontology! This again removes the technik mindset with the new form of ontological viewing of the world. This solves.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Tough, '98 </span>**</span><span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Allen, </span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">University of Toronto, </span>**</span><span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Positive consequences of SETI before detection, Acta Astronautica Volume 42, Issues 10-12, May-June 1998, Pages 745-748]</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Cosmic evolution over... separate from ourselves[7].</span>

====<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">**Lastly, D. We're like Van Goh!!! Oh damn!**</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">**1.** </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">**The ideas presented by the affirmative are pieces of art. The process the affirmative provides is art in itself, and that art can redefine our ontology.**</span></span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">**SETI advocacy that will produce the artwork, since that's what is "happening" in the round, with this advocacy serving to de-stabilize the comfortable Copernican ways of being that are destroying humanity's relation to itself and its world. The SETI advocation produces the process of the debate round, in producing a plan and allowing for the process too begin. The Heideggerean critique of Post-Copernican mannerisms is the idea we insert into this process. It will envoke thought into ontology and this technik mindset. The SETI advocation is the aesthetic which produces our Heideggerean thought. Even if you leave this round thinking Heidegger is a crack pot, racist, nazi, depressed, naturalist bastard you still engaged in a thought process about ontology and his philosophies. We have done what we wanted. We are art.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">**Lewitt '69**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Sol, Cool Dude, “Sentences on Conceptual Art”,Published in New York, May 1969. JCOOK]</span></span>


<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">__<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">**Conceptual artists are**</span>__<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">are not art.</span></span></span>


<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">2. This artwork is a line of flight, a single cry of dissent which echoes all over the world. The point is to recognize the infinity of the lines and understand an overarching framework through which these lines become revolutionary. Vote affirmative not only because of our micropolitical, rhizomatic tactic for resistance, but also for the method by which our tactic turns the corner to become a strategy. </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Holloway '10</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [John, Professor in the Instituto de Ciencias Sociales y Humanidades of the Benemerita Universidad Autonoma de Puebla in Mexico, Crack Capitalism, 17-20]</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">__**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Imagine a sheet.</span>**____**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">..</span>**____**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">that is left.</span>**__</span>


==Moonbase Aff== 
===<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Contention 1 is inherency**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**The Obama space strategy is the death knell for American space exploration**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Goodard ’10** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">[Jacqui. International Reporter for the Times“NASA Reduced to ‘Pipe Dream’ as Obama Cancels Moon Flights” The Times Online (UK), 2/2/10 ln]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">__Nasa will become...__ __**is even worse**____.”__</span>


<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Thus the P**</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,serif;">**l**</span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**an: The United States Federal Government will create an inhabitable base on the moon capable of lunar agriculture and mining Helium 3**</span>


===<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">__**Contention 2 is Nuclear Forensics**__ </span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Only available source of Helium 3 is on the moon**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">__**Lasker 06**__<span style="font-size: 9pt;">__**(**__ John, freelance journalist, “Race to the Moon for Nuclear Fuel” wired.com, magazine, </span></span>[[http://www.wired.com/science/space/news/2006/12/72276|__http://www.wired.com/science/space/news/2006/12/72276__]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">, December 15, 2006, August 2, 2011, CL)</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">__**Helium-3**__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">**is considered...** **for a year.**</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**U.S. nuclear forensics capabilities are collapsing due to lack of He3**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Wald 9**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">( Matthew L. Wald, International Herald Tribune Correspondent, November 24, 2009, “Shortage Of Ingredient Mires Bomb Detection,” The International Herald Tribune, News Section, Pg. 4, Lexis)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">__**The U.S. Department...**__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">__**forms of radiation.**__</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Credible nuclear forensics prevents over-reaction by the U.S. in the wake of a nuclear terror event---that stops massive retaliation** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Dunlop and Smith 6**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(William Dunlop, retired senior scientist at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratories, led LLNL’s Arms Control and International Non-Proliferation programs and was a scientific adviser to the U.S. delegation involved in negotiations on the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, and Harold Smith, distinguished visiting scholar and professor at the Goldman School of Public Policy, University of California at Berkeley, October 2006, “Who Did It? Using International Forensics to Detect and Deter Nuclear Terrorism,” Arms Control Today, online: http://www.armscontrol.org/print/2129)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">__**Such determinations, if...evidence is clear.**__</span>


<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Massive U.S. retaliation triggers full-scale nuclear war** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Harvard Law** **Review 8**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> [“NOTE: THE INCENTIVE GAP: REASSESSING U.S. POLICIES TO SECURE NUCLEAR ARSENALS WORLDWIDE,” 121 Harv. L. Rev. 1864]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">__**Upon closer analysis, however,... the American threat.**__</span>


<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Credible nuclear forensics** __**deters nuclear terror**__ **in the first place---prevents state transfers of nuclear material** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Phillips 7**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">( Matthew Phillips, senior analyst for DeticaDFI, a national security consulting firm in Washington, D.C., 2007, “Uncertain Justice for Nuclear Terror: Deterrence of Anonymous Attacks Through Attribution,” Orbis, Vol. 51, No. 3, p. 429-446)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">__**The prospect of North...**__ </span>__**national security strategy**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">__**.**__</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**State transfers are the only scenario for nuclear terror** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Levi 7** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Michael A, PhD in war studies, University of London, David M. Rubenstein senior fellow for energy and the environment at the Council on Foreign Relations. former fellow on foreign policy at the Brookings Institute, “On Nuclear Terrorism”, Harvard University Press, In cooperation with Council on Foreign Relations, Pp 15]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">__**No material occurring...**__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">__**used in a bomb.'**__</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Risk of nuclear terror’s high---Al Qaeda’s resilient and motivated** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Kanani 11**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Rahim Kanani, Founder And Editor In Chief Of World Affairs Commentary, July 29, 2011, “New al-Qaeda Chief Zawahiri Has Strong Nuclear Intent,” Online: http://blogs.forbes.com/rahimkanani/2011/06/29/new-al-qaeda-chief-zawahiri-has-strong-nuclear-intent/)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">__**Rigid, arrogant, unpopular...**__ </span>__**minds to it.**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">__**”**__</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**The impact is extinction** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Hellman 8**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Martin E. Hellman, emeritus prof of engineering @ Stanford, “Risk Analysis of Nuclear Deterrence” SPRING 2008 THE BENT OF TAU BETA PI, http://www.nuclearrisk.org/paper.pdf]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The threat of ... full-scale nuclear war.</span>


===<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Contention 3 is Get The Fuck Out**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">__**First**__**:**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Extinction is inevitable and is a result of overpopulation**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Center for Biological Diversity ‘9**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">[The Center for Biological Diversity. “Overpopulation and Extinction” 2009, </span>[[http://www.biologicaldiversity.org/campaigns/overpopulation/extinction/index.html|__www.biologicaldiversity.org/campaigns/overpopulation/extinction/index.html__]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> ]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">__**We’re in the...**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">__**all species to live.**__</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">__**Second**__**:**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">__**Only**__ **the plan solves – attempts to save Earth are doomed to failure because it is** __**impossible to know**__ **what will cause extinction.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Gott – Professor of Astrophysics at Princeton – ‘9** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">[Richard. “A Goal for the Human Spaceflight Program” </span>[[http://www.nasa.gov/pdf/368985main_GottSpaceflightGoal.pdf|__http://www.nasa.gov/pdf/368985main_GottSpaceflightGoal.pdf__]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> 2009]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">__**The goal of ...**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">__**the right questions.**__</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">__**Third**__**:** </span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Now is key – the** __**time necessary**__ **to get off the rock is running out** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Gott – Professor of Astrophysics at Princeton – ‘9** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">[Richard. “A Goal for the Human Spaceflight Program” </span>[[http://www.nasa.gov/pdf/368985main_GottSpaceflightGoal.pdf|__http://www.nasa.gov/pdf/368985main_GottSpaceflightGoal.pdf__]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> 2009]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">__**The real space...be our future**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">__**.**__</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">__**Finally:**__</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**The timeframe is** __**fast**__ **– even though Earth will remain inhabitable in the near-term, the** __**next five years**__ **are key to** __**prepare civilization**__ **to abandon Spaceship Earth.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Cordell – Postdoctoral Fellow of Astrophysics at Cal-Tech – ‘8** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">[Bruce. Former Prof Physics @ CalState, has worked with NASA. “NASA Programs and MEPs” 5/11/8, </span>[[http://21stcenturywaves.com/2008/05/11/nasa-programs-and-meps-a-brief-21stcenturywaves-perspective-2/|__http://21stcenturywaves.com/2008/05/11/nasa-programs-and-meps-a-brief-21stcenturywaves-perspective-2/__]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> ]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">__**Currently,**__</span> __**the most... of inestimable importance**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">__**.**__</span></span>


===<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">__**Contention 4 is lunar agriculture**__</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Food prices are currently on the rise** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Ferolito 11**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Phil, Yakima Herald journalist, “Food prices on the rise” Yakima Herald, [[http://www.yakima-herald.com/stories/2011/1/16/food-prices-on-the-rise]], January 16,2011, August 22,2011, CL)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">__**YAKIMA, Wash. -- Jamie...**__ </span>__**in 18 years**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">__**.**__</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Increase in food prices is caused by low crop yield**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Meyer et al,10**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Gregory, Financial times journalist, financial times, website, November 9, 2010, August 8, 2011, CL)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">__**The spectre of...**__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> __**added to demand.**__</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Lunar agriculture increases crop yield**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Dillow, 2010**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">__(Clay, researcher for popular science, popsci, website,__ http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2010-10/prototype-greenhouse-demonstrates-future-farming-moon__,October 19, 2010, August 8, 2010, CL)__</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">__**A portable, collapsible**__</span>__**greenhouse... sustainable as possible**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">__**.**__</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Food price blips culminate in famine, war, and eventual extinction**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Winnail**, **96**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Douglas S., Ph.D., M.P.H, "On the Horizon: Famine," September/October, [[http://www.kurtsaxon.com/foods004.htm]])</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">__**South Africa, the...**__ </span>__**an exploding population**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">__**?**__</span></span>


===<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Contention 5 is solvency:**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**The plan is** __**feasible**__ **– we have the** __**information**__ **and** __**technology**__ **to colonize the Moon**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Drake – Space Expert for ScienceNews – ’11** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">[Nadia. “NASA Spacecraft Puts Moon in New Focus” [[http://www.sciencenews.org/view/generic/id/331780/title/NASA_spacecraft_puts_moon_in_new_focus_]] ]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">__**After buzzing around...**__ __solar-powered__ </span>__**moon base**____.__</span>


<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Colonization solves Earth extinction scenarios- nuke war, super-volcanoes, asteroids, ect.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Collins and Autino 08**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Patrick, econ professor-Azabu University (Japan) and a Collaborating Researcher with the Institute for Space & Astronautical Science, and Adriano, President of the Space Renaissance International, “What the Growth of a Space Tourism Industry Could Contribute to Employment, Economic Growth, Environmental Protection, Education, Culture and World Peace, “http://www.spacefuture.com/archive/what_the_growth_of_a_space_tourism_industry_could_contribute_to_employment_economic_growth_environmental_protection_education_culture_and_world_peace.shtml)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">__**Investment in low...**__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">__**space tourism industry.**__</span></span>

[[#_GoBack]]
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Space colonization resolves resource scarcity** </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Collins and Autino –** **Professor and President of Space Renaissance International** **– ‘8** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">[Patrick – Prof Econ at Azabu (Japan) and a Researcher with the Institute for Space and Astronautical Science & Adriano Autino – President of SRI. “What the Growth of a Space Tourism Industry Could Contribute to Employment, Economic Growth, Environmental Protection, Education, Culture, and World Peace” [[http://www.spacefuture.com|www.spacefuture.com]], 2008]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">__**Expansion into near...**__ __**"neo-con" advisers.**__ </span>



==Space Elevator Aff== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Introduction</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**We dance for 38 seconds to [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nHbLiEvPNw4|this.]]**</span>

===<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Contention 1 is the status is not quo**</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**1. The Obama space strategy is the death knell for American space exploration**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">**Goodard ’10** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">[Jacqui. International Reporter for the Times“NASA Reduced to ‘Pipe Dream’ as Obama Cancels Moon Flights” The Times Online (UK), 2/2/10 ln]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">__Nasa will become...____**is even worse**____.”__</span>


<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;">**1. Status Quo Reliance on Rockets For Space Travel Is Massively Ineffective – Launch and Fuel Costs Prevent Further Exploration – Space Elevator Solves** </span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Bradley C. __Edwards__, President And Founder Of Carbon Designs Incorporated, __And__ Philip __Ragan__, Space Expert, __**2006,**__ “Leaving The Planet by Space Elevator”]1-3</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">__**The biggest hurdle...**____building that future!__</span>


<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">**<span style="color: #000000;">Thus the Plan: The United States Federal Government should construct a large-compacity, universally-accessible space elevator with intent to create an inhabitable base on the moon.</span>**</span>


===<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;">**Contention 2: General Economic Lolz**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;">**1.** <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;"> **Space solves the transition to a general economy best — glorious expenditure on the space elevator will refract back down to earth, creating novel and creative relations to our economic conditions on earth!**</span></span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Astrid __Schwarz and__ Alfred __Nordmann__, __2010__, Institut für Philosophie, Technische Universität Darmstadt and Department of Philosophy, Darmstadt Technical University, “The Political Economy of Technoscience,” Science in the Context of Application, Ed. Nordmann and Carrier, p. 330-334</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Exceeding the Limits... </span>__**source of novelty**__<span style="text-decoration: none;">.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #000000;">2. </span>**<span style="color: #000000;">**Restricted economies of value reduce life to a commodity, stripping it of its value and creating a desire for fascism within each of us!**</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Neal __Curtis__, __2006__, Lecturer in Critical Theory, University of Nottingham, War and Social Theory World, Value and Identity, 83-85</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">__These sovereign practices... capacity for destruction.__</span>

<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; text-decoration: none;">**<span style="color: #000000;">3. Sacrificial theater offers a moment of transfiguration. Risk this intimate encounter with death to give your life meaning beyond mere existence and duration.</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Liran **Razinsky 2009** [The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, //SubStance// #119, Vol. 38, no. 2, 2009]</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Thus we see...order of things. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: small;">4. A loss of value to life precedes all other impacts – death is preferable to a valueless life!</span>**

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">**Mitchell '05** [And</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">rew J. Mitchell, Post-Doctoral Fellow in the Humanities at Stanford University, "Heidegger and Terrorism," </span><span style="color: #00000a; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.ingentaconnect.com/content/brill/rip;jsessionid=7macig5us3335.victoria|Research in Phenomenology]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Volume 35, Number 1, 2005 , pp. 171-217]</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">__**Devastation**__ __(Verwistung)__ __**is... being is malevolent.**__</span></span>

===**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: medium; line-height: 24px;">Contention 3 is get of the rock</span>**=== 

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;">__**First:**__</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;">**Now is key – the** __**time necessary**__ **to get off the rock is running out!**</span>

<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">**Gott – Professor of Astrophysics at Princeton – ‘9** </span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Richard. “A Goal for the Human Spaceflight Program” </span><span style="color: #00000a; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nasa.gov/pdf/368985main_GottSpaceflightGoal.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> 2009]</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">__**The real space... be our future.**__</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;">**<span style="color: #000000;">__Second:__</span>**</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;">**1. The only mechanism for colonizing other planets is a moon base. A space elevator is the best way to do get there.**</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Bradley C. __Edwards__, President And Founder Of Carbon Designs Incorporated, __And__ Philip __Ragan__, Space Expert, __2006,__ “Leaving The Planet by Space Elevator”]157-159</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">__As little as...based space technology.__</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;">__**Finally:**__</span>

<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;">**The timeframe is** __**fast**__ **– even though Earth will remain habitable in the near-term, the** __**next five years**__ **are key to** __**prepare civilization**__ **to abandon Spaceship Earth.** </span>

<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">**Cordell – Postdoctoral Fellow of Astrophysics at Cal-Tech – ‘8** </span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Bruce. Former Prof Physics @ CalState, has worked with NASA. “NASA Programs and MEPs” 5/11/8, </span><span style="color: #00000a; text-decoration: none;">[[http://21stcenturywaves.com/2008/05/11/nasa-programs-and-meps-a-brief-21stcenturywaves-perspective-2/]]</span><span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> ]</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">__Currently,__ __**the most... of inestimable importance**__**.**</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
===<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;">**Contention 4 is solvency:**</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;">1. Space elevator can be operational in 15 years for as little as 10 billion!</span>**

<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">__**Edwards 2004**__ [Bradley C. Edwards, February 4th 2004,PhD in Physics from the University of Wisconsin, “A Space Elevator Based Exploration Strategy,” [[http://web.ebscohost.com/ehost/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=7&hid=122&sid=114ff64a-7335-4b4b-8a8b-ffec0b8ddc57%40sessionmgr115]]]</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">__Funded by a... see Edwards, 2002__</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"><span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">**2.** </span>**The plan is** __**feasible**__ **– we have the** __**information**__ **and** __**technology**__ **to colonize the Moon**</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">**Drake – Space Expert for ScienceNews – ’11** </span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Nadia. “NASA Spacecraft Puts Moon in New Focus” </span><span style="color: #00000a; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.sciencenews.org/view/generic/id/331780/title/NASA_spacecraft_puts_moon_in_new_focus_]]</span><span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> ]</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">__After buzzing around...solar-powered__ __**moon base**____.__</span></span>

==Fasching Aff== 

===<span style="text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Contention 1: Inconceivable Inherency:</span>**</span>=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">**1. Status Quo methods such as** </span>**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">SETI will most likely never find extra-terrestrial life if it continues to use radio technology, because it assumes that aliens will have first off have been as advanced in technology as us, and had the same technology as us, which is highly improbable.</span>**
</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Campell ’11 </span>****<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">[</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Hank Communicating Astronomy To The Public (CAPJournal) Science mediaSETI Shut Down - Aliens Who Sent Radio Signals 400 Years Before Radio Was Invented Will Be Disappointed Professor of Science Media incorporation]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 9pt;">It's easy, really […] us FM signals.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">2. Narratives of extraterrestrials are more than mere science fiction – they are stories which found national identity and who how society responds to otherness. Modern storues establish the sacred order as society’s fears of invasion and abduction translates into radical xenophobia.</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Dean ’97 </span>**<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 9pt;">[Jodi. Teaches Political Theory at Hobart and William Smith Colleges, “The Familiarity of Strangeness,” Theory and Event, 1:2]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">If we think […]</span> to actual experience.</span>

===<span style="text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Thus the plan: </span>**</span>=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">The United States Federal Government should fund the Terrestrial Planet Finder to look for extraterrestrial life.</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
===<span style="text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Contention 2: Sacred Orders to the Pain (Harms)</span>**</span>=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">1. The sacred order is founded on exclusive narratives, which approach otherness with hostility and violence, while a holy community is founded on narratives of hospitality, which affirm human dignity.</span>**
</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Fasching and deChant </span>**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">’0</span>**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">1</span>**<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 9pt;">[Darrell J., Professor of Religious Studies at the University of South Florida, Dell, Director of Religious Studies in the Department of Religious Studies at the University of South Florida, //Comparative Religious Ethics: A Narrative Approach,// Pp. 10]</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 9pt;">Human religiousness is […] and my stories.</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**2. Holy Communities are produced through an alienated theology, which rejects the pretension towards certainty in our own narratives, leaving us open to the transformative impact of the experiences of others. The apologetic theology of sacred orders is a methodology of domination. Its foreclosure of the possibility of truth in difference condemns us to an apocalyptic stalemate moving ever closer to human self-destruction!**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fasching </span>‘93**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> [Darrell J. Fasching is a Professor of Religious Studies at the University of South Florida, The Ethical Challenge of Aushwitz and Hiroshima, Pp. 5-8]</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">The best way […]</span> **__a path risks.__**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">3. </span>****<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Sacred narratives either deny or securitize the extraterrestrial – this is a dangerous form of anthropocentrism, which sees the entire universe as something created to serve humans, inevitably leading to extinction from warfare and ecological destruction!</span>**

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Zimmerman</span>****<span style="font-family: Verdana;"> ‘0</span>****<span style="font-family: Verdana;">2</span>**<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 9pt;">[Michael E., “Encountering Alien Otherness,” //The Concept of the Foreign//, ed. Rebecca Saunders, </span><span style="color: #0028b8; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 9pt;">http://www.colorado.edu/philosophy/paper_zimmerman_Alien_Otherness.pdf</span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 9pt;">]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 9pt;">Driven by complex […]</span>**__<span style="font-family: Verdana;"> a top priority</span>__****<span style="font-family: Verdana;">.</span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">4. Societies founded upon sacred order’s inevitably engage in violent attempts to eradicate difference, which inevitably escalates to extinction. These sacred narratives must be interrupted by ones founded on openness to the stranger and compassion towards alterity. This aff is an affirmation of particularity and difference, which refuses Sacred Orders in the name of the possibility of a positive reading of interdependence.</span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Fasching ‘93 </span>**<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 9pt;">[Darrell, prof religious studies @ florida. The ethical challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima 287-290]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 9pt;">In the Christian […]</span>**__<span style="font-family: Verdana;"> of the human.</span>__**

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
===**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Contention 3: Have Fun Storming the Sacred Castle! (Solvency):</span>**=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">1. We have 2 new cards specific to TPF. I don’t have them on this computer.</span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">2. This open search for extraterrestrial life is necessary to rupture the sacred order dominating modern society. Only this search can reinvigorate critical theory and attempt to destabilize the narratives of the extraterrestrials in the Status quo.</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span class="cite0">**Wendt and Duvall '08**</span> (Alexander Wendt and Raymond Duvall, “Sovereignty and the UFO”, Profs at OSU and U of Minnesota, Political Theory. 2008.)

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Resistance We have […] and sustains it. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">3. </span>****<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Our public policies shape the way we live and the way people stand in relation to the State. Fixing public policies into a holy community open to all diversity is the only way to make alternative communities. Either we accept the holy community or global, nuclear apocalypse occurs.</span>**

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
**Fasching 1993 [**Darrell J., Professor of Religious Studies at University of South Florida, The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima, JCOOK**,** Pp 152-153]

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**__The appropriate stance […]__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Judaism and Buddhism.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
===**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">As you wish: </span>****<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Contention 5: Framework, it would take a miracle!</span>**=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">1. We advocate an ethic of affirming human dignity. Divorcing public policy from ethics of human dignity cedes political control to technicism. Acting without first recognizing the importance of human dignity magnifies doubling on a global scale and makes extinction desirable.</span>**
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Fasching ‘93 </span>**<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 9pt;">[Darrell J., Professor of Religious Studies at University of South Florida, The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima, Pp. 232-233]</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 9pt;">These technological barbarians, […] </span>**__<span style="font-family: Verdana;"> must be subordinated.</span>__**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;"> </span>
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Verdana;">**2.** </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Verdana;">**Put your util good arguments away—utilitarianism is fine under our framework of striving to achieve human dignity. However, our ethics is necessary to determine the “greatest good for the greatest number of people.”**</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana;">**Fasching and deChant '01** </span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 9pt;">[Darrell J., Professor of Religious Studies at the University of South Florida, Dell, Director of Religious Studies in the Department of Religious Studies at the University of South Florida, //Comparative Religious Ethics: A Narrative Approach,// p. 21-22]</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 9pt;">Modern philosophical forms […] ancient Israel (c.1000 BCE).</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">3.</span>****<span style="font-family: Verdana;"> Essential to stopping the sacred order is discourse on holy communities. This debate opens us open to this true form of transcendence. This debate is key to destabilizing the comfortable sacred order. This in round solvency is a prior to all things in the debate because we have a chance to create change in the real world. You as the judge must use the ballot to affirm the role of human dignity in life.</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Verdana;">Fasching ‘93 </span>**<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 9pt;">[Darrell J., Professor of Religious Studies at University of South Florida, The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima, JCOOK, Pp 45-46]</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**__<span style="font-family: Verdana;">An essential task</span>__**<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 10pt;">, […]</span>**__<span style="font-family: Verdana;"> a dialectical unity.</span>__**</span>


=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]