==[[toc]]== 
=Misc= 
==Speaker Positions== 
1A/2N- Priten Shah
1N/2A- Mihir Paradkar
==Contact Info== 
Neg Cites/questions- [[mailto:pritenshah13@gmail.com|pritenshah13@gmail.com]]
Aff Cites/questions- [[mailto:mparadkar225@gmail.com|mparadkar225@gmail.com]]
==Tournaments Attending== 
Monticello
Capitol Classic
Glenbrooks
Kentucky
MBA
Lexington
Emory
Stanford
Harvard
NDCA
NYSDCA Champions
=Affirmative= 
==1AC== 
===<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Plan Text</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Thus the plan, The United States federal government should increase Space Based Solar Power.</span>
===Monticello=== 
Inherency
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Contention One is Inherency:</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Lack of federal investment has undermined SPS development</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Cox, 3/26</span>
[William John, retired prosecutor and public interest lawyer, author and political activist, The Peoples Voice, [[http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/TPV3/Voices.php/2011/03/26/the-race-for-space-solar-energy]], BJM]

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Space-solar energy is the greatest source of untapped energy which could, potentially, completely solve the world’s energy and greenhouse gas emission problems AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">futuristic space projects.</span>
Plan
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Thus the plan, The United States federal government should increase Space Based Solar Power.</span>
Space Leadership
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Contention two is Advantages-</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Advantage one is Space Leadership-</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Space is the 21st Century battlefield – other spacefaring nations are winning the race putting the US at a competitive disadvantage – only enhancing space technology allows us to control the commons</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Dowd, 2009</span>
[Alan W., senior fellow with the
AND
, BJM]

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">The next war In 1996, the Clinton </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">not stand still while the United States regroups. </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">And, US leads in aerospace competitiveness now, but space development is key to stay ahead of China</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Wharton 2011</span> (Wharton Aerospace and Defense Report, 6/17/11, “Boeing Executive Worried about U.S. Aerospace Industry’s Future” accessed 6/27/11 [[http://executiveeducation.wharton.upenn.edu/wharton-aerospace-defense-report/Boeing-Executive-Worried-about-US-Aerospace-Industrys-Future-0611.cfm]])

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Jim Albaugh, the top executive of Boeing's </span>
**__AND__**
**__again__**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> now that the Shuttle program winds down. </span>__
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">And, The race for SSP is underway. The US needs commitment to remain competitive.</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Cox 11 </span>(William, public interest lawyer, Truthout.org, April 30, http://www.truthout.org/race-space-solar-energy/1304186557)

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">The failures of the General Electric nuclear reactors </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">economic, energy, political and military </span>problems.
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">And, An investment in space solar power is necessary to revitalize aerospace research and development, workforce, and infrastructure development</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">NSSO </span>National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study” 9-10-<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">2007,</span> http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">FINDING: The SBSP Study Group found that </span>
AND
would be a powerful expression of this<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> imperative. </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">And, SSP allows the U.S. to maintain space control – it can harden satellites, sustain unmanned warfighters, and reconstitute lost assets rapidly</span>
Kim <span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Ramos</span>, US Air Force Major, Thesis submitted for the AIR COMMAND AND STAFF COLL MAXWELL Air Force Base, “Solar Power Constellations: Implications for the United States Air Force,” April <span style="font-size: 17.33px;">2000</span> [[http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA394928]]

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Space In addition to the terrestrial implications of </span>
AND
, and repositioning <span style="font-size: 10.66px;">to meet warfighter requirements.26 </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">And, Space leadership prevents challengers</span>
Feng<span style="font-size: 17.33px;"> Hsu</span>, et al, Hsu, Ph.D. NASA GSFC, Sr. Fellow, Aerospace Technology Working Group and Ken Cox, Ph.D. Founder & Director, Aerospace Technology Working Group, 3-29-<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">2009</span>, An Aerospace Technology Working Group White Paper, Version 2.1.1, Sustainable Space Exploration and Space Development A Unified Strategic Vision, http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:GE3LprY2AvcJ:www.spacerenaissance.org/papers/A-UnifiedSpaceVision-Hsu-Cox.pdf+Sustainable+Space+Exploration+and+Space+Development+A+United+Strategic+Vision&hl=en&gl=us

Should the U.S. fail to
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">the most significant undertakings of the 21st century. </span>
China Scenario
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Scenario one is China-</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">That prevents an attack from China the equivalent of Space Pearl Harbor</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">STONE 07</span>, Christopher: B.A. from the University of Missouri, space and missile officer
[“Chinese intentions and American preparedness,” http
AND
.com/article/930/1]

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">On January 11, 2007 the Chinese launched </span>
AND
a surprise attack by a future space aggressor<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">And, Our inability to outpace China in space makes war inevitable: We would lash out based on perception.</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">TELLIS 07</span>, Ashley: Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Senior Adviser to the Undersecretary of State for Political Affairs, former Senior Policy Analyst at the RAND Corporation
[“China's Military Space Strategy,” Survival 49
AND
/tellis_china_space1.pdf]

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Finally, the growing Chinese capability for space </span>
AND
offence-defense arms race, and win<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">And, U.S.-China war will go nuclear and destroy the planet.</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">STRAITS TIMES 2k</span>
[“Regional Fallout: No one gains in war over Taiwan,” June 25, 2000, LEXIS]

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">THE high-intensity scenario </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> sovereignty above everything else.</span>
Heg Scenario
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Scenario two is Heg—</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">And, That’s key to hegemony</span>
Adam <span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Segal</span>, Senior Fellow in China Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, “Is America Losing Its Edge?,” November/December <span style="font-size: 17.33px;">2004</span>, Foreign Affairs, http://www.foreignaffairs.org/20041101facomment83601/adam-segal/is-america-losing-its-edge.html?mode=print

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Today, however, this </span>technologicaledge<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">-</span>
AND
get better at fostering technological entrepreneurship <span style="font-size: 10.66px;">at home.</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">And, Heg is the single biggest check on multiple nuclear wars, and, it solves the internal link to every conflict scenario.</span>
Robert <span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Kagan</span><span style="font-size: 18.66px;">,</span> Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and Senior Transatlantic Fellow at the German Marshall Fund, “End of Dreams, Return of History,” Hoover Institution, August/September<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">2007 </span>No. 144, [[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policy-review/article/6136]]

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> The jostling for status and influence among </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">to draw the United States back in again.</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">And, Even if heg doesn’t solve conflict, perception of collapse triggers multiple escalatory nuclear wars.</span>
Daniel <span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Drezner</span>, Assistant Professor of Political Science at University of Chicago, “The perils of hegemonic power”, 1-6-<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">2003</span> http://www.danieldrezner.com/archives/2003_01.html]

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Michael Ignatieff's cover story on empire in yesterday's </span>
AND
erase the natural emnity that comes with it.
Warming
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Advantage two is Warming-</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Warming is real and human induced – drastic emissions reductions are key to avoid dangerous climate disruptions</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Somerville 11</span> – Professor of Oceanography @ UCSD
Richard Somerville, Distinguished Professor Emeritus and Research
AND
REGULATIONS,” CQ Congressional Testimony, Lexis, BJM

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">In early 2007, at the time of </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, reaching near zero well within this century.</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">And, SPS solves warming entirely, it’s comparatively better than all other solutions.</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">NSS</span>, National Space Society , “Space Solar Power: Limitless clean energy from space”, 6-3-<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">2011</span>, [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/]])

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">The United States and the world need to </span>
AND
nearly all the electrical needs of our planet.
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">And, All other renewable energies not comparable to SPS </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Mahan,</span> author for Citizens for Space Based Solar Power, No Date Given
(Rob Mahan,
AND
Modified 06/24/2011, as)

Comparing //s//<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">pace</span>-//b//<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">ased</span>//s//<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">olar</span>//p//<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">ower</span> to nuclear
//AND//
//s//<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">olar</span>//p//<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">ower </span>does not compete with food production.
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">And, SPS solves – it’s the only solution and warming is comparatively the largest risk </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Hsu 10</span> – PhD in Engineering
Feng, PhD in Engineering, Former head
AND
ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">It has become increasingly evident that facing and </span>
AND
make a difference<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. (Gendered Language Corrected)</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">And, The lack of US commitment to Space Solar Power prevents us from addressing our energy needs</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Snead 9</span> (Mike, Aerospace engineering @
AND
/11, 8/10, OST)

**__America’s future energy security is at risk because__**
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">as a hedge against potential future national energy scarcity </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">And, Must act now – solves risky and expensive solutions in crisis</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Carnesale 11</span> – Professor of Engineering @ UCLA
Albert, PhD in Nuclear Engineering, UCLA
AND
ACC_Final_Report_Brief04.pdf

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">In the judgment of this report’s authoring committee</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">prove to be more stringent than actually needed.</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">And, not acting kills billions</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Tickell 08</span>
(Oliver, Climate Researcher, The Gaurdian, “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction”, [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]])

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">We need to get </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">and </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">us towards a similar hothouse Earth. </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">And, It’s “try or die” – 2012 is the deadline for us to get the only energy option off the ground</span>
Peter J. <span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Schubert, ’10</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">,</span> Ph.D., P.E. Packer Engineering, Inc., Winter 2010, (Online Journal of Space Communication, Issue No. 16: Solar Power SatellitesCosts, Organization, and Roadmap for SSP, <span style="font-size: 10.66px;">[[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/schubert.html]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">The Energy Information Agency (EIA) of </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">require a miracle. (gendered language corrected)</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">And, The plan is an attempt to mitigate the effects of peak oil and prevent economic impacts.</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Hirsch 5</span> (Robert, PhD Engineering and Physics & Senior Energy Program Advisor for SAIC, “The Inevitable Peaking of World Oil Production” The Atlantic Council of the United States Bulletin Vol. XVI, No. 3 AQB)
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">The era of plentiful, low-cost </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, but that </span>period of plenty is changing.
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">And, Peak oil is inevitable – focus should be on transition</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Farrell and Brandt 6</span> (A. and A., Energy and Resources Group, UC Berkeley, July 4, http://iopscience.iop.org/1748-9326/1/1/014004/pdf/1748-9326_1_1_014004.pdf AQB)
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Much attention has been given to one aspect </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">EUR forecast (Bentley 2002, Campbell 2005). </span>
Solvency
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Contention Four is Solvency:</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Solar Power Satellites are sustainable, cheap, and technologically feasible </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Lior</span>, Noam Lior, University of Pennsylvania, Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, Philadelphia, PA, April <span style="font-size: 17.33px;">2011</span> “Solar orbital power: Sustainability analysis”, http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360544210005931, Date accessed June 24, 2011

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">We have analyzed some economic, environmental and </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">an important alternative to other sustainable energy sources.</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">And, Government commitment necessary to spur SSP development and ensure American leadership</span>
Karen Cramer <span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Shea, ’10</span>, Masters in Science Technology and Public Policy with Specialty in Space Policy from the George Washington University. Attendee of the International Space University Summer Session, Winter 2010, (Online Journal of Space Communication, Issue No. 16: Solar Power Satellites, Why Has SPS R&D Received So Little Funding? [[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/shea.html]])

//S//<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">pace </span>//s//<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">olar </span>//p//<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">ower technology </span>is still in its
//<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">AND </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">to insur</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">e that our energy needs are met.</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">And, US key to lower cost of SPS—launch and assembly processes </span>
**<span style="color: #262626;">Iannotta</span>**<span style="color: #262626;">, a </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Space News Staff Writer</span><span style="color: #262626;">, </span>
<span style="color: #262626;">AND </span>
<span style="color: #262626;">Accessed on June 25, 2011. NP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">The concept faces a major barrier, however</span>
AND
-volume assembly line techniques to satellite construction.
===Glenbrooks=== 
1AC
Inherency
Contention One is Inherency:
Lack of federal investment has undermined SPS development
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Cox, 3/26</span>
[William John, retired prosecutor and public interest lawyer, author and political activist, The Peoples Voice, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/TPV3/Voices.php/2011/03/26/the-race-for-space-solar-energy]]</span>, BJM]

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Space-solar energy is the greatest __]__</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">and</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">futuristic space projects.</span>
Plan
Thus the plan, The United States federal government should increase Space Based Solar Power.
Space Mil
Contention two is Advantages-
Advantage one is Space Leadership-
**<span style="font-size: 18.66px;">Space is the 21st Century battlefield – other spacefaring nations are winning the race putting the US at a competitive disadvantage – only enhancing space technology allows us to control the commons</span>**
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Dowd, 2009</span>
[Alan W., senior fellow with the
AND
, BJM]

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">The next war In 1996, the Clinton </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">not stand still while the United States regroups. </span>
And, The race for SSP is underway. The US needs commitment to remain competitive.
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Cox 11 </span>(William, public interest lawyer, Truthout.org, April 30, http://www.truthout.org/race-space-solar-energy/1304186557)

__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">The failures of</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> the General Electric __nuclear reactors__ </span>
__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">AND </span>__
__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">economic, energy, political and military </span>problems.__
And, SSP allows the U.S. to maintain space control – it can harden satellites, sustain unmanned warfighters, and reconstitute lost assets rapidly
Kim <span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Ramos</span>, US Air Force Major, Thesis submitted for the AIR COMMAND AND STAFF COLL MAXWELL Air Force Base, “Solar Power Constellations: Implications for the United States Air Force,” April <span style="font-size: 17.33px;">2000</span> <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA394928]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Space In addition to the terrestrial implications of </span>
AND
, and repositioning <span style="font-size: 10.66px;">to meet warfighter requirements.26 </span>
Scenario one is China
That prevents an attack from China the equivalent of Space Pearl Harbor
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">STONE 07</span>, Christopher: B.A. from the University of Missouri, space and missile officer
[“Chinese intentions and American preparedness,” http
AND
.com/article/930/1]

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">On January 11, 2007 the Chinese launched </span>
AND
a surprise attack by a future space aggressor<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">.</span>
And, Our inability to outpace China in space makes war inevitable: We would lash out based on perception.
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">TELLIS 07</span>, Ashley: Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Senior Adviser to the Undersecretary of State for Political Affairs, former Senior Policy Analyst at the RAND Corporation
[“China's Military Space Strategy,” Survival 49
AND
/tellis_china_space1.pdf]

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Finally, the growing Chinese capability for space </span>
AND
offence-defense arms race, and win<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">.</span>
And, U.S.-China war will go nuclear and destroy the planet.
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">STRAITS TIMES 2k</span>
[“Regional Fallout: No one gains in war over Taiwan,” June 25, 2000, LEXIS]

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">THE high-intensity scenario </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">and</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">China puts sovereignty above everything else.</span>

Scenario Two is Iran
Iran is already militarizing; the satellites and their promising technology is enough
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Rubin ‘09</span>

[Uzi Rubin, an <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Israelis|Israeli]]</span> defense <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Engineer|engineer]]</span> and analyst. Rubin is considered one of the pre-eminent analysts of missile systems in the Middle East.“America's new space rivals; Iran, North Korea swoop to conquer,” SPECIAL TO THE WASHINGTON TIMES,,March 20, 2009, newspaper.]

Iran's <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">recent breakthrough in </span>placing its own satellite
AND
to drop a significant bomb anywhere on Earth.

And, a strike on satellites from Iran paralyzes US ground forces, collapses global economy, pollutes space, and increases chances of nuclear miscalc
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Myers ‘8</span> (Steven Lee, <span style="color: #000000;">DC reporter for The New York Times, </span>3-9-08, “Look Out Below. The Arms Race in Space May Be On,” http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/09/weekinreview/09myers.html)
IT doesn’t take much imagination to realize how
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Bush has tenaciously sought to protect and enlarge. </span>

Warming
Advantage two is Warming-
Warming is real and human induced – drastic emissions reductions are key to avoid dangerous climate disruptions
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Somerville 11</span> – Professor of Oceanography @ UCSD
Richard Somerville, Distinguished Professor Emeritus and Research
AND
REGULATIONS,” CQ Congressional Testimony, Lexis, BJM

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">In early 2007, at the time of </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, reaching near zero well within this century.</span>
And, SPS solves warming entirely, it’s comparatively better than all other solutions.
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">NSS</span>, National Space Society , “Space Solar Power: Limitless clean energy from space”, 6-3-<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">2011</span>, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">The United States and the world need to </span>
AND
nearly all the electrical needs of our planet.
And, All other renewable energies not comparable to SPS
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Mahan,</span> author for Citizens for Space Based Solar Power, No Date Given
(Rob Mahan,
AND
Modified 06/24/2011, as)

Comparing __s____<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">pace</span>-____b____<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">ased</span>____s____<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">olar</span>____p____<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">ower</span> to nuclear__
__AND__ 
__s____<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">olar</span>____p____<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">ower </span>does not compete with food production.__
And, SPS solves – it’s the only solution and warming is comparatively the largest risk
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Hsu 10</span> – PhD in Engineering
Feng, PhD in Engineering, Former head
AND
ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">It has become increasingly evident that __facing and__ </span>
AND
make a difference<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. (Gendered Language Corrected)</span>
And, The lack of US commitment to Space Solar Power prevents us from addressing our energy needs
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Snead 9</span> (Mike, Aerospace engineering @ AFIT, Lead structures engineer ASD, http://spacefaringamerica.net/2009/08/10/26--getting-behind-space-solar-power.aspx.aspx, DA 6/23/11, 8/10, OST)

America’s future energy security is at risk because
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">as a hedge against potential future national energy scarcity </span>
And, not acting kills billions
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Tickell 08</span>
(Oliver, Climate Researcher, The Gaurdian, “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction”, <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">We need to get </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">and</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> propel us towards a similar hothouse Earth. </span>


And, CO2 absorbed by oceans causes acidification- It’s basic chemistry
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Scientific American 09</span><span style="color: #000000;"> (Carbon dioxide may be acidifying seawater faster than thought, Charles Q. Choi, February 5th)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A</span><span style="color: #000000;"> lesser-known </span>consequence of <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">having</span><span style="color: #000000;"> a </span>
AND
more quickly than climate change models have predicted.


**<span style="font-size: 18.66px;">And, Ocean acidification kills phytoplankton and causes extinction - two internal links- loss of phytoplankton causes collapse of major fisheries and death of billions- and loss of phytoplankton causes the loss of the single biggest absorber of CO2. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Romm 10</span> (<span style="color: #000000;">Joseph J. Rommis an American author, blogger, physicist</span>[[@http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joseph_J._Romm#cite_note-0|[1]]]<span style="color: #000000;"> and climate expert</span>[[@http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joseph_J._Romm#cite_note-1|[2]]]<span style="color: #000000;"> who concentrates on methods of reducing </span>__<span style="color: #0658b5;">greenhouse gas</span>__<span style="color: #000000;"> emissions and </span>__<span style="color: #0658b5;">global warming</span>__<span style="color: #000000;"> and increasing </span>__<span style="color: #0658b5;">energy security</span>__<span style="color: #000000;"> through </span>__<span style="color: #0658b5;">energy efficiency</span>__<span style="color: #000000;">, </span>__<span style="color: #0658b5;">green energy</span>__<span style="color: #000000;"> technologies and green transportation technologies. Nature Stunner: “Global warming blamed for 40% decline in the ocean’s phytoplankton”, July 29, 2010)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Scientists may have found </span>the most devastating impact
AND
want to savemarine life — and ourselves<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>

And, It’s “try or die” – 2012 is the deadline for us to get the only energy option off the ground
Peter J. <span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Schubert, ’10</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">,</span> Ph.D., P.E. Packer Engineering, Inc., Winter 2010, (Online Journal of Space Communication, Issue No. 16: Solar Power SatellitesCosts, Organization, and Roadmap for SSP, <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.66px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/schubert.html]]</span>)

__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">The</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> Energy Information Agency (__EIA__) of </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">require a miracle. (gendered language corrected)</span>
And, The plan is an attempt to mitigate the effects of peak oil and prevent economic impacts.
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Hirsch 5</span> (Robert, PhD Engineering and Physics & Senior Energy Program Advisor for SAIC, “The Inevitable Peaking of World Oil Production” The Atlantic Council of the United States Bulletin Vol. XVI, No. 3 AQB)

__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">The era of plentiful, low-cost </span>__
__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">AND </span>__
__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, but that </span>period of plenty is changing.__
And, Peak oil is inevitable – focus should be on transition
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Farrell and Brandt 6</span> (A. and A., Energy and Resources Group, UC Berkeley, July 4, http://iopscience.iop.org/1748-9326/1/1/014004/pdf/1748-9326_1_1_014004.pdf AQB)

__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Much attention has been given to</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> one aspect </span>
__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">AND </span>__
__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">EUR forecast </span>__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">(Bentley 2002, Campbell 2005). </span>
Solvency
Contention Three is Solvency:
Solar Power Satellites are sustainable, cheap, and technologically feasible
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Lior</span>, Noam Lior, University of Pennsylvania, Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, Philadelphia, PA, April <span style="font-size: 17.33px;">2011</span> “Solar orbital power: Sustainability analysis”, http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360544210005931, Date accessed June 24, 2011

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">We have analyzed some economic, environmental and </span>
__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">AND </span>__
__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">an important alternative to other sustainable energy sources.</span>__
And, Government commitment necessary to spur SSP development and ensure American leadership
Karen Cramer <span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Shea, ’10</span>, Masters in Science Technology and Public Policy with Specialty in Space Policy from the George Washington University. Attendee of the International Space University Summer Session, Winter 2010, (Online Journal of Space Communication, Issue No. 16: Solar Power Satellites, Why Has SPS R&D Received So Little Funding? <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/shea.html]]</span>)

__S____<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">pace </span>____s____<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">olar </span>____p____<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">ower technology </span>is still in its__
__AND__ 
__to insur____<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">e that our energy needs are met</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">.</span>
Framework
Contention Four is Framework
The negative must answer our framework in the 1NC and establish their own framework. This sets the entire foundation of the debate and it is unreasonable for them to present it in the 2NC after we have already answered the K. This is more ridiculous than allowing the affirmative to read the plan in the 2AC after the negative speaks because it’s a meta question and we only have a 5 minute 1AR
The neg must defend a competitive policy option or the status quo versus a topical affirmative to be evaluated on the basis of the consequences of adoption. Our framework is best for a few reasons:
Ground – The neg will always win that the principles of their advocacy are good in the abstract – we can only debate the merits of their framework if they defend the specific consequences of political implementation

<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Ignatieff 4</span>
[Michael, Carr professor of human rights at Harvard, 2004 //Lesser Evils// p. 18-19]

As for<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">moral perfectionism, </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">and</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">anothe</span>r.

Limits – the fairness of the negative’s advocacy must precede consideration of its merits or else all contestation is meaningless
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Shively 2K</span>
[Ruth Lessl, Associate Professor of Political 
//AND// 
//Partisan Politics//, p. 181-2]

The requirements given thus far are primarily negative
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">contestation rests on some basic agreement</span>or harmony.
And, their ridiculous alternatives won’t solve any of our case -- warming is a prisoner’s dilemma and as such requires coercive regulatory regimes to keep everyone in check
Gardinerlecturer in Philosophy @ UCanterbury2k1–
AND
30.4 (2001) 387-416

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">If my analysis of the inter- and </span>
AND
stopped. This should be the political priority.
===Ohio Valley=== 

Inherency
Contention One is Inherency:
Lack of federal investment has undermined SPS development
Cox, 3/26
[William John, retired prosecutor and public interest lawyer, author and political activist, The Peoples Voice, [[http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/TPV3/Voices.php/2011/03/26/the-race-for-space-solar-energy]], BJM]

Space-solar
AND
developingfuturistic space projects.
Plan
Thus the plan, The United States federal government should increase Space Based Solar Power.
Space Mil
Contention two is Advantages-
Advantage one is Space Leadership-
Space is the 21st Century battlefield – other spacefaring nations are winning the race putting the US at a competitive disadvantage – only enhancing space technology allows us to control the commons
Dowd, 2009
[Alan W., senior fellow with the
AND
, BJM]

The next war In 1996, the Clinton
AND
not stand still while the United States regroups.
And, The race for SSP is underway. The US needs commitment to remain competitive.
Cox 11 (William, public interest lawyer, Truthout.org, April 30, http://www.truthout.org/race-space-solar-energy/1304186557)

The failures of the General Electric nuclear reactors
AND
economic, energy, political and military problems.
And, SSP allows the U.S. to maintain space control – it can harden satellites, sustain unmanned warfighters, and reconstitute lost assets rapidly
Kim Ramos, US Air Force Major, Thesis submitted for the AIR COMMAND AND STAFF COLL MAXWELL Air Force Base, “Solar Power Constellations: Implications for the United States Air Force,” April 2000[[http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA394928]]

Space In addition to the terrestrial implications of
AND
, and repositioning to meet warfighter requirements.26
Scenario one is China
That prevents an attack from China the equivalent of Space Pearl Harbor
STONE 07, Christopher: B.A. from the University of Missouri, space and missile officer
[“Chinese intentions and American preparedness,” http
AND
.com/article/930/1]

On January 11, 2007 the Chinese launched
AND
a surprise attack by a future space aggressor.
China perceives that the US has already militarized space
Dwayne Day, November 14, 2011
AND


To the Chinese this includes hitting American space
AND
“space weapons” and therefore legitimate targets.
According to Pollpeter, a common theme in
AND
can see and hear everything with their satellites.
The Chinese also believe that space will inevitably
AND
down American satellites at the outset of any conflict
And, Our inability to outpace China in space makes war inevitable: We would lash out based on perception.
TELLIS 07, Ashley: Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Senior Adviser to the Undersecretary of State for Political Affairs, former Senior Policy Analyst at the RAND Corporation
[“China's Military Space Strategy,” Survival 49
AND
/tellis_china_space1.pdf]

Finally, the growing Chinese capability for space
AND
offence-defense arms race, and win.
And, U.S.-China war will go nuclear and destroy the planet.
STRAITS TIMES 2k
[“Regional Fallout: No one gains in war over Taiwan,” June 25, 2000, LEXIS]

THE high-intensity
And
, for China puts sovereignty above everything else.

Scenario Two is Iran
Iran is already militarizing; the satellites and their promising technology is enough
Rubin ‘09

[Uzi Rubin, an [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Israelis|Israeli]] defense [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Engineer|engineer]] and analyst. Rubin is considered one of the pre-eminent analysts of missile systems in the Middle East.“America's new space rivals; Iran, North Korea swoop to conquer,” SPECIAL TO THE WASHINGTON TIMES,,March 20, 2009, newspaper.]

Iran's recent breakthrough in placing its own satellite
AND
to drop a significant bomb anywhere on Earth.
And, a strike on satellites from Iran paralyzes US ground forces, collapses global economy, pollutes space, and increases chances of nuclear miscalc
Myers ‘8 (Steven Lee, DC reporter for The New York Times, 3-9-08, “Look Out Below. The Arms Race in Space May Be On,” http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/09/weekinreview/09myers.html)
IT doesn’t take much imagination to realize how
AND
Bush has tenaciously sought to protect and enlarge.

Warming
Advantage two is Warming-
Warming is real and human induced – drastic emissions reductions are key to avoid dangerous climate disruptions
Somerville 11 – Professor of Oceanography @ UCSD
Richard Somerville, Distinguished Professor Emeritus and Research
AND
REGULATIONS,” CQ Congressional Testimony, Lexis, BJM

In early 2007, at the time of
AND
, reaching near zero well within this century.
And, All other renewable energies not comparable to SPS
Mahan, author for Citizens for Space Based Solar Power, No Date Given
(Rob Mahan,
AND
Modified 06/24/2011, as)

Comparing space-basedsolarpower to nuclear power,
AND
-basedsolarpower does not compete with food production.
And, SPS solves – it’s the only solution and warming is comparatively the largest risk
Hsu 10 – PhD in Engineering
Feng, PhD in Engineering, Former head
AND
ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html

It has become increasingly evident that facing and
AND
make a difference. (Gendered Language Corrected)

And, not acting kills billions
Tickell 08
(Oliver, Climate Researcher, The Gaurdian, “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction”, [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]])

We need to get
AND
similar hothouse Earth.
And, CO2 absorbed by oceans causes acidification- It’s basic chemistry
Scientific American 09 (Carbon dioxide may be acidifying seawater faster than thought, Charles Q. Choi, February 5th)

A lesser-known consequence of having a
AND
more quickly than climate change models have predicted.
And, Ocean acidification kills phytoplankton and causes extinction - two internal links- loss of phytoplankton causes collapse of major fisheries and death of billions- and loss of phytoplankton causes the loss of the single biggest absorber of CO2.
Romm 10 (Joseph J. Rommis an American author, blogger, physicist[[@http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joseph_J._Romm#cite_note-0|[1]]] and climate expert[[@http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joseph_J._Romm#cite_note-1|[2]]] who concentrates on methods of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and global warming and increasing energy security through energy efficiency, green energy technologies and green transportation technologies.Nature Stunner: “Global warming blamed for 40% decline in the ocean’s phytoplankton”, July 29, 2010)
Scientists may have found the most devastating impact
AND
we want to savemarine life — and ourselves.
And, It’s “try or die” – 2012 is the deadline for us to get the only energy option off the ground
Peter J. Schubert, ’10, Ph.D., P.E. Packer Engineering, Inc., Winter 2010, (Online Journal of Space Communication, Issue No. 16: Solar Power SatellitesCosts, Organization, and Roadmap for SSP, [[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/schubert.html]])

The Energy Information Agency (EIA) of
AND
require a miracle. (gendered language corrected)

95% of researchers who are working in climate science agree with the consensus
Cook 10 (John Cook, the Climate
AND
-Liners to Respond to Climate Science Myths)

Scientists need to back up their opinions with
AND
agreement that humans are significantly changing global temperatures.
U.S. needs to take the leading role in climate change.
Cordell Eddings, Justin Naab, Qun Wang, Manager of Technical Services and Hardware Engineer at Indiana University, “Why the United States Must Act on Global Warming”, December 10, 2007
It is essential that the United States take
AND
role than there is little hope for progress.

And, Peak oil is inevitable – focus should be on transition
Farrell and Brandt 6 (A. and A., Energy and Resources Group, UC Berkeley, July 4, http://iopscience.iop.org/1748-9326/1/1/014004/pdf/1748-9326_1_1_014004.pdf AQB)

Much attention has been given to one aspect
AND
EUR forecast (Bentley 2002, Campbell 2005).
Solvency
Contention Three is Solvency:
Solar Power Satellites are sustainable, cheap, and technologically feasible
Lior, Noam Lior, University of Pennsylvania, Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, Philadelphia, PA, April 2011 “Solar orbital power: Sustainability analysis”, http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360544210005931, Date accessed June 24, 2011

We have analyzed some economic, environmental and
AND
an important alternative to other sustainable energy sources.
And, Government commitment necessary to spur SSP development and ensure American leadership
Karen Cramer Shea, ’10, Masters in Science Technology and Public Policy with Specialty in Space Policy from the George Washington University. Attendee of the International Space University Summer Session, Winter 2010, (Online Journal of Space Communication, Issue No. 16: Solar Power Satellites, Why Has SPS R&D Received So Little Funding? [[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/shea.html]])

Space solar power technology is still in its
AND
to insure that our energy needs are met.
Framework
Contention Four is Framework
The negative must answer our framework in the 1NC and establish their own framework. This sets the entire foundation of the debate and it is unreasonable for them to present it in the 2NC after we have already answered the K. This is more ridiculous than allowing the affirmative to read the plan in the 2AC after the negative speaks because it’s a meta question and we only have a 5 minute 1AR
The neg must defend a competitive policy option or the status quo versus a topical affirmative to be evaluated on the basis of the consequences of adoption. Our framework is best for a few reasons:
Ground – The neg will always win that the principles of their advocacy are good in the abstract – we can only debate the merits of their framework if they defend the specific consequences of political implementation- Therefore the role of the ballot must be to weigh the costs and benefits of implementation of a competitive policy option or the status quo

Ignatieff 4
[Michael,Carr professor of human rights at Harvard, 2004Lesser Evils p. 18-19]

As formoral perfectionism, this would be the
AND
one right might lead us to betray another.
Topical Education – By manipulating the topic to access their criticism they skirt debate about the implementation of policies by the government. Their education is distrusting of institutional study and pragmatic reform. Even if their intentions are noble, their message results in fascist totalitarianism
Lewis 92
[Martin, Assistant Professor at George Washington, Green Delusions, p. 258]

A majority of those born between 1960 and
AND
immorality, and constitutional refinements become inconvenient niceties.

===Big Lex=== 
Inherency
Contention One is Inherency:
Lack of federal investment has undermined SPS development
Cox, 3/26
[William John, retired prosecutor and public interest lawyer, author and political activist, The Peoples Voice, [[http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/TPV3/Voices.php/2011/03/26/the-race-for-space-solar-energy]], BJM]

Space-solar energy is
AND developingfuturistic space projects.
Plan
Thus the plan, The United States federal government should increase Space Based Solar Power.
Harening
Contention two is Advantages-
Advantage one is Hardening-
Space is the 21st Century battlefield – other spacefaring nations are winning the race putting the US at a competitive disadvantage – only enhancing space technology allows us to control the commons
Dowd, 2009
[Alan W., senior fellow with the
AND
, BJM]

The next war In 1996, the Clinton
AND
not stand still while the United States regroups.
And, SSP allows the U.S. to maintain space control – it can harden satellites, sustain unmanned warfighters, and reconstitute lost assets rapidly
Kim Ramos, US Air Force Major, Thesis submitted for the AIR COMMAND AND STAFF COLL MAXWELL Air Force Base, “Solar Power Constellations: Implications for the United States Air Force,” April 2000[[http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA394928]]

Space In addition to the terrestrial implications of
AND
, and repositioning to meet warfighter requirements.26
Scenario one is China
China perceives that the US has already militarized space
Dwayne Day, November 14, 2011
AND


To the Chinese this includes hitting American space
AND
“space weapons” and therefore legitimate targets.
According to Pollpeter, a common theme in
AND
can see and hear everything with their satellites.
TheChinese also believe thatspace will inevitably become a
AND
down American satellites at the outset of any conflict
We prevent an attack from China the equivalent of Space Pearl Harbor
STONE 07, Christopher: B.A. from the University of Missouri, space and missile officer
[“Chinese intentions and American preparedness,” http
AND
.com/article/930/1]

On January 11, 2007 the Chinese launched
AND
a surprise attack by a future space aggressor.
And, Our inability to outpace China in space makes war inevitable: We would lash out based on perception.
TELLIS 07, Ashley: Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Senior Adviser to the Undersecretary of State for Political Affairs, former Senior Policy Analyst at the RAND Corporation
[“China's Military Space Strategy,” Survival 49
AND
/tellis_china_space1.pdf]

Finally, the growing Chinese capability for space
AND
offence-defense arms race, and win.
And, U.S.-China war will go nuclear and destroy the planet.
STRAITS TIMES 2k
[“Regional Fallout: No one gains in war over Taiwan,” June 25, 2000, LEXIS]

THE high-intensity scenario
ANDsovereignty above everything else.

Scenario Two is Iran
Iran is already militarizing; the satellites and their promising technology is enough
Rubin ‘09[Uzi Rubin, an [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Israelis|Israeli]] defense [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Engineer|engineer]] and analyst. Rubin is considered one of the pre-eminent analysts of missile systems in the Middle East.“America's new space rivals; Iran, North Korea swoop to conquer,” SPECIAL TO THE WASHINGTON TIMES,,March 20, 2009, newspaper.]

Iran's recent breakthrough in placing its own satellite
AND
to drop a significant bomb anywhere on Earth.
And, a strike on satellites from Iran paralyzes US ground forces, collapses global economy, pollutes space, and increases chances of nuclear miscalc
Myers ‘8 (Steven Lee, DC reporter for The New York Times, 3-9-08, “Look Out Below. The Arms Race in Space May Be On,” http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/09/weekinreview/09myers.html)
IT doesn’t take much imagination to realize how
AND
Bush has tenaciously sought to protect and enlarge.

Warming
Advantage two is Warming-
Warming is real and human induced – drastic emissions reductions are key to avoid dangerous climate disruptions
Somerville 11 – Professor of Oceanography @ UCSD
Richard Somerville, Distinguished Professor Emeritus and Research
AND
REGULATIONS,” CQ Congressional Testimony, Lexis, BJM

In early 2007, at the time of
AND
, reaching near zero well within this century.

SPS transitions the international community from fossil fuels
O’Neill 8 (Ian, PhD U Wales and founder of Astrongine, June, [[http://www.universetoday.com/14646/harvesting-solar-power-from-space/]], AD 7/5/11, AV)
It sounds like the perfect plan: build
AND
energy to disaster (and war-) zones.

And, All other renewable energies not comparable to SPS
Mahan, author for Citizens for Space Based Solar Power, No Date Given
(Rob Mahan,
AND
Modified 06/24/2011, as)

Comparing space-basedsolarpower to nuclear power,
AND
Space-basedsolarpowerdoes not compete with food production.
Not acting kills billions
Tickell 08
(Oliver, Climate Researcher, The Gaurdian, “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction”, [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]])

We need to get prepared
AND towards a similar hothouse Earth.
And, CO2 absorbed by oceans causes acidification- It’s basic chemistry
Scientific American 09(Carbon dioxide may be acidifying seawater faster than thought, Charles Q. Choi, February 5th)MPARA

A lesser-known consequence of having a
AND
more quickly than climate change models have predicted.
And, Ocean acidification kills phytoplankton and causes extinction- collapses marine food web and accelerates warming
Romm 10 (Joseph J. Rommis an American author, blogger, physicist[[@http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joseph_J._Romm#cite_note-0|[1]]] and climate expert[[@http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joseph_J._Romm#cite_note-1|[2]]] who concentrates on methods of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and global warming and increasing energy security through energy efficiency, green energy technologies and green transportation technologies.Nature Stunner: “Global warming blamed for 40% decline in the ocean’s phytoplankton”, July 29, 2010)MPARA
Scientists may have found the most devastating impact
AND
we want to savemarine life — and ourselves.
Scenario two is
And, Peak oil is inevitable – focus should be on transition
Farrell and Brandt 6 (A. and A., Energy and Resources Group, UC Berkeley, July 4, http://iopscience.iop.org/1748-9326/1/1/014004/pdf/1748-9326_1_1_014004.pdf AQB)

Much attention has been given to one aspect
AND
EUR forecast (Bentley 2002, Campbell 2005).

And, We have reached the peak of accessible oil
Los Angeles Times, July 22, 2008,[[http://www.commondreams.org/archive/2008/07/22/10515/]]

The day-to-day cost of
AND
is more difficult, expensive and environmentally harmful.

And, Major oil shocks would plunge the world into nuclear war.
Lauria 08 – (Joe - New York-based investigative journalist. A freelance member of the Sunday Times of London Insight team, he has also worked on investigations for the Boston Globe and Bloomberg News., The Huffington Post, April 14, “The Coming War with Iran: It’s About the Oil, Stupid,” [[http://www.commondreams.org/archive/2008/04/14/8282/]])

The Saudis would not mind seeing the Iranian
AND
project. It’s about the oil, stupid.
And, U.S. needs to take the leading role in climate change.
CordellEddings, Justin Naab, QunWang,Manager of Technical Services and Hardware Engineer at Indiana University, “Why the United States Must Act on Global Warming”, December 10, 2007
It is essential that the United States take
AND
role than there is little hope for progress.

Solvency
Contention Three is Solvency:
SSP is viable – we have the technology
O. Glenn Smith, a former manager
AND

AS we face $4.50 a
AND
to sending up a solar power satellite system.
SPS costs comparable to terrestrial power and without energy interruptions
Smith, president of the Long Island Space Society, 04
(Arthur P. Smith, November 1
AND
, JP)

Worldwide more than a trillion dollars a year
AND
those components to their final destination in space.
Current costs put the capital investment needed for
AND
are within reach of a large utility project.
The cost of components is the first problem
AND
now competitive for homeowner installation in many areas.
In space you can get peak power almost
AND
be an obstacle to large-scale installation.
SSP beaming is efficient, constant, and safe, but is not concentrated enough to be weaponized
NSSO, 2007, SBSP Study Group, 2007, 10 October 2007, (National Security Space Office, Space-Based Solar Power, As an Opportunity for Strategic Security, Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study, [[http://www.acq.osd.mil/nsso/solar/SBSPInterimAssesment0.1.pdf]])

FINDING: The SBSP Study Group found that
AND
if occurring would be extremely anti-climactic.
SBSP damage to ozone is negligible
Parson 10
Robert Parson, Professor of Chemistry and Biochemistry, 10-2010, “Do Space Shuttle Launches Damage the Ozone Layer,” Science and Engineering, http://stason.org/TULARC/science-engineering/ozone-depletion-intro/23-Do-Space-Shuttle-launches-damage-the-ozone-layer.html

23 Do Space Shuttle launches
AND
to about 75,000 tons per year.

Frequent launch of SBSP allows cheap launch without any advances in tech
Chapman 10 (Phillip, geophysicist and astronautical engineer, Online Journal of Space Communication, Issue 16, Winter, [[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/chapman.html]], accessed: 25 June 2011, JT)
It is important to recognize that spaceflight is
AND
global capacity that we will need by then.
Studies prove no interference
Ramos 2k—Kim, Major in the USAF and graduate of the AIR COMMAND AND STAFF COLLEGE
April 2000, “SOLAR POWER CONSTELLATIONSIMPLICATIONS FOR
AND
a7103406f67d/display.aspx?rs=enginespage

The final barrier to implementation is frequency interference
AND
not be strong enough to interfere with telecommunications.
Hydrophobic polymers shield SPS from radiation
Taylor et al 10 (EW, International Photonics Consultant, IEEE, June, [[http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5617191]], accessed 6-27-11, CH)

The emergence of new radiation resistant organic-
AND
surfaces found in space, aerospace and terrestrial applications
SBSP satellites are safe from debris
Powersat 2010 ((international SBSP cooperation) [[http://www.powersat.com/faq.html]])

Collision with space junk is unlikely for a
AND
the entire satellite and can be easily replaced.


And, Government commitment necessary to spur SSP development and ensure American leadership
Karen Cramer Shea, ’10, Masters in Science Technology and Public Policy with Specialty in Space Policy from the George Washington University. Attendee of the International Space University Summer Session, Winter 2010, (Online Journal of Space Communication, Issue No. 16: Solar Power Satellites, Why Has SPS R&D Received So Little Funding? [[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/shea.html]])

Space solar power technology is still in its
AND
to insure that our energy needs are met.



=Negative= 
==DAs== 

===Politics=== 
We currently read payroll tax cuts- its impractical to put the shells up every tournament/round because it takes up too much room-- if you have any questions/want cites please email
[[mailto:pritenshah13@gmail.com|pritenshah13@gmail.com]]
===Military Trade-Off DA=== 
===JWST Trade-Off DA=== 
===Russian Oil DA=== 
===China Politics DA=== 
==CPs== 
===China CP=== 
T**ext: The United States federal government should give DSCOVR to the People’s Republic of China. The People’s Republic of China should launch DSCOVR.**
**That solves the aff – China’s space program is well funded, developed, and growing. Plus they’ll cooperate to share whatever the develop or find AND internal policies insure they have the best tech available.**
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">TELLIS 08</span> senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace
[Ashley J. Tellis, China’s Space Capabilities and U.S. Security Interests, Ashley J. Tellis, October 08, [[http://www.carnegie.ru/publications/?fa=22595]]]
Ks
===none yet=== 
==Ts== 
T- Increase
**<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">A. ‘Increase’ refers to a process, not an outcome --- the plan itself must increase exploration and/or development --- it cannot simply lead to it</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">HEFC 4</span>** (Higher Education Funding Council,
<span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.publications.parliament.uk/pa/jt200304/jtselect/jtchar/1|AND ]]</span>
67/167we98.htm# n43)

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">9.1 The Draft Bill creates an </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">could be considered to be ever-increasing.</span>
==Case Neg== 
nothing out of the ordinary yet...
=Round Specifics= 
==Monticello== 
===Round 1- Neg Vs Technology=== 
1AC- Light Pollution
2NR- Object Fiat/T- Exploration
(picked up)
===Round 2- BYE=== 
===Round 3- Neg Vs American History BW=== 
1AC- K of Rez (heid)
2NR- Framework
(picked up)
===Round 4- AFF vs Edgemont BK=== 
1AC- SPS
2NR- Kritik (security)
2AR- Perf Con Bad
(picked up)
===Round 5- Neg vs Edgemont JN=== 
1AC- Sustain
2NR- China Politics/Case Deffense
(dropped)
===Semis- Aff vs Newark=== 
1AC- SPS
2NR- Nietzche K
2AR- Condo Bad
(dropped on 2-1 decision)
==Glenbrooks== 
===Round 1- Aff vs Pine Crest Prep=== 
1AC- SPS
2NR- Commission/Payroll Tax Cuts
2AR- nothing special
(dropped)
===Round 2 Neg vs River Hill=== 
1AC- D&G
2NR- Doubling
(dropped)
===Round 3 Neg vs Niles West=== 
1AC- SPS
2NR-PayRoll/China Politics
(picked up)
===Round 4 Aff vs North College Prep=== 
1AC- SPS
2NR- T- human presence
2AR- theory vs T
(dropped)
===Round 5 Neg vs Highland Prep (MN)=== 
1AC- Nietzche
2NR- Framework
(picked up)
===Round 6 Aff vs Pembrooke=== 
1AC- SPS
2NR- National Referendum Cp
2AR- nothing special
(dropped)
===Round 7 Aff vs Denver School of Arts=== 
1AC- SPS
2NR- Consult India/Indian Relations DA
2AR- Perm
(picked up)
==Ohio Valley== 
===Round 1 Aff vs Groves GK=== 
1AC- SPS
2NR- International Cooperation CP, India-Relations Disad
2AR- Impact turn to int coop + relations
(dropped)
===Round 2 Neg vs Niles West=== 
1AC- SPS
2NR- Bauman K
===Round 3 Aff vs=== 
===Round 4 Neg vs=== 
===Round 5 Neg vs=== 
===Round 6 Neg vs=== 


[[toc|flat]]
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]