[[toc]]
=AFFIRMATIVE= 
==1AC Westside== 

**All this debate season we have talked about acronyms—thing like ASATs, ORS, SPS, TSATs, without giving a thought to what these things actually mean, or how they would actually affect the world. Heck, most of us don’t even know how they work. We’ve talked about things ranging from using Pebbles in space to increase some nebulous quota of hegemony, to somehow using space to mystically explore our nebulous inner being. We haven’t given a thought to how space and the earth are intertwined. So, to begin these eight minutes, we ask you to listen to this narrative of a family living in the Philippines.**
**__Guardian 11__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Philippines floods: 'We were praying God should stop the rise of the water' Sunshine Lichauco de Leon, Tuesday 20 December 2011 07.40 EST http://www.guardian.co.uk/global-development/2011/dec/20/philippines-floods-praying-rise-water</span>
**__<span style="background-color: #a9a9a9;">It's been three days since </span>… I have experienced a miracle."__**


**Our impacts aren’t mere speculations or predictions. Our impacts aren’t the predictions of some guy sitting in the Cato institute waxing eloquent about the benefits of hegemony, or some philosophy major locked in his ivory tower. The impact of climate related disasters are real and happening now. They range from the 18 killer storms this year that destroyed homes and lives, to massive floods in Vietnam that force thousands from their homes, to droughts in the Philippines that cause millions to go hungry.**
**__Oxfam no date__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.oxfam.org.au/explore/climate-change/impacts-of-climate-change]], Oxfam is a NGO (non-governmental organization) that seeks to alleviate conditions of global poverty in cooperation with global governments and organizations</span>
**__While Australia is feeling the effects ... collect water for their families.__**


**Despite the reality of these impacts, people—especially the modern right wing—turns a blind eye to the sky. Even though virtually every scientific report confirms the effects of climate change, and millions of dollars pour out to remediate the devastation caused by climate related weather disasters each year, denialism continues to run rampant.**
**__CFR 11__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 9/25/11 Council on Foreign Relations, reposted from the AP written by Charles Hanley AP Special correspondent, AP: The American 'Allergy' to Global Warming: Why?,http://www.cfr.org/climate-change/ap-american-allergy-global-warming-why/p26042?cid=rss-fullfeed-apthe_americanallergyto_-092511&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+cfr_main+%28CFR.org+-+Main+Site+Feed%29&utm_content=Google+Reader</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> NEW YORK (AP) — Tucked between treatises … </span>**__habitat that sustains us."__**


**This blindness and denial manifests itself into a refusal to do anything about the effects of climate and climate related disasters. Here’s what the refusal to see the reality of the world leads to: satellites that are crucial to predict hurricanes and tornados have been cut from their funding, bills have been proposed that would strip the EPA of its ability to regulate carbon emissions, scientists have been accused of “global conspiracies”, and millions of people have been condemned to death because being hit by a hurricane or drought means they’ve unwittingly stepped into the climate conspiracy.**
**__Gore 11__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Al Gore: Climate of Denial Can science and the truth withstand the merchants of poison? [[http://www.rollingstone.com/politics/news/climate-of-denial-20110622?page=2]] JUNE 22, 2011 7:45 AM ET</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The first time I remember … </span> **__several millennia to come__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


**The blind eye to the impacts of climate change and weather disasters is modern structural oppression at its finest. The politics of denial act to preserve the interests of the neocons, ignoring the impact borne by the economically and socially oppressed.**
**__Mooney 11__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Chris Mooney, science and political journalist specializing in science in politics, the psychology of denialism, Knight Science Journalism Fellow, MIT; Visiting Associate, Center for Collaborative History, Princeton U; 8/2/11 (“What’s Up With Conservative White Men and Climate Change Denial?,” [[http://www.desmogblog.com/what-s-conservative-white-men-and-climate-change-denial]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">They’re the conservative white men … climate denial blogs serve to fan the flames.</span>


**The consequences of this discrimination is equivalent to an ongoing genocide. Denial risks the lives of hundreds of millions who will die and suffer in famine, flood, disease, and disasters that are exponentially increasing. This is not some antiquated historic event; rather it is a genocide which we are morally obligated to prevent, and one which we are able to prevent.**
**__Hamilton 9__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Hamilton: Denying the coming global holocaust [[http://www.crikey.com.au/2009/11/16/hamilton-denying-the-coming-climate-holocaust/]] [Clive Hamilton, Professor of Public Ethics at the Centre for Applied Philosophy and Public Ethics (CAPPE)[1] and the Vice-Chancellor's Chair in Public Ethics at Charles Sturt University.[2] He is the Founder and former Executive Director of the The Australia Institute. Overseas Commonwealth Postgraduate Scholar and completed his Doctorate at the Institute of Development Studies at the University of Sussex. Senior Visiting Fellow of the School of Forestry and Environmental Studies of Yale University. Professor at Oxford.]</span>
**__Climate sceptics resent being … do nothing they will die.__**


**These systematic harms of structural violence must come before linear impact calculations – the structural violence of the poorest of the poor have caused thermonuclear wars every year of every decade**
**__Abu-Jamal 98__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mumia, award-winning PA journalist, 9/19, [[http://www.flashpoints.net/mQuietDeadlyViolence.html]])</span>
**__We live,__** **__equally immersed, … throughout the world.__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Gilligan, p. 196]</span>


===**Thus the Plan:**=== 
**The United States federal government should substantially increase funding, development and launch of space based systems beyond the mesosphere in order to track and monitor climate change and weather disasters.**


**Current space weather monitoring systems are dangerously outdated. Politicians have casually dismissed these crucial systems as “unnecessary” and unworthy of funding. This leads to dangerous data gaps and inability to predict weather disasters.**
**Anderson 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mitchell, Staff Writer, The Tyee News, Vancouver Based Science Journalist, The Satellite that Could Save the World, [[http://mitchellanderson.blogspot.com/2010/02/satellite-that-could-save-world.html]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The media missed the real … were seeking to delay costly regulation o</span>


**Moreover, the data gleaned from weather satellites are a powerful tool to drive the actions of the state and influence the beliefs of the public. This data is key to drive new, effective environmental policies.**
**Flourny 03** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Alyson Flournoy, Professor, University of Florida, Levin College of Law. Fall 2003. “Building Environmental Ethics from the Ground Up.”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thus, it takes a concerted effort to identify … thinking about why we care worthwhile. </span>


**Our advocacy is also an advocacy for awareness. Before this round, you did not know three hundred thousand have been killed by drought in Sudan. You did not know the Philippines are flooded, that thousands have lost their homes and sleep every night on the wet, cold ground. You’ve been talking about space hardening, rocket shuttles, ASATs, ORS, SPS. You haven’t spared a thought to how the universe, the world, the sun, the skies, and the wet, cold ground affect humanity. Our advocacy is to reclaim space, to reclaim debate for awareness.**
**__Bell 10__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Social Media Activism: Adding to the Haitian Narrative by Jamaal Bell March 23, 2010, 9:00AM http://tpmcafe.talkingpointsmemo.com/talk/blogs/r/a/racetalk/2010/03/social-media-activism-adding-t.php //By Jamaal Bell, executive editor//</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>//[[http://www.race-talk.org/|//Race-Talk//]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> //American//</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> relief efforts should be driven by an understanding of what resources would provide the greatest benefit, rather than driven by an ego-based desire to be the hero that swoops in and saves the day.</span>////<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Trina Chiasson, executive director of Media Make Change</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">NEW YORK - </span>**__A survivor of a natural … awareness and inciting activism.__**


**We recognize how ridiculous it is to wave a magic fiat wand and make the problems go away. So this advocacy is not a question of solvency, but one of exposition–we must constantly discursively challenge the dominant paradigms of climate denial. The only realistic way to end oppression and denial is through measured, deliberate political and paradigm shifts, round by round, policy by policy.**
**__Gore 11__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Yes, THE Al Gore, Al Gore August 29th 2011. “Al Gore Compares Climate Change Deniers to Racists” [This is a transcription of the video embedded in the page] [[http://www.inquisitr.com/137269/al-gore-compares-climate-change-deniers-to-racists/]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gore: Yeah if Michael Jordan … to get that out there, absolutely.</span>

==1AC Blake== 
===Contention One—Inherency=== 

**The Deep Space Climate Observatory, or DSCOVR, is a revolutionary way to study climate change from its orbit at the L1 Lagrangian point a million miles away from Earth. It is also the only satellite to be fully completed, but never launched.**
**__Donahue 11__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-03/lost-satellite|Who Killed The Deep Space Climate Observatory?]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">By Bill Donahue Posted 04.06.2011 at 11:28 am http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-03/lost-satellite?page=4</span>
**__It all began so hopefully__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">…</span> **__NASA has built but never launched.__**


**DSCOVR is the keystone for sustainable, inexpensive, long term climate and weather data. It would solve the short lifespan and data gaps of current low orbiting satellites and create a global calibration system.**
**__Donahue 11__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-03/lost-satellite|Who Killed The Deep Space Climate Observatory?]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">By Bill Donahue Posted 04.06.2011 at 11:28 am http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-03/lost-satellite?page=4</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Since 1999, NASA and … phenomena in the atmosphere and space.”</span>

===Thus the Plan:=== 

**The United States federal government should launch the Deep Space Climate Observatory into the L1 Lagrangian orbit for the purpose of climate and weather research.**

===Contention Two—Anti-science=== 

**Failure to launch DSCOVR is a direct result of climate denialism. Even when Ukraine offered to launch DSCOVR for free in 2004, climate denialists forced their hand to keep DSCOVR on the ground.**
**__Donahue 11__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-03/lost-satellite|Who Killed The Deep Space Climate Observatory?]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">By Bill Donahue Posted 04.06.2011 at 11:28 am [[http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-03/lost-satellite?page=4]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yet for nearly a decade now…</span> **__what did NASA say? The launch wouldn’t be safe__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">for the satellite.”</span>


**Climate denialism represents the antiscience movement in America. Congress has entered a state of intellectual wilderness on climate and environment policy, with neocon climate-deniers controlling the floor.**
**__Forbes 11__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 8/31/2011 @ 5:33PM </span><span class="divider">|</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">1,862 views Why Anti-Science Ideology is Bad for America [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/petergleick/2011/08/31/why-anti-science-ideology-is-bad-for-america/]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">By pretending that the science is bad… </span>**__many scientific arenas for so long.”__**


**Antiscience now has unprecedented power over public opinion. By cutting off our ties to scientific data, antiscience advocates exercise a political coup of mind control. Public opinion is now easily shifted towards climate denialism, religious dogma, and ideological doctrine.**
**__Berger 11__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> A science believer among 21st century know-nothings By </span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://crosscut.com/account/knute_berger/|Knute Berger]][[http://crosscut.com/2011/08/24/|August 24, 2011]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> http://crosscut.com/2011/08/24/mossback/21226/A-science-believer-among-21st-century-know-nothings-/ Knute Berger is Mossback, Crosscut's chief Northwest native. He also writes the monthly Grey Matters column for //Seattle// magazine and is a weekly Friday guest on //Weekday// on KUOW-FM (94.9). His newest book is //Pugetopolis: A Mossback Takes On Growth Addicts, Weather Wimps, and the Myth of Seattle Nice//, published by Sasquatch Books. In 2011, he was named Writer-in-Residence at the Space Needle and is writing the Needle's official 50th anniversary history.</span>
**__We once predicted science …__** **__like an ill-fitting suit these days.__**


**If antiscience is not rejected, and if data is never collected, humanity enters environmental catastrophe. We will fail to address climate change, population growth, the loss of biodiversity—because policymakers and common citizens will fail to recognize magnitude of the problems and refuse to address them. Rejecting antiscience is a prerequisite to any effective policy. This means the plan comes before any of their disadvantages—rejecting antiscience comes first or impacts will continue to replicate in the status quo.**
**__Ehrlich 11__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Paul R. Ehrlich “Brownlash: the new environmental anti-science”. Humanists. FindArticles.com. 20 Sep. 2011 http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m1374/is_n6_v56/ai_18844577/pg_3/?tag=mantle_skin;content</span>
**__Humanity is now facing a sort of …__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">of a sensible (or occasionally senseless) application of regulations.</span>


**DSCOVR is the keystone to combat anti-science. Akin to seeing the whole forest instead of the trees, DSCOVR’s million mile orbit means it is the only space probe to allow continual, holistic earth observations. It provides indisputable data and represents a struggle to constantly question, demand answers, and demand truth.**
**__Donahue 11__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-03/lost-satellite|Who Killed The Deep Space Climate Observatory?]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">By Bill Donahue Posted 04.06.2011 at 11:28 am [[http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-03/lost-satellite?page=4]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">He shook his head in disdain. … </span>**__It has to launch, and it will."__**


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**We recognize that mindsets and policies can’t be shifted overnight—rather, we embrace reality and recognize that the only****ay to solve for real world problems is to end the disconnection between what people believe and the power structures actually exist.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Ehrlich, 2004**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Ehrlich, Paul R.; Ehrlich, Anne H.. One with Nineveh : Politics, Consumption, and the</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> **w**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Human Future. Covelo, CA, USA: Island Press, 2004. p 290-291 http://site.ebrary.com/lib/creighton/Doc?id=10064663&ppg=304</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>**__first__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">step in changing deep-…</span> **__misapplications of power.__**

===Contention Three—Weather Disasters=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Studies prove climate change is inevitable in the status quo.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Solomon 9** **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Solomon et al, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, ‘</span>**0**9** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Susan- member of the US National Academy of Sciences, the European Academy of Sciences, and the Academy of Sciences of France, Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Chairman of the IPCC, February 10, “Irreversible climate change due to carbon dioxide emissions” PNAS, Vol 106, [[http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2009/01/28/0812721106.full.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Over the 20th century, … linked to the peak level of carbon dioxide reached.</span>


**A report by the United Nations makes clear that due to climate change, severe weather conditions will increase to record breaking levels**
**__Washington Post 11__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Posted at 10:54 AM ET, 11/18/2011 Weather disasters to increase report warns, climate change signal slow to emerge for some extremes By [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/jason-samenow/2011/08/01/gIQAMnn9nI_page.html|Jason Samenow]] http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/capital-weather-gang/post/weather-disasters-to-increase-report-warns-climate-change-signal-slow-to-emerge-for-some-extremes/2011/11/17/gIQATSIIYN_blog.html</span>
<span class="blogcaption" style="font-size: 8pt;">This photo taken Sept. 6, 2011, …</span>**__sharing and learning__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">by doing.</span>


**We capture long term effects. Over 375 million people will be devastated by weather disasters by 2015 and this number is rising. These disasters will disproportionately strip the livelihoods from people living under poverty and oppression. Environmental satellites are crucial to mitigate the harms.**
**__Oxfam 9__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Natural disasters will hurt 50% more people by 2015. Why? Climate Change + Inequality </span><span class="field-content">21 April, 2009 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://blogs.oxfam.org/blog/09-04-21-natural-disasters-will-hurt-more-people-due-to-climate-change-inequality]][[http://blogs.oxfam.org/en/user/profile/duncan-green|Duncan Green]]</span><span class="field-content">Oxfam Great BritainHead of research</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There has been some striking progress … effective and accountable assistance.</span>


**Current satellites are dangerously outdated and inaccurate**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**This provides fuel for the antiscience fire and ensures inaccurate climate and weather predictions**
**__Anderson 10__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mitchell, Staff Writer, The Tyee News, Vancouver Based Science Journalist, The Satellite that Could Save the World, [[http://mitchellanderson.blogspot.com/2010/02/satellite-that-could-save-world.html]])</span>
**__The media missed the real story …__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the Earth (and the elephant) is doing something else.</span>


**From its vantage of a million miles away, DSCOVR would resolve data gaps and ensure accurate climate and weather predictions. The launch vehicle is ready—all that remains is to cut through bureaucratic inertia and antiscience**
**__Anderson 10__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mitchell, Staff Writer, The Tyee News, Vancouver Based Science Journalist, The Satellite that Could Save the World, [[http://mitchellanderson.blogspot.com/2010/02/satellite-that-could-save-world.html]])</span>
**__There are far better instruments__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">… “</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://tobaccodocuments.org/landman/332506.html|doubt is our product]].”</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Adaptation strategies are inevitable. Scientific certainty is key to make it large scale and data is key to make it effective and avoid maladaptations which worsen the impacts of climate change.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Stutz 9** **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">26 May 2009, Bruce Stutz writes on science, nature, and the environment. A former editor-in-chief of Natural History, he is a contributing editor to OnEarth. He has written for the New York Times, The Christian Science Monitor, The Washington Post, Discover and Audubon. He is the author of Natural Lives, Modern Times and Chasing Spring, An American Journey Through a Changing Season. “Adaptation Emerges as Key Part of Any Climate Change Plan”, [[http://e360.yale.edu/content/feature.msp?id=2156]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With nations in the industrialized … resilient to a possible range of changes.</span>

==1AC Dowling== 
===Contention One—Inherency=== 

**Congress has ignored the budget needs of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (or NOAA). NOAA accurately predicted Hurricane Irene and Snowmageddon, saving thousands. If NOAA continues to receive lackluster support, we risk thousands of lives and the death of environmental knowledge.**
**__Peeples 8/28__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Peeples, Lynne. "Weather Satellites And Storm Warnings Threatened By Federal Budget Cuts ." //Huffington Post//. The Huffington Post Inc,, 28 Aug. 2011. Web. 30 Aug. 2011.</span>
**__Detailed images taken__** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">by National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration … Sullivan noted that her agency "remained concerned."</span>


**Any current funding is a stopgap measure. It falls short and trades off with other crucial services, costing hundreds of billions in the long term. Only full support of NOAA solves. Also, current launches prove their disads nonunique, but doesn’t solve the advantages.**
**__UN 11/3__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Original article Published by: </span>[[@http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2011/10/31/356882/nasa-climate-satellite/|thinkprogress]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Processed by max.stephan on Nov 3rd 2011 NASA climateshttp://www.un-spider.org/about-us/news/en/5415/2011-11-03t135200/nasa-finally-launches-new-climate-satellite-highlightingatellite © thinkprogress</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the predawn hours last Friday, the National Polar-Orbiting Operational … </span>**__NOAA provides to our nation’s economy and our environment.__**

===Thus the Plan:=== 

**The United States federal government should fully support National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration environment monitoring satellites. This includes launch.**

===Contention Two—Anti-science=== 

**The budget slashes on environmental satellites shows the willful ignorance endemic to American politics. Congress has entered a state of intellectual wilderness on climate and environment policy, with neocon climate-deniers controlling the floor.**
**__Forbes 11__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 8/31/2011 @ 5:33PM </span><span class="divider">|</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">1,862 views Why Anti-Science Ideology is Bad for America [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/petergleick/2011/08/31/why-anti-science-ideology-is-bad-for-america/]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">By pretending that the science is bad, … </span>**__led the world in many scientific arenas for so long.”__**


**Rejecting science, knowledge, and reason in favor of ideology, religion, and economic self-interest leads to endemically bad public policy. This means the plan comes before any of their disadvantages—rejecting antiscience comes first or impacts will continue to replicate in the status quo.**
**__Forbes 11__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 8/31/2011 @ 5:33PM </span><span class="divider" style="font-size: 8pt;">|</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">1,862 views Why Anti-Science Ideology is Bad for America [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/petergleick/2011/08/31/why-anti-science-ideology-is-bad-for-america/]]</span>
**__Anti-science ideology is__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">n’t completely new in the U.S…. organization to provide the best scientific advice to the government.</span>


**If antiscience is not rejected, and if data is never collected, humanity enters environmental catastrophe. We will fail to address climate change, population growth, the loss of biodiversity—because policymakers and common citizens will fail to recovnize magnitude of the problems and refuse to address them. Rejecting antiscience is a prerequisite to any effective policy.**
**__Ehrlich 11__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Paul R. Ehrlich “Brownlash: the new environmental anti-science”. Humanists. FindArticles.com. 20 Sep. 2011 http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m1374/is_n6_v56/ai_18844577/pg_3/?tag=mantle_skin;content</span>
**__Humanity is now facing a sort of slow …__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">because of a sensible (or occasionally senseless) application of regulations.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Environmental satellites fight the anti-science mindset by providing data and knowledge. Embracing knowledge is key to solving deeply-rooted social behaviors and fighting misdistributions of power.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Ehrlich, 2004**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Ehrlich, Paul R.; Ehrlich, Anne H.. One with Nineveh : Politics, Consumption, and the Human Future. Covelo, CA, USA: Island Press, 2004. p 290-291 http://site.ebrary.com/lib/creighton/Doc?id=10064663&ppg=304</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>**__first__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">step in changing deep-rooted social behavior in any … </span>**__largely because of maldistribution and misapplications of power.__**

===Contention Three—Weather Disasters=== 

**Support for environmental satellites is critical especially as our world undergoes major changes. NOAA research tells us in coming years, killer weather will become the “new normal”. In the status quo, we are heading into these devastating hurricanes with zero preparation.**
**Romm 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Romm, Joe. "GOP cut crucial weather satellites with fierce hurricane season looming." //ThinkProgress//. Center for American Progress Action Fund, 23 May 2011. Web. 30 Aug. 2011.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Climate Progress reported in March that </span>…<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Will the GOP be so dismissive of American lives the second time around? – [[http://www.americanprogress.org/aboutus/staff/KrohKiley.html|Kiley Kroh]], Associate Director for Ocean Communications at the Center for American Progress Action Fund.</span>


**Environmental satellites are crucial to predicting tornados, droughts, hurricanes, volcanic eruptions, floods, tsunamis and //rescue missions// saving countless lives.**
**__NASDIS 11__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> //Office of Satellite Operations//. NASDIS, n.d. Web. 12 Sept. 2011.http://www.nesdis.noaa.gov/SatInformation.html</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Polar Operational Environmental Satellites</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">:</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> When you wonder on Wednesday… planes and ships, who have activated emergency locator beacons.</span>


**We capture long term effects. An Oxfam report proves that over 375 million people will be devastated by weather disasters by 2015 and this number is rising. These disasters will disproportionately strip the livelihoods from people living under poverty and oppression. Environmental satellites are crucial to mitigate the harms.**
**__Oxfam 9__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Natural disasters will hurt 50% more people by 2015. Why? Climate Change + Inequality </span><span class="field-content">21 April, 2009 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://blogs.oxfam.org/blog/09-04-21-natural-disasters-will-hurt-more-people-due-to-climate-change-inequality]][[http://blogs.oxfam.org/en/user/profile/duncan-green|Duncan Green]]</span><span class="field-content">Oxfam Great BritainHead of research</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There has been some striking progress in reducing the death toll from natural disasters in recent decades. …An international humanitarian system that acts quickly and impartially to provide effective and accountable assistance.</span>

===Contention Four—Deep Space Climate Observatory=== 

**The Deep Space Climate Observatory environment monitoring satellite lies completely finished but unused in a warehouse. Its launch depends on NOAA funding**
**__Clark 9__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Mothballed Satellite Sits In Warehouse, Waits For New Life by Stephen Clark Date: 02 March 2009 Time: 05:42 PM ET [[http://www.space.com/2286-mothballed-satellite-sits-warehouse-waits-life.html]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The long-grounded </span>**__Deep Space Climate Observatory may be revived__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span>**__NOAA's budget over the next few years.__**


**DSCOVR gives unprecedented proof against science skepticism. It is revolutionary observation of earth environment and climate by weaving together a global integrated observational system. This solves for all data gaps.**
**__Anderson 10__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mitchell, Staff Writer, The Tyee News, Vancouver Based Science Journalist, The Satellite that Could Save the World, [[http://mitchellanderson.blogspot.com/2010/02/satellite-that-could-save-world.html]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The media missed the real story about the so-called “climate-gate” scandal…To quote a notorious leaked strategy document from Big Tobacco when they were seeking to delay costly regulation of their dangerous industry in the 1960’s: “</span><span class="s1">[[http://tobaccodocuments.org/landman/332506.html|__doubt is our product__]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Multiple studies prove climate change is inevitable in the status quo.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**__Solomon 9__** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Solomon et al, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration,</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ‘</span>**0**9** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Susan- member of the US National Academy of Sciences, the European Academy of Sciences, and the Academy of Sciences of France, Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Chairman of the IPCC, February 10, “Irreversible climate change due to carbon dioxide emissions” PNAS, Vol 106, [[http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2009/01/28/0812721106.full.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Over the 20th century, the atmospheric concentrations of key greenhouse gases increased due to human activities…with a magnitude that is directly linked to the peak level of carbon dioxide reached.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">daptation strategies are inevitable. Scientific certainty is key to make it large scale and data is key to make it effective and avoid maladaptations which worsen the impacts of climate change. The plan solves disease, biodiversity, and agricultural crises</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Stutz 9** </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">26 May 2009, Bruce Stutz writes on science, nature, and the environment. A former editor-in-chief of Natural History, he is a contributing editor to OnEarth. He has written for the New York Times, The Christian Science Monitor, The Washington Post, Discover and Audubon. He is the author of Natural Lives, Modern Times and Chasing Spring, An American Journey Through a Changing Season. “Adaptation Emerges as Key Part of Any Climate Change Plan”, [[http://e360.yale.edu/content/feature.msp?id=2156]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With nations in the industrialized and developing worlds continuing to pump record levels of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, … evaluating adaptive potential, and attempting to make people and places resilient to a possible range of changes.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Diseases cause extinction via mutation – Nobel prize winning scientists confirm the risk**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Greger 08**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael, M.D., is Director of Public Health and Animal Agriculture at The Humane Society of the United States, Bird Flu: A Virus of Our Own Hatching, [[http://birdflubook.com/a.php?id=111]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Senate Majority Leader Frist describes the recent slew of emerging diseases in almost biblical terms: ... “might easily transmute into a tune whistled whilst passing a graveyard.”</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Biodiversity loss causes extinction – their resiliency arguments and their defense is only possible with diverse ecosystems**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Young,** **PhD coastal marine ecology,** **10**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Ruth, “Biodiversity: what it is and why it’s important”, February 9th, [[http://www.talkingnature.com/2010/02/biodiversity/biodiversity-what-and-why/]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Different species within ecosystems fill particular roles… our protection of biodiversity maintains this service.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Agricultural losses lead to global nuclear war**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Calvin, ‘02**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(William H, Univ Washington, A Brain For All Seasons, [[http://faculty.washington.edu/wcalvin/BrainForAllSeasons/NAcoast.htm]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The population-crash scenario is surely the most appalling... It could no longer do so if it lost the extra warming from the North Atlantic.</span>

=NEGATIVE= 
==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Counter Advocacy</span>== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Text: We approach the realities of structural violence by endorsing the framework of “The Human Security Concept” as the best and only way to change the realities of structural violence.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Human Security Concept is that individuals, communities, and states must mitigate their insecurities of BOTH direct and structural violence in order to solve either. We cannot focus on one or the other but must approach both. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, 2008</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">page 94</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The human security approach is concerned with the … to be addressed at the international level.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Only our approach can begin to break the cycle of direct and structural violence. All other approaches perpetuate the status quo and move no closer to changing the realities billions face every day.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, 2008</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">page 88</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In SIPRI Yearbook 2007 Elisabeth Sköns argues that … more appropriately and effectively. The conclusions are presented in section V</span>


**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Affirmative’s speech act ignores the cyclical relationship between direct and structural violence. Their speech act of approaching the reality from a limited individual reality prejudices our thinking and makes real change impossible. Their speech act functions as a solvency turn to their advocacy. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Only our speech act and the complete Human Security Concept can we break out from the cycle of violence. Our speech act can and will enter the theory and practice of international law and custom, making real change.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, 2008</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">page 89</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Galtung argues that ‘there is no reason to believe that … practice of international law and custom.</span>

==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Palestine DA</span>== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Because of the overarching post-Holocaust Jewish narratives in Israel, the narratives of the Palestinians have been pushed aside. This clash of narratives has allowed the Zionist state to exploit its own tragic history for the purpose of redirecting that tragedy in the form of Palestinian oppression.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This independent disadvantage to their methodology proves two things: a) their narratives inevitably lead to the violence exclusion of alternative narratives and b) even if their narratives mean well, the state will always be able to reshape the narratives to its own violent purpose under their framework</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Kassem 11</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 7pt;"> Kassem, Fatma. //Palestinian Women: Narrative Histories and Gendered Memory//. N.p.: Zed Books, 2011. Print.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">As a consequence of the formation of the State of … Israel’s demographic security and ethnic domination.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This inevitable reshaping of narratives meant that absent securitization of an international framework, Palestinians virtually lost their cultural identity and homeland, directly leading to genocidal killings.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Kassem 11</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 7pt;"> Kassem, Fatma. //Palestinian Women: Narrative Histories and Gendered Memory//. N.p.: Zed Books, 2011. Print.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This perception of Israeli Palestinians as a … Israeli authorities, which resulted in the monument being ‘buried’ in the cemetery.</span>

==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">China DA</span>== 

**This is another independent disadvantage. The aff methodology of resistance directly fuels shutdown and massacres by the Chinese government because it fears losing its consolidated power.**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Cunningham and Wasserstrom 11 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">[[http://dissentmagazine.org/issue/?issue=167|WINTER 2011]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Interpreting Protest in Modern China By</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">[[http://dissentmagazine.org/search.php?subSearchText=Maura+Elizabeth+Cunningham+and+Jeffrey+N.+Wasserstrom&searchType=all&field=author|Maura Elizabeth Cunningham and Jeffrey N. Wasserstrom]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">[[http://dissentmagazine.org/article/?article=3794]]</span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> //Dissent// is a quarterly magazine of politics and culture edited by Michael Kazin and Michael Walzer. A magazine of the left, //Dissent// is also one of independent minds and strong opinions.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">When a protest highlights divisions within the Chinese nation…almost guaranteed to provoke a rapid and decisive reaction.</span>