[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

===COIN 1AC - TOC Round 2=== 
====1AC Plan==== 
**The United States federal government should substantially reduce its counterinsurgency presence in Afghanistan**

====1AC Terrorism==== 
Contention 1: al-Qaeda

**They will get WMD now – they’re waiting for an opportunity for a large-scale attack**
**Mowatt-Larssen 10** (Rolf Mowatt-Larssen, Senior Fellow, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, former Director of the Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence, U.S. Department of Energy, former Chief of the Weapons of Mass Destruction Department, Counter-terrorist Center, Central Intelligence Agency, recipient of the CIA Director’s Award, graduate of the U.S. Military Academy, West Point, “Al Qaeda Weapons of Mass Destruction Threat: Hype or Reality?” January 2010, http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/al-qaeda-wmd-threat.pdf)

Osama bin Ladin’s assertion in 1998 that it . . . plot in motion that has not been found. 

**Material has already been stolen and an attack is coming in 2013**
**Hall 10** (Mimi Hall, staff writer for USA Today, 4/12/2010, “Obama seeks front against nuclear terror”, http://www.usatoday.com/news/washington/2010-04-11-nukesummit_N.htm)

Obama said "the single biggest threat" . . . used in a terrorist attack" by 2013. 

**Extinction**
**Morgan 9** (Dennis Ray Morgan, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693, World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race)

In a remarkable website on nuclear war, . . . the accidental or reckless use of strategic weapons.

**Afghanistan is the ONLY staging point for al Qaeda to launch a large-scale attack**
**Arkedis 9** (Jim Arkedis is the director of the National Security Project at the Progressive Policy Institute. He was a counterterrorism analyst with the Naval Criminal Investigative Service from 2002 to 2007. OCTOBER 23, 2009, “Why Al Qaeda Wants a Safe Haven”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/10/23/got_safe_haven | Suo)

As deliberations about the Obama administration's strategic direction . . . Qaeda the only physical space it can access.

**Withdrawal means the Taliban ends al-Qaeda’s safe haven.**
**Atran 10** (Scott, an anthropologist at France’s National Center for Scientific Research, the University of Michigan and John Jay College, 10/27, “Turning the Taliban Against Al Qaeda,” http://www.almendron.com/tribuna/31827/turning-the-taliban-against-al-qaeda/)

So why hold talks at all? Because . . . that no one will be able to control.

**Withdrawal is a prerequisite to effective CT – presence creates a legitimacy gap and reduces leverage**
**Boyle 10** (Michael J. Boyle, Professor at the University of St. Andrews - Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?”, International Affairs 86: 2 (2010) 333–353 | Suo)

Another set of offsetting effects emerges if counterinsurgency . . . leverage needed to achieve its essential counterterrorism goals.

====1AC Heg==== 
Contention 2: Hegemony

**Perception of being bogged down in Afghanistan destroys deterrence and hamstrings our military**
**Haass 10** (Richard N. Haas, president of the Council on Foreign Relations, “Let’s Un-Surge in Afghanistan,” 12/20/10, http://www.cfr.org/publication/23669/lets_unsurge_in_afghanistan.html)

To justify adopting a more narrow policy toward . . . Gen. Petraeus and President Obama must necessarily diverge

**That risks miscalculation and war**
**Gordon 7** (Michael, chief military correspondent for the New York Times, Survival, Break Point? Iraq and America’s Military Forces, http://www.journalsonline.tandf.co.uk/media/e2wquwrwth0v8u1trg3h/contributions/m/7/6/7/m76738823338363h.pdf) 

A greater worry has been the operational availability . . . Iraq and unable to respond adequately to other contingencies

**COIN also devastates troop morale and readiness – collapsing hegemony**
**Pyne 9** - Vice Chair of the Utah State Legislative Compensation Commission and Vice President of the Association of the United States Army's Utah chapter and a Vice President of the Salt Lake Total Force Chapter of the Military Officers Association of America (David, “Obama failing our troops in Afghanistan,” 11/7, http://westernfrontamerica.com/2009/11/07/obama-failing-troops-afghanistan/)

In Iraq and Afghanistan, Bush and now . . . of US-ally Georgia this past year.

**Taliban resurgence and European withdrawals will force additional future deployments just to avoid a loss**
**Dorronsoro 10** (November, Gilles Dorronsoro, visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, is an expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia. Previously, Dorronsoro was a professor of political science at the Sorbonne, Paris and the Institute of Political Studies of Rennes, “Afghanistan at the Breaking Point,” November 2010) http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/afghan_break_point.pdf)

The southern strategy presumed swift successes, which . . . 100,000 U.S. troops. 

**Independently, the plan is key to prevent isolationism.**
**Kretkowski 10** (Paul D. Kretkowski, Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs. Further experience overseas as rapporteur for university-sponsored "track two" diplomacy programs that provide enemies a forum for later cooperation and back-channel communication. Highly irregular reporting via blog on developments in soft power, public diplomacy and smart power, January 07, 2010, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html | Suo)

Over the winter break I had an epiphany . . . rising power (China, a reinvigorated Russia).

**Heg is sustainable – but continuing a failed strategy in Afghanistan undermines our leadership**
**Innocent and Carpenter 9** (Malou Innocent, Foreign Policy Analyst at the Cato Institute, Ted Galen Carpenter, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, 2009, “Escaping the 'Graveyard of Empires’”, http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf | Suo)

Former national security adviser Henry Kissinger, Council . . . U.S. security than would withdrawal.

**Heg solves every impact**
**Thayer 6** – professor of security studies at Missouri State (Bradley, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy”, November/December, p. 32-37)

A grand strategy based on American primacy means . . . primacy due to the economic prosperity it provides. 

**Decline causes great power war – primacy sustains peace**
**Zhang and Shi 11**– *Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C.; Lin Shi is from Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C. (1/22, America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/)

This does not necessarily mean that the US . . . will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.

**The plan is key to stable presence – large footprints devastate resolve.**
**Ward 10** (Jon, The Daily Caller, “Influential Think Tank Calls on Obama to ‘own’ Afghan war, give clear long-term troop commitment,” 12/15/10, http://www.cnas.org/node/5437)

December 15, 2010 — A new report . . . that with a long term commitment to Afghanistan.”

====1AC Pakistan==== 
Contention 3: Pakistan

**COIN collapses Pakistan, unites the Taliban and overwhelms any current safeguards – only withdrawal solves**
**Fuller 9** (Graham E., an American author and political analyst, specializing in Islamic extremism, former CIA station chief in Kabul and a former vice-chair of the CIA's National Intelligence Council. He is author of numerous books on the Middle East, including The Future of Political Islam, 5/10, “Obama's Policies Making Situation Worse in Afghanistan and Pakistan,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/graham-e-fuller/global-viewpoint-obamas-p_b_201355.html)

For all the talk of “smart power. . . solution? We do not hear that debate.

**There is a direct tradeoff – large scale presence pushes the Taliban into Pakistan**
**Innocent 9** (Malou Innocent, Foreign Policy Analyst at the Cato Institute. She is a member of the International Institute of Strategic Studies, 4/24/09, “Withdrawing from Afghanistan”, http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/2009/04/24/withdrawing-from-afghanistan/ | Suo)

I described the situation to my Cato colleague . . . militia) successfully beat back the Taliban’s incursions. 

**That collapses Pakistan**
**Akhtar 10** (Shameem, professor of international relations, and a senior analyst & writer. He was the dean of faculty of management, Baluchistan university, and former chairman of International Relations Department, Karachi university 1/26/10, “Pakistan’s Instability : The US War Factor,” http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout#)

If it is a war against extremists and . . . at any moment, thus destabilizing the state.

**And, a politically strong military creates instability – a moderate civil society is key to check it**
**Shah 4/21** (Aqil Shah, postdoctoral fellow at the Society of Fellows, Harvard University, April 21, 2011, “Making sense of Pakistan’s civilian-military matrix”, http://tribune.com.pk/story/153826/making-sense-of-pakistans-civilian-military-matrix/)

The international community, including the United States. . . ‘divide and rule’ from behind the scenes.

**But US presence in Afghanistan radicalizes Pakistani society – withdrawal solves militant violence**
**Khan 11** (Imran Khan, chairs the Movement for Justice Party in Pakistan, 9 January 2011, “Pakistan will implode if the US does not leave Afghanistan”, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2011/jan/09/pakistan-implode-america-leave-afghanistan)

Pakistan will implode if the US does not . . . situation will worsen – until Pakistan itself implodes. 

**Civil instability spills over to nuclear command and control**
**Oxford Analytica 7** (global strategic analysis and advisory firm, http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/Pakistan%20Nuclear%20Hassan%20Abbas.pdf)

This command and control system has yet to . . . the military as result of intensified political instability.

**Pakistan collapse causes global nuclear conflict – draws in China, India and Russia**
**Pitt 9** - a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183) 

But a suicide bomber in Pakistan rammed a . . . addressing the situation. So should we all.

**Radicalized Pakistan makes Indopak war certain**
**Moreau 10** (Ron Moreau, Newsweek's Afghanistan and Pakistan correspondent, September 04, 2010, “More Dangerous Than Ever”, http://www.newsweek.com/2010/09/04/pakistan-is-the-world-s-most-dangerous-country.html)

The chilling video released this past July is . . . global security—and to its own stability.

**Indopak conflict leads to extinction**
**GSN 10** [Global Security Newswire, 3/16/2010, “Regional Nuclear War Could Devastate World Population, Report Warns,” http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100315_4193.php]

Computer modeling suggests a nuclear exchange between India . . . Department at the University of Colorado at Boulder.

**Miscalculation uniquely lowers the threshold for nuclear use**
**Kahn 3** (Bachelors Degree in Economics from the University of Essex, and a M.Phil. in Economics from the University of Cambridge, Pakistani social activist, social scientist, economist and politician, and military officer (M. Asghar, The Nuclear Option, Countercurrents.org, November 5, 2003, http://www.countercurrents.org/ipk-khan051103.htm)

When India exploded its nuclear bomb, Nawaz . . . the United States and it had been faced.

===Net Centric Warfare Adv - Round 3=== 
**Counterinsurgency precludes network-centric warfare in Afghanistan**
**Arquilla 10** (John Arquilla is Professor of Defense Analysis at the Naval Postgraduate School, September 2010, “A "Net Shift" for Afghanistan”, http://www.ndu.edu/press/net-shift-for-afghanistan.html)

If the conflict in Iraq started out with . . . was not a result driven principally by numbers.

**Decentralized CT spills over – it’s a doctrinal laboratory**
**Arquilla 10** (John Arquilla is Professor of Defense Analysis at the Naval Postgraduate School, September 2010, “A "Net Shift" for Afghanistan”, http://www.ndu.edu/press/net-shift-for-afghanistan.html)

The foregoing analysis has conveyed the sense that. . . shift now is the change we need. PRISM 

**And, Afghanistan is the proving ground for net-centric warfare**
**Reynolds 6** (Kevin Reynolds, currently assigned to the Department of Distance Education (DDE), U.S. Army War College as a professor and course author. Prior to his present assignment, he served as the Director of First Year Studies within DDE. November 2006, “DEFENSE TRANSFORMATION: TO WHAT, FOR WHAT?”, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub733.pdf)

Enamored with the potentially decisive advantage that information . . . space—warfare will be truly revolutionized. 13

**Netwar key to hegemony**
**Arquilla 10** (John Arquilla, professor of defense analysis at the U.S. Naval Postgraduate School, MARCH/APRIL 2010, “The New Rules of War”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/02/22/the_new_rules_of_war)

The irony, however, is that the . . . shape it, saving the world from darkness.

**Heg is good**
**Zhang and Shi 11**– *Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C.; Lin Shi is from Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C. (1/22, America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/)

This does not necessarily mean that the US . . . will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.

**Independently, netwar prevents all future conflict**
**Chang-hee 5** (Chang-hee Nam, professor of Inha University, South Korea, who formerly worked for the Korea Institute f or Defense Analysis, “The Realignment of the USFK in the Military Transformation and South Korea's Defense Reform 2020”, http://www.nids.go.jp/english/event/symposium/pdf/2005/e2005_05.pdf)

By contrast with the LPP, the relocation . . . can no longer fight or react coherently. 11

**Their defense doesn’t apply – NCW is a paradigm shift, not about technology**
**Croser 7** (Caroline Croser, PhD from Lancaster University in Defence and Security Studies, Nov. 7, “ORGANISING COMPLEXITY: MODES OF BEHAVIOUR IN A NETWORKED BATTLESPACE”, http://www.army.gov.au/lwsc/Docs/WP_133.pdf)

Perhaps one of the most common preconceptions about . . . others’ and ‘transforming how we fight’. 20

===COIN 1AC, Octas=== 
====1AC Plan==== 
**The United States federal government should reduce its presence in Afghanistan to a level consistent with counterterrorism**

====1AC Stability==== 
Contention 1: Stability

**COIN fails – recent reports prove we will lose the war**
**Cohen 11** (Michael, Senior Fellow at the American Security Project, serves on the board of the National Security Network and has taught at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs, served in the U.S. Department of State, former Senior Vice President at the strategic communications firm of Robinson, Lerer and Montgomery, bachelor’s degree in international relations from American University and a master’s degree from Columbia University, 2/9, “Deck Chairs on the Titanic”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/02/08/deck_chairs_on_the_titanic?page=0,1)

Over the past two weeks, as the . . . rhetoric solely on rosy assessments of military progress.

**The military is lying – Statistics prove Afghanistan is getting worse**
**Cohen 10** (Michael Cohen, Senior Fellow at the American Security Project, serves on the board of the National Security Network and has taught at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs, served in the U.S. Department of State, former Senior Vice President at the strategic communications firm of Robinson, Lerer and Montgomery, bachelor’s degree in international relations from American University and a master’s degree from Columbia University, 12/29, “The White House’s Growing ‘Credibility Gap’ on Afghanistan”)

A couple of months ago I wrote an . . . military says about the war in Afghanistan seriously.

**The Taliban are flexible – concepts like momentum don’t exist**
**Stratfor 10** (Global intelligence company, October 28, 2010, “Notions of Progress and Negotiation in Afghanistan”, http://www.stratfor.com/node/174702/geopolitical_diary/20101027_notions_progress_and_negotiation_afghanistan)

According to a report Wednesday in The Washington . . . first and foremost as lacking that latter possibility.

**Bin Laden’s death provides a unique opportunity – we can withdraw now and claim victory**
**Nelson and Foust 5/1** (Rick "Ozzie" Nelson, Afghanistan veteran and fellow at the Centre for Strategic and International Studies, Washington: Joshua Foust, Central Asia Expert, American Security Project: http://bdnews24.com/details.php?id=194631&cid=1)

"This is an incredible moment that has . . . push for a bigger, faster draw down. 

**Bin Laden’s death means precipitous withdrawal now**
**Welsh 5/2** (Declan Walsh in Islamabad, Richard Adams in Washington and Ewen MacAskill in Washington, “Osama bin Laden is dead, Obama announces,” The Guardian (UK), 5-2-2011, http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2011/may/02/osama-bin-laden-dead-obama)

President Obama made the highly unusual Sunday night . . . network that straddles the Pakistan-Afghanistan border. 

**Counterterrorism is uniquely sustainable and delay risks precipitous withdrawal**
**Simon and Stevenson 9** (Steven Simon is Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. Jonathan Stevenson is a Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College. “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough”, Survival: Global Politics and Strategy, vol. 51, no. 5, October–November 2009, pp. 47–67 | Suo)

It follows that the most difficult challenge to . . . government wish to use them for that purpose.

**US presence creates more instability and violence**
**Simon and Stevenson 9** (Steven Simon is Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. Jonathan Stevenson is a Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College. “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough”, Survival: Global Politics and Strategy, vol. 51, no. 5, October–November 2009, pp. 47–67 | Suo)

Finally, within the operational environment of Afghanistan . . . the transfer of nuclear weapons to the Taliban.

**Withdrawal would create a locally-driven balance of power**
**Suhrke 10** (Astri, Senior Research Fellow, Chr. Michelsen Institute, Ph. D. in International Relations from the University of Denver, 17 March, “The Case for a Light Footprint: The international project in Afghanistan”, http://www.cmi.no/file/?997)

The insurgency has had a multiplier effect on . . . seemed to be the way developments were going. 

**That stabilizes Afghanistan**
**Fisher 9** (Max, associate editor for the Atlantic on foreign affairs and national security, Nov 18 2009, “Can Warlords Save Afghanistan?”, http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2009/11/can-warlords-save-afghanistan/30397/)

President Obama has made it clear that any . . . stability in Afghanistan with a foreseeable exit strategy. 

**Collapse causes nuclear war**
**Morgan 7** (Stephen John, former National Executive Officer of the British Labour Party, his responsibilities included international relations, ethnic minority work, women’s issues, finance, local government and organization, he specialised particularly in international crisis situations spending long periods working in Belfast, in efforts to overcome sectarian strife and terrorism, former Director of WIC, a research and publishing company based in London, he went to live in Budapest during the Gorbachov period from where he helped build opposition groups in the underground in Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and East Germany, Stephen left active politics in the early 1990 and came to live in Brussels, where he established and managed his own publishing company, has lived and worked in more than 27 different countries, including underground political work during the troubles in in Northern Ireland and war in Yugoslavia, http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639) 

Although disliked and despised in many quarters, . . . Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!

**No risk of Taliban takeover**
**Walt 10** (Stephen, Robert and Renée Belfer professor of international relations at Harvard University, 12/29, “Helping our enemies work together”, http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/12/29/helping_our_enemies_work_together)

The news that various Afghan and Pakistani insurgent . . . -natural allies more reason to work together? 

====1AC Terrorism==== 
Contention 2: al-Qaeda

**They will get WMD now – they’re waiting for an opportunity for a large-scale attack**
**Mowatt-Larssen 10** (Rolf Mowatt-Larssen, Senior Fellow, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, former Director of the Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence, U.S. Department of Energy, former Chief of the Weapons of Mass Destruction Department, Counter-terrorist Center, Central Intelligence Agency, recipient of the CIA Director’s Award, graduate of the U.S. Military Academy, West Point, “Al Qaeda Weapons of Mass Destruction Threat: Hype or Reality?” January 2010, http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/al-qaeda-wmd-threat.pdf)

Osama bin Ladin’s assertion in 1998 that it . . . plot in motion that has not been found. 

**Bin Laden’s death doesn’t matter – Al-Zawahri will step in and he’s the glue of Al Qaeda anyway**
**AP 5/2**, “Egypt's al-Zawahri likely to succeed bin Laden”, Lexis

CAIRO (AP) — For years, . . . Laden faded from public view for long stretches.

**Bin Laden is proof that Pakistan is lying to us – that prevents future counterterrorism – drones and insurgent action are the major irritants of relations**
**Perlez 5/2** (JANE PERLEZ, staff writer NYT, May 2, 2011, “Bin Laden’s Death Likely to Deepen Suspicions of Pakistan”, http://www.nytimes.com/2011/05/03/world/asia/03pakistan.html)

The killing of Osama bin Laden deep inside . . . into Afghanistan and kill American and NATO soldiers.

**Expanded drone strikes are a result of mixing CT with COIN – mission creep**
**Boyle 10** (Michael J. Boyle, Professor at the University of St. Andrews - Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?”, International Affairs 86: 2 (2010) 333–353 | Suo)

A second, and related, problem is . . . strikes and ground incursions on Pakistani territory. 74

**Withdrawal stops insurgent violence in Pakistan – presence independently collapses Pakistan**
**Khan 11** (Imran Khan, chairs the Movement for Justice Party in Pakistan, 9 January 2011, “Pakistan will implode if the US does not leave Afghanistan”, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2011/jan/09/pakistan-implode-america-leave-afghanistan)

Pakistan will implode if the US does not . . . situation will worsen – until Pakistan itself implodes. 

**Pakistan collapse causes nuclear war**
**Pitt 9** - a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183) 

But a suicide bomber in Pakistan rammed a . . . addressing the situation. So should we all.

**Radicalization makes CT impossible – abandoning COIN boosts cooperation and counters ISI shenanigans**
**Simon and Stevenson 9** (Steven Simon is Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. Jonathan Stevenson is a Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College. “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?”, Survival: Global Politics and Strategy, vol. 51, no. 5, October–November 2009, pp. 47–67 | Suo)

The Obama administration's instincts favouring robust counter-. . . Somalis, it will be against foreigners.10

**The Af-Pak border is the ONLY staging point for al Qaeda to launch a large-scale nuclear attack**
**Arkedis 9** (Jim Arkedis is the director of the National Security Project at the Progressive Policy Institute. He was a counterterrorism analyst with the Naval Criminal Investigative Service from 2002 to 2007. OCTOBER 23, 2009, “Why Al Qaeda Wants a Safe Haven”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/10/23/got_safe_haven | Suo)

As deliberations about the Obama administration's strategic direction . . . Qaeda the only physical space it can access.

**Extinction**
**Morgan 9** (Dennis Ray Morgan, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693, World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race)

In a remarkable website on nuclear war, . . . the accidental or reckless use of strategic weapons.

**Withdrawal means the Taliban ends al-Qaeda’s safe haven**
**Atran 10** (Scott, an anthropologist at France’s National Center for Scientific Research, the University of Michigan and John Jay College, 10/27, “Turning the Taliban Against Al Qaeda,” http://www.almendron.com/tribuna/31827/turning-the-taliban-against-al-qaeda/)

So why hold talks at all? Because . . . that no one will be able to control.

====1AC Heg==== 
Contention 3: Hegemony

**Perception of being bogged down in Afghanistan destroys deterrence and hamstrings our military**
**Haass 10** (Richard N. Haas, president of the Council on Foreign Relations, “Let’s Un-Surge in Afghanistan,” 12/20/10, http://www.cfr.org/publication/23669/lets_unsurge_in_afghanistan.html)

To justify adopting a more narrow policy toward . . . Gen. Petraeus and President Obama must necessarily diverge

**That risks miscalculation and war**
**Gordon 7** (Michael, chief military correspondent for the New York Times, Survival, Break Point? Iraq and America’s Military Forces, http://www.journalsonline.tandf.co.uk/media/e2wquwrwth0v8u1trg3h/contributions/m/7/6/7/m76738823338363h.pdf) 

A greater worry has been the operational availability . . . Iraq and unable to respond adequately to other contingencies

**COIN also devastates troop morale and readiness – collapsing hegemony**
**Pyne 9** - Vice Chair of the Utah State Legislative Compensation Commission and Vice President of the Association of the United States Army's Utah chapter and a Vice President of the Salt Lake Total Force Chapter of the Military Officers Association of America (David, “Obama failing our troops in Afghanistan,” 11/7, http://westernfrontamerica.com/2009/11/07/obama-failing-troops-afghanistan/)

In Iraq and Afghanistan, Bush and now . . . of US-ally Georgia this past year.

**Taliban resurgence and European withdrawals will force additional future deployments just to avoid a loss**
**Dorronsoro 10** (November, Gilles Dorronsoro, visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, is an expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia. Previously, Dorronsoro was a professor of political science at the Sorbonne, Paris and the Institute of Political Studies of Rennes, “Afghanistan at the Breaking Point,” November 2010) http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/afghan_break_point.pdf)

The southern strategy presumed swift successes, which . . . 100,000 U.S. troops. 

**Independently, the plan is key to prevent isolationism**
**Kretkowski 10** (Paul D. Kretkowski, Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs. Further experience overseas as rapporteur for university-sponsored "track two" diplomacy programs that provide enemies a forum for later cooperation and back-channel communication. Highly irregular reporting via blog on developments in soft power, public diplomacy and smart power, January 07, 2010, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html | Suo)

Over the winter break I had an epiphany . . . rising power (China, a reinvigorated Russia).

**Heg is sustainable – but continuing a failed strategy in Afghanistan undermines our leadership**
**Innocent and Carpenter 9** (Malou Innocent, Foreign Policy Analyst at the Cato Institute, Ted Galen Carpenter, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, 2009, “Escaping the 'Graveyard of Empires’”, http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf | Suo)

Former national security adviser Henry Kissinger, Council . . . U.S. security than would withdrawal.

**Heg solves every impact**
**Thayer 6** – professor of security studies at Missouri State (Bradley, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy”, November/December, p. 32-37)

A grand strategy based on American primacy means . . . primacy due to the economic prosperity it provides. 

**Decline causes great power war – primacy sustains peace**
**Zhang and Shi 11**– *Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C.; Lin Shi is from Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C. (1/22, America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/)

This does not necessarily mean that the US . . . will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.

**The plan is key to stable presence – large footprints devastate resolve**
**Ward 10** (Jon, The Daily Caller, “Influential Think Tank Calls on Obama to ‘own’ Afghan war, give clear long-term troop commitment,” 12/15/10, http://www.cnas.org/node/5437)

December 15, 2010 — A new report . . . that with a long term commitment to Afghanistan.”

===Iraq 1AC, Round 7=== 
====Plan==== 
**The United States federal government should accelerate the withdrawal of its military presence that is mandated by the Agreement Between the United States of America and the Republic of Iraq On the Withdrawal of United States Forces from Iraq and the Organization of Their Activities during Their Temporary Presence in Iraq**

====Stability Advantage==== 
Contention 1: Stability

**Iraq is stable now – the democracy is functional and won’t collapse**
**Stopa 11** (Mike, Physicist specializing in computation and nanoscience in the Physics Department at Harvard University. He is the director of the National Nanotechnology Infrastructure Network Computation Project and a recognized expert on nanoscale electronics and computation. He has over 75 publications and over a thousand citations to his work in the physics literature, 2/5/2011, “Where will upheaval NOT spread to next? Iraq.”, http://www.mikestopa.com/2011/02/optimism-about-egypt/)

To Americans, Iraq was several news cycles . . . . Thank you, George W. Bush. 

**The ISF has taken the lead in providing security – US withdrawal creates stability and shores up Iraqi cooperation**
**Hanna 10** (Michael Wahid Hanna is a fellow and program officer at The Century Foundation. He focuses on issues of international security, human rights, post-conflict justice and U.S. foreign policy in the broader Middle East. In 2008 he was a consultant for Human Rights Watch in Iraq conducting research for a report on the Central Criminal Court of Iraq. April 4, 2010, “Stay the Course of Withdrawal”, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/66188/michael-wahid-hanna/stay-the-course-of-withdrawal)

Taking an overly pessimistic view of the current . . . a strategic partner for the emerging Iraqi state.

**Al-Maliki’s is secretly negotiating an extension**
**Hatem 4/25** (Uday Hatem, staff writer for al-Hayat, an Iraqi daily newspaper, April 25, 2011, “Information to send an Iraqi delegation to Tehran to persuade them to keep quiet about the survival of part of the U.S. forces”, http://international.daralhayat.com/internationalarticle/259309)
[this card has been translated from Arabic]

Iraqi government intends to arrange a "special . . . and diplomatic missions and foreign companies in Iraq."

**The timeframe is days – irreversible withdrawal process means Maliki has to ask soon**
**Weitz 4/26** (Richard Weitz, senior fellow and director of the Center for Political-Military Affairs at Hudson Institute, 26 APR 2011, “Global Insights: Decision Time for Iraq on U.S. Military Presence”, http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8637/global-insights-decision-time-for-iraq-on-u-s-military-presence)

Currently, the most urgent issue in relations . . . foundation for any formal talks that take place. 

**Maliki will ask, but the Sadrist coalition would block it**
**Santana et al. 11** (Rebecca Santana and Qassim Abdul-Zahra, foreign correspondents with the Associated Press, 1/13/10, “Sadr return complicates US troop presence in Iraq”, http://news.yahoo.com/s/ap/20110113/ap_on_re_mi_ea/ml_iraq_us_troop_dilemma)

BAGHDAD – Iraqi politicians face the contentious question . . . are likely to remain well beyond this year.

**Any attempt at an extension collapses the government, creates massive violence, and destroys our credibility**
**Jarrar 4/15** (Raed, Iraqi-born political analyst, and a Senior Fellow with Peace Action based in Washington, DC, 4/15/2011, “Playing With Fire in Iraq”, http://www.truth-out.org/playing-fire-iraq)

What made this week's demonstrations even more intense . . . political capital in the Arab and Muslim worlds.

**Sadr will revive militant activities**
**Cole 4/10** (Juan, Richard P. Mitchell Collegiate Professor of History at the University of Michigan, 4/10/2011, “Al-Sadr Threatens Mahdi Army Revival if US Troops Stay”, http://www.juancole.com/iraq)

Al-Hayat writing in Arabic reports that . . . steep drawdown soon if there is no extension). 

**Infighting triggers large-scale sectarian violence**
**Carpenter 10** (J. Scott, Director of The Washington Institute's Project Fikra,"Unfinished Business: An American Strategy for Iraq Moving Forward” 12/2/2010, http://www.washingtoninstitute.org/templateC07.php?CID=554)

It is critical that Iraq continue to “. . . interventionist policies from Iran or other Iraqi neighbors.

**That causes broader Middle East conflict and terrorism – ethnic divisions mean draw-in is inevitable**
**Weisman 6** (Steven R. Weisman, editorial director and public policy fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, chief international economics correspondent of the New York Times, Before serving as chief international economics correspondent, he was chief diplomatic correspondent and won the Edward Weintal Prize in 2004 for his reporting on diplomacy and international affairs, awarded by the Walsh School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University. Cites Terje Roed-Larsen, the special United Nations envoy for Lebanon and previously for the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, Larry Diamond, senior fellow at Stanford's Hoover Institution, Vali R. Nasr, a professor of national affairs at the Naval Postgraduate School, Kenneth M. Pollack, director of research at the Saban Center at the Brookings Institution, February 26, 2006, “What Civil War Could Look Like”, http://www.nytimes.com/2006/02/26/weekinreview/26weis.html)

The greatest fear of leaders throughout the Middle . . . at the Saban Center at the Brookings Institution. 

**Terrorism causes extinction**
**Morgan 9** (Dennis Ray Morgan, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693, World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race)

In a remarkable website on nuclear war, . . . the accidental or reckless use of strategic weapons.

**And, sectarian conflict in Iraq is uniquely likely to escalate**
**Frazier 8** (Derrick V. Frazier, Assistant Professor, Political Science; and Robert Stewart-Ingersoll, Assistant Professor, Grand Valley State University, May 2, 2008, “Another Inconvenient Truth: Why a U.S. Withdrawal from Iraq Would Be a Mistake”, http://acdis.illinois.edu/newsarchive/newsitem-AnotherInconvenientTruthWhyaUSWithdrawalfromIraqWouldBeaMistake.html)

To begin, consider the regional context. . . . organize, identify, and fight across borders.

**Nuclear war**
**Russell 9** (James A. Russell, Senior Lecturer, National Security Affairs, Naval Postgraduate School, ‘9 (Spring) “Strategic Stability Reconsidered: Prospects for Escalation and Nuclear War in the Middle East” IFRI, Proliferation Papers, #26, http://www.ifri.org/downloads/PP26_Russell_2009.pdf)

Strategic stability in the region is thus undermined . . . , with substantial risk for the entire world.

**No offense – there will never be the votes for troops to stay**
**Cole 12/29** (Juan Cole, Richard P. Mitchell Collegiate Professor of History at the University of Michigan, 12/29/2010, “Al-Maliki: US Troops Out!”, http://www.juancole.com/2010/12/al-maliki-us-troops-out.html)

There are not 163 votes in parliament for . . . . Voila, 163. No parliamentary approval.

**Withdrawal now means that Maliki won’t ask for an extension**
**Thomasson 11** (Dan K. Thomasson is a noted investigative journalist, former editor of the Scripps Howard News Service, trustee of Franklin College, a member of the National Public Affairs Council for Indiana University, a member of the board of advisors of Ohio University School of Journalism at Georgetown University and of the American Society of Newspaper Editors. Thomasson also serves as president of the Raymond Clapper Foundation, January 3, 2011, “DAN THOMASSON: A golden chance to quit Iraq”, http://www.gosanangelo.com/news/2011/jan/03/a-golden-chance-to-quit-iraq/)

WASHINGTON — What a rare opportunity: It . . . , which has resisted change through the centuries.

**No offense – staying past the deadline dooms the mission anyway**
**Cordesman 9** (Anthony H. Cordesman holds the Arleigh A. Burke Chair in Strategy at CSIS. He is a recipient of the Department of Defense Distinguished Service Medal. Consulted for MNF-I, ISAF, U.S. commands, State Department, Defense Department, and intelligence community, and U.S. embassies, and he was a member of the Strategic Assessment Group for Afghanistan. Has worked with U.S. officials on counterterrorism and security areas in a number of Middle East countries. Former director of intelligence assessment in the Office of the Secretary of Defense and assistant to the deputy secretary of defense. 12 Aug 2009, “Withdrawal from Iraq - Assessing the readiness of Iraqi Security Forces”, http://www.reliefweb.int/rw/rwb.nsf/db900sid/MYAI-7UY9UC?OpenDocument)

Iraqi Accommodation and U.S. Withdrawal . . . Iraqi violence that it is seeking to prevent. 

====Non-Polarity Advantage==== 
Contention 2: Non Polarity

**US material decline is inevitable – and power is decoupling from influence**
**Haass 8** (Richard Haass, president of the Council on Foreign Relations, April 16, 2008,”The Age of Nonpolarity”, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2008/04/the_age_of_nonpolarity.html)

In this world, the United States is . . . of nonpolarity as is the proliferation of weaponry.

**Affirmation of the Iraq withdrawal deadline is crucial to global legitimacy**
**Jarrar and Leaver 10** (Raed Jarrar, senior fellow on the Middle East at Peace Action and Erik Leaver, research fellow at the Institute for Policy Studies, March 2010 “ Sliding Backwards on Iraq?” http://www.fpif.org/articles/sliding_backwards_on_iraq)

Last week, President Obama's out-of. . . to take the war into their own hands.

**Adhering to the 2011 withdrawal date key to US legitimacy – any escape clause wrecks it**
**Martel 9** (William C. Martel associate professor of international security studies at The Fletcher School at Tufts University July 2009 “Reprinted from USA Today” http://fletcher.tufts.edu/news/2009/op-eds/Martel_July1.shtml)

Sticking to deadlines boosts U.S. . . . descend into catastrophe carries great strategic risks. 

**Building hegemony with institutional legitimacy means the world order outlasts US material decline – the alternative is great power conflict**
**Kromah 9** (Lamii Moivi Kromah, Department of International Relations University of the Witwatersrand, February 2009, “The Institutional Nature of U.S. Hegemony: Post 9/11”, http://wiredspace.wits.ac.za/bitstream/handle/10539/7301/MARR%2009.pdf)

I see a multi-polar world as . . . decline of American predominance in world affairs.” 60

**And, lack of legitimacy constrains the exercise of hegemony anyway**
**Mendelsohn 10** (Barak Mendelsohn is an assistant professor of political science at Haverford College and a senior fellow of FPRI. Author of Combating Jihadism: American Hegemony and Interstate Cooperation in the War on Terrorism, June 2010, “The Question of International Cooperation in the War on Terrorism”, http://www.fpri.org/enotes/201006.mendelsohn.cooperationwarterror.html)

Going against common conceptions, I argue that . . . actions and prevents the uninhibited exercise of power.

**Hegemony through legitimacy solves all global problems – otherwise there’s backlash against exertion of power**
**Kromah 9** (Lamii Moivi Kromah, Department of International Relations University of the Witwatersrand, February 2009, “The Institutional Nature of U.S. Hegemony: Post 9/11”, http://wiredspace.wits.ac.za/bitstream/handle/10539/7301/MARR%2009.pdf)

A final major gain to the United States . . . without a broad measure of international security. 57

**Independently, multilateralism is the only way to solve global warming**
**Patrick 9** (Stewart, Senior Fellow and Director, Program on International Institutions and Global Governance, Washington Quarterly, October 1, “Prix Fixe and a` la Carte: Avoiding False Multilateral Choices”, EBSCO)

Anticipating similar criticisms, the Obama administration launched . . . should be mutually reinforcing, not mutually exclusive.

**Warming is real, anthropogenic, and causes extinction**
**Deibel 7** (Terry L, Professor of IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)

Finally, there is one major existential threat . . . the continued existence of life on this planet.

**Withdrawal inevitable – sooner key to credibility**
**Simon 7** (Steven, Hasib J. Sabbagh Senior Fellow in Middle Eastern Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, Spring 2007, “America and Iraq: The Case for Disengagement”, Survival | vol. 49 no. 1 | Spring 2007 | pp. 61–84)

The implosion of domestic support for the war . . . the bulk of American forces from Iraq within.

====Relations Advantage==== 
Contention 3: Relations

**Perception of walking back the deadline tanks Iraqi relations**
**LaFranchi 10** (Howard, CS Monitor Staff Writer, April 28, “US-Iraq relations threatened by Iraq's political quarrels,” http://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Foreign-Policy/2010/0428/US-Iraq-relations-threatened-by-Iraq-s-political-quarrels)

Clinton’s communiqué contained one slightly veiled message: . . . sovereignty if we start walking the deadline back.”

**Negative reaction will be overwhelming – affects broader security cooperation**
**Jarrar and Leaver 10** (Raed Jarrar, senior fellow on the Middle East at Peace Action and Erik Leaver, research fellow at the Institute for Policy Studies, March 2010 “ Sliding Backwards on Iraq?” http://www.fpif.org/articles/sliding_backwards_on_iraq)

The Iraqi media has been overwhelmed with political . . . withdrawal deadline included in the bilateral security agreement."

**It’s reverse causal – withdrawal boosts relations**
**NSN 10** (National Security Network, 4-20-2010, “U.S. and Iraqi Forces Deal Major Blow to al Qaeda in Iraq,” http://www.nsnetwork.org/node/1577)

Withdrawal of U.S. Forces - . . . Forces Agreement) and to the drawdown timeline."

**Current troop levels can’t deter Iran**
**Friedman 11** (George Friedman, founder, Chief Intelligence Officer, and CEO of Stratfor, former Professor of Political Science at Dickinson College, Ph.D. Government, Cornell University, B.A. Political Science, City College of New York, “The Turkish Role in Negotiations with Iran,” Stratfor, 1-11-2011, http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20110110-turkish-role-negotiations-iran)

The United States, of course, has . . . , the Iranians now face a historic opportunity.

**Relations are key to prevent Iranian influence in the gulf**
**Cordesman 10** (Anthony H. Cordesman holds the Arleigh A. Burke Chair in Strategy at CSIS. He is a recipient of the Department of Defense Distinguished Service Medal. Consulted for MNF-I, ISAF, U.S. commands, State Department, Defense Department, and intelligence community, and U.S. embassies, and he was a member of the Strategic Assessment Group for Afghanistan. Has worked with U.S. officials on counterterrorism and security areas in a number of Middle East countries. Former director of intelligence assessment in the Office of the Secretary of Defense and assistant to the deputy secretary of defense. AUG 19, 2010, “Iraq: Strategic Partnership or Lose the "Unwon" War”, http://csis.org/publication/iraq-strategic-partnership-or-lose-unwon-war)

Aiding Iraq Serves Vital American Strategic Interests There . . . help Iraqis overcome their sectarian and ethnic tensions.

**Cooperation prevents regional hegemony**
**Serwer 10** (Daniel, a visiting scholar, senior fellow, and professorial lecturer at Johns Hopkins University's School of Advanced International Studies, previously led U.S. Institute of Peace teams working on rule of law, governance, economics, security reform, media, technology, and gender issues in Iraq, 12/8/2010, “Democracy in the Balance? Iraq's Next Government”, http://www.washingtoninstitute.org/templateC05.php?CID=3280)

Another potential Iranian threat could emerge if U. . . .S. priorities in the Middle East. 

**That prevents miscalculation and war**
**Halliday 7** – Research professor in International Relations & Middle East Studies @ the Barcelona Institute for International Studies [Fred Halliday, “The matter with Iran,” 1 March 2007, OpenDemocracy, pg. http://www.opendemocracy.net/globalization-irandemocracy/iran_matter_4396.jsp] 

Yet there is another side to the US. . . underlying logic of its actions can be seen. 

**That will escalate**
**Chubin 8** – Director of Studies @ Geneva Centre for Security Policy [Shahram Chubin (Former Director of Regional Security Studies @ International Institute for Strategic Studies), “Iran's 'Risk-Taking' in Perspective,” The Institut Français des Relations Internationales (Ifri) Winter 2008]

In Afghanistan as in Iraq, Iran has . . . Guards – initiative. Pg. 18-19

**Extinction**
**Hirsch 5** (Jorge, Professor of Physics, University of California, San Diego, Ph.D., University of Chicago, “Can a Nuclear Strike on Iran Be Averted”, 11-21-2005, http://www.antiwar.com/orig/hirsch.php?articleid=8089)

Now that we have outlined what is very . . . enough to erase Earth's population many times over. 

**Only withdrawal solves**
**Odom 7** (William E. Odom, Professor of Political Science @ Yale University and Research Fellow @ Hudson Institute (Retired Army Lieutenant General, Former head of Army intelligence (Reagan), former director of the National Security Agency (Reagan), and served on the National Security Council (Carter), “The Mission Can't Be Accomplished -- It's Time for a New Strategy,” Washington Post, Sunday, February 11, 2007, pg. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2007/02/09/AR2007020901917.html)

2) We must continue the war to . . . S.-led diplomacy to stabilize their neighborhood.


=1AC – Iraqi Special Ops - TOC Semis= 
===Contention 1: Black Ops=== 

**Special Operations presence will be continued in Iraq**
**Kruzel 10** (John J. Kruzel, American Forces Press Service, U.S. Department of Defense, “Special Forces in Iraq to Remain through Drawdown,” 4-1-2010, http://www.defense.gov/news/newsarticle.aspx?id=58579)

U.S. special operations forces in . . . , a policy think-tank based here.

Scenario A: Direct Action

**These forces conduct covert operations into Iran – direct action missions intended to destabilize the current regime**
**Hersh 8** (Seymour M. Hersh, Pulitzer Prize-winning investigative journalist and author, regular contributor to The New Yorker, exposed the My Lai Massacre and its cover-up during the Vietnam War, and prisoner abuses at Abu Ghraib during the current Iraq War, “Preparing the Battlefield,” The New Yorker, 7-7-2008, [[http://www.newyorker.com/reporting/2008/07/07/080707fa_fact_hersh]])

Late last year, Congress agreed to a . . . congressional committees, which also can be briefed.

**These programs have expanded with no oversight, risking confrontation**
**Leverett & Leverett 10** (Flynt Leverett, Director of the Iran Project and Senior Fellow at the New America Foundation, Professor at the Pennsylvania State University’s School of International Affairs, former Senior Director for Middle East Affairs at the National Security Council, former CIA Senior Analyst, Ph.D. Politics, Princeton University; and Hillary Mann Leverett, CEO of Strategic Energy and Global Analysis, Senior Lecturer and Senior Research Fellow at Yale University’s Jackson Institute for Global Affairs, former Director for Iran, Afghanistan, and Persian Gulf Affairs at the National Security Council, former negotiator with Iran, graduate of Harvard Law School and Brandeis University; “Obama Steps Up America’s Covert War Against Iran,” The Race for Iran, 5-25-2010, [[http://www.raceforiran.com/obama-steps-up-america%E2%80%99s-covert-war-against-iran]])

When, in an Op Ed published in . . . eventual U.S.-Iranian military confrontation.

**Not only do these missions fail, they rally support for the regime and create multiple scenarios for US-Iran conflict**
**Gardiner 8** (Colonel Sam Gardiner, US Air Force (ret.), former professor of strategy and military operations at the National War College, Air War College, and Naval War College, “Dangerous and Getting More Dangerous: The Delicate Situation between the United States and Iran,” A Century Foundation Report, [[http://tcf.org/events/pdfs/ev238/Gardiner08.pdf]])

U.S. President George Bush says . . . .S. policy back on nuclear containment?

**Extinction**
**Hirsch 5** (Jorge, Professor of Physics, University of California, San Diego, Ph.D., University of Chicago, “Can a Nuclear Strike on Iran Be Averted”, 11-21-2005, [[http://www.antiwar.com/orig/hirsch.php?articleid=8089]])

Now that we have outlined what is very . . . enough to erase Earth's population many times over. 

Scenario B: Political Action

**The CIA is legally supporting opposition groups in Iran – unlike the military**
**Alexandrovna 7** (Larisa Alexandrovna, Managing Editor of Investigative News for Raw Story and regularly covers intelligence and national security, “CIA running black propaganda operation against Iran, Syria and Lebanon, officials say,” The Raw Story, 6-4-2007, [[http://rawstory.com/news/2007/CIA_running_black_propaganda_operation_against_0604.html]])

Some intelligence sources more wary of covert Pentagon . . . advantage of the loophole in congressional notification requirements.”

**Restricting covert action to indirect political support solves peaceful regime change**
**Green 9** (J.P. Green, “Obama’s Third Option in Iran,” The Democratic Strategist, 6-29-2009, [[http://www.thedemocraticstrategist.org/strategist/2009/06/obamas_third_option_in_iran_co.php]])

If covert ops have any legitimacy, they . . . dominance, should become a leading strategic objective.

**Peaceful regime change is key to prevent Hezbollah-Israel conflict**
**Rosett 8** (Claudia Rosett, journalist-in-residence at the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies, former staff writer for the Wall Street Journal, MBA, University of Chicago, M.A. English, Columbia University, B.A. English, Yale University, “The Iranian Connection,” National Review Online, 5-12-2008, [[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/224450/iranian-connection/claudia-rosett]])

In Lebanon, the Iranian-backed vanguard . . . it would be the right thing to do.

**Absent regime change, Iran will provoke a Hezbollah attack and massive Israeli retaliation**
**Taşpinar 11** (Ömer Taşpinar, Professor at the National War College, Adjunct Professor at Johns Hopkins University’s School of Advanced International Studies, Ph.D., M.A., Johns Hopkins University’s School of Advanced International Studies, B.A., Middle East Technical University, “The new risks in the Middle East (I),” Today’s Zaman, 1-3-2011, [[http://www.todayszaman.com/columnistDetail_getNewsById.action?newsId=231404]])

According to The Economist, we are perilously . . . quickly draw in Syria and very possibly Iran.

**Escalates to biological and nuclear use**
**Stirling 7** (Lord Stirling, Earl of Stirling, Hereditary Governor and Lord Lieutenant of Canada, “Why There Will First Be A New War In Lebanon Before A War On Iran,” OpEdNews.com, 11-16-2007, [[http://www.opednews.com/articles/opedne_lord_sti_071116_why_there_will_first.htm]])

During the 2006 war the world watched as . . . its leadership has shown the high stakes involved.

**Even absent escalation, Israeli nuclear use ensures extinction**
**Toon et al 7** (Owen B. Toon and Charles Bardeen, Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences, Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics, University of Colorado, Boulder; Alan Robock, Luke Oman, and Stenchikov, Department of Environmental Sciences, Rutgers University; Richard P. Turco, Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences, University of California, Los Angeles, “NUCLEAR WAR: Consequences of Regional-Scale Nuclear Conflicts,” Science, Vol. 315. no. 5816, 3-2-2007, p.1224-1225, HighWire)

The world may no longer face a serious . . . stability of society since the dawn of humans.



**Bioweapons ensure extinction**
**Ochs 2** (Richard Ochs, "BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY", 6-9-2002, [[http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]])

The failure of the FBI to prosecute the . . . The egos of leaders must not blind us.

===1AC – White Ops=== 

Contention 2: White Ops

**Using Special Forces to conduct covert ops guts readiness for traditional missions – no other forces can fill in**
**Kibbe 7** (Jennifer D. Kibbe, Assistant Professor of Government at Franklin and Marshall College, former Post-Doctoral Olin Fellow in Foreign Policy Studies at the Brookings Institution, Ph.D. Political Science, UCLA, M.A. Foreign Service, Georgetown University, B.A. Economics, Drake University, “Covert Action and the Pentagon,” Intelligence and National Security, 22(1), February 2007, informaworld)

The expansion of special operations forces into the . . . short shrift in the administration's 'war on terror'.

**Withdrawing Special Ops from Iraq is key to solving global terrorism**
**Martinage 8** (Robert Martinage, Senior Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, an expert on defense strategy, military modernization, special operations, and military revolutions, he has over fourteen years of experience designing, conducting, and analyzing wargames for the Department of Defense (DoD), former consultant to the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, “Strategy for the Long Haul: Special Operations Forces, Future Challenges and Opportunities,” CBSA Report, 10-31-2008, p.25-32, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA491329&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]])

There are two branches of violent Islamic radicalism . . . languages spoken outside the CENTCOM area of responsibility.

**al-Qaeda will get WMD now – they’re waiting for an opportunity for a large-scale attack**
**Mowatt-Larssen 10** (Rolf Mowatt-Larssen, Senior Fellow, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, former Director of the Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence, U.S. Department of Energy, former Chief of the Weapons of Mass Destruction Department, Counter-terrorist Center, Central Intelligence Agency, recipient of the CIA Director’s Award, graduate of the U.S. Military Academy, West Point, “Al Qaeda Weapons of Mass Destruction Threat: Hype or Reality?” January 2010, [[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/al-qaeda-wmd-threat.pdf]])

Osama bin Ladin’s assertion in 1998 that it . . . plot in motion that has not been found. 

**Material has already been stolen and an attack is coming in 2013**
**Hall 10** (Mimi Hall, staff writer for USA Today, 4/12/2010, “Obama seeks front against nuclear terror”, http://www.usatoday.com/news/washington/2010-04-11-nukesummit_N.htm)

Obama said "the single biggest threat" . . . used in a terrorist attack" by 2013. 



**Extinction**
**Morgan 9** (Dennis Ray Morgan, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea [[@http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezp-prod1.hul.harvard.edu/science/journal/00163287|Futures]], [[@http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezp-prod1.hul.harvard.edu/science?_ob=PublicationURL&_tockey=%23TOC%235805%232009%23999589989%231515128%23FLA%23&_cdi=5805&_pubType=J&view=c&_auth=y&_acct=C000014438&_version=1&_urlVersion=0&_userid=209690&md5=7eaadd08919055b45011bba80bf06023|Volume 41, Issue 10]], December 2009, Pages 683-693, World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race)

In a remarkable website on nuclear war, . . . the accidental or reckless use of strategic weapons.

===1AC – Oversight=== 
Contention 3: Oversight

Scenario A: Military Activism

**The DoD’s legal justification for the covert use of Special Forces amounts to a blank check for military activism – asserting oversight authority is essential to re-establish civilian control**
**Wilner 5** (Alex S. Wilner, Doctoral Candidate of Political Science and Doctoral Fellow with the Centre for Foreign Policy Studies at Dalhousie University, Nova Scotia, M.A. Dalhousie, B.A. McGill University, “An Evolution in Military Affairs: Civil-Military Relations in an Age of Unconventional Warfare & Catastrophic Terror,” paper presented at the Conference of Defense Associations Graduate Student Symposium, 2005, [[http://www.cda-cdai.ca/cdai/uploads/cdai/2009/04/wilner05.pdf]])

Civilian Control over Covert Military Action Covert military . . . it the continued stability of the democratic experiment.

**Unilateral military activism decks heg by over-identifying threats and lowering the threshold for initiating conflict**
**Conetta 8** (Carl J. Conetta, Co-Director of the Project for Defense Alternatives, former Research Fellow, Institute for Defense and Disarmament Studies, “Forceful Engagement: Rethinking the Role of Military Power in US Global Policy,” Project on Defense Alternatives, December 2008, [[http://www.comw.org/pda/081201ForcefulEngagement.htm]])

A key objective of the new administration will . . . of the security environment that privileges military action.

**Heg decline causes great power war** 
**Zhang and Shi 11**– *Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C.; Lin Shi is from Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C. (1/22, America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/)

This does not necessarily mean that the US . . . will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.

**This covert activism specifically results in war with China, India, and Russia**
**Marshall 11** (Andrew Gavin Marshall, Research Associate with the Centre for Research on Globalization, “The Logic of Imperial Insanity and the Road to World War III,” Global Research, 1-14-2011, [[http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=22781]])

Obama wasted no time in rapidly accelerating America’s . . . , of which Afghanistan was a central battlefield. 

**US-China war causes extinction**
**Hunkovic 9** American Military University [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, [[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]]

A war between China, Taiwan and the . . . countries will not be considered in this study.

**US-Russia war causes extinction**
**Helfand and Pastore 9** [Ira Helfand, M.D., and John O. Pastore, M.D., are past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility. March 31, 2009, “U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat”, http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html]

President Obama and Russian President Dimitri Medvedev are . . . that existed in 1995 remains in place today.

**Independently destroys Indian relations**
**Symonds 10** (Peter Symonds, International Editor, World Socialist Web Site, “Obama’s covert wars,” 8-16-2010, [[http://www.wsws.org/articles/2010/aug2010/pers-a16.shtml]])

A lengthy article in the New York Times . . . China, and threaten to provoke broader conflicts.

US-India relations solve everything including warming and disease
**Mathew 9** (Thomas, Deputy Director General at the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses & Ph.D. on US Foreign Policy from JNU, New Delhi from 2007-10, “Saving India-U.S. Partnership”, Institute for Defence Studies & Analysis, July 19, [[http://www.idsa.in/strategiccomments/SavingIndiaUSPartnership_TMathew_190709]])

Both nations have suffered at the hands of . . . two nations that have so much in common. 

**Warming is real, anthropogenic, and causes extinction**
**Deibel 7** (Terry L, Professor of IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)

Finally, there is one major existential threat . . . the continued existence of life on this planet.

**Disease causes extinction**
**Yu 9** (Victoria, Spring, Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science, “Human Extinction: The Uncertainty of Our Fate”, [[http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate]], AV)

A pandemic will kill off all humans. . . . into a human-viable strain (10).

Scenario B: Cyber Warfare

**The DoD uses the same legal justification to avoid oversight of cyber warfare programs – Congressional invalidation is essential to ensure oversight of cyber policy and avoid multiple scenarios for retaliatory escalation**
**Dycus 10** (Stephen, Professor of national security law at Vermont Law School, former member of the National Academies committee on cyber warfare, LLM, Harvard University, LLB, BA, Southern Methodist University, “Congress’ Role in Cyber Warfare,” Journal of National Security Law & Policy, 4(1), 2010, p.161-164, [[http://www.jnslp.com/read/vol4no1/11_Dycus.pdf]])

The Defense Department is heavily engaged in preparations . . . account of every significant use of cyber weapons. 

**Millions of cyber attacks every day risk misattribution and escalation to WMD use**
**Coleman 7** (Kevin G. Coleman, technology strategist and advisor for two executive think tanks, Technolytics and Intelomics, provided expert Congressional testimony on technology threats and policies, former advisor to the National Technology Transfer Center, 20 years of experience as a technology management consultant, “Department of Cyber Defense: An organization who’s time has come!” November 2007, p.7, [[http://www.technolytics.com/Dept_of_Cyber_Defense.pdf]])

Each and every day there are millions of . . . to the use of weapons of mass destruction!

**Absent review of cyber warfare policy, retaliation goes nuclear – military sources confirm**
**Lawson 9** (Sean Lawson, Assistant Professor in the Department of Communication at the University of Utah, former Associate National Security Analyst at DynCorp Systems & Solutions, Ph.D., Science and Technology Studies, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, M.A. Arab Studies, Georgetown University, B.A. History, California State University, Stanislaus, “Cross-Domain Response to Cyber Attacks and the Threat of Conflict Escalation,” Transformation Tracker, [[http://www.seanlawson.net/?p=477]])

At a time when it seems impossible to . . . to serve the same purpose.” [9]

===1AC – Plan=== 
**The United States Congress should exercise its oversight authority to terminate Special Operations Forces presence in Iraq**




=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]