[[toc]]
=Case Negs= 
==Dulles - Blue Lasers== 
===ASW=== 
**Chinese Naval Modernization is inevitable – Will be driven by economic powerhouse capabilities inevitably.**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Ronald </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">O'Rourke</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Specialist in Naval Affairs for the Congressional Research Service, 10/1/</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">10</span><span class="wiki_link_ext"> “China Naval Modernization: Implications for U.S. Navy Capabilities—Background and Issues for Congress” JL</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">One cannot engage within the region without having....exist with the Peoples’ Liberation Army (PLA). </span>

**Modernization ineffective and terminally fails, 6 issues that simply better tech can’t solve – Joint Control Fails, Mixed tech, arms dealers, lack of knowledgeable engineers, lack of combat experience and no force projection capabilities.**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Ronald </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">O’Rourke</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Specialist in Naval Affairs Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division for the Congressional Research Service, 8/11/</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">08</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, “China Naval Modernization: Implications for U.S. Navy Capabilities — Background and Issues for Congress” JL</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Regarding weaknesses and limitations of China’s military in</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">....an SSBN fleet that performs strategic patrols</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.”85</span>

**No war – US and China value cooperative engagement on issues ESPECIALLY misinterpretation of activities.**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Ronald </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">O'Rourke</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Specialist in Naval Affairs for the Congressional Research Service, 10/1/</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">10</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> “China Naval Modernization: Implications for U.S. Navy Capabilities—Background and Issues for Congress” JL</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">U.S. Pacific Command is committed....issues related to maritime and air safety</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. 129</span>

===Sub Bumping=== 
**No Impact to sub emergencies 3 reasons – Maneuverability drills, accident containment and reinforces sub mechanics to prevent leakage.**
Douglas <span style="font-size: 16px;">Waller and </span>Mark <span style="font-size: 16px;">Thompson</span>, Staff at Time Washignton Office, 8/28/20<span style="font-size: 16px;">00</span>, “Lessons From Tragedy: Could It Happen to a U.S. Sub? [[http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,997834,00.html#ixzz1YeYpRrqs|http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,997834,00.html#ixzz1YeYpRrqs]] JL
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Nothing so chills the U.S.....watch to keep their vessel humming and safe.</span>

**US Submarine radar solves – new radar ensures tracking systems work and even if bumps happen can contain the impacts.**
Alexus G. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Grynkewich</span>, USAFA; MA, University of Georgia; MA, Naval Postgraduate School) is executive officer, Air Combat Command Directorate of Requirements, Langley AFB, Virginia, 12-<span style="font-size: 16px;">06</span>, [“The Use of Air Power for Maritime Homeland Defense,”NAVAL POSTGRADUATE SCHOOL, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA462522&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]] E. Liu
U.S. Navy submarine and surface....tracking the vessel once it departed for Yemen.

**Impacts exaggerated – While a leak would be bad and kill marine life there is no scenario where it would end all ocean bio-diversity.**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Eugene </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Miasnikov</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Center for Arms Control, Energy and Environmental Studies, 8/21/20</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">03</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, “Preventing Submarine Collisions” JL</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Also </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">would a nuclear accident, perhaps 3</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">....produced by the U.S. Navy.</span>

**Impact Inevitable – Other countries with nuclear armed submarines will have collisions that the plan cannot solve. They are the most likely scenario for impact.**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Eben </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Harrell</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Time London, 2/19/20</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">09</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, “Did France's Secrecy Cause a Nuclear-Sub Collision?” [[http://www.time.com/time/world/article/0,8599,1879777,00.html#ixzz1YebV3YM2|http://www.time.com/time/world/article/0,8599,1879777,00.html#ixzz1YebV3YM2]] JL</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">A collisionbetween a Britishnuclear-powered</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">....Erulin, a spokesman for the French Navy.</span>

**Empirically disproven – US nuclear subs collide all the time proving submarine construction integrity.**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Raissa </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Kasolowsky</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Staff at Reuters, 03/20/20</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">09</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> “U.S. nuclear submarine collides in strait near Iran” [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2009/03/20/us-usa-navy-collision-idUSTRE52J3KY20090320]] JL</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">A nuclear-powered U.S.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">....program, Iraq, Israel and other issues. </span>

===Solvency=== 
**These lasers can’t be deployed in space – only HYPOTHETICALLY work on airborne low flying planes.**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Keith </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Rozenburg</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, President of Technology Assessment </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">and </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Transfer Inc., and Sharon </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Fehrenbacher</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, CEO of Technology Assessment and Transfer Inc. 20</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">11</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> “UNIQUE HIGH OUTPUT BLUE LASER FOR IMPROVED ASW CAPABILITIES” [[http://www.sbir.gov/sbirsearch/detail/11021]] JL</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Currently available lasers are inadequate for current and</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">....media is outlined in the Phase 1 option.</span>

**Squo Solves – Navy is going to do the plan on helicopters now.**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">David P. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Crocker</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Attorney and Political Author, 7/22/</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">09</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, “What is State of the Art in Submarine Detection?” [[http://www.behindbluelines.com/2009/07/22/what-is-state-of-the-art-in-submarine-detection/]] JL</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Clearly, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">work on blue-green lasers....a blue-green laser of considerable power.</span>

**Plan trades off with current multi-use Autonomous Zero-Power Bathythermograph Sensors used for ASW but also for Naval Special Warfare – plan kills capabilities.**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Science Daily</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, editorial staff, 0</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">6/27</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">/11 “U.S. Navy, Marine Corps Tests Autonomous Zero-Power Bathythermograph Sensors” [[http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2011/06/110627123029.htm]] JL</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">With an ultimate goal of producing simple,....the device could be untethered in future tests.</span>

==LBJ/LASA - DSCOVR== 
===Solar Flares=== 
**No killer solar flare coming**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">O’Neil 8 </span>(Ian O’Neill (PhD) is founder and editor of Astroengine. He is a space producer for Discovery News. O’Neill is a British solar physics doctor with nearly a decade of physics study and research experience, Masters and PhD from University of Wales, Aberystwyth, “2012: No Killer Solar Flare,” June 21, 2008, http://www.universetoday.com/14645/2012-no-killer-solar-flare///DN)
Can Our Sun Produce a Killer Flare?....electrojets, <span class="UnderlineChar">but nothing more extreme than that</span>.

**Status quo NASA monitoring solves risk of blackouts**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Phillips 6/22</span> -- science writer and editor at NASA (Dr. Tony, 2011, "Getting ready for the next big solar storm," http://www.physorg.com/news/2011-06-ready-big-solar-storm.html, RG)s
"<span class="UnderlineChar">We can </span>now <span class="UnderlineChar">track</span> the progress of<span class="UnderlineChar">....forestall </span>weeks of<span class="UnderlineChar"> regional blackouts</span>," says Pulkkinen.

**Blackouts inevitable – aging equipment, growth, cyber threats**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Loder</span> 2/28/<span style="font-size: 16px;">08 </span>– staff writer [Asjylyn, “Still in dark over blackout,” St. Petersburg Times, 2/28/08, Business p. 1D]
Floridians have power, but not answers to<span class="UnderlineChar">....25 to 30 years ago</span>," Byres said.

**Tech exists now to mitigate the impact of solar flares**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">CTV '10</span> -- staff writer at Canada am (2011, "No need to fear strong solar flares in 2013: NASA," http://www.ctv.ca/CTVNews/CanadaAM/20100923/solar-flares-100923/, RG)
A <span class="UnderlineChar">solar physicist</span> at NASA <span class="UnderlineChar">says there's no....enable us to mitigate them,</span>" he said.

**No risk of nuclear meltdowns**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Beller, 4</span> - Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of Nevada, Las Vegas
(Dr. Denis E, “Atomic....Chernobyl accident in the Former Soviet Union. 52

**Economic crisis won’t cause war – empirics go neg**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Barnett 9</span> (Thomas, senior managing director of Enterra Solutions LLC, senior strategic researcher for Naval War College, August 25, “The New Rules: Security Remains Stable Amid Financial Crisis,” Aprodex, Asset Protection Index, http://www.aprodex.com/the-new-rules--security-remains-stable-amid-financial-crisis-398-bl.aspx)
When the global financial crisis struck roughly a<span class="UnderlineChar">....free-trade agreements have not slowed.</span>

===Solvency=== 
**35 satellite specialists rejected DSCOVR because they discovered it wasn’t a suitable replacement**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Donahue 11</span> (Bill Donahue is the current president of the Catholic League for Religious and Civil Rights in the United States. 4-6-11 Who Killed The Deep Space Climate Observatory? [[http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-03/lost-satellite?page=2]] JT)
<span class="UnderlineChar">In</span> May <span class="UnderlineChar">2007</span>, six years after DSCOVR’s....much more useful than that possible with DSCOVR.”

**The military is changing DSCOVR to be used for military purposes, plan only fiats the launch of DSCOVR not it being used as a climate monitoring device**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Patterson 11</span> (Christian Patterson is a writer for sundial. April 10, 2011“Political egos freeze satellite and science” [[http://sundial.csun.edu/2011/04/political-egos-freeze-satellite-and-science/]] JT)
Recently, it became clear that NOAA and<span class="UnderlineChar">....much more useful than that possible with DSCOVR</span>.”

**CLARREO solves the aff**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">NASA 8/1</span> (08/01/2011 [[http://science1.nasa.gov/missions/clarreo/]] JT)
<span class="UnderlineChar">The Climate Absolute Radiance and Refractivity Observatory</span> (....thereby resulting in increased programmatic flexibility and savings.

==Other Cites Requested== 
**Double bind – either SPS orbits too low and debris takes it out or too high and radiation destroys it**
Donald <span style="font-size: 16px;">Rapp</span>, B.S. Chemical Engineering, Cooper Union, 1955, M.S. Chemical Engineering, Princeton, 1956, Graduate study, California Institute of Technology, 1957, Ph.D. Chemical Physics, University of California, “Solar Power Beamed from Space”, January 1 <span style="font-size: 16px;">2007</span>, Astropolitics, The International Journal of Space Politics & Policy, 5:1, 63-86, Taylor and Francis, http://www.spaceclimate.net/Astropolitics.final.pdf//jchen
Relatively <span class="DebateUnderline">little work has been done on assembly </span>....This remains an issue that requires further study.

**Takes 32000 years to set up – assumes future tech advances**
Donald <span style="font-size: 16px;">Rapp</span>, B.S. Chemical Engineering, Cooper Union, 1955, M.S. Chemical Engineering, Princeton, 1956, Graduate study, California Institute of Technology, 1957, Ph.D. Chemical Physics, University of California, “Solar Power Beamed from Space”, January 1 <span style="font-size: 16px;">2007</span>, Astropolitics, The International Journal of Space Politics & Policy, 5:1, 63-86, Taylor and Francis, http://www.spaceclimate.net/Astropolitics.final.pdf//jchen
A number of alternate SPS designs have evolved ....GW of power on Earth in one century.

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]