[[toc]]
**For AFF cites email: ([[mailto:jacobboucher@ymail.com|jacobboucher@ymail.com]]**
For NEG cites email: [[mailto:lillie.oh@gmail.com|lillie.oh@gmail.com]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC Valley== 
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Observation One is the Status Quo-</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Near Earth Objects (or NEOs) will inevitably strike the planet</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Easterbrook 2008</span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Gregg, Editor of The Atlantic and The New Republic and Sr. Fellow at Brookings, “The Sky is Falling,” June,</span>****<span style="color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200806/asteroids]]</span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>**

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A generation ago…. is riding on the plane.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Current detection methods are drastically underprepared for the inevitable NEO strike— dangerous objects are still undiscovered</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">NRC 2010</span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (National Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,” </span>****<span style="color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842]]</span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>**

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ground-based telescopes have…. Earth impact (“imminent impactors”).</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12px;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Plan: </span>**</span>
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The United States Federal Government should fully fund and implement space based infrared telescopes in a Venus-like orbit for the purposes of asteroid detection</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Advantage One is: Asteroid Mining</span>**

<span style="font-size: 12px;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Resources are becoming scarcer on earth - forcing us to aggressively search the environment for lower grade materials at higher financial and environmental costs. Asteroids are key to solving the resource shortage and the financial and ecological problems that it brings.</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Gerlach 2005 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">(Charles, CEO Gerlach Space Systems, “Profitability Exploiting Near-Earth Object Resources” delivered at 2005 International Space Development Conference in Washington D.C , May 19-22 2005, NB</span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">http://abundantplanet.org/files/Space-Ast-Profitably-Exploiting-NEO-Gerlach-2005.pdf)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">We are approaching …. by collisions and fragmentation.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Asteroid detection is a pre-requisite for asteroid mining</span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Hopkins et. al, 10 [ Josh Hopkins, Adam Dissel, Mark Jones, James Russell, and Razvan Gaza Lockheed Martin “ Plymouth Rock An Early Human Mission to Near Earth Asteroids Using Orion Spacecraft,” June 2010, http://www.lockheedmartin.com/data/assets/ssc/Orion/Toolkit/OrionAsteroidMissionWhitePaperAug2010.pdf]</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Asteroids have long been …. as to planetary scientists.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">**<span style="color: black;">Asteroid mining solves the economy and environment</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;"><span style="color: black;">Ross in 2001</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Shane D.Assistant Professor <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.esm.vt.edu/|Engineering Science and Mechanics]]</span> at<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.vt.edu/|Virginia Tech]]</span>. __Space Industry Report__ //Near-Earth Asteroid Mining//December 14, 2001. Google Scholar. TS)</span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;"> Many terrestrial resources…. such as Ag, In, Co, Ga, and As.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Environmental destruction leads to extinction</span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Oliver Tickell, Climate Researcher, 8/11/2008, On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction, The Guardian, pg. np</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">We need to get… a similar hothouse Earth.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Advantage Two is: Armageddon</span>**

<span style="font-size: 12px;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Large Asteroids cause extinction of nearly all life on the planet – the dinosaurs prove.</span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Sunfellow ’95, David Sunfellow, a writer for the News Brief, BS in astronomy “Doomsday Asteroids”, Nov 17 1995, June 23, 2011, http://www.nhne.com/articles/saasteroids.html</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Using the moon's potholed …. lava flows, were ignited</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Medium sized Asteroid strike causes global extinction.</span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Sidle ‘7(Roy, Slope Conservation Section, Geohazards Division, Disaster Prevention Research Institute, Kyoto University, Chapter 23: Hazard Risk Assessment of a Near Earth Object, in //Comet/Asteroid Impacts and Human Society: An Interdisciplinary Approach//, SpringLink)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Very large asteroids …. regional coastal flooding.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12px;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Even Small asteroids which are undetectable from ground-telescopes cause the “Air Hammer” effect – a giant fireball that outweighs nuclear war.</span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Arentza et al 2010 NEO Survey: An Efficient Search for Near-Earth Objects by an IR Observatory in a Venus-like Orbit Robert Arentza, Harold Reitsemaa, Jeffrey Van Cleveb and Roger Linfielda a Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. 1600 Commerce St. Boulder, CO 80301 <span class="skype_pnh_print_container">303-939-6140</span><span class="skype_pnh_container"><span class="skype_pnh_mark"> begin_of_the_skype_highlighting</span> <span class="skype_pnh_highlighting_inactive_common"> <span class="skype_pnh_textarea_span"><span class="skype_pnh_text_span">303-939-6140</span></span> </span> <span class="skype_pnh_mark">end_of_the_skype_highlighting</span></span>; rarentz@ball.com; hreitsema@aol.com; [[mailto:rlinfiel@ball.com|rlinfiel@ball.com]] b SETI Institute NASA Ames Research Center NS 244-30, Room 107G Moffett Field, CA 94035 <span class="skype_pnh_print_container">650-604-1370</span><span class="skype_pnh_container"><span class="skype_pnh_mark"> begin_of_the_skype_highlighting</span> <span class="skype_pnh_highlighting_inactive_common"> <span class="skype_pnh_textarea_span"><span class="skype_pnh_text_span">650-604-1370</span></span> </span> <span class="skype_pnh_mark">end_of_the_skype_highlighting</span></span> Space, Propulsion & Energy Sciences International Forum</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Crucial to the politics …. sudden and catastrophic airburst vent.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">1AC – Solvency</span>**

<span style="font-size: 12px;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Observation Three is Solvency</span>**</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 12px;">Putting infrared telescopes in a Venus-like orbit would increase detection methods by 180%</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 12px;">Bucknam and Gold in 08 [Mark and Robert “Survival” (00396338); Oct/Nov2008, Vol. 50 Issue 5, p141-156, 16p PN] [PHO - potentially hazardous object]</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">NASA analysed options …. around seven to ten years.14</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Only effective detection allows for the development of adequate deflection systems. We have the technology, we’d just need the time to deploy it. </span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Sayanagi 08, (Kunio M. Sayanagi, 4/4/08, “How to Deflect an Asteroid”, http://arstechnica.com/science/news/2008/04/how-to-deflect-an-asteroid.ars, Kunio M. Sayanagi is a postdoctoral research fellow in the Division for Geological and Planetary Sciences at the California Institute of Technology, SH)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">By now, we have all …. technologies to deflect them.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">And, only Venus-like orbit can create adequate lead time to allow for mitigation.</span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Arentza et al 2010 NEO Survey: An Efficient Search for Near-Earth Objects by an IR Observatory in a Venus-like Orbit Robert Arentza, Harold Reitsemaa, Jeffrey Van Cleveb and Roger Linfielda a Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. 1600 Commerce St. Boulder, CO 80301 <span class="skype_pnh_print_container">303-939-6140</span><span class="skype_pnh_container"><span class="skype_pnh_mark"> begin_of_the_skype_highlighting</span> <span class="skype_pnh_highlighting_inactive_common"> <span class="skype_pnh_textarea_span"><span class="skype_pnh_text_span">303-939-6140</span></span> </span> <span class="skype_pnh_mark">end_of_the_skype_highlighting</span></span>; rarentz@ball.com; hreitsema@aol.com; [[mailto:rlinfiel@ball.com|rlinfiel@ball.com]] b SETI Institute NASA Ames Research Center NS 244-30, Room 107G Moffett Field, CA 94035 <span class="skype_pnh_print_container">650-604-1370</span><span class="skype_pnh_container"><span class="skype_pnh_mark"> begin_of_the_skype_highlighting</span> <span class="skype_pnh_highlighting_inactive_common"> <span class="skype_pnh_textarea_span"><span class="skype_pnh_text_span">650-604-1370</span></span> </span> <span class="skype_pnh_mark">end_of_the_skype_highlighting</span></span> Space, Propulsion & Energy Sciences International Forum</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Groundbased searches at visible wave …. mitigation mission to succeed.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">And, Only US action solves, American leadership is essential to effective planetary defense.</span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Dinerman ‘9(Taylor, journalist for the Space Review “The new politics of planetary defense,” The Space Review, 7-20, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1418/1]]</span>)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">While the US is …. stage for a disaster.</span>



<span style="font-size: 12px;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Finally, US unilateral action is best – NASA and DOD are best suited for the job</span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Worden ‘2(Brigadier General Simon P., Hearings on the threat of near-Earth asteroids (NEAs) before the Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics, House Committee on Science, October 3, 2002. <span style="color: blue;">[[http://impact.arc.nasa.gov/gov_threat_2002.cfm]]</span>)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Many have suggested any …. debate this issue before it</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">1AC – Framework</span>**

<span style="font-size: 12px;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">1. Don’t consider negative impacts - Major war is obsolete</span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Mandelbaum ’99 (Michael, American Foreign Policy Professor in the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins, 2-25, Council on Foreign Relations Great Debate Series, “Is Major War Obsolete?” <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.ciaonet.org/conf/cfr10/]]</span>)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">So if I am right …. haltingly but increasingly, like that.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">**2. Probability and magnitude are 100 percent – our impacts far outweigh nuclear war.**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Kunich ’97 (John, Lt. Colonel USAF, B.S., M.S., University of Illinois; J.D., Harvard Law School; LL.M., George Washington University School of Law, Staff Judge Advocate 50th Space Wing, Falcon Air Force Base, 41 Air Force L. Rev. 119, lexis)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Irrespective of the ultimate …. including the United States Air Force.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">3. Extinction is categorically different from any other impact—even if they win a nuclear war kills 99 percent of the population, an asteroid strike still outweighs by an order of magnitude</span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Jason G. Matheny 2007 Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction” Risk Analysis, Vol. 27, No. 5, 2007</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12px;">Even if extinction events …. those that threaten 100%.</span>




==Negative== 
==Disadvantages== 

SKFTA
China DA
NASA Tradeoff
Ptx- unemployment
==Kritiks== 
**Cap:**
===1.Exploration beyond the earth is the newest solution to the inevitable crises produced by capitalism. It will become militarized and morph into continued domination and exploitation of resources and labor=== 
**Dickens 10**

we should take a longer...attempting to make their own cosmic “fixes"

**2. Impx --> extinction**
**Brown 05**

**3.****<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Our alternative is to not do the affirmative—capitalist relations should be withdrawn from and rejected—we must stop participating in activities that constitute a limited rescue operation for capital</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Herod 04</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">It is time to try to describe...</span>slavery and possibly even to extinction

**ANGRY BIRDS/NCW K: (jv state quarters)**

1. **not all aspects of warfare can be boiled down to science** 
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Vego</span>__**, Jan 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">03</span>__**, Milan Vego is professor of Military Operations at the Naval War College, “Net-Centric Is Not Decisive.”, U.S. Naval Institute Proceedings, Vol. 129 Issue 1, p52

<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Network-centric warfare places too much emphasis on tactics....</span>The most serious omission is the critical role that leadership plays at all levels of war.


2. **we can’t restart a military campaign—This turns the case—basis in history is a prerequisite to military effectiveness**
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Milan </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">**__Vego__**</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">, </span>professor of Military Operations at the Naval War College, <span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">20**__10__**</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">, “Military History and the Study of Operational Art” JointForces Quarterly, Issue 57, <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/images/jfq-57/vego-operationalArt.pdf]]</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Experience abundantly shows the critical role…the results will be wanting</span>

3. **The alt is to reject their notion of war as a science—and reaffirm its status as an art**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Vego</span>__**, Jan 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">03</span>__**, Milan Vego is professor of Military Operations at the Naval War College, “Net-Centric Is Not Decisive.”, U.S. Naval Institute Proceedings, Vol. 129 Issue 1, p52

<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">The trend toward greatly increased centralization…warfare is not a decisive form of warfare</span>


==Counterplans== 

CHINA CP
XO
Russia
==Negative Strategy== 
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]