[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
**Value = MORALITY**
Morality is the paramount value – competing values reduce thought to political consideration, which are inherently arbitrary and radically violent.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Sun</span>, Professor of Philosophy at Fudan, <span style="font-size: 16px;">2008</span> (Sun Xiangchen, Professor of Philosophy at Fudan University, China, “Emmanuel Levinas and the Critique of Modern Political Philosophy” http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/cgi-bin/fulltext/121573478/HTMLSTART?CRETRY=1&SRETRY=0)

According to Hobbes's logic… <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">the ontology of war. </span>

**Criterion = LEVINASIAN ETHICS**
According to the Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy Levinas argued that, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">“I can never do enough. My obligations to the Other are unlimited, as well as being asymmetrical in the sense that I have no right to ask of the Other what the Other asks of me.”</span></span> Therefore, we have the unselfish and infinite duty to assist others in any way possible. We are in constant interaction with others, and because of that interaction, there is no way we cannot be obligated to assist them.

**Contention One – Morality depends on Others**
A. We cannot __know__ ourselves without knowing others. Failure to recognize and identify with that which is not us prevents us from constructing ourselves as autonomous beings.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Allen Wood writes in 2006</span> Fichte’s Intersubjective I. (Stanford University, USA) Inquiry, Volume 49, Number 1 (February, 2006)<span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.stanford.edu/%7Eallenw/webpapers/FichteIntersubjective.pdf|http://www.stanford.edu/~allenw/webpapers/FichteIntersubjective.pdf]]</span>

There the transcendental ordering of thoughts begins with the I’s self-positing... <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">I as a determinate form of activity can be thought of as possible at all. </span>
Thus, our self-awareness can only arise through our encounters with the Other. Without the capacity to distinguish that which is in our control from that which is not, the external world would appear to be governed by our will, preventing us from distinguishing our own autonomous action from the decisions of others. Thus we must respect the other.

B. Any coherent conception of ethics arises out of respect for the other. Discussion that precedes a response to the other is internally self-defeating because it tries to attribute characteristics to the other before encountering the other. This also allows us for a form of totalizing violence and radical evil.
Anthony F. <span style="font-size: 16px;">Beaver in 1993</span>. “Emmanuel Levinas and the Prophetic Voice of Postmodernity”. Originally presented as an Andiron Lecture at the University of Evansville.

If we can accept this notion that ideas are inventions of the mind cuts off contact with the other, then we are presupposing that contact with the other has already been established…
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">And if contact with the other cannot be established through ideas, then we must look elsewhere. Thus, Levinas looks not to reason, but to sensibility, to find the real other person</span>…


**Contention Two – People in Need are the Other we have an obligation towards.**
a. The lack and needs of people is what defines their radical otherness. Responding to poverty, destitution, and other forms of suffering require an explicit obligation.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Lingis in 2005</span>, prof philosophy PSU, Alphonso Lingis, Prof. of Philosophy at Penn State University. 2005
Addressing Levinas Ed. Eric Sean Nelson, Antje Kapust, and Kent Still. Northwestern University Press. Pgs. 98-109

In facing me, he not only shows himself to be different from me–in the midst of a different situation, envisioning a different future from the momentum of a different past–but other than me and other than the substantial space and time of the phenomenal world. <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">In his want and need he is other..</span>. <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">of my species with all the resources of the environment.</span>

b. Our obligation to the other extends to people in need because our responsibility to other is infinite and unconditional.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Van Der Merwe</span>, professor of philosophy at Stellenbosch, <span style="font-size: 16px;">2006</span> W.L. van der Merwe, professor of philosophy at University of Stellenbosch, South Africa, “The Ethics of Responsibility”, http://hdl.handle.net/10019/49

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> “The other concerns me in all his material misery</span>…<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">I in an equality and a reciprocity</span>.

==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]