==Contact Info:== 

aff- [[mailto:jgrubbs99@gmail.com|jgrubbs99@gmail.com]]
neg- [[mailto:alexander.fieldslefkovic@gmail.com|alexander.fieldslefkovic@gmail.com]]

=Affirmative= 

==Whitey on the Moon Aff (Florida State Quals)== 

began by playing "Whitey on the Moon" by Gil Scott-Heron from 0:08 to 1:08
[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PtBy_ppG4hY]]

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The resolution’s romanticized vision for space exploration is a White Supremacist Racialization built upon the blood of the Negro and the absolute non-sovereignty of the black body</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dinerstein 6</span>**, (Travis, prof or something, 2006, “Technology and it’s discontents: On the verge of posthuman”, JG)

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Immediately after 9/11...</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">will rebaptize human beings as cyborgs. 5 </span>


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The logic of uncritical affirmation of the resolution is founded on a managerial discourse bent on maintaining predictable order at all costs. Our goal is not to begin a political movement in the liberal-democratic sense but to invoke new visions of political reality. This process escapes from the blind alleys of pre-established political identities. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Goddard 06 </span>**(July 6th, 2006: The Encounter between Guattari and Berandi and the Post – Modern Era “Felix and Alice in Wonderland”; <span style="color: #0000f5;">[[http://www.generation-online.org/p/fpbifo1.htm]]</span>, JG)



__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">What this type of radio achieved most...</span>__
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">to outline projections of societal change.”</span>__

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">So turn on your radios and bring out your books. In the spirit of Gil Scott-Heron and Derrick Bell, Julian and I advocate the use of Afrofuturist poetry as an emancipatory strategy in debate to end the policing of black bodies. We have to abolish the cops right here in this community so that it may serve as a praxis and nexus point for us to fight back against the pigs in our hoods and the world.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Debate has become an educational policing apparatus that reifies the maintenance of the purity of white civil society. Schooling much like debate represents a contaminant free zone where the black body is rendered absent in order to focus on the mind and contrived coherence. Framework is an attempt to make us have a head without a body- Educational spaces dominated by whiteness make the black body invisible but the black body exceeds attempts to make it absent. This stain in an academic space such as debate is seen as something that must be confined and intellectually imprisoned. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">THE DSRB 2008</span>** [Dr. Shanara Reid-Brinkley, "THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE"page 15]

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> Particularly, I am interested in t__he__ __speaking body of the other...__</span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">where the surface level of the skin comes to (re)present biological difference.</span>__

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Traditional knowledge production within the debate community privileges those with institutional and economic power while excluding other forms of knowledge production. Our usage of Afrofuturist poetry within debate makes alternative forms of knowledge production legitimate and checks the homogenizing function of 'expert' discourse.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> THE DSRB 2008</span>**[Dr. Shanara Reid-Brinkley, "THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE" pages 81-83]

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The process of __signifyin__’ engaged in...</span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">affected by the status of oppression.</span>__



<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The ignorance of racial struggles manifests itself in space debates through epistemological ethnocentrism where any achievement deemed to fall outside the euro-centric space is destroyed or co-opted. Specifically the rhetoric of exploration, discovery, and extra-terrestriality are used to demonize non-european space.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">MILLS 97</span>Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago <span style="font-size: 13pt;">(</span>Charles; //The Racial Contract//; p. 44-46), JG)



__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">There are two main dimensions to this norming ...</span>__
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">sometimes referred to as "New Canaan."14</span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">The role of the ballot in this debate round is to endorse whoever takes the most effective stance against racism, this is a D-rule</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">MEMMI </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris **2000**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Albert-; //RACISM//, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165, JG</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The struggle against racism will be long, difficult...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">True, it is a wager, but the </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">stakes are irresistible.</span>



<span style="font-size: 13pt;">This speech act can serve as the praxis point for our broader struggle against oppression. By exploring the vast ground of infinite possibilities within a special realm we will be able to escape from social and political binaries- we engage in a new exploration of space</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Land 2005</span> (Christopher Land, Published in Ephemera: Theory and Politics in Organization, 2005, "Apomorphine Silence - Cutting Up Burroughs' Theory of Language and Control.", JG)



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">In Burroughs’ work we can see the...</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">with words and images. </span>


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">And if you’re still waiting for us to read a plan, don’t hold your breath, if that makes you want to pull out your framework block, then LISTEN</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">As academics in debate we can no longer mystify the ugly history of democracy. </span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Robinson ‘5</span><span class="Underline"> (William, Sociology prof – UC Santa Barbara, “The Battle for Global Civil Society,” an interview with Jonah Gindin of Venezuelanalysis.com, June 13, [[http://www.iefd.org/articles/global_civil_society.php]], JG)</span>



__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Do you think that the academics and policymakers behind...</span>__
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">civilizational proportions we face in 2005. </span>__


==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">Sun Ra Aff (States)</span>== 

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">Part 1 is the Futures Industry and Modernity:</span>**
<span class="Underline"> </span>
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">The apocalypse has happened but the debate community still thinks that it can stop it. While we try to avert the next crisis every round, we are actively dismissing the ways in which modernity has repeatedly trampled the black body throughout history and whitewashed the future</span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Galli 09 (Galli, Chuck, "Hip-Hop Futurism: Remixing Afrofuturism and the Hermeneutics of Identity" (2009). Honors Projects Overview. [[http://digitalcommons.ric.edu/honors_projects/18]].) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Gilroy contends that </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">thinking ... ... </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">groundwork for the introduction and exploration of hip-hop futurism. </span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">Through mass media and techno-scientific predictions, the futures industry weaves a vision that positions blackness as a threat to progress and excludes it from a place in the world of tomorrow. Afrofuturism stands as our last hope to subvert this exclusion.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Yaszek 05</span>** (Lisa. Professor and Director of Undergraduate Studies at the School of Literature, Communication and Culture at Georgia Tech and President of the Science Fiction Research Association. An Afrofuturist Reading of Ralph Ellison’s Invisible Man. Rethinking History</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">Vol. 9, No. 2/3, June/September 2005, pp. 297 – 313.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">As its name implies, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Afrofuturism isnot just about reclaiming ... ...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">television programming, and glossy computer magazines</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The ignorance of racial struggles manifests itself in space debates through epistemological ethnocentrism where any achievement deemed to fall outside the Euro-centric space is destroyed or co-opted. Specifically the rhetoric of exploration, discovery, and extra-terrestriality are used to demonize non-European space.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 13pt;">Mills, 97</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 13pt;">(</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Charles; //The Racial Contract//; p. 44-46), JG)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">There are two main dimensions to this norming... ...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">the society they saw themselves founding was, corre- spondingly, sometimes referred to as "New Canaan."14</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Every instance of racism must be rejected</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Memmi, 2000</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris , Albert-; //RACISM//, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165, JG</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The struggle against racism will be long, difficult,without intermission... ...</span>we can hope someday to live in peace.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.</span>


**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Part 2 is We are the Afronauts:</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">(“Space is the Place” by Sun Ra 0:15-0:53)</span>**
<span class="Underline"> </span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">So turn on your radios and bring out your books- in the spirit of Sun Ra and Derrick Bell, Alex and I advocate the use of Afrofuturist music as an emancipatory strategy in debate. We affirm the exploration of space through an ethnoscape to obviate the systemic violence of racial oppression endemic in the debate sphere and abroad.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sun Ra’s music reinvents the Middle Passage as a counterlegacy of the mothership, creating a powerful tool for liberation- conventional political solutions can never succeed</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Youngquist, 11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Paul Youngquist..Professor at U Colorado-Boulder. The Mothership Connection. Cultural Critique 77- Winter 2011.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Jackson’s nautical headdress leads directly to even stranger possibilities. Here’s a thought... ...That’s the counter-wisdom of the Afronaut. In the immortal words of Dr. Funk - enstein, “Change your mind and your ass will follow.” </span>


**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">Our use of Afrofuturist music is the only true exploration of space.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;"> **<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Youngquist 03</span>** (Paul. Professor of English at U of Colorado-Boulder. The Space Machine: Baraka and Science Fiction. African American Review, Vol. 37, No. 2/3, Amri Baraka Issue. Summer 2003.)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Baraka pursues this project in more recent works of science fiction too... ...</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">"No matter how 'far out' the insiders said Ra was, in the Harlem streets he was a rare treat" (Eulogies 172). </span>


**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">This speech act can serve as the praxis point for our broader struggle against oppression. By exploring the vast ground of infinite possibilities within a spatial realm we will be able to escape from social and political binaries</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Land 05</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> (Christopher Land, Published in Ephemera: Theory and Politics in Organization, 2005, "Apomorphine Silence - Cutting Up Burroughs' Theory of Language and Control.", JG)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">In Burroughs’ work we can see the explicit relation of the production of anxiety and time through the drive to verbalize. More fundamentally... ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Burroughs also sought to escape it through the development of new artistic engagements with words and images.</span>


**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Part 3 is the Framing the Round:</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">You should view the affirmative as an ethnoscape – a way to link analysis of racial politics and the textual geography of science fiction. Our method allows us to expose the ways in which status quo sci fi leaves racial hierarchies untouched.</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Lavender 07</span>** **<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">[Isaiah,“Ethnoscapes,”Science Fiction Studies, #102, v34, July</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.depauw.edu/sfs/abstracts/a102.htm#bould%20art|http://www.depauw.edu/sfs/abstracts/a102.htm#bould%20art]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">]</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Customarily, </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">discussions of sfreflect on various aspects of setting and characterization... ...</span>__****__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">to think about human divergence in social behaviors</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">As an individual confronted with the issues presented in our 1AC, your only ethical choice is to critically interrogate dominant narratives of racial oppression. This obligation comes first in debate.</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">DSRB 08 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">(Shanara Rose Reid-Brinkley, Assistant Professor of African American Studies and Communications as well as the Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh, “THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE,” 2008.</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.comm.pitt.edu/faculty/documents/reid-brinkley_shanara_r_200805_phd.pdf]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">)</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">To begin an investigation of these questions of race, representation and performance, I </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">utilize ideological... ...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">This project takes seriously the use of performative and cultural style as a strategic and rhetorical engagement with contemporary racism in America. </span>



**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Mounting resistence to the disciplinary structure of education is the only way to save it. The racist power of the debate community is sustained by debaters and will eventually destroy our activity.</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">DSRB 08</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> (Shanara Rose Reid-Brinkley, Assistant Professor of African American Studies and Communications as well as the Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh, “THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE,” 2008. http://www.comm.pitt.edu/faculty/documents/reid-brinkley_shanara_r_200805_phd.pdf)</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">The attempts at educational reform are not limited to institutional actors such as the local, state, and federal governments. Non-profit organizations dedicated to alleviating... ... public discourse surrounding education reform may function to discipline its differently situated stakeholders.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The neg’s appeals to objective rules are based in the same flawed system of laws that whiteness wraps itself in an attempt to sustain privilege. Voting on framework only enforces the system that is only fair in the eyes of the oppressor.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Vargas 05</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Geiza Vargas, Juris Doctor, Boston College Law School, “White Investment in Black Bondage”, 27 W. New Eng. L. Rev. 41, 2005, JG)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">In Black Skin, White Masks, Frantz Fanon writes that "the feeling of inferiority [of the colonized] is the correlative to the European's feeling of superiority... ...</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">whites have no intention of relinquishing the social, economic, legal, and political power that they presently possess.</span>__