======[[toc]]====== 



=Affirmative= 
==Solvency== 
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">SPS feasible in the short-term future -- recent tech developments.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">National Space Society 7 (October 2007, http://www.nss.org/legislative/positions/NSS-SSP-PositionPaper.pdf, p.2, accessed: 23 June 2011, JT)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">SSP development costs will… research and development. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Critics base their arguments on old data and designs.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Foust 7 (James, aerospace Analyst@Space Review, The Space Review, August 13, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/931/1, accessed: 23 June 2011, JT)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">One obstacle facing… it’s economically feasible.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">SPS increases the frequency of launches, making it affordable</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Chapman 10 (Phillip, geophysicist and astronautical engineer, Online Journal of Space Communication, Issue 16, Winter, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/chapman.html, accessed: 25 June 2011, JT)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">It is important to recognize that… we will need by then. </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The plan significantly retires SSP risk – key to jump-starting private sector investment </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">NSSO 7</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, 10-10-2007, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study,” NSS, [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The SBSP Study Group… and incentivize its development.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Only up-front government investment will promote large-scale development – otherwise most of the private sector will remain the sidelines </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Komerath 10 – Professor of Aerospace Engineering</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Narayanan, 1-4-2010, “The Space Power Grid: Synergy Between Space, Energy and Security Policies,” [[http://smartech.gatech.edu/bitstream/handle/1853/32263/217-673-1-PB.pdf.txt?sequence=3]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">At GEO, a satellite… potential becomes self-sustaining.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Space-based solar power technologies are ready for development.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Space Solar Power Workshop 11 (Georgia Institute of Technology, Silent Power, pg. 41-42, JT)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Studies of Space Solar… been available, ... yet. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Government involvement is necessary and other power sources are inadequate.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">U.S. Chamber of Commerce 8 (The Space Enterprise Council of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, White Paper, July 21, [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/2008-SECSpaceBasedSolarPowerWhitePaper.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Definition: The concept of… in which we live.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Plan: The United States Federal Government should commit to the commercial development of space-based solar power.</span>


==<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Energy</span>== 

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">A. Terrestrial energy is inadequate to demand</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Snead 9 (Mike, Aerospace engineering @ AFIT, Lead structures engineer ASD, http://spacefaringamerica.net/2009/08/10/26--getting-behind-space-solar-power.aspx.aspx, DA 6/23/11, 8/10, OST)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">America’s future energy… national energy scarcity </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">B. Impacts</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">First, energy wars!</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Competition over terrestrial energy sources makes war inevitable in the status quo. Only government support of solar power satellites solves.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Dinerman 9 (Taylor, writer for The Space Review, The Space Review, September 15, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1209/1, accessed: 24 July 2011, JT)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">While politicians in the… routes will diminish. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Resource wars will increase in frequency and have a large magnitude</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Klare No Date (Michael, Professor at Hampshire Collage, Resource Conflict, http://pawss.hampshire.edu/topics/resource/index.html, Google Scholar, NC)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Historically, many wars have… other areas of scarcity. </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Resource wars cause great power wars, civil wars, and terrorism</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Klare 01 (Michael T. Klare, professor of Peace and World Security Studies at Hampshire college and defense correspondent for The Nation, Resource Wars: the New Landscape of Global Conflict, http://books.google.com/books?id=4swk0glJuswC&pg=PA222&dq=resource+wars+remain+limited&hl=en&ei=DRYaTrHGDoyksQOx_L3jCw&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CC4Q6AEwAQ#v=onepage&q&f=false, accessed via google books on 7/10/11)CNW</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Most resource wars of… the United States.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Sino-US energy conflicts inevitable in the status quo</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Dinerman 7 (Taylor, Senior Editor at the Hudson Institute’s New York office and has written on space and defense issues for the Wall Street Journal, National Review, and Ad Astra, "China, the US, and Space Solar Power." October 22nd, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/985/1, AD 6/27/11) AV</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The biggest factor in… is in everyone’s interest. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Sino-US war would escalate, causing extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Straits Times 2k (Straits Times, June, 25, 2000, No one gains in war over Taiwan] (PDNSS2115)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">THE DOOMSDAY SCENARIO –THE… above everything else.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Second, climate change!</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The best Empirical scientific evidence points real anthropogenic warming. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Cook 10 (John, Solar Physics Scientist @ University of Queensland, Adjunct Fellow at the University of Queensland, “The human fingerprint in global warming”, 29 March 2010, http://www.skepticalscience.com/human-fingerprint-in-global-warming.html , CT) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">In science, there's only one… atmosphere and global warming."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">An overwhelming majority of climate specialists agree </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Cook 10 (John, Solar Physics Scientist @ University of Queensland, “Is there a scientific consensus on global warming? ”, 25 July 2010, http://www.skepticalscience.com/global-warming-scientific-consensus-intermediate.htm, CT) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Scientists need to back up…old ones work. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Cook 11 (John, Solar Physics Scientist @ University of Queensland, “The difference between weather and climate” , 1-26-11, http://www.skepticalscience.com/weather-forecasts-vs-climate-models-predictions-intermediate.htm, AH)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Way back in 1988, James… on IPCC's 2001 projections...</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Warming magnifies every impact and causes extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Burke '8 (Sharon, sr fellow and dir of the energy security project at the Center for a New American Security, Chapter 6 of Climatic Cataclysm: The Foreign Policy and National Security Implications of Climate Change, edited by Kurt Campbell, p 157-165)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">At the same time, however,… compromise agricultural productivity.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">SPS solves global warming </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Space Solar Power Workshop 11 (Georgia Institute of Technology, Silent Power, pg. 41-42, JT)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">“Human activities are… are available today. </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">SPS solves foreign energy dependence and greenhouse gas emissions</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">National Space Society 7 (October 2007, http://www.nss.org/legislative/positions/NSS-SSP-PositionPaper.pdf, p.1, accessed: 23 June 2011, JT)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The United States and the… of clean electrical energy. </span>




<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">SPS is comparatively better than other sources of alternative energy</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">National Space Society 7 (October 2007, http://www.nss.org/legislative/positions/NSS-SSP-PositionPaper.pdf, p.2, accessed: 23 June 2011, JT)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">While all viable energy… our global energy needs.</span>
=<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Negative</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Disadvantages</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Wireless Mesh Networks</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 12pt;">1NC</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Wireless Mesh Networks are currently being integrated across the spectrum as a requirement of new military communications technologies</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">John Edwards, defense analyst and contributing writer for Defense Systems specializing in military technologies and net-centric warfare, 2/13/2012, “The Future of Military Comms on the Battlefield: New radio and network technologies present opportunities and challenges,” DA: 2/17/12, http://defensesystems.com/Articles/2012/02/08/Cover-Story-military-communications-technologies.aspx?Page=1 -- g.b.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Smart phones, tablets,… vehicle operational area.</span>





<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">That’s susceptible to DoS attacks.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Siddiqui& Hong 07 – Department of Computer Engineering, Kyung Hee University (Muhammad Shoaib&ChoongSeon, “Security Issues in Wireless Mesh Networks,” paper presented at the 2007 International Conference on Multimedia and Ubiquitous Engineering, online – JAK)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">A DoS attack can… deploy in WMNs.</span>





<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Chinese will exploit any weakness in our satellites</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Daily Record 2/5/12 http://www.jaxdailyrecord.com/showstory.php?Story_id=535681</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">WuDunn said that… other functions of society.</span>





<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The risk of crisis instability and miscalculation in space is high – the PLA is likely to initiate an attack in a crisis</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">MacDonald, 11 - Senior Director, Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program, U.S. Institute of Peace (Bruce, CQ Congressional Testimony, “MILITARY AND CIVIL SPACE PROGRAMS IN CHINA”, 5/11, lexis)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">One characteristic of too… and likely to grow.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">That risks miscalc and nuclear escalation</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Burke, 6 – Lt Col, USAF, command space professional with operational experience in missile operations, space surveillance, space control, missile warning, and command and control (Alan, “SPACE THREAT WARNING: FOUNDATION FOR SPACE SUPERIORITY, AVOIDING A SPACE PEARL HARBOR,” https://www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=07acf878-3a5f-4a2c-8259-4a34c0717e9b)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The erosion of the… without fear of retribution.57 </span>


==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">2NRs</span>== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Colonialism K</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Prizes and Politics</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Japan and Politics</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">WMN DA and CP</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Pan K</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">China Shift and Prizes</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Weaponization </span>