[[toc]]
If you have any questions or need to contact us in any way:

kduval@paceacademy.org
kgolde@paceacademy.org

=Affirmative= 
==WAKE 1AC== 
**Inherency**

**SBSP is not being developed because of high focus on nuclear power.**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Space Future 6</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">June 6,Space Future- “The Space Power Business”, http://www.spacefuture.com/power/business.shtml AG)</span>
Overall, there is … for their development.

**Plan: The United States Federal Government should develop solar powered satellites.**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Aerospace</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Uncertainty about key government programs is devastating the Aerospace industry. The impact is hegemony, the economy and competitiveness --- renewed government support is key</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Slazer ’11</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Frank,- MBA from UC-Irvine, B.S. in political science and aerospace engineering from Syracuse “Contributions of Space to National Imperatives” 5-18)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Despite the clear … will hurt recruiting.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">SSP is vital to the industry and defense base overall, the plan sends a signal bolstering U.S. tech competitiveness --- overcomes alt causes</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NSSO ‘07</span>**
(National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study” October 10, 2007, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">FINDING: The SBSP …. </span>of this imperative.


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The plan fixes structural shortages within the industry</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sadeh ‘08</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Eligar,- Associate Director for the Center for Space and Defense Studies at the United States Air Force Academy The Space Review, “Space policy questions and decisions facing a new administration”, 6/9, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1146/1)</span>
<span class="underline0">Maintain </span>support<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …. </span>in the<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 19</span>60s<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Spills over --- solves hegemony, science leadership and the economy</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Baker Institute ‘05</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(BAKER INSTITUTE STUDY PUBLISHED BY THE JAMES A. BAKER III INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY OF RICE UNIVERSITY, “ENERGY AND NANOTECHNOLOGY: STRATEGY FOR THE FUTURE”, 4/30, http://www.rice.edu/energy/publications/studies/study_30.pdf)</span>
A new energy ….about**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,” </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">said Dr. Smalley.</span>

**1st: Econ decline:**

<span class="Underline">**<span style="color: black;">SSP boosts the economy in the short and long run.</span>**</span>
**<span style="color: black;">NSSO, 7 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study” October 10, 2007, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Finding: The </span><span style="color: black;">…. mid</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‐</span><span style="color: black;">century and beyond.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Economic decline causes global conflict</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Austin ’09</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, Resident Scholar – American Enterprise Institute, and Desmond Lachman – Resident Fellow – American Enterprise Institute, “The Global Economy Unravels”, Forbes, 3-6, [[http://www.aei.org/article/100187]])</span>
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What do these ….. into </span>**a big bang.

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2nd Naval Power:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Strong industrial base is critical to naval power</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Eaglen and McGrath ’11</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Mackenzie,- research fellow for national security studies Brian,- retired naval officer and the Director of Delex Consulting, Studies and Analysis in Vienna, Virginia “Thinking About a Day Without Sea Power: Implications for U.S. Defense Policy” 5-16 [[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2011/05/Thinking-About-a-Day-Without-Sea-Power-Implications-for-US-Defense-Policy]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Recapturing Innovation …. significant project gaps.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Naval power solves hegemony, alliances, SLOC insecurity, and global conflict</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cropsey ’10</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Seth,- Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute, Strategic Analysis Vol. 34, No. 1, January 2010, 35–45)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The cooperative arrangements …. a century, seapower.</span>


**3rd Cyber defense:**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Also Cyber Defense</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">O’Hanlon ’11</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael,- Senior Fellow @ Brookings, Feb “The National Security Industrial Base: A Crucial Asset of the United States, Whose Future May Be in Jeopardy”)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Good </span>defense industrial ….<span style="font-size: 8pt;">a future environment.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The impact is accidentical nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fritz ‘09</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jason, BS – St. Cloud, “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control”, Study Commissioned on Nuclear Non-Proliferation and Disarmament, July, www.icnnd.org/Documents/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.doc)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Direct control of .... accusations between governments.</span>

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">4th Heg:</span>**

**Failure to secure U.S. technological superiority risks collapse of U.S. hegemony**
**Segal 04**
"Is America Losing its Edge?" http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/60260/adam-segal/is-america-losing-its-edge
The United States' ….. entrepreneurship at home.

**Hegemony is key to prevent great power war**
**Zhang* and Shi 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Both MA candidates at Columbia University. *Yuhan, researcher @ Carnegie Endowment for international peace and </span>Lin, consultant for the World Bank. “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry.” January 22nd, 2011) <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Paul Kennedy was ….. </span>unrivalled US primacy

**India**

**The plan dramatically boosts US-Indian cooperation on SPS**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">NSSO 7</span> –** report by the National Security Space Office, a branch of the DOD
(“Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security,” [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf|__http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf__]], dml)
The SBSP Study ….. <span style="text-decoration: none;">a framework immediately</span>

**And, India would be the frontrunner for partnership – that’s key to relations and further space cooperation – and only the plan solves**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Dinerman 9</span>** – regular contributor to the Space Review
(Taylor, “Should India and the US cooperate on space solar power?,” [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1389/1]], dml)
<span style="text-decoration: none;">If the US ….</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> place to begin</span><span class="Underline">.</span>

**India’s space policy is at a watershed moment – cooperation with India allows us to define the partnership and prevent an arms buildup – treaties don’t solve**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Johnson-Freese 11</span>** – professor of national security affairs at the Naval War College
(Joan,“The US-India Space Partnership: Who Gets What?”, May 17, [[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8839/the-u-s-india-space-partnership-who-gets-what?page=1|__http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8839/the-u-s-India-space-partnership-who-gets-what?page=1__]], dml)
<span style="text-decoration: none;">India</span> is adamant …. sides <span style="text-decoration: none;">later on</span><span class="Underline">.</span>

**And, this is reverse causal – a failure to cooperate over space policies causes Indian ASAT development**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Johnson-Freese 11</span>** – professor of national security affairs at the Naval War College
(Joan, “The US-India Space Partnership: Who Gets What?”, May 17, [[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8839/the-u-s-india-space-partnership-who-gets-what?page=1|http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8839/the-u-s-India-space-partnership-who-gets-what?page=1]], dml)
<span style="text-decoration: none;">The relationship between …. are rarely raised</span>

**That spurs Pakistani and Iranian ASATs development – causes space debris**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Day 8</span>**<span class="apple-converted-space"> **–** program officer at the Space Studies Board of the National Research Council</span>
(Dwayne, “Will we burn in heaven like we do down here?,” [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1081/1|__http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1081/1__]], dml)
<span style="color: black;">Similarly, the Chinese … own space capabilities.</span>

**Space debris will destroy early warning satellites, resulting in an accidental global nuclear war**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Lewis, 4</span>**<span style="color: black;">– postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Metods of Cooperative Study Program; worked in the office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy (Jeffrey, Center for Defense Information, “What if Space were Weaponized?” July 2004, [[http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]]) // DCM</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">This is the ….. to operate safely.</span>

**ASATs also causes Indo-China conflict**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Samson 10</span>**<span class="apple-converted-space"> **–** Washington director of the Secure World Foundation</span>
(Victoria, “India’s missile defense/anti-satellite nexus,” [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1621/1|__http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1621/1__]], dml)
Part of why <span style="text-decoration: none;">….. as able ASATs</span>.

**That causes miscalc and escalation to nuclear war – defense doesn’t apply**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Sethi 9</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – </span>**Fellow, International Relations at the Centre de Sciences Humaines, New Delhi
(Manpreet Sethi, December 2009, NUCLEAR DETERRENCE IN SECOND TIER NUCLEAR WEAPON STATES: A CASE STUDY OF INDIA, [[http://www.csh-delhi.com/publications/downloads/ops/OP25.pdf|__http://www.csh-delhi.com/publications/downloads/ops/OP25.pdf__]])
The first factor …. <span style="text-decoration: none;">mindless nuclear exchange</span>


**Currently the US pursues a go-it-alone policy – that kills SBSP development – but cooperation brings momentum back to fading relations**
**[[http://www.idsa.in/sites/default/files/OP_SkysNoLimit.pdf|Garretson]] 10** – Lt Col, on the Board of Directors of the National Space Society
(Peter, “Sky’s No Limit: Space-Based Solar Power, the Next Major Step in the Indo-US Strategic Partnership?,” [[http://www.idsa.in/sites/default/files/OP_SkysNoLimit.pdf]], dml)
This researcher sees …. <span style="text-decoration: none;">of technical capabilities</span>

**Relations solve nuclear proliferation and nuclear terrorism**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Asia Task Force 9</span>** – task force analyzing policy situations in Asia
(“Delivering on the Promise: Advancing US Relations with India, [[http://asiasociety.org/files/pdf/DeliveryOnThePromise_USRelationsWithIndia.pdf|__http://asiasociety.org/files/pdf/DeliveryOnThePromise_USRelationsWithIndia.pdf__]], dml)
With the achievement …. <span style="text-decoration: none;">moratorium on testing.</span>

**Nuclear terrorism causes extinction**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Morgan, 9</span> -** Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea
(Dennis, Futures, November, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race,” Science Direct)
In a remarkable…..<span style="text-decoration: none;">a nuclear winter</span>

**Prolif causes extinction – this answers your rationality and escalation defense**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Utgoff 2</span> –** Deputy Director of the Strategy, Forces, and Resources Division of the Institute for Defense Analysis
(Victor, Survival Vol 44 No 2 __Proliferation, Missile Defence and American Ambitions__, p. 87-90)
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Many readers are …. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">even whole nations.</span>
=Negative= 
==K== 
===Security=== 
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Disorder and insecurity are inevitable but efforts to control this fear have resulted in the deaths of millions the possibility of our utter annhiliation. Instead seeking this impossible fantasy where we are able to suppress and control conflict—the alternative is to affirm difference. This will allow us the break out of the infinite cycle of violence that created their harms in the first place</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Der Derian 98**—</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Political Science Professor, University of Massachusetts. [James, On Security, ed: Lipschitz, The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard, Decentering Security.</span>
No other concept …. a fearful sameness.

**Modes of political killing matter: they constitute the conception of sovereignty and power at work in constructing and maintaining the powers of states.**
**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Duvall and Havercroft 2008 </span>**[Raymond of the Department of Political Science at the University of Minnesota and Jonathan, Assistant Professor at Department of Political Science at the University of Oklahoma, “Taking Sovereignty Out of This World,” in //Review of International Studies// 34.4]
Scholars and practitioners ….<span style="font-size: 8pt;">empire of the future.</span>

**Claiming that space weaponization is inevitable is a self-fulfilling prophecy locked in Cold War logic; the attempt to protect space increases insecurity and creates enemies.**
**Grondin, 08** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">US Governmentality and Exceptionalism in Outer Space: The (Violent) Virtual Production of Enemies and Borders in Outer Space, David Grondin Assistant Professor in American Studies and Global Politics School of Political Studies, University of Ottawa, Paper presented at the ISA Convention, San Francisco March 25, 2008</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To understand how …. </span>US homeland security.

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The world is inherently relativistic—competing value systems guarantee wars between states. When the mission of statehood goes beyond protection of the state to protection of civilization it escalates warfare by framing others as outside the liberal order</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">William </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Rasch</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Henry H. H. Remak Professor of Germanic Studies at Indiana University, 20</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">03</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “Human Rights as Geopolitics,” Cultural Critique 54, 120-147.</span>
In the past…. the civilized world

==CP== 
===H1B1=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Text: The USFG should eliminate the cap on its H-1B visas.</span>**

**The coming baby boomer retirement period and skilled worker drought make the CP an economic necessity**
**Immigration Policy Center ‘09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [“The U.S. Economy Still Needs Highly Skilled Foreign Workers,” Feb. 13, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.immigrationpolicy.org/just-facts/us-economy-still-needs-highly-skilled-foreign-workers</span>
As our population ….immigration to slow.”

**A global economy recovery key to prevent nuclear World War III**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">O'Donnell</span>**’09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Sean, Baltimore Republican Examiner writer and Marine Corps Reserve squad leader,</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"Will this recession …. </span>history repeats itself

==DA== 
===Weaponization=== 
**Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization**
**Huntley, 11** - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, <span style="color: black;">http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">As is well …. in these details.</span>


**Unilateral U.S. SSP causes an international backlash**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Glaser, 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> - aerospace engineer, vice president at Arthur D. Little, consulting on consulting projects in aerospace, solar energy, and materials science (Peter, Ad Astra, Interview, “An energy pioneer looks back”, Spring, </span><span style="color: black;">http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d;">) //DH</span>
<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Glaser: Since it …. an international effort.</span>


**And it is perceived as a weapons deployment**
**<span style="color: black;">Pop, 2k</span>**<span style="color: black;"> – PhD Student, University of Glasgow Law School (Virgiliu, “SECURITY IMPLICATIONS OF NON-TERRESTRIAL RESOURCE EXPLOITATION”, http://www.geocities.com/virgiliu_pop/publications/security.pdf)</span>
<span style="color: black;">The SPS system, …. hence bebanned”</span>

<span class="Underline">**Unilateral action alienates allies and shatters other areas of cooperation**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Sabathier et. al 6**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">— senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program and former senior fellow and director of CSIS space initiative (September 18, 2oo6 ,Vincent G. Sabathier, D.A. Broniatowski, G. Ryan Faith, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “The Case for Managed International Cooperation in Space Exploration”, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/060918_managed_international_cooperation.pdf , FS)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">International cooperation is …. would be more likely.</span>

**Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens, 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, </span><span style="color: black;">http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d;">)</span>
<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Perhaps of even </span>…. unacceptable to all.
===SKFTA=== 
<span class="Underline">**A. Uniqueness – SKFTA will pass – jump starts global trade talks**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Goforth 8-19**-11 [Sean Goforth teaches international political economy at Coastal Carolina University and blogs on Latin America for the Foreign Policy Association, U.S. Set to Pass Trade Deals With Colombia, Panama and S. Korea, http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/9825/u-s-set-to-pass-trade-deals-with-colombia-panama-and-s-korea]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At long last, </span><span class="Underline">… to seize on</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**SPS drains capital**
**__Schubert, ’10__**, Ph.D., P.E. Packer Engineering, Inc., Winter 2010, (Online Journal of Space Communication, Issue No. 16: Solar Power SatellitesCosts, Organization, and Roadmap for SSP, [[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/schubert.html]])
Space Solar … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">for the miracle.</span>


**PC KEY TO SKFTA – SOLVES THE ECONOMY AND RELATIONS.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">GALLI 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. [Teresa, Global Market Research Analyst @ Global Marketing Associates, “The South Korea - US Free Trade Agreement” June 21 -- http://ezinearticles.com/?The-South-Korea---US-Free-Trade-Agreement&id=4520289]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although riddled …. </span>and much compromise.

**RELATIONS SOLVE MULTIPLE SCENARIOS OF WAR.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">PRITCHARD ET AL 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. [Jack, President, Korea Economic Institute, John Tilelli, Chairman and CEO, Cypress Int’l, and Scott Snyder, Adjunct Senior Fellow for Korea Studies, “A New Chapter for U.S.-South Korea alliance” Council on Foreign Relations -- June 16http://www.cfr.org/publication/19635/new_chapter_for_ussouth_korea_alliance.html]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While all eyes …. our shared interests.</span>

==**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Neg Strats</span>**== 
===**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">WAKE</span>**=== 

**Round 2 vs MBA TP**
**1NC**
H1B1 CP
Weaponization
SKFTA
Security K
**Block:**
SKFTA
Weaponization
H1B1 CP
**2NR:**
H1B1 CP
Weaponization

**Round 4 vs Alpharetta HR**
**1NC**
H1B1 CP
Weaponization
SKFTA
T OF
**Block:**
SKFTA
H1B1 CP
Weaponization
**2NR**
Weaponization and Case

**Round 6 vs Centennial LR**
**1NC**
Framework
SKFTA
Hegemony DA
Utilitarianism
**Block:**
SKFTA
Framework
Hegemony DA
Utilitarianism
**2NR:**
Framework
Utilitarianism
Hegemony DA

**Octos vs Johns Creek FS**
**1NC**
SKFTA
T OF
Utilitarianism
XO CP
Government Ethics K
**Block:**
SKFTA
Utilitarianism
**2NR:**
Condo Good
SKFTA
Utilitarianism



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]