=Affirmative= 
==1AC Grapevine== 
= = 
The Department of Defense should deploy space based solar power.
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Contention 1 is Hegemony</span></span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Scenario 1 is Forward Deployment</span></span>
SPS solves forward bases– rising energy prices make oversea facilities untenable
A.C. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Charania</span>, President of SpaceWorks Commercial, John R. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Olds</span>, President and CEO of SpaceWorks Engineering, Inc, Assistant Professor in the School of Aerospace Engineering at Georgia Tech and Director of the school's Space Systems Design Laboratory, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">and</span> Dominic <span style="font-size: 12pt;">DePasquale</span>, Director of Washington D.C. Operations for SpaceWorks Commercial, a division of SEI focused on emerging commercial space industries, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2011</span>, “Operational Demonstration of Space Solar Power (SSP): Economic Analysis of a First Revenue Satellite (FRS)”, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/Economic_Analysis_of_a_First_Revenue_Satellite_for_SSP_(2011).pdf//jchen
It may be the case that specific parts
<span style="font-size: 3pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 3pt;">monthly consumption</span> estimate from June 2008 given earlier).
SPS key to force mobility –provides the power needed for liquid fuel generation
Taylor <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dinerman</span>, senior editor at the Hudson Institute’s New York branch and co-author of the forthcoming Towards a Theory of Spacepower: Selected Essays, from National Defense University Press, 11/24/<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008</span>, “Space solar power and the Khyber Pass”, The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1255/1
Last year the National Security Space Office released 
<span style="font-size: 3pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 3pt;">have helped them adapt to the modern world. </span>
Energy insecurity undermines forward deployment and power projection
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wald and Captain 09</span>
[ General Charles F. Wald (USAF Ret) Director and Senior Advisor, Aerospace & Defense Industry, Tom Captain Vice Chairman, Global and U.S. Aerospace & Defense Industry Leader, “ Energy Security America’s Best Defense” 2009, <span style="font-family: Cambria;">[[http://www.deloitte.com/assets/Dcom-UnitedStates/Local%20Assets/Documents/AD/us_ad_EnergySecurity052010.pdf]]</span>, Caplan]
Energy security and national security are closely interrelated
AND 
accelerate the development and deployment of such technologies. 
Revamping military capability is crucial to deterrence of aggressors – perception is key
Heinz <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dinter</span>, Major, US Army, MASTER OF MILITARY ART AND SCIENCE, B.S., University of Massachusetts, “U.S. ARMY SPECIAL FORCES ROLES IN ASYMMETRIC WARFARE”, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2001</span>, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA398025//jchen
<span style="font-size: 3pt;">Asymmetric adversaries thrive on simplicity, not complexity</span>
<span style="font-size: 3pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 3pt;">what an asymmetric opponent will seek to exploit.</span>
Strong forward deployment prevents multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict – prefer it to all other alternatives
Robert <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kagan</span>, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2007</span>, “End of Dreams, Return of History” Policy Review (http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10)]
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Finally, there is the United States itself</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">and global involvement will provide an easier path.</span>
US hegemony is key to global stability and growth
Bradley A. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thayer</span>**,** Professor Defense & Strategic Studies, Missouri State University, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2006</span>**,** The National Interest, November/December, p. Lexis
THROUGHOUT HISTORY, peace and stability have been
<span style="font-size: 3pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 3pt;">the United States assists the countries in need.</span>
And, nuclear deterrence isn’t enough – conventional capabilities are crucial
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Gerson 9 – Michael S. Gerson, Research analyst @ Center for Naval Analyses, a federally funded research center, where he focuses on deterrence, nuclear strategy, counterproliferation, and arms control, Autumn 2009, “Conventional Deterrence in the Second Nuclear Age,” Parameters</span>
Conventional deterrence also plays an important role in 
AND 
possession provides opportunities for conventional aggression and coercion.
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Second is satellite reconstitution</span></span>
Space race is inevitable in the status quo – countries challenging US dominance will ONLY be deterred by a defensive system
Kurt M. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Schendzielos</span>, Major in the USAF, School of Advanced Military Studies, “Protection in Space: A Self-Defense Acquisition Priority for U.S. Satellites”, 4/30/20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">08</span>, United States Army Command and General Staff College, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA485553&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf
<span style="font-size: 3pt;">Lastly, one very popular argument against developing </span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">AND </span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">threat is exactly the goal of this proposal.</span>
Satellite vulnerability and long delays in reconstitution undermine US space dominance
Kurt M. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schendzielos</span>, Major in the USAF, School of Advanced Military Studies, “Protection in Space: A Self-Defense Acquisition Priority for U.S. Satellites”, 4/30/<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008</span>, United States Army Command and General Staff College, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA485553&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf//jchen
<span class="DebateUnderline">It is not unreasonable to suspect that potential </span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">AND </span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">cripple the American and possibly even world economy</span>.
SPS key to effective satellite hardening, reconstitution and protection of space assets
Kim<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ramos 2k</span> – US Air Force Major, Thesis submitted for the AIR COMMAND AND STAFF COLL MAXWELL Air Force Base, “Solar Power Constellations: Implications for the United States Air Force,” April, [[http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA394928]]
In addition to the terrestrial implications of solar
<span style="font-size: 3pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 3pt;">, and repositioning to meet warfighter requirements.26</span>
Emphasis on resilience and redundancy ensures space access and dissuades weapon development
Ambassador Gregory L. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schulte</span>, Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense (acting) for Space Policy, 11/30/<span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span>, NDU Conference on “Securing Space Assets for Peace and Future Conflict”, http://www.ndu.edu/CTNSP/docUploaded/TFX_Space%20Security%20Conference%20Summary_Nov2010.pdf
Resiliency and Mission Assurance Second, <span class="DebateUnderline">we need </span>
AND 
be dissuaded <span class="DebateUnderline">in peacetime </span>from pursuing counterspace capabilities.
Space power is critical to global stability and conflict resolution - provides transparency to reduce miscalculation, strengthens dissuasion power, and deters conflict
M.V. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Smith</span>, Colonel, PhD in Politics and IR @ University of Reading, 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">11</span> “Chapter 17: Security and Spacepower, Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf
<span class="DebateUnderline">Spacepower provides different ways to manage security concerns</span>
<span style="font-size: 3pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 3pt;">the interconnecting glue making terrestrial deterrence more effective.</span>
Perception of vulnerability collapses US deterrence and prompts nuclear miscalculation
Alan <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Burke</span>, director in the missile defense agency, 04-17-20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">06</span>, “Space Threat Warning: Foundation for Space Superiority, Avoiding a Space Pearl Harbor,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgibin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA476999&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf
Implications of the Erosion of US Space Threat
<span style="font-size: 3pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 3pt;">of retribution.57 Pg. 8-12</span>
===Contention 2 is Energy=== 
===ONLY SPS supplies the power needed for a sustainable energy transition=== 
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">James M. </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Snead</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">, P.E., is a senior member of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) a past chair of the AIAA’s Space Logistics Technical Committee, and the founder and president of the Spacefaring Institute LLC, 5/4/</span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">2009</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">, “The vital need for America to develop space solar power”, The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1364/1</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 3pt;">A key element of a well-reasoned </span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 4pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 4pt;">serious engineering development of SSP be started now.</span>
DoD support is key to make SPS economically feasible – solves within 10 years
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Smith</span>, Co-Founder of the Alternative Energy Network, 10/10/<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2007</span>, Alternative Energy Action Network (Arthur, “New Space Solar Power Report from DoD NSSO”, http://www.altenergyaction.org/mambo/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=129)
Miller stated that the SFF believes <span class="DebateUnderline">the US </span>
<span style="font-size: 3pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 3pt;">some people think it will be even sooner.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
Military buy-in is key – independent private action fails
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MORRING 07,</span> Frank: Senior Space Technology Editor, Aerospace Daily and Defense Report
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[“NSSO </span><span style="font-size: 3pt;">backs space solar power,” http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_channel.jsp?channel=space&id=news/solar101107.xml]</span>
<span style="font-size: 3pt;">As a clean source of energy that would </span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">down by government could make that happen, 4</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> experiments on materials that might be used in building the large structures needed to collect sunlight in meaningful amounts. The Internet-based group of </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">experts</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> who prepared the report for the NSSO </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">recommended that the U.S. government organize itself to tackle the problem of developing SSP; use its resources to "retire a major portion of the technical risk for business development; establish tax and other policies to encourage private development</span><span style="font-size: 3pt;">of SSP, and "become an early demonstrator/adopter/customer" of SSP to spur its development. That, in turn, could spur development of space launch and other industries. Damphousse said a functioning reusable launch vehicle - preferably single-stage-to-orbit - probably would be required to develop a full-scale SSP infrastructure in geostationary orbit. That, in turn, could enable utilization of the moon and exploration of Mars under NASA's vision for space exploration.</span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Scenario 1 is Warming</span></span>
===SPS is the ideal clean energy to solve warming – minimal pollution and resource use=== 
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Garretson</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">, a Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) International Fellow in India, previously the Chief of Future Science and Technology Exploration for Headquarters Air Force, Directorate of Strategic Plans and Programs, </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">09</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;"> (Peter A., “Sky’s No Limit: Space-Based Solar Power, The Next Major Step In The Indo-US Strategic Partnership?”, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/papers/OP_SkysNoLimit.pdf)</span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">While no energy source is entirely benign, </span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 4pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 4pt;">(rejecting 85 (per cent) while a </span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 4pt;">fossil fuel plan is likely to be less than 40 per cent efficient</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;"> (rejecting 60 per cent to the biosphere). The high efficiency of the receivers also means that unlike thermal and nuclear power plants, there is no need for active cooling and so no need to tie the location of the receiver to large amounts of cooling water, with the accompanying environmental problems of dumping large amounts of waste heat into rivers or coastal areas.</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Substantial U.S. action on climate will guarantee spillover</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Trevor </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Houser</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">, visiting fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics; Shashank </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Mohan</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">, research analyst with the Rhodium Group; </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">--AND-- </span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">Robert </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Heilmayr</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">, research analyst at the World Resources Institute, </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">09</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">[“A Green Global Recovery? Assessing US Economic Stimulus and the Prospects for International Coordination,” http://www.iie.com/publications/papers/houser0309.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 3pt;">The G-20 group of developed and </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">made as part of a multilateral climate agreement.</span>
===We’re nearing the point of no return—holding the line on current emissions while transitioning to solar power key to check feedback cycles=== 
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">David </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Biello</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">, award winning journalist and associate editor for Scientific American, </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">9/9</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">/10, Scientific American, “How Much Global Warming Is Guaranteed Even If We Stopped Building Coal-Fired Plants Today?”, http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=guaranteed-global-warming-with-existing-fossil-fuel-infrastructure{jchen}</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Humanity has yet to reach the point of </span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">, perhaps 30 [terawatts] by 2050." </span>
===Runaway warming causes extinction=== 
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Deibel ‘7</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;"> (Terry L. Professor of IR @ National War College, 2007. “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Finally, there is one major existential threat</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">the continued existence of life on this planet.</span>
===And, there’s no question about warming—it’s real and anthropogenic=== 
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Stefan </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Rahmstorf, </span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">Professor of Physics @ Potsdam University, Member of the German Advisory Council on Climate Change, </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">2008</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;"> (Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto, ed. Ernesto Zedillo, Prof. IR @ Yale, p. 42-49)</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">It is time to turn to statement B</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">a reality with which we need to deal.</span>
AND Even 1% risk justifies action ---- the consequences are too big
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Strom ‘7 (</span>Robert, Prof. Emeritus Planetary Sciences @ U. Arizona and Former Dir. Space Imagery Center of NASA, “Hot House: Global Climate Change and the Human Condition”, Online: SpringerLink, p. 246)
Keep in mind that the current consequences of global <span style="color: #1a1a1a;">warming</span> discussed in previous chapters are the result of a global average temperature increase of only 0.5 'C above the 1951-1980 average, and these consequences <span style="font-size: 3pt;">are beginning to accelerate. Think about what is in store for us when the average global temperature is 1 °C higher than today. That is already in the pipeline, and there is nothing we can do to prevent it. We can only plan strategies for dealing with the expected consequences, and reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by about 60% as soon as possible to ensure that we don't experience even higher temperatures. There is also</span> the danger<span class="DebateUnderline">of</span>eventually triggering an abrupt climate change that would accelerate global warmingto a catastrophic levelin a short period of time. If that were to happen we would not stand a chance. Even if that possibility had only a 1% chance of occurring<span class="DebateUnderline">, </span>the consequences are so dire that it would be insane not to act. Clearly we cannot afford to delay taking action by waiting for additional research to more clearly define what awaits us. The time for action is now.
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Scenario 2 is Oil</span></span>
The oil crunch is coming soon – production has topped out and consumption is increasing
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Al Jazeera 7/25</span> (Dahr Jamail Last Modified: 25 Jul 2011 13:21, “The scourge of 'peak oil',” http://english.aljazeera.net/indepth/features/2011/07/201172081613634207.html//DN)
<span style="font-size: 3pt;">Tom Whipple, an energy scholar, was </span>
AND
out front is going to be in trouble."
<span class="cite">It’s unavoidable – tech fixes and non-conventional alternatives are a bust</span>
(economists, new drilling, Caspian, deep drilling, new technology, putting new fields into operation faster, tar sands, oil shale, gas hydrates, coal synthesis)
Sergey <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Borovik</span>, student of Electrical and Electronic Engineering at Manchester, writer for New Scientist, May 2, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2004</span>, http://www.bigwig.net/sergey/hubbert.htm
Firstly, there is no point in indulging
AND 
a small fraction<span class="underline"> of</span> the <span class="underline">energy</span> oil <span class="underline">supplies</span>.
Oil reserves are overstated - backstopping will fail
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Financial Times</span> , Sep 21 200<span style="font-size: 13pt;">4</span>,http://www.energybulletin.net/node/2211 //ZY
They point out that <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">no big oilfieldhas </span>
AND 
oil<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> they pumped</span>, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">according to Deutsche Bank.</span>
US military is the biggest consumer and key starting point – but policy has failed to keep up
Brendan <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Barrett</span>, professor at United Nations University, head of the Media Centre, “Militaries have peak oil in their sights”, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">6/1/11</span>, http://ourworld.unu.edu/en/militaries-have-peak-oil-in-their-sights///jchen
<span class="DebateUnderline">The US military</span> and various associated think tanks
<span class="DebateUnderline">**AND** </span>
put action to words, the military can.
The DoD is key – only military transformation spills over to standardize civilian energy
(<span style="font-size: 13pt;">LMI</span>Government Consulting, 4/20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">07</span>, Thomas D. Crowley Tanya D. Corrie David B. Diamond Stuart D. Funk Wilhelm A. Hansen Andrea D. Stenhoff Daniel C. Swift, “TRANSFORMING THE WAY DOD LOOKS AT ENERGY AN APPROACH TO ESTABLISHING AN ENERGY STRATEGY,” http://www.oft.osd.mil/library/library_files/document_404_FT602T1_Transforming%20the%20Way%20DoD%20Looks%20at%20Energy_Final%20Report.pdf)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Increasing the </span>energy efficiency of DoD operations<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> has </span>
AND
success in an environment of increasing energy uncertainty.
Immediate action is key – every delay pushes us closer to a sharp transition and conflict
Paul <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Roberts,</span> a regular contributor to Harpers and NYT magazine, 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">04</span>, “The End of Oil: On the Edge of a Perilous New World”, google books //ZY
Frankly, though, the thought of any
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">long-term </span>success will be seriously impaired<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>
Continued oil dependence leads to global war and instability
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Ron </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Bengston</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">, compilation of articles from: U.S. News & World Report, The Saudi Connection, Friedman (Pulitzer Prize winning columnist), New York Times, Center for Strategic and International Studies, The Detroit Economic Club, and Brookings Institution on U.S. Energy Security, </span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">2008</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;">, http://www.americanenergyindependence.com</span>
A powerful idea is spreading through America. 
AND 
will lead to the defeat of Islamic terrorism.
===Oil wars go nuclear – even small ones now aren't sustainable=== 
Andrew <span style="font-size: 13pt;">McKillop , </span>Former Energy Policy Expert, European Commission 200<span style="font-size: 13pt;">3</span>,
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Buying time for restructuring and the development of </span>
AND 
struggle forthe last drops of world oil<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>

Oil Revenue exacerbates corruption, repression and conflict
Amory <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lovinas</span>, CEO, Rocky Mountain institute, honorary doctorate and winner of noble peace prize et al, 200<span style="font-size: 13pt;">4</span>, “Winning the Oil Endgame”
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The costs of oil imports</span> (broadly defined
AND
', now harbor Islamic extremists.11*
=Negative= 
==PPWT CP== 

CP Text: The United States president should sign and the United States Senate should ratify The Treaty on the Prevention of the Placement of Weapons in Outer Space.
The US should sign the PPWT- predictability, international relations, and miscalc
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Victor </span>Vasiliev<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, political counselor for the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research, 4/1/</span>08<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, [“The Draft Treaty on the Prevention of the Placement of Weapons in Outer Space, the threat or use of force against outer space objects”, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">[[http://www.unidir.org/pdf/articles/pdf-art2822.pdf]]</span>] AS</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">So, why do we need a PPWT</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">which is exactly what humankind wants to avoid</span>.
Weaponization inevitably leads to miscalculations – causes extinction
Mitchell <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gordon </span>R., Associate Professor of Communications @ the University of Pittsburgh, “ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence,” No. 6 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">01</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A buildup of space weapons might begin with </span>
AND 
world into the most destructive military conflict ever seen

==Japan SPS CP== 
Text: The Government of Japan should substantially increase its deployment of space based solar power beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.
Japanese have the tech and drive to do the plan
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cyranoski 9</span>
David Cyranoski worked in Japan for several years before moving into journalism with //Nature// in 2000. His varied employment history includes translation for a semiconductor-manufacturing equipment company and teaching history to foreign exchange students. 25 November 2009 ‘Japan sets sights on solar power from space’ <http://ry2ue4ek7d.search.serialssolutions.com/?ctx_ver=Z39.88-2004&ctx_enc=info%3Aofi%2Fenc%3AUTF-8&rfr_id=info:sid/summon.serialssolutions.com&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&rft.genre=article&rft.atitle=Japan+sets+sights+on+solar+power+from+space&rft.jtitle=Nature&rft.au=Cyranoski%2C+David&rft.date=2009-11-26&rft.pub=Nature+Publishing+Group&rft.issn=0028-0836&rft.volume=462&rft.issue=7272&rft.spage=398&rft.epage=399&rft_id=info:doi/10.1038%2F462398b&rft.externalDBID=GNAA&rft.externalDocID=462398b>//DoeS
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Japanese scientists are once again eyeing </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">two Hawaiian islands.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Privates CP </span>== 

Text: The United States federal government should offer a prize to private entities for the development of <>.
Incentive prizes spur tech development and boost the private sector
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sterner 2010</span> (Eric, national security and aerospace consultant, has held senior Congressional staff positions as the lead Professional Staff Member for defense policy on the House Armed Services Committee and as Professional Staff Member and Staff Director for the House Science Committee’s Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics, served in the Office of the Secretary of Defense and as Associate Deputy Administrator for Policy and Planning at NASA, served as Vice President for Federal Services at TerreStar Networks Inc., and as a national security analyst at JAYCOR and National Security Research Inc., Marshall Institute, April, “Worthy of a Great Nation? NASA’s Change of Strategic Direction” http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/798.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Inspired by the success of the X-Prize </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Open Innovation Marketplace, 2008).</span>


==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Security Kritik </span>== 
===<Link>=== 

External threats are not unique; terrorism is in our neighborhoods and there might just be poison in our children's Halloween candy. Insecurity is part of human life- rather than come to terms with this the affirmative encourages us to stay glued to the television stocking up on duct tape and water. At issue here is not just life but what makes that life livable.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Der Derian95</span>(James, Professor of International Relations at Brown University, On Security) JXu

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The will to power</span>, then, should
AND
illusion of being protected by a god." 40

Reject the affirmative’s security logic – only resistance to the discourse of security can generate genuine political thought 
Mark <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Neocleous</span>, Prof. of Government @ Brunel, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008</span> [//Critique of Security//, 185-6]
The only way out<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of such a dilemma</span>
AND 
be brave enough to return the gift."'
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">
</span>
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Gender Kritik </span>== 
===Space policy categorizes people solely based on gender related differences- this perpetuates heteronormitivity by forcing a “normal” view of gender.=== 
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Penny <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Griffin</span> (Senior Lecturer in International Relations at UNSW, PhD at University of Bristol, researches IR, global governance, feminism and gender studies) March 25, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2006</span> “The Spaces Between Us: The Gendered Politics of Outer Space” http://citation.allacademic.com//meta/p_mla_apa_research_citation/0/9/8/3/0/pages98301/p98301-2.php</span></span>
Sex in Public/Private In arguing that
<span class="DebateUnderline">AND </span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">implicit standard of normalization’</span> (2004: 41).

===Heteronormative policies enforced by gender-centric discourse create heinous violence and banishes certain lives outside of politics.=== 

Judith <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Butler</span>, professor @ Berkley, 200<span style="font-size: 13pt;">4</span>, “Undoing Gender” //ZY
What are the cultural contours ofthe notion 
AND 
of what these losses mean for communities there?

**The alternative is to reject the affirmatives gender binary enforcing discourse- adopting a more holistic approach of IR solves. We can embrace the affirmative while excluding representations that reinforce gender**.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shepherd 9 </span>[Laura, 4/3, Department of Political Science and International Studies @ University of Birmingham, “Gender, Violence and Global Politics: Contemporary Debates in Feminist Security Studies”, p. EBSCO, RCB]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As well as conceiving of gender as a </span>
AND 
disciplinary boundaries which constrain<span class="DebateUnderline"> rather than facilitate </span>understanding<span class="DebateUnderline">.</span>

===<span class="DebateUnderline">AT: Framework </span>=== 
Gender centric discourse sets inherent limits on politics-produces hegemonic truths that determine action 
Judith <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Butler</span> (PhD, Yale, Maxine Elliot Professor of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature) <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1999</span> “Gender Trouble: Feminism and the Subversion of Identity” p. 11-13
iii. Gender: The Circular Ruins of
<span class="DebateUnderline">AND </span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">language constitutes as the imaginable domain of gender.</span>