[[toc]]
If you have any questions or need cites, email colinag5@gmail.com or sfdebate.117@gmail.com
=Affirmative= 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16px;"> plan: The United States federal government should deploy space based solar power for Department of Defense energy needs. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 18.6667px;">Contention One is the Sword </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Three internal links to hegemony </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">First: Foreign Policy </span>**
**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">DoD petroleum dependence undermines strategic flexibility and gives foreign suppliers leverage over US foreign policy. </span>**
**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Parthemore and Nagl</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">, fellow and President at the Center for New American Security, **10** [</span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Fueling%20the%20Future%20Force_NaglParthemore.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">, “Fueling the Future Force Preparing the Department of Defense for a Post-Petroleum Era” September 2010]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">The growing world ... lines to opponents.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Second is the Defense Budget;</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Petroleum demand and prices will skyrocket as reserves are depleted. </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> **<span style="color: #000000;">Parthemore and Nagl 10</span>**</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">*</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Christine Parthemore is a fellow at the Center for New American SecurityDr. John Nagl is President of the Center for New American Security [</span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Fueling%20the%20Future%20Force_NaglParthemore.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">, “Fueling the Future Force Preparing the Department of Defense for a Post-Petroleum Era” September 2010]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">DOD cannot be .. with all energy sources.</span>

**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Rising energy costs decimate the DOD’s budget</span>**

**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Parthemore and Nagl 10*</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Christine Parthemore is a fellow at the Center for New American SecurityDr. John Nagl is President of the Center for New American Security [</span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Fueling%20the%20Future%20Force_NaglParthemore.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">, “Fueling the Future Force Preparing the Department of Defense for a Post-Petroleum Era” September 2010]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">The Department of Defense... of this scale.</span>

**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Defense spending cuts hollow out the military – cuts modernization and nuclear deterrence</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> **<span style="color: #000000;">Carafano 08, </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">James Jay Carafano is a senior research fellow for national security at The Heritage Foundation and the author of the book "G.I. Ingenuity. </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; text-decoration: none;">[[http://findarticles.com/p/news-articles/virginian-pilot-ledger-star-norfolk/mi_8014/is_20080827/prepping-military-defeat-prepping-military/ai_n41414642/]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">[8/27/8 “Prepping the military for defeat,” The Virginian-Pilot]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">AFTER the Vietnam ... the 21st century</span>

**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Independently, nuclear primacy deters conflicts and prevents nuclear escalation</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> **<span style="color: #000000;">Lieber & Press, 7</span>**</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">– *Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame AND</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Associate Professor of Government at Dartmouth College (Winter 2007, Keir A., Daryl G., China Security, “U.S. Nuclear Primacy and the Future of Chinese Deterrent,” </span>**[[http://www.chinasecurity.us/pdfs/Issue5full.pdf|**http://www.chinasecurity.us/pdfs/Issue5full.pdf**]]**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, Sawyer)</span>**

**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Third, the growth of</span>****__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">U.S. nuclear …</span>__****<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">States</span>**__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">at the conventional level.</span>__

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Third, the growth ... at the conventional level.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Third is Forward Basing; </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">SBSP is key to the forward basing of American forces and eliminating their dependency on vulnerable supply lines. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">NSSO, 2007</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> SBSP Study Group, 2007, 10 October 2007, (National Security Space Office, Space-Based Solar Power, As an Opportunity for Strategic Security, Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study, http://www.acq.osd.mil/nsso/solar/SBSPInterimAssesment0.1.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">For the DoD ... security energy supply.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Hegemony is key to the prevention of great power wars, and the defense of a liberal international system. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Zhang and Shi 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C.; Lin Shi is from Columbia University. She also serves as an </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/////</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> A rad G)</span>//
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">This does not...unrivalled US primacy. </span>//

//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 18.6667px;">Contention Two is the Shield </span>**//
//**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">The US is weaponizing now – international perceptions have been triggered</span>**//

//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> **<span style="color: #000000;">Ruyssenaars 10</span>**</span>//

//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Henk, 5-22, “U.S. AIR FORCE MILITARIZING: SPACE 'PEARL HARBOR' NEXT?,” </span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[@http://forpressfound.livejournal.com/37871.html]]</span>//

//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">"</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">As usual with ...</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> in Central Asia</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">.</span>//
//**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Three internal links to space based missile defense. </span>**//
//**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">First; Removes power limitations</span>**//

//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> **<span style="color: #000000;">Ramos 2K</span>**</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8px;">US Air Force Major, Thesis submitted for the AIR COMMAND AND STAFF COLL MAXWELL Air Force Base (Kim, “Solar Power Constellations: Implications for the United States Air Force,” April, </span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8px;">[[http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA394928]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8px;">)</span>//
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">New World Vistas </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">...the RF beam.</span>//
//**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Second; Survivability and maneuverability</span>**//
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">**<span style="color: #000000;">Ramos 2K</span>** </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">US Air Force Major, Thesis submitted for the AIR COMMAND AND STAFF COLL MAXWELL Air Force Base (Kim, “Solar Power Constellations: Implications for the United States Air Force,” April, </span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">[[http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA394928]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">)</span>//
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">In addition to....force from space.</span>//

//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Third; SPS is the key to developing space radar</span>**//
//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">Dinerman 7</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Taylor Dinerman is an author and journalist. Solar power satellites and space radar Monday, July 16, 2007 </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/910/1]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>//
//__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">One of the....</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> near-term operations.</span>__//

//**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Improved radar capabilities are necessary for a successful space missile defense</span>**//

//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> **<span style="color: #000000;">Prouty 08</span>** </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">(Scott, Principal Director for the Advanced Systems and Technology Subdivision of the Missile Defense Division, has supported Air Force Space and Missile Systems Center, National Reconnaissance Office, and Missile Defense Agency programs. “Ballistic Missile Defense System Sensors and the Role of Space Systems,” Spring 2008,</span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">[[http://www.aero.org/publications/crosslink/spring2008/02.html]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">)</span>//
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Space sensors fulfill ... External Sensors Laboratory.</span>//

//**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Space BMD solves conflict in North Korea, EMP strikes and Saudi proliferation. </span>**//
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">**<span style="color: #000000;">Pfaltzgraff et al 9</span>**</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Robert, PhD and Professor of Int. Security Studies @ Tufts and President @ the IFPA, William Cleave, PhD and Professor @ Missouri State, Ilan Berman, VP for Policy @ the American Foreign Policy Council, Kiron Skinner, PhD and Fellow @ the Hoover Institution, Henry Cooper, Chairman @ High Frontier, H. Baker Spring, Research Fellow @ Heritage, Jacquelyn Davis, PhD and Executive VP @ IFPA, Mead Treadwell, Senior Fellow @ Institute of the North, Daniel Fine, PhD and Research Associate @ MIT, Robert Turner, Professor at University of Virginia, Robert Jastrow, PhD and Chairman of the Board @ the Marshall Institute, J.D. Williams, Vice Admiral of the USN, Thomas Karako, Director of Programs @ Claremont Institute, Paul Weyrich, CEO @ the Free Congress Research and Education Foundation, Brian Kennedy, President @ Claremont Institute, Lowell Wood, PhD and Visiting Fellow @ Hoover, Jeff Kueter, President @ the Marshall Institute, Eric Licht, Senior Analyst @ the Free Congress Research and Education Foundation, R. Daniel McMichael, Secretary @ the Carthage Foundation and the Sarah Scaife Foundation, “Report of the Independent Working Group on Missile Defense, the Space Relationship,& the Twenty-First Century,” Prepared by the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis,” </span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[https://www.claremont.org/repository/docLib/200901291_iwg2009.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>//
//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Twenty-first century ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> greater detail below.</span>//

//**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">North Korean nuclear conflict causes extinction</span>**//
//**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Hayes & Hamel-Green, 10</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">– *Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” </span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">[[http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">)</span>//

//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">The international community....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> the international community. </span>//

//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">An EMP attack kills millions and destroys the economy – only space based missile defense solves</span>**//
//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Kennedy 08’</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> By BRIAN T. KENNEDY, WSJ, Mr. Kennedy is president of the Claremont Institute and a member of the Independent Working Group on Missile Defense. NOVEMBER 24, 2008, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122748923919852015.html]]</span></span>//
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">“What a Single Nuclear Warhead Could Do: Why the U.S. needs a space-based missile defense against an EMP attack.”</span></span>
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">As severe as....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> soon as possible.</span>//

//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Economic decline causes nuclear war </span>**//
//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">O'Donnell, 9</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> (Sean, Baltimore Republican Examiner, a graduate student at the University of Baltimore studying law and ethics, B.A. in History from the University of Maryland, a Squad Leader in the Marine Corps Reserve, Will this recession lead to World War III? February 26, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.examiner.com/x-3108-Baltimore-Republican-Examiner%7Ey2009m2d26-Will-this-recession-lead-to-World-War-III#comments|http://www.examiner.com/x-3108-Baltimore-Republican-Examiner~y2009m2d26-Will-this-recession-lead-to-World-War-III#comments]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">)</span>//
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> Could the current ... history repeats itself.</span>//

//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Saudi prolif spills over and escalates rapidly, causes global nuclear war</span>**//
//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Edelman et al. 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> *</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">ERIC S. EDELMAN is a Distinguished Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments; he was U.S. Undersecretary of Defense for Policy in 2005-9 **ANDREW F. KREPINEVICH is President of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments.** *EVAN BRADEN MONTGOMERY is a Research Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments [</span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/67162/eric-s-edelman-andrew-f-krepinevich-jr-and-evan-braden-montgomer/the-dangers-of-a-nuclear-iran]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">,“TheDangers of a Nuclear Iran” January-February 2011]</span>//

//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> There is, however, ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> with unpredictable consequences.</span>//

//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 18.6667px;">Contention Three is the Soldier</span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">No technological barriers, we would fly demonstrations in 4 years,</span>**//
//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">Ashworth 8</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> - Fellow of the British Interplanetary Society (Stephen, The Space Review, “In defense of the knights”, 6/23, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1153/1</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>//
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Usually, Day’s articles __....__</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> NSSO study report.</span>__//

//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">SBSP can replace all forms of fossil fuels and seamlessly integrate with military fuel infrastructure. </span>**//
//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">NSS ’07</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(National Space Society, “Report to the Director, National Security Space Office Interim Assessment” http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf. October 10, 2007) </span>//
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">The SBSP Study</span>//....<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">deserves significant attention</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>//

//**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">DOD demonstration is necessary to spur commercial development to integrate with military systems</span>**//

//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> **<span style="color: #000000;">IAA 2011</span>**(</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">International Academy of Astronautics, Academy that brings together the world's foremost experts in the disciplines of astronautics on a regular basis to recognize the accomplishments of their peers, and explores and discuss cutting-edge issues in space research and technology, 4-2011, “The First International Assessment of Space Solar Power: Opportunities, Issues and Potential Pathways Forward,” Green Energy From Space Solar Power, http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Studies/sg311_finalreport_solarpower.pdf)</span>//
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Finding 1: Fundamentally new ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12px;">tests and demonstrations.</span>//





//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">deploy space based solar power for Department of Defense energy needs. </span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 18.6667px;">Contention One is the Sword </span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Three internal links to hegemony </span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">First: Foreign Policy </span>**//
//**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">DoD petroleum dependence undermines strategic flexibility and gives foreign suppliers leverage over US foreign policy. </span>**//
//**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Parthemore and Nagl</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">, fellow and President at the Center for New American Security, **10** [</span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Fueling%20the%20Future%20Force_NaglParthemore.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">, “Fueling the Future Force Preparing the Department of Defense for a Post-Petroleum Era” September 2010]</span>//
//<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">The growing world ....lines to opponents.</span>//

//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Second is the Defense Budget;</span>**//
//**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Petroleum demand and prices will skyrocket as reserves are depleted. </span>**//

//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> **<span style="color: #000000;">Parthemore and Nagl 10</span>**</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">*</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Christine Parthemore is a fellow at the Center for New American SecurityDr. John Nagl is President of the Center for New American Security [</span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Fueling%20the%20Future%20Force_NaglParthemore.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">, “Fueling the Future Force Preparing the Department of Defense for a Post-Petroleum Era” September 2010]</span>//
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">DOD cannot be.... all energy sources.</span>//

//**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Rising energy costs decimate the DOD’s budget</span>**//

//**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Parthemore and Nagl 10*</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Christine Parthemore is a fellow at the Center for New American SecurityDr. John Nagl is President of the Center for New American Security [</span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Fueling%20the%20Future%20Force_NaglParthemore.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">, “Fueling the Future Force Preparing the Department of Defense for a Post-Petroleum Era” September 2010]</span>//
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">The Department of Defense ... of this scale.</span>//

//**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Defense spending cuts hollow out the military – cuts modernization and nuclear deterrence</span>**//

//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> **<span style="color: #000000;">Carafano 08, </span>**</span>//

//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">James Jay Carafano is a senior research fellow for national security at The Heritage Foundation and the author of the book "G.I. Ingenuity. </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; text-decoration: none;">[[http://findarticles.com/p/news-articles/virginian-pilot-ledger-star-norfolk/mi_8014/is_20080827/prepping-military-defeat-prepping-military/ai_n41414642/]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">[8/27/8 “Prepping the military for defeat,” The Virginian-Pilot]</span>//
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">AFTER the Vietnam .... the 21st century</span>//

//**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Independently, nuclear primacy deters conflicts and prevents nuclear escalation</span>**//

//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> **<span style="color: #000000;">Lieber & Press, 7</span>**</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">– *Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame AND</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Associate Professor of Government at Dartmouth College (Winter 2007, Keir A., Daryl G., China Security, “U.S. Nuclear Primacy and the Future of Chinese Deterrent,” </span>**[[http://www.chinasecurity.us/pdfs/Issue5full.pdf|**http://www.chinasecurity.us/pdfs/Issue5full.pdf**]]**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, Sawyer)</span>**//

//**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Third, the growth of</span>****__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">U.S. nuclear …</span>__****<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">States</span>**__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">at the conventional level.</span>__//

//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Third, the growth .... the conventional level.</span>//

//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Third is Forward Basing; </span>**//
//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">SBSP is key to the forward basing of American forces and eliminating their dependency on vulnerable supply lines. </span>**//
//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">NSSO, 2007</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> SBSP Study Group, 2007, 10 October 2007, (National Security Space Office, Space-Based Solar Power, As an Opportunity for Strategic Security, Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study, http://www.acq.osd.mil/nsso/solar/SBSPInterimAssesment0.1.pdf)</span>//
//**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">For the DoD ....</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">**__security energy supply.__**</span>//

//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Hegemony is key to the prevention of great power wars, and the defense of a liberal international system. </span>**//
//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Zhang and Shi 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C.; Lin Shi is from Columbia University. She also serves as an </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry</span>///<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> A rad G)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">This does not ....</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">unrivalled US primacy. </span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 18.6667px;">Contention Two is the Shield </span>**
**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">The US is weaponizing now – international perceptions have been triggered</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> **<span style="color: #000000;">Ruyssenaars 10</span>**</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Henk, 5-22, “U.S. AIR FORCE MILITARIZING: SPACE 'PEARL HARBOR' NEXT?,” </span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[@http://forpressfound.livejournal.com/37871.html]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">"</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">As usual with ....</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> in Central Asia</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">.</span>


**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Three internal links to space based missile defense. </span>**
**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">First; Removes power limitations</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">**<span style="color: #000000;">Ramos 2K</span>**</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8px;">US Air Force Major, Thesis submitted for the AIR COMMAND AND STAFF COLL MAXWELL Air Force Base (Kim, “Solar Power Constellations: Implications for the United States Air Force,” April, </span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8px;">[[http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA394928]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8px;">)</span>
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">New World Vistas </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">.... the RF beam.</span>

**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Second; Survivability and maneuverability</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">**<span style="color: #000000;">Ramos 2K</span>** </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">US Air Force Major, Thesis submitted for the AIR COMMAND AND STAFF COLL MAXWELL Air Force Base (Kim, “Solar Power Constellations: Implications for the United States Air Force,” April, </span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">[[http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA394928]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">In addition to ... force from space.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Third; SPS is the key to developing space radar</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">Dinerman 7</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Taylor Dinerman is an author and journalist. Solar power satellites and space radar Monday, July 16, 2007 </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/910/1]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">One of the great ....</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> near-term operations.</span>__


**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Improved radar capabilities are necessary for a successful space missile defense</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> **<span style="color: #000000;">Prouty 08</span>** </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">(Scott, Principal Director for the Advanced Systems and Technology Subdivision of the Missile Defense Division, has supported Air Force Space and Missile Systems Center, National Reconnaissance Office, and Missile Defense Agency programs. “Ballistic Missile Defense System Sensors and the Role of Space Systems,” Spring 2008,</span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">[[http://www.aero.org/publications/crosslink/spring2008/02.html]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Space sensors fulfill ....External Sensors Laboratory.</span>


**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Space BMD solves conflict in North Korea, EMP strikes and Saudi proliferation. </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> **<span style="color: #000000;">Pfaltzgraff et al 9</span>**</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Robert, PhD and Professor of Int. Security Studies @ Tufts and President @ the IFPA, William Cleave, PhD and Professor @ Missouri State, Ilan Berman, VP for Policy @ the American Foreign Policy Council, Kiron Skinner, PhD and Fellow @ the Hoover Institution, Henry Cooper, Chairman @ High Frontier, H. Baker Spring, Research Fellow @ Heritage, Jacquelyn Davis, PhD and Executive VP @ IFPA, Mead Treadwell, Senior Fellow @ Institute of the North, Daniel Fine, PhD and Research Associate @ MIT, Robert Turner, Professor at University of Virginia, Robert Jastrow, PhD and Chairman of the Board @ the Marshall Institute, J.D. Williams, Vice Admiral of the USN, Thomas Karako, Director of Programs @ Claremont Institute, Paul Weyrich, CEO @ the Free Congress Research and Education Foundation, Brian Kennedy, President @ Claremont Institute, Lowell Wood, PhD and Visiting Fellow @ Hoover, Jeff Kueter, President @ the Marshall Institute, Eric Licht, Senior Analyst @ the Free Congress Research and Education Foundation, R. Daniel McMichael, Secretary @ the Carthage Foundation and the Sarah Scaife Foundation, “Report of the Independent Working Group on Missile Defense, the Space Relationship,& the Twenty-First Century,” Prepared by the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis,” </span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[https://www.claremont.org/repository/docLib/200901291_iwg2009.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Twenty-first century ....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">greater detail below.</span>

**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">North Korean nuclear conflict causes extinction</span>**

**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Hayes & Hamel-Green, 10</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">– *Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” </span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">[[http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">The international community ....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> the international community. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">An EMP attack kills millions and destroys the economy – only space based missile defense solves</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Kennedy 08’</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> By BRIAN T. KENNEDY, WSJ, Mr. Kennedy is president of the Claremont Institute and a member of the Independent Working Group on Missile Defense. NOVEMBER 24, 2008, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122748923919852015.html]]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">“What a Single Nuclear Warhead Could Do: Why the U.S. needs a space-based missile defense against an EMP attack.”</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">As severe as ....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> soon as possible.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Economic decline causes nuclear war </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">O'Donnell, 9</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> (Sean, Baltimore Republican Examiner, a graduate student at the University of Baltimore studying law and ethics, B.A. in History from the University of Maryland, a Squad Leader in the Marine Corps Reserve, Will this recession lead to World War III? February 26, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.examiner.com/x-3108-Baltimore-Republican-Examiner%7Ey2009m2d26-Will-this-recession-lead-to-World-War-III#comments|http://www.examiner.com/x-3108-Baltimore-Republican-Examiner~y2009m2d26-Will-this-recession-lead-to-World-War-III#comments]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> Could the current .... history repeats itself.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Saudi prolif spills over and escalates rapidly, causes global nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Edelman et al. 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> *</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">ERIC S. EDELMAN is a Distinguished Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments; he was U.S. Undersecretary of Defense for Policy in 2005-9 **ANDREW F. KREPINEVICH is President of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments.** *EVAN BRADEN MONTGOMERY is a Research Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments [</span><span style="color: #0000ff; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/67162/eric-s-edelman-andrew-f-krepinevich-jr-and-evan-braden-montgomer/the-dangers-of-a-nuclear-iran]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">,“TheDangers of a Nuclear Iran” January-February 2011]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> There is, however,....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">, with unpredictable consequences.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 18.6667px;">Contention Three is the Soldier</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">No technological barriers, we would fly demonstrations in 4 years,</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">Ashworth 8</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> - Fellow of the British Interplanetary Society (Stephen, The Space Review, “In defense of the knights”, 6/23, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1153/1</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Usually, Day’s articles __....__</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> NSSO study report.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">SBSP can replace all forms of fossil fuels and seamlessly integrate with military fuel infrastructure. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">NSS ’07</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(National Space Society, “Report to the Director, National Security Space Office Interim Assessment” http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf. October 10, 2007) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">The SBSP Study</span>//...////<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> deserves significant attention</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">DOD demonstration is necessary to spur commercial development to integrate with military systems</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> **<span style="color: #000000;">IAA 2011</span>**(</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">International Academy of Astronautics, Academy that brings together the world's foremost experts in the disciplines of astronautics on a regular basis to recognize the accomplishments of their peers, and explores and discuss cutting-edge issues in space research and technology, 4-2011, “The First International Assessment of Space Solar Power: Opportunities, Issues and Potential Pathways Forward,” Green Energy From Space Solar Power, http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Studies/sg311_finalreport_solarpower.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Finding 1: Fundamentally new ....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12px;"> tests and demonstrations.</span>





=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]