[[toc]]
=Notes:= 

We're part of Capitol Debate - for more stuff, check out the wikis of Centennial, River Hill, Mt Hebron, McDonogh, Atholton, etc.

If you have any questions, ask Simon - simonwzhu[at]gmail[dot]com

For other stuff, see my other wiki -
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Atholton (MD) - Simon Zhu & Daniel Budai|2011-2012 - Atholton (MD) - Simon Zhu & Daniel Budai]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Atholton (MD) - Simon Zhu & Victoria Brown|2011-2012 - Atholton (MD) - Simon Zhu & Victoria Brown]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Atholton (MD) - Simon Zhu & Haofei Liu|2011-2012 - Atholton (MD) - Simon Zhu & Haofei Liu]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Capitol Debate West (MD) - Simon Zhu & Daniel Budai|2011-2012 - Capitol Debate West (MD) - Simon Zhu & Daniel Budai]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Atholton (MD) - Simon Zhu & Isabel Slavinsky|2011-2012 - Atholton (MD) - Simon Zhu & Isabel Slavinsky]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Also, this kid will win the TOC: </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Centennial (MD) - Simon Park & Angela Park|2011-2012 - Centennial (MD) - Simon Park & Angela Park]]</span>

=Affirmative= 
==O-Valley 1AC== 
Contention 1 – The Inconvenient Truth
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Racial Contract is the un-named political system that governs status-quo politics. We pass policies to satisfy a “social contract” that is inherently racist. The omission of any mention of this system is not accidental but a coordinated condition of the system.</span>**
<span class="tagChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mills</span> Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago <span class="tagChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">1997</span>
Charles-; The Racial Contract

Nationally, within these racial polities, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13.3333px;">….. and intracontinental racial exploitation.</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Racism can be expressed with a violent Fist or a Velvet glove. Contemporary Racism has slipped on the velvet glove, invoking a devastating power of illusion by focusing merely on individual bigotry leaving untouched society’s racist systems and institutions.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">BARDNT</span>Director of Crossroads, a non profit Organization <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">1991</span>
Joseph-ordained minister; //<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“Dismantling Racism: The Continuing Challenge</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">to White America</span>//; p.31-33
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13.3333px;">Racism can be expressed with an iron …..</span> degree that we are able to see this power at work.

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Scenario for Institutional Racism is Climate Denial</span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The science behind warming is rock solid – most scientific reports have confirmed the validity of the greenhouse gas effects, however, the modern right wing has taken over “climate denial” as their new pet project</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">CFR 9/25/11</span> Council on Foreign Relations, reposted from the AP written by Charles Hanley AP Special correspondent, AP: The American 'Allergy' to Global Warming: Why?, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.cfr.org/climate-change/ap-american-allergy-global-warming-why/p26042?cid=rss-fullfeed-ap]]</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the_american</span>__allergy__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">to_-092511&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+cfr_main+%28CFR.org+-+Main+Site+Feed%29&utm_content=Google+Reader</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NEW YORK (AP) — Tucked between treatises on algae …"We must protect the habitat that sustains us."</span>__

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Climate denialism is 21st century invisible racism at its finest – the Politics of denial act to preserve the interests of the rich white male, ignoring the impact borne by minorities.**</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Mooney ’11</span>, Chris, science and political journalist specializing in science in politics, the psychology of denialism, Knight Science Journalism Fellow, MIT; Visiting Associate, Center for Collaborative History, Princeton U; 8/2/11 (“What’s Up With Conservative White Men and Climate Change Denial?,” [[http://www.desmogblog.com/what-s-conservative-white-men-and-climate-change-denial]]) </span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">They’re the conservative white men (CWM) …Rush <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Limbaugh</span>’s radio show, <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">and various climate denial blogs serve to fan the flames</span>.</span>__

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Climate denial has deep effects in US space policy, rather than funding** </span>__**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">crucial __earth observation satellite, the US refuses to allow for a truly genuine climate science in order to maintain status quo vested economic interests__</span>**
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Patrick <span style="font-size: 16px;">Gleick 8/31</span>/2011 Why Anti-Science Ideology is Bad for America <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.forbes.com/sites/petergleick/2011/08/31/why-anti-science-ideology-is-bad-for-america/]]</span> [CEO Pacific Institute, MacArthur Fellow, National Academy of Sciences]</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">By pretending that the science is bad</span>… postpone that debate by trying to discredit the science.</span>__

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**The effects of global warming strike at the heart of minority rights – systematic discrimination mean marginalized communities are less likely to survive global warming threating their unique culture – the US has an** </span>__**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">obligation __to these populations__</span>**
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">M</span>inority <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">R</span>ights <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">G</span>roups <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">I</span>nternational April <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2008</span>[[http://www.ohchr.org/Documents/Issues/ClimateChange/Submissions/Minority_Rights_Group_International.pdf]]</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[Author: Rachel Baird (MRG) is a non-governmental organization (NGO) working to secure the rights of ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities worldwide, and to promote cooperation and understanding between communities.]</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="underline">Climate change is just beginning …</span>or this than any other nation.</span>__

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**These systematic harms of structural violence must come** </span>__**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">before __linear impact calculations – the structural violence of the poorest of the poor have caused thermonuclear wars every year of every decade__</span>**
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Abu-Jamal 98</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Mumia, award-winning PA journalist, 9/19, [[http://www.flashpoints.net/mQuietDeadlyViolence.html]])</span></span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">We live</span>, equally immersed, and to a deeper degree, <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">… throughout the world</span>. [Gilligan, p. 196]</span>__

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Racism must be rejected in EVERY INSTANCE without surcease. It justifies atrocities, creates another and is truly the CAPITAL SIN.**</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">MEMMI</span> Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris <span style="font-size: 16px;">2000</span></span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Verdana;">Albert-; //RACISM//, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13.3333px;">The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, … someday to live in peace. True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.</span>__

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**As a stance against instutitional racism pervasive in US climate denial policy Will and I advocate the following:**</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Plan – The United States federal government should substantially increase its earth observation capabilities.**</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**We'll Clarify**</span>__

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contention 2 – The Discussion of Race</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**The current struggle against global warming is no different – the environmental movement has** </span>__**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">exemplified __modern color muteness and we must connect the dots between racial discrimination in warming if we are to survive__</span>**
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tim <span style="font-size: 16px;">Wise</span> April 13th <span style="font-size: 16px;">2011</span> Tim Wise and White Privilege <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://changefromwithin.org/2011/04/13/tim-wise-and-white-privilege/]]</span> [Wise served as an adjunct faculty member at the Smith College School for Social Work, in Northampton, Massachusetts, where he co-taught a Master’s level class on Racism in the U.S. In 2001, Wise trained journalists to eliminate racial bias in reporting, as a visiting faculty-in-residence at the Poynter Institute in St. Petersburg, Florida. From 1999-2003, Wise was an advisor to the Fisk University Race Relations Institute, in Nashville, and in the early ’90s he was Youth Coordinator and Associate Director of the Louisiana Coalition Against Racism and Nazism: the largest of the many groups organized for the purpose of defeating neo-Nazi political candidate, David Duke. He graduated from Tulane University in 1990 and received antiracism training from the People’s Institute for Survival and Beyond, in New Orleans.]</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">But <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">as troubling as colorblindness … but is to weaken the fight for survival.</span></span>__

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Approaching WARMING without disrupting the RACIAL FRAMEWORK that exists MISSES the BOAT, FEAR of ERODING racial hierarchies explain INEFFECTUAL “market-based approaches” to global warming.**</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="tagChar">MANDELL Dir of the Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity Fair Housing Project 2k8</span> [Bekah-A.B., Vassar College, J.D., Boston College Law School, Father Rober Drinan Family Fund Public Interest Fellow; Racial Reification and Global Warming: A Truly Inconvenient Truth; BOSTON COLLEGE THIRD WORLD LAW JOURNAL, Spring, 28 B.C. Third World L.J. 289]</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[*297] <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Fear of eroding the hierarchies …</span>predominance of the traditionalist, capitalist ruling class." [[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.binghamton.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1300963062371&returnToKey=20_T11559734102&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.307872.8645909542#n52|n52]]</span>__

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Dialogue and communication matters – connecting the risks of climate change to issues of social justice is critical to connect to new constituencies**</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Moser and Dilling 2007</span> (Susanne Moser is a research scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research’s (NCAR) Institute for the Study of Society and Environment, Boulder, Colorado. She is an Aldo Leopold Leadership Program fellow and an associate of the International Human Dimensions Program (IHDP) Core Project on Global Environmental Change and Human Security (GECHS). Lisa Dilling is a visiting fellow at the Center for Science and Technology Policy Research of the Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences (CIRES), University of Colorado at Boulder. She has been awarded a visiting fellowship by CIRES, a John A. Knauss National Sea Grant fellowship, and a National Science Foundation graduate fellowship. “Creating a Climate for Change: Communicating Climate Change and Facilitating Social Change,” Cambridge University Press, Pg 14-16 Mkoo)</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">The relationship between the climate problem …</span> new practices how to move beyond message delivery and toward dialogue and engagement.</span>__

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**This shifts the conditions of the debate – current focus in relation to climate change has only dealt with its**</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Moser and Dilling 2007</span> (Susanne Moser is a research scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research’s (NCAR) Institute for the Study of Society and Environment, Boulder, Colorado. She is an Aldo Leopold Leadership Program fellow and an associate of the International Human Dimensions Program (IHDP) Core Project on Global Environmental Change and Human Security (GECHS). Lisa Dilling is a visiting fellow at the Center for Science and Technology Policy Research of the Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences (CIRES), University of Colorado at Boulder. She has been awarded a visiting fellowship by CIRES, a John A. Knauss National Sea Grant fellowship, and a National Science Foundation graduate fellowship. “Creating a Climate for Change: Communicating Climate Change and Facilitating Social Change,” Cambridge University Press, Pg 124-127 Mkoo)</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13.3333px;">The emerging climate-justice movement … human rights, and social justice.</span>__

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**It’s not a question of solvency, but one of** </span>__**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">exposition __– we must__ constantly__ discursively challenge the dominant paradigms of climate denial – grassroots struggles are critical</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Gore, ’11</span> [Yes, THE Al Gore, Al Gore August 29th 2011. “Al Gore Compares Climate Change Deniers to Racists” [This is a transcription of the video embedded in the page] <span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.inquisitr.com/137269/al-gore-compares-climate-change-deniers-to-racists/]]</span>]
Gore: Yeah if Michael Jordan had been covered in the basketball court by four defensive players every step, he wouldn’t have done as well. Bogusky: So yeah, so <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">as an individual …</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13.3333px;"> concerned I think it’s important to get that out there, absolutely</span>

==Wake 1AC== 

Plan: The United States Federal Government Should Substantially Increase Its Exploration And/Or Development of Space Beyond the Earth’s Mesosphere by Fully Funding, Developing, and Deploying Solar Powered Satellites.

__<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Observation 1: Oil</span>__
Oil consumption is increasing while supplies are decreasing- we are already past the peak.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kohl ’11</span> (Keith, Editor-in-chief of //Energy and Capital//. “Peak Oil: Tighter Supply Ahead” http://www.energyandcapital.com/articles/peak-oil-supply/1642. July 13, 2011) AP

There seems to … to today's investors.

Oil dependence collapses economy – high oil prices, trade deficits, consumer spending
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zubrin ’11</span> (Robert, president of Pioneer Astronautics and author of “Energy Victory: Winning the War on Terror by Breaking Free of Oil”. “Rising oil prices threaten economic crash” http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/mar/17/rising-oil-prices-threaten-economic-crash/?page=1. March 17, 2011)

In recent days, oil … action is now.
US economy is sick, getting worse
Lendman 9/7
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Stephen Lendman, host for Progressive Radio Network, America's Sick Economy, 9/7/11, accessed 9/7/11, http://www.opednews.com/articles/America-s-Sick-Economy-by-Stephen-Lendman-110907-607.html?show=votes</span>
Mainstream America is … <span style="font-size: 10pt;"> harm than good. </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Global economic crisis causes nuclear great-power war </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mead 9</span> – Walter Russell Mead, the Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, 2-4, 2009, “Only Makes You Stronger,” The New Republic, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2
If current market turmoil … <span style="font-size: 10pt;">have to fight</span>.

SSP can quickly eliminate this dependence
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mick 7</span> (Jason, senior news editor at independent tech news site DailyTech, “The Pentagon Wants Space Solar Power for U.S., Allies”, 10-15-07, http://www.dailytech.com/The+Pentagon+Wants+Space+Solar +Power+for+US+Allies/article9275.htm) OP
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">The Pentagon seeks</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;"> …</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;"> within this decade."</span>
And, SBSP massively boosts economic growth.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NSS ’07 </span>(National Space Society, “Report to the Director, National Security Space Office Interim Assessment” http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf. October 10, 2007)

Finding: The SBSP Study Group… mid<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‐</span>century and beyond.

Fossil fuels will run out by 2050-the switch needs to happen now
Nelder 9
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chris Nelder, author of Profit from the Peak--The End of Oil and the Greatest Investment Event of the Century and the coauthor of Investing in Renewable Energy.7/24/9, The End Of Fossil Fuel, http://www.forbes.com/2009/07/24/peak-oil-production-business-energy-nelder.html</span>

You will never see cheap … and equitable world.
__<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Observation 2: The Environment</span>__

SPS solves environment
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bellows</span>, Charlie T. Bellows, Captain of the USAF, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span>, “ Minimizing Losses In A Space Laser Power Beaming System”, http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA518829, Date accessed June 24, 2011
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The most popular vision </span><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">… </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> the late 1960’s </span><span style="color: black;">(Mankins, 2008:25).</span>

Risk of environmental catastrophe justifies investment in SPS
Lyle M. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jenkins</span>, Jenkins Enterprises, Project Engineer, NASA Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center, December <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2009</span>, “Development of Space-Based Solar Power”, Intech, http://www.intechopen.com/articles/show/title/development-of-space-based-solar-power//jchen//
//3. Environmental benefits <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Advocates </span><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;"> … </span>and social stability.//
//Scenario 1 is Warming://

//WARMING IS REAL – LEADING CLIMATE SCIENTISTS CONCLUDE AFF//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">McClure and Stiffler</span>, writers for Seattle Pi, 2/1/20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">07</span>, Seattle Metro Daily (Robert and Lisa, “Scientists agree: Humans causing global warming”, http://www.seattlepi.com/local/article/Scientists-agree-Humans-causing-global-warming-1227187.php)//
//Using their strongest … eat the salmon.//
//Warming is anthropogenic – models prove and critics are paid off by oil companies//
//Robert <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hunter</span>, cofounder of Greenpeace and a Canadian environmentalist, journalist, author and politician, 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">03</span>, “Thermageddon: Countdown to 2030”, pg. 139//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In its initial … </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">is merely repugnant</span>//
//Warming is real, anthropogenic and causes extinction//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Deibel</span>, Professor of IR @ National War College, 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">07</span> (Terry L., “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft” pages 397-8)//
//Finally, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">there is</span><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;"> … </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">on this planet.</span>//

//SBSP is the ideal clean energy to solve warming – minimal pollution and resource use//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Garretson</span>, <span style="font-size: 9pt;">a Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) International Fellow in India, previously the Chief of Future Science and Technology Exploration for Headquarters Air Force, Directorate of Strategic Plans and Programs,</span> <span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span> <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Peter A., “Sky’s No Limit: Space-Based Solar Power, The Next Major Step In The Indo-US Strategic Partnership?”, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/papers/OP_SkysNoLimit.pdf)</span>//
//While no energy … or coastal areas.//
//Scenario 2 is Biodiversity://
//SBSP solves for environmental degradation//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Strickland, chairman for the Austin Space Frontier Society, Winter 2010, Online Journal of Space Communication (John K., “Space Solar vs Base Load Ground Solar and Wind Power”, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/strickland2.html)</span>//
//If nuclear reactor … <span style="font-size: 10pt;"> wind equipment required.</span>//
//Environmental stability is key to biodiversity//
//**__Cantoria__**, Member at the National Academy of Science and Technology Department of Science and Technology, 3/18/20**__07__**, National Academy of Science and Technology Department of Science and Technology (Magdalena, “Biodiversity loss and public health;”, http://www.allbusiness.com/environment-natural-resources/ecology-environmental/12926098-1.html)//
//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Environmental degradation leads </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">..</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">,</span>accelerating global warming.//
//Biodiversity loss leads to extinction//
//**__Diner__**, Major of US Army, April 19**__93__** , United States Army (David, “THE ARMY AND THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT: WHO' S ENDANGERING WHOM?”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA456541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)//
//By causing widespread … closer to the abyss.//
//Scenario 3 is Agriculture://

//Global warming destroys agriculture-causes extinction.//
//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Strom, planetary science professor University of Arizona, 2007</span>**//
//(Robert, “Hot House: Global Climate Change and the Human Condition”, pg 211, ldg)//

//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Agriculture is critical </span><span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">…</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> ramifications for civilization. </span>//

//__<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Observation 3: China</span>__//
//SPS prompts international cooperation and scientific dialogue on development//
//Narayanan <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Komerath</span>, School of Aerospace Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, 10/3/<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2009</span>, <span style="font-size: 9pt;">“The Space Power Grid: Synergy Between Space, Energy and Security Policies”, 2009 Atlanta Conference on Science and Innovation Policy, http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=5367831&tag=1</span>//jchen
CONCLUSIONS In this paper, the … develop suitable policy.
U.S-China Space Cooperation would increase relations
**Day****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">. </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">January</span>**2008. American space historian and policy analyst and served as an investigator for the Columbia Accident Investigation Board** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Dwayne A, “The China gambit.” The Space Review.http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1042/1,]</span>
Space triangulation Last … <span class="UnderlineChar1"> **with each other.**</span>
Sino-US relations key to solving for all impacts
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cohen, McGiffert and Greenberg 2k9</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(CSIS) William, former US secretary of defense and US senator, chairman and CEO of The Cohen Group, CSIS Trustee, Carola, Senior fellow and director of CSIS smart power initiative, Maurice, Chairman and CEO of CV Starr & Co. inc, and former chairman of AIG, “Smart power in United States-China Relations” pg. 1, [[http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=8IFCpV3PSfwC&oi=fnd&pg=PR4&dq=US+china+relations+key+to+preventing+war&ots=HcAEGnP-o_&sig=OXAc7xzDe4LzrO3R7VXdEoVBT_0#v=onepage&q&f=false|http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=8IFCpV3PSfwC&oi=fnd&pg=PR4&dq=US+china+relations+key+to+preventing+war&ots=HcAEGnP-o_&sig=OXAc7xzDe4LzrO3R7VXdEoVBT_0#v=onepage&q&f=false]]</span>
The evolution of <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Sino-US </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> … </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">without US-China cooperation</span>
Sino-U.S. relations are key to solve for human survival
Hays, former Air Force Lieutenant Colonel, 2009
(Peter L., former Air Force Lieutenant Colonel and Associate Director of Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Studies, “Space and Sino-American Security Relations”, Space Defense: Scholarly Journal of the United States Air Force Academy’s, Volume 2, Number 3, Winter 2009, p.16-17, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://web.mac.com/rharrison5/Eisenhower_Center_for_Space_and_Defense_Studies/Journal_Vol_2_No_3_files/Space%20and%20Defense%202_3.pdf]]</span>, accessed 7/6/11) EK

Addressing four issue <span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">…</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> a multi-planetary species.</span>
SPS Solves coop with china
P. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Collins ‘4</span>, Presented at the 4th International Conference on Solar Power from SPACE, proceedings to be published by ESA [“Benefits of International Cooperation in a Low Equatorial Orbit SPS Pilot Plant Demonstrator Project,” H Matsuoka, 2 July 2004]

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">INTERNATIONAL COLLABORATION WITH</span> … their possible participation.

__<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Observation 4: Solvency</span>__

ONLY SBSP supplies the power needed for a sustainable energy transition
James M. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Snead</span>, P.E., is a senior member of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) a past chair of the AIAA’s Space Logistics Technical Committee, and the founder and president of the Spacefaring Institute LLC, 5/4/<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2009</span>, “The vital need for America to develop space solar power”, The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1364/1
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A key element of </span><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">…</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> be started now.</span>
Solar Power Satellites are sustainable, cheap, and technologically feasible
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lior</span>, Noam Lior, University of Pennsylvania, Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, Philadelphia, PA, April <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2011</span> “Solar orbital power: Sustainability analysis”, http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360544210005931, Date accessed June 24, 2011
We have analyzed <span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">…</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">sustainable energy sources.</span>



=Negative= 

==Neg Strats== 
===O-Valley=== 
Rd 2 vs. Alpharetta (SPS)
Whiteness K
Weaponization DA
China Relations DA
Warming Advantage CP
Case Turns

2nr: Whiteness K
Decision: Aff (low point win)
RFD: Conditionality

Rd 4 vs. Niles West (SPS)
Whiteness K
China Relations DA
China Coop CP
Warming Advantage CP
Case Turns

2nr: Whiteness K
Decision: Neg
RFD: Whiteness K

Rd 5 vs. Johns Creek (Women in Space)
Whiteness K
Primitivism DA
Anarchy CP
Case D

2nr: Whiteness K, Anarchy CP
Decision: Neg
RFD: Whiteness K

===Wake=== 

rd 2
T (human presence OR development)
Spending DA (fiscal discipline)
US-China Relations DA
China Coop CP (china relations and spending net benefit)
Case

2nr:
China CP
China DA

rd 4
T (human presence OR development)
Spending DA (fiscal discipline)
US-China Relations DA
China Coop CP (china relations and spending net benefit)
Case

2nr:
China DA

rd 5
T (human presence OR development)
Spending DA (fiscal discipline)
US-China Relations DA
China Coop CP (china relations and spending net benefit)
Case

2nr:
China DA