[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
===AC1=== 
Animal rights definition. Animal Liberation Front, “General AR FAQs <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.animalliberationfront.com/ALFront/FAQs/GenARFAQ.htm]]</span>“the fundamental principle… loneliness and kinship”

Neg must defend rights that are universal to humans

Definition of recognition. OED. <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://oed.com/view/Entry/159646?redirectedFrom=recognition#eid|http://oed.com/view/Entry/159646?redirectedFrom=recognition#eid]]</span> “acknowledgement of something… instance of this”

We can recognize that something has rights even if it can’t understand those rights

Value: Justice

Justice concerns truth statements

The way we validate beliefs in truth statements is through reason. Christine Korsgaard, “The Activity of Reason” (Presidential Address delivered before the One Hundred Fifth Annual Eastern Division Meeting of The American Philosophical Association in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, on Monday, December 29, 2008), p. 25 <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.people.fas.harvard.edu/~korsgaar/CMK.Activity.of.Reason.pdf]]</span> “In the case… to the truth”

Being arbitrary disrupts reason

Standard: preventing arbitrary distribution of rights

1) Definition of due
“owing by right…granted, or inflicted”

2) Justice must weigh the interests of parties nonarbitrarily

3) arbitrariness in rights distribution precludes normative frameworks

4) if the law is arbitrary then people lose incentive to trust the government

<span style="font-family: Times;">Contention 1: there’s no morally relevant briteline that includes all humans and excludes all animals. </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times;">Alistair Norcross [Rice University], “Puppies, Pigs, and People: Eating Meat and Marginal Cases,” Philosophical Perspectives, 18, Ethics, 2004</span><span style="background-color: initial; color: blue; font-family: Times;">[[http://faculty.smu.edu/jkazez/animal%20rights/norcross-4.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> “whatever kind and… to this objection”</span>

Any briteline would have to include animals. Peter Singer, Animal Liberation (1975), p. 265 “the catch is… to some humans”

Moral qualities in animals are empirically confirmed- animals act altruistically to prevent the suffering of others<span style="color: black;">. </span>James Rachels “Do animals have a right to liberty?”In TOM REGAN & PETER SINGER (eds.), //Animal Rights and Human Obligations//, Englewood Cliffs: Prentice-Hall, 1976 “but some animals… really terrible hunger”

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Evaluating right distribution based on “kind” is arbitrary since there are infinite “kinds” one belongs to. </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Nathan Nobis [</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">Ph.D. in Philosophy; specializes in intersections of ethics/meta-ethics/value theory and epistemology, ethics and animals]. Carl Cohen’s ‘Kind’ Arguments For Animal Rights and Against Human Rights. Journal of Applied Philosophy, Vol. 21, No. 1. </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">[[http://hettingern.people.cofc.edu/Environmental_Ethics_SP_10/nobis_on_cohen.pdf]]. 2004. "Making the issue ... of the kind"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Moral qualities in animals are empirically confirmed- animals act altruistically to prevent the suffering of others</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">. </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">James Rachels [American moral philosopher who strongly influenced animal rights movement.] “Do animals have a right to liberty?”In TOM REGAN & PETER SINGER (eds.), //Animal Rights and Human Obligations//, Englewood Cliffs: Prentice-Hall, 1976. "But some animals ... really terrible hunger." </span>



Contention 2**:** Our concern for our own rights is based in our animal desires to avoid “bads” like fear, suffering, and death. Christine M. Korsgaard, <span style="color: black;">“Facing the Animal You See in the Mirror,” Lecture at Harvard University, //Facing Animals Panel Discussion//, April, 2007.</span><span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.people.fas.harvard.edu/~korsgaar/CMK.Facing.Animals.pdf]]</span> “each of us… and human nature”

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">AC2</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[David. Velleman. Professor of Philosophy at New York University. Self To Self. 2006. Cambridge University Press.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Thomas E. Hill, Jr. [Philosophy Professor at UNC Chapel Hill] “Kantian Constructivism in Ethics.” //Ethics//, Vol. 99, No. 4 (Jul., 1989), pp. 752-770</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">[Alasdair MacIntyre.</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;"> S</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">enior Research Fellow at the Centre for Contemporary Aristotelian Studies in Ethics and Politics (CASEP) at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/London_Metropolitan_University|London Metropolitan University]], </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">and an Emeritus Professor of Philosophy at the[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Notre_Dame|University of Notre Dame]]. “Dependent Rational Animals: Why Human Beings Need the Virtues.” __Google Books.__ 2001. </span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">Lori Marino. </span><span style="color: #1a1818; font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 9pt;">Lori Marino is with the Neuroscience and Behavioral Biology Program, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia, United States of America. "</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">Cetaceans have Complex Brains for Complex Cognition.” __PLOS Biology Vol. 5 Issue 5__. 2007]</span>


==Negative== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">NC1</span>=== 

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Justice is an external constraint enforcing due, while morality derives from internal standards. That external constraint can only be grounded in the state. </span>Lea Ypi [Post-Doctoral Prize Research Fellow at Nuffield College, Oxford. She completed her PhD in Political Theory at the European University Institute]. On Morality, Justice, and Political Authority. 2010. ournals.sfu.ca/coaction/index.php/egp/article/download/5487/5964. "Both morality and ... everyone this assurance."

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The state is the only body able to adjudicate between what one is due, which requires compliance with its laws</span>
Lea Ypi [Post-Doctoral Prize Research Fellow at Nuffield College, Oxford. She completed her PhD in Political Theory at the European University Institute]. On Morality, Justice, and Political Authority. 2010. ournals.sfu.ca/coaction/index.php/egp/article/download/5487/5964. "It is important ... binding for everyone."

Standard: Maintaining consistency with societal laws.

1. J<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">ustice must be codified since otherwise there would be no way to constrain violations of worth since the state can inconsistently apply vague standards of morality </span>

2. The law best defines what justice means since it frames the legal system of a state

3. Understanding of justice stems from codification of law.


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Legal regulations categorize animals as properties that do not deserve rights. </span>[Gary Francione. Distinguished Professor of Law and Nicholas deB. Katzenbach Scholar of Law & Philosophy at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rutgers_School_of_Law-Newark|Rutgers School of Law-Newark]]. “Animals, Property, and the Law.” Google Books. 1995] "There is no ... of animal property."


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Laws that advocate for animal welfare do not give animals rights. </span>Gary Francione. Distinguished Professor of Law and Nicholas deB. Katzenbach Scholar of Law & Philosophy at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rutgers_School_of_Law-Newark|Rutgers School of Law-Newark]]. "REFLECTIONS ON ANIMALS, PROPERTY, AND THE LAW AND RAIN WITHOUT THUNDER. 2007. <span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">http://www.animalrightsmilitia.com/Philosophy/Legal/FrancioneReflections.pdf"Although there can ... actual economic value.'</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Err on the side of giving fewer rights since giving beings rights they do not deserve violates the rights and freedoms of legitimate rights holders</span>


=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
Assist is defined by Merriam Webster as, “__<span style="color: #333333;">To give </span>__<span style="color: #333333;">usually</span>__<span style="color: #333333;"> supplementary support or aid to.</span>__<span style="color: #333333;">” Thus, to assist does not require solvency. [Merriam Webster. "Assist." 2011]</span>
And, need is defined by the OED as“<span style="color: #333333;">A state of destitution; </span>__<span style="color: #333333;">lack of the means of subsistence or </span>__<span style="color: #333333;">of</span>__<span style="color: #333333;"> basic necessities; </span>__<span style="color: #333333;">extreme poverty, indigence.” **[OED**. "Need." 2011]</span>

And, if the NEG runs theory or topicality, it should be a two-way street.

**Observation 1:** The aff has the burden to demonstrate //a// moral obligation, not //the only// moral obligation.

**V: Morality**

Moral theories must be based on reason since any other authority can be questioned and is thus escapable. Asking reasons for reasons implicitly concedes the authority of reason.

And, reasons must be subjectively universal. **ENGSTROM 1** [Stephen Engstrom [Professor of Philosophy at the University of Pittsburgh]. //Universal Legislation as a Form of Practical Knowledge//.]

As I mentioned, … and practical knowledge.


And, universalizability is not //whether// a rational agent would will a maxim, but if that maxim, //if willed//, would be consistent with reason. **ENGSTROM 2:** [Stephen Engstrom [Professor of Philosophy at the University of Pittsburgh]. //Universal Legislation as a Form of Practical Knowledge//.]

One way of …to be rooted**.**

And, rational beings are inherently characterized by a respect for their happiness since it is the only way they are able to confer value upon others. **ENGSTROM 3:** [Stephen Engstrom [Professor of Philosophy at the University of Pittsburgh]. //Universal Legislation as a Form of Practical Knowledge//.]

Is there anything …of that end.

Happiness is comprised of the objects of one’s happiness and the means they have available to pursue those. **ENGSTROM 4** explains: [Stephen Engstrom [Professor of Philosophy at the University of Pittsburgh]. //Universal Legislation as a Form of Practical Knowledge//.]

In the case … them in need<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif;">.</span>

CR: **Maintaining consistency with respect for one’s happiness.**

And, reason can’t assume special relationships between people, but must start from the basis of rational beings. **ENGSTROM 5:** [Stephen Engstrom [Professor of Philosophy at the University of Pittsburgh]. //Universal Legislation as a Form of Practical Knowledge//.]

In addition to ,,, of practical reason

**I contend that only a principle of assisting people in need is consistent with one’s respect for their happiness.**

In situations where one has been deprived their necessary material ends, individuals have an obligation to assist them since any level of not doing so is prohibited. The only maxim that can be universalized is the general one of beneficence. **ENGSTROM 6:** [Stephen Engstrom [Professor of Philosophy at the University of Pittsburgh]. //Universal Legislation as a Form of Practical Knowledge//.]

In contrast to … can simply relinquish.

Rational beings recognize that they too could be in situations where they require the aid of others to redeem their needs. **ENGSTROM 7** furthers: [Stephen Engstrom [Professor of Philosophy at the University of Pittsburgh]. //Universal Legislation as a Form of Practical Knowledge//.]

With these considerations … would need assistance<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif;">.</span>


==Negative== 
SEE Hockaday CC

**<span style="font-family: Times;">V: Morality </span>**

<span style="font-family: Times;">Only contractarianism accounts for individual interests. Gauthier, David P. //Morals by Agreement//. Oxford: Clarendon, 1986. Print. “Moral principles are…in their affairs.” **GAUTHIER:** </span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">Only contractarianism avoids circular claims of morality. Gauthier, David P. //Morals by Agreement//. Oxford: Clarendon, 1986. Print. “A contractarian theory...morally neutral, base.” </span>

**<span style="font-family: Times;">C:</span>**<span style="font-family: Times;"> **consistency with** **rational contractarianism.**</span>

**<span style="font-family: Times;">First, </span>**<span style="font-family: Times;">our reasons for our own actions are individualized. Gauthier, David P. //Morals by Agreement//. Oxford: Clarendon, 1986. Print. “Scanlon has shifted…agree with her.” </span>

**<span style="font-family: Times;">Second,</span>**<span style="font-family: Times;"> contractarianism links to universalizability better than the AC. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Times;">Third, </span>**<span style="font-family: Times;">even if reasons ought to be universal the only way they can act as an authoritative guide to action is if they align with individual interest.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Times;">I contend that assisting people in need is inconsistent with rational contractarianism. </span>**

<span style="font-family: Times;">First, it would never be in the rational self interest of individuals to assist people in need.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">Second, assisting people in need impedes upon the ability of individuals to pursue their interests. Timothy Chappell, [Professor of Philosophy at the </span><span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Times;">Open University Ethics Centre</span><span style="font-family: Times;">], “Integrity and Demandingness”, </span><span style="color: #101010; font-family: Times;">Ethic Theory Moral Prac (2007) 10:255–265. “Roughly, William’ own…dispositions and commitments.”</span>

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]