[[toc]]
this page is not managed by winston churchill. the best way for this to work is if you have seen them debate please include a description of what you have seen.

SOMEONE WRITE WHAT YOUVE SEEN THESE KIDS DO!!! --The Community

CPS Note: it has been brought to churchills attention that their wiki should be upkept more, Winston Churchill wishes to say that if there are questions regarding their norms or requests for information about arguments contact adamlipton94@gmail.

=Affirmative= 
==1AC St. Mark's Doubles== 

The world and life operates according to the absurd. Everday actions are prone to absurdity. Nothing else matters when confronted with this fact of life—no other ethical codes matter only the importance of absurdity and finitude.
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: justify;">Camus 1957 (Albert, French writer & nobel prize winner in literature, //The Myth of Sisyphus and Other Essays//, pg. 12-16 [DR])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">All great deeds… of the intelligence.</span>

The only question we must ask is why life? Why should we continue living? Faced with the indifference of the universe this is the only question.
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: justify;">Camus 1957 (Albert, French writer & nobel prize winner in literature, //The Myth of Sisyphus and Other Essays,// pg. 2-5 [AL])</span>

There is but…uselessness of suffering.



Why is it we live as if we are immortal. The truth is we all die and this fact is an important one to understand our place in the world. Attuned to the absurd one realizes there is no future.
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px; text-align: justify;">Camus 1957 (Albert, French writer & nobel prize winner in literature, //The Myth of Sisyphus and Other Essays,// pg. 58-60 [AL])</span>

The absurd enlightens…life without consolation.


Space is a place of tragedy. From the challenger to the Apollo one mission—the paradigm of space is tragic, however when faced with this tragedy we must affirm space, as it is a reminder of the absurd. This is our challenge and opportunity.
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Nietzsche 1885 (Friedrich, Sponge Brain and supposed Nazi, //Thus Spoke Zarathustra :A book for All and None// [DR])—prologue </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">When Zarathustra had…</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12px;"> in their laughter."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Our affirmation of space is an embracement of our existential plight, to look to the stars and confront our insignificance, to do things not because they are easy but because they are hard. </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Lane 96 (Bob. Classics, Philosophy, and Religious Studies/ Institute of Practical Philosophy Malaspina University-College [[mailto:laneb@mala.bc.ca|laneb@mala.bc.ca]]. “The absurd Hero,”[[http://www.sccs.swarthmore.edu/users/00/pwillen1/lit/abshero.htm]] [DR])</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Sisyphus is the…works of camus.</span>




==1AC Ghill Rnd 3== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Plan: </span>**
The United States Coast Guard should launch satellites equipped with automatic identification systems and synthetic aperture radar imaging.

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Contention 1: Cocaine Trade</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Colombian Traffickers Are Switching to Submarines to Ship Cocaine – Statistical Decreases In Exports Reflect The Evasiveness of The Narco-Subs</span>**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Otis, 2k11 </span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">(John Otis, BBC Reporter Specializing In Colombian Affairs, “Drug submarines: Colombia's underwater cocaine traffic” 4/26, Online [FH])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">According to Jay Bergman…But I'm not interested.'"</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Narco-Subs Are the Method of Choice for Colombian Traffickers – They Carry Seventy Percent of Cocaine Exports and Evade Detection By Status Quo Technology </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Otis, 2k10 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">(John Otis, BBC Colombia News Correspondent, “Drug traffickers move underwater” Global Post, Published 4-15-2009 and Edited 5-30-2010, Online [HT])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Today, </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">smugglers are… to spot them.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Declines In Coca Production Miss the Point – Farmers Simply Regrow Higher Yielding Crops – Status Quo Counternarcotics Efforts Backfire and Make Cartels Stronger – Colombia Is the Linchpin of Global Cocaine Exports</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Chalk, 2k11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> (Peter Chalk, senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation “The Latin American Drug Trade: Scope, Dimensions, Impact, and Response” RAND, 2011, Online [FH])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">That said, </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Washington’s…</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> West Africa–Europe route </span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Scenario 1: Rainforests </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Cocaine Cultivation Puts the Colombian Rainforests on the Brink of Collapse</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">ScienceDaily, 2k11 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">(Science and Environmental News Source, Article Cites Research from Stony Brook University “Cocaine Production Increases Destruction of Colombia’s Rainforests” 1/29/11, Online [FH])</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Cultivating coca bushes…</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> the report suggests.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Colombian Rainforests Are Critical Global Biodiversity Hotspots – Cocaine Production Is the Biggest Threat</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Doward, 2k9 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">(Janie Doward, Staff Writer for the Observer, Guardian UK, “Colombia's endangered species at the mercy of jungle drug cartels” 10/25/09, Online [FH])</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Colombia, one of… and resist biodegradation.</span>__**




**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Specifically, Cocaine Production and Status Quo Counternarcotics Efforts Decimate the Amazon Rainforest</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Mongabay, 2k8</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> (Environmental News Source, “Cocaine use is destroying the Amazon” 5/26/08, Online [FH]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">A new campaign has….</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> in northwest Colombia.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Destruction of the Amazon Causes Extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Takacs 96</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">, Instructor in Department of Earth Systems Science and Policy at California State-Monterey Bay [David, 1996 Philosophies of Paradise, pg.ttp://www.dhushara.com/book/diversit/restor/takacs.htm]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">As we might expect,…</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> could extinguish civilization</span>__****<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">.""</span>**


**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The Species Threatened In Those Rainforests Are Critical to Global Biodiversity</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">UPI, 2k11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> (United Press International, News Source, “Cocaine tied to Colombian deforestation” 1/27/11, Online [FH])</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Cultivating coca bushes…</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> the researchers say.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">This Takes Out All Defense, Forest Ecosystems Can Only Maintain Resiliency if Their Species Are Biodiverse</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Wilson, 2k2</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">. (Edward O. Wilson, Harvard Professor-Museum of Comparative Zoology, 2002, The Future of Life, p. 109)</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Ecosystems are kept…</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> vegetation still more.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Scenario 2: Ports</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Physical Deployment of the Coast Guard to Monitor Trafficking Fails and Trade-Off With Port Security</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Krause, 2k6</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> [Mike, (directs the Justice Policy Initiative at the Independence Institute And served in the United States Coast Guard) “Drug War Trumps Port Security,” Independence Institute, Online]</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The top objective of the… itself is failing</span>__**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Overstretch Creates Zero Sum Trade-Offs Between Program Funding </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">MOAA, 2k5</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">. (Military Officer Association of America, “On Guard” March. Online. [KC]) </span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Although the Coast… a decreased capability</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">.” </span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Security Prevents Weapon Smuggling and Detonation in Ports</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Schumer, 2k1</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> [Senator Charles; D-NY; “Schumer: Inadequate Security Poses Severe Terrorist Threat To Ny, Us Ports”; Press Release; 09 Dec 2001; retrieved 18 Jul 2003; http://schumer.senate.gov/SchumerWebsite/pressroom/press_releases/PR00750.html]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">"You can't just secure… It's that simple."</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Ports Are the Most Probable Attack Scenario – Hundreds of Thousands Die In Attack – More Probable Than Nuclear War</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Konkel, 2k5 </span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">(Todd Konkel, Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University, “Container Security: Preventing a Nuclear Catastrophe” Online [FH])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">In the immediate aftermath…</span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> of a missile.”</span>**</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">A Port Attack Collapses the Global Economy Within Three Weeks</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Flynn 2k3</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Stephen, Natl Sec Studies, “The Fragile state of container security,” testimony before the senate, March 20 http://www.cfr.org/publication.html?id=5730</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">A year later I joined….</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> up international trade</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Global Nuclear War</span>**</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Bearden, 2K </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">(T.E., Association of Distinguished American Scientists, “Unnecessary Energy Crisis,” 6/ 24, http://www.cheniere.org/techpapers/Unnecessary%20Energy%20Crisis.doc [KC]) </span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Constructing or Obtaining Weapons for Port Attack is Easy – Status Quo Detection Has a High Failure Rate</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Konkel, 2k5 </span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">(Todd Konkel, Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University, “Container Security: Preventing a Nuclear Catastrophe” Online [FH])</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">A fundamental factor… much greater threat.</span>**</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Scenario 3: Russian Mafia</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Cocaine is Traded for Weapons Sold To Non-State Actors By the Russian Mafia </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Moran, 2k</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> (Sue Lackey, Michael Moran, MSNBC Analysts, Field Experts, “Russian mob trading arms for cocaine with Colombia rebels” 4/9/09, Online [FH])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">WASHINGTON, April 9, 2000…</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> and drug trafficking. </span>__**


**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">This Includes Massive Stockpiles of Nuclear Weapons and Active Uranium </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Majalla et al, 2k1</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> (Al-Majalla, Al-Watan al-Arabi and Al-Wasat, Middle Eastern news sources, “Bin Laden's Nuclear Weapons” 12/27/01, Online [FH])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Al-Watan al-Arabi goes…. the 80’s and 90’s.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">South America Is the Biggest Internal Link to Non-State Actor Nuclear Proliferation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">MacDonald, 2k8</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> (Brad MacDonald, staff writer for the Trumpet, “Is Chávez Helping Terrorists Go Nuclear?” 5/2008, Online [FH])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">That seizure marked….</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> America could be!</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Groups That Receive Weapons from the Russian Mafia Are the ONLY Nuclear Threats – Makes Nuclear Use Inevitable and Causes Extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Power, 97</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> (Jonathan Power, staff writer for the Baltimore Sun, “Threat of the Russian nuclear mafia” 10/14/97, Online [FH])</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The real issue… Hiroshima and Nagasaki</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Only Non-State Actors Will Use Nuclear Weapons – Nation-States Have a Nuclear Taboo</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Perkovich, 2k9</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">(George Perkovich, vice president for studies and director of the Nuclear Policy Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the International Institute for Strategic Studies. “Extended Deterrence on the Way to a Nuclear-Free World” International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament, May 2009, Online [FH])</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The underlying difficulty… against Taiwan first</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Non-State Actor Nuclear Use Shatters the Taboo Through Retaliation</span>**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Gusterson, 2k7(Hugh Gusterson, professor of anthropology and sociology at George Mason University, expertise in nuclear culture, “Nuclear terrorism: Correcting the future” 6/4/07, Online [FH])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">We already know… **__with nuclear weapons__**?</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Retaliation Kills Hundreds of Millions Regardless of the Success of the Initial Attack</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Easterbrook 2k1</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> (Greg, The new republic, November 1, www.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/0111/01/gal.00.html accessed 7/10/03)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">GREENFIELD: Now, finally…</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> dozen Muslim countries</span>__****<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">.</span>**


**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The Taboo Prevents All Conflict Escalation - One Violation Spills Over – Turns Your Nuclear War Scenarios</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> Gizewski, 96 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">[**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Peter, *Senior Associate, Peace and Conflict Studies Programme, University of Toronto, International Journal, Summer, p. 400]</span>**</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Absolute and all-encompassing… destruction to come</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Independently, Destruction of the Taboo Causes Nuclear Extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Quester, 2k4</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> (George Quester, Prof of Govt and Politics @ U of Maryland. Doctorate in PoliSci from Harvard, “If the nuclear taboo gets broken” Naval War College Review, Spring 2005, Vol 58, No 2, Online [FH])</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The very worst…be used again.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Contention 2: Solvency</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Automatic Identification System Tech Exists, But It Fails Because It Isn’t Space Based – AIS Satellites Integrated with Synthetic Aperture Radar Imaging Allows For Almost Perfect Accuracy in Real Time Monitoring Of All Naval Vessels</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Singh, 2k10 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">(Jaswinder Singh, Naval School Postgraduate, “Countering Small Boat Terrorism in</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Territorial Sea” 12/2010, Online [FH])</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">AIS signals can…</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> ship detection systems</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The Plan Reinvigorates Overall Maritime Domain Awareness And Prevents Criminals From Exploiting Holes in Security – Making the Technology Space Based Is Key</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Allan, 2k11 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">(John W. Allan, VP Global Sales & Marketing @ Exact Earth, “S-AIS - Redefining maritime security” 3/23, Online [FH])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Few security commentators… **__maritime surveillance capability.__** </span>




==1AC Greenhill== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">When I was a wee little one I used to wade out into the brown waters of the gulf of Mexico and look out over the vast expanse of water—I knew that out there—rocking on the waves of the Atlantic was my future—that I, just like everyone, came from the water. </span>**</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">As an adolescent I read about the white whale that took the captain’s leg and the captain’s monomaniacal quest for revenge that subsequently cost him his crew-save one. </span>**</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">This year’s resolution is centered around the concept of exploration and exploration in the status quo that follows the lead set by the naturalists of antiquity that attempted to map out the globe—to enlighten the dark spots that the cartographers labeled terra incognita—to seek out, hunt, collect and know everything about the world. </span>**</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Priit Vesilind explains that</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9pt; text-align: justify;">Vesilind 98 (Priit, Writer for National Geographic, “Why Explore” National Geographic, Vol. 193, No. 2 (February 1998): 40-45, [MR])</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;">Archaeology is a new discipline… their Golden Fleece.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Sitting in the stands of the Rice football field in 1962 it might be odd to hear:</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">“W</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">e choose to go to the moon. We choose to go to the moon in this decade and do the other things, not because they are easy, but because they are hard, because that goal will serve to organize and measure the best of our energies and skills, because that challenge is one that we are willing to accept, one we are unwilling to postpone, and one which we intend to win, and the others, too. […] Many years ago the great British explorer George Mallory, who was to die on Mount Everest, was asked why did he want to climb it. He said, "Because it is there.” Well, space is there, and we're going to climb it, and the moon and the planets are there, and new hopes for knowledge and peace are there. And, therefore, as we set sail we ask God's blessing on the most hazardous and dangerous and greatest adventure on which man has ever embarked.”[[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Kennedy’s words were not an isolated view of space. In 1969 when interviewed before the Apollo program Neil Armstrong stated “</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">I think we're going to the moon because it's in the nature of the human being to face challenges.</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> It's by the nature of his //deep inner soul// ... we're required to do these things just as salmon swim upstream.”</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Vesilind tell us that</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt; text-align: justify;">Vesilind 98 (Priit, Writer for National Geographic, “Why Explore” National Geographic, Vol. 193, No. 2 (February 1998): 40-45 [MR])</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">7 </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">BEYOND THE HAZE… touch the stars. </span>__</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The notions of space expressed by Kennedy and Armstrong highlight an interesting motivation to go to space. </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The Great red whale, the Russians had to be defeated and Ahab, em er Kennedy had the perfect soldier, Starbuck, err um Armstrong—a cold calculating space sailor—undaunted by the emptiness and wonder of space. </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Both Jack and Neil expressed the belief that the U.S. should explore space because it is our divinely ordained future. Daniel Webster preached of the city on the hill and god’s desire for westward expansion, Armstrong and Kennedy invoked divine right to justify our exploration of space, catapulting the American Jeremiad to the Cosmos. Spanos explains that</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt; text-align: justify;">Spanos 2k9 (William V. , Phd English @ Binghamton University, //The Legacy of Edward W. Said//. , Pg. 189-192 [MR])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">In defining humanism…</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> secularized United States.</span>__**

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">So what is space? As I stare at the stars at night I ask myself “What is it? What’s out there?” The answer is simple. Nothing. Space is devoid of all meaning and defining appearances. </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">So when we arrive at the question of space and the resolution we ask: how do we orient ourselves to space? Adam and I affirm space as beautiful. Much like the work of Marcel Duchamp, we affirm space exploration differently—we affirm the oddity and nothingness of space, devoid of all predetermined values and meaning … as beautiful. </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">This nomadic affirmation is described by a good friend as a “Space Oddity”</span>**</span>
MUSIC SELECTION HERE

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Our discussion of space doesn’t take place out of time, it is important to note the metaphysical as well as the historical events surrounding space exploration. Two years after Kennedy’s moon speech, then president and proud Texan president Johnson asked congress to support his decision to begin what later became called the Vietnam war in response to the gulf of Tonkin incident. It was there all along—the real answer why to go to space—not to fulfill the promise of the land ordained on the hill, but rather to think the nothing of space as productive and this is a nomadic thinking. A fluid view of the cosmos that does not subscribe to a predetermined notion of space based upon, manifest destiny and constant progress. Spanos informs us that</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt; text-align: justify;">Spanos 2k9 (William V. , Phd English @ Binghamton University, //The Legacy of Edward W. Said//. , Pg. 133-136 [MR])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> Let me reconstellate….</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> to the metropolis.</span>__**

----
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]] Kennedy, John F., Speech entitled “The Space Effort,” September 12th 1962</span>

=Negative= 

below is some info they submitted when they were at mandatory disclosure tournaments. the rounds were from st marks it seems.



negative @ grapevine & greenhill:

-every negative round was ontology specification, apocalypse, cosmological exceptionalism (cites below)

apocalypse:

Your impacts are false and cant be solved.
The Onion 2011 (The World's Finest News Source, "REport: Apocalypse actually happened 3 years ago," August 17th 2011, Online [AL])





ontology specification:

key to policymaking
Dillion 99 (Michael, Moral Spaces, pg. 96-97)






cosmological exceptionalism:

we live in the interregnum we must say no to the system of exceptional accommodation. William V. Spanos explains
(William V., Professor @ Binghamton, Heideggerian Scholar, America’s Shadow: An Anatomy of Empire, pg. 191-193 [AL])

What I have argued….tasks not impossible.


narrative of space in American history is embedded in imperial notions—space is the new Oregon trail. De Witt Douglas Kilgore Articulates

(De Wit Douglas, Professor of English @ Indiana University, Astrofuturism: Science, Race, and Visions of Utopia in Space, pg. 1-2 [AL])

This book is an investigation…. genre-bending thought experiments.

We look away and dismiss the 1AC—we say no to exceptionalism. Spanos elaborates that…
(William V., Professor @ Binghamton, Heideggerian Scholar, America’s Shadow: An Anatomy of Empire, pg 205-206 [AL])

It has not been…always rules.

Only our spectral tactics can bring the system down. Spanos once again tells us…
(William V., Professor @ Binghamton University, Heideggerian Scholar and Literary Critic, America’s Shadow: An Anatomy of Empire, pg. 196-198 [AL])

In interpreting Heidegger's…of western imperialism.



==Round 1== 
Apocalypse, Nuclear War Defense, Intrinsicness, Boredom DA, Doing vs. Being, K of Political Attempts to Save the World/Finitude Good, Indicts of Truth Claims (Pathos of Truth), Solvency Defense (analytic)



==ROUND 4== 
- Intrinsicness
- K from RD1
- Boredom
- Doing v. Being
- Copies
- Apocalypse
- Preemption

==ROUND 5== 
Truth Indicts (Pathos of Truth/ Nietzsche)
K From RD1 and RD4
Boredom DA
Apocalypse
Intrinsicness (The debaters aren't intrinsic to their advocacy)
Hard Copies of Evidence
Warming Defense - Baudrillard
Heg Not Real

__**CPS RR INTEL**__
=Freedom:= 


The world has no guiding principle—the attemp to establish a political teleology to map the world only creates thesis and antithesis justifying predetermination and farclosure to the finitude of existence
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">DeBeauvior 1947 (Simone, french writer/philosopher, mostly a feminist, The Ethics of Ambiguity, Chapter Titled "The Positive Aspects of Ambiguity" translated by Bernard Frechtman)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">the notion of...and absolutely confirmed</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">this creates the wrose of being---not even experiencing agonizing freedom isultra positivity of violence and tyranny which only corrupts politics.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">DeBeauvior 1947 (Simone, french writer/philosopher, mostly a feminist, The Ethics of Ambiguity, Chapter Titled "Personal Freedom and Others" translated by Bernard Frechtman)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Yet, he exists...claims are absolute</span>


=Pathos of Truth:= 


<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Truth attains only as its goal annihilation</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Nietzsche </span><span style="font-size: 12px;">(“On Truth and Untruth”, On The Pathos of Truth, pg. 13, Verso)</span>

Truth! Rapturous illusion… only- annihilation.


=Ecology:= 


The ecological quix fix solution of climate policy only brings destruction faster—turns case.
Baudrillard 92 (Jean, The Illusion of the End, Verso, pg 87-89)

It is generally…by drip-feed.



=Nuclearism:= 

The threat of nuclear war is only a simulacrum of violence holding the world captive under deterrence destroying lifes experience.
Baudrillard 81 (Jean, Simulacra & Simulation pg 32-34)

The apotheosis of…circumscribed stakes remain.

=Death:= 

-This card is always different depending on the aff—each card uses a different criticism of the aff’s interpretation of death—i.e indicting biological interpretation or the social interpretation etc.


=Derrida Centering:= 



The centering of a counterstructual movement only creates new locus points avoiding the nexus of power and resulting in co-option.
Derrida 1966 (Jacques, “Sign, Structure, Play” Article, pg 9)
It would be easy…and so forth.

Only a radical decentering allows for a multiplicity of movements that strike at the heart of the issue.
Zizek 1993 (Slavoj, Tarrying with the Negative, pg 1-2)

The most sublime…contingent character.


=Difference vs. Otherness:= 

It is only the attempt to know the other from the self that creates a dualism and the condition for oppression.
Baudrillard1993 (Jean, Transparency of Evil, pg. 127-129)

These days everything…logic of difference.

The fetish of play with the other and its well being only reconstructs the other as exhaustible object bringing on its mutilation.
Baudrillard1993 (Jean, Transparency of Evil, pg. 124-126)

So what became…by the machine.

=Gregorian Calendar:= 


The dates on the Gregorian calendar and soaked in a history of blood and violence, the innvocation of those dates only furthers political militarism.
Arguelles and Arguelles 5759 (Jose & Lloydine, “Calendar Reform and the future of civilization” 1999)

The debate on…remote and irrelevant.

=Ontology Spec:= 


Lack of ontological clearing results in policy paralysis.
Dillon 99 (Michael, Moral Spaces, pg 98-99)





[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]