[[toc]]
Email [[mailto:mimkebob@gmail.com|Mimi]] or [[mailto:rsadagopal@gmail.com|Rohan]] for cites during the tournament. Email Mimi for anything before/after the tournament
=Affirmative= 

==Round 1 - Iraq OSB Aff==

Inherency

No withdrawal – secret meetings
Albuquerque Express 4/21/11 (“ Iraqi politician says US is aiming to stay ” http://story.albuquerqueexpress.com/index.php/ct/9/cid/c08dd24cec417021/id/772561/cs/1/ht/Iraqi-politician-says-US-is-aiming-to-stay/)

A member of Iraqi Parliament’s Security  [...] 000 US troops stationed in Iraq. 


No withdrawal – commander opposition and secret talks 
Fox 4/22/11 (“ Iraq Fears Unrest Amid Talk of U.S. Troops Extending Stay” http://www.foxnews.com/world/2011/04/22/iraq-fears-unrest-amid-talk-troop-withdrawal/)

 WASHINGTON — Senior U. [...] stay beyond the end of 2011. 


Offshore Balancing

Heg decline inevitable – interventionist wars and economic collapse are just going to get worse 
Mearsheimer 12/16/10 -  R. Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago (John J., “ Imperial by Design ” http://nationalinterest.org/print/article/imperial-by-design-4576?page=show)

 IN THE first years after  [...] given way to a pronounced pessimism.


US has to get out of Iraq – terrorism, massive failure – offshore balancing maintains power and security – empirically worked in the Middle East
Mearsheimer 2008 - Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago (Dec. 31, John J., “ Pull Those Boots Off The Ground ” http://www.newsweek.com/2008/12/30/pull-those-boots-off-the-ground.print.html)

As the new President takes office [...] and smashed Saddam Hussein's military machine.


Now is key – watershed moment for the US to change grand strategy in the Middle East
Layne 2009 - holds the Mary Julia and George R. Jordan professorship of international affairs at Texas A & M University’s George H. W. Bush School of Government and Public Service. He is the author of The Peace of Illusions: American Grand Strategy from 1940 to the Present (Christopher, “ America’s Middle East grand strategy after Iraq: the moment for offshore balancing has arrived ” Review of International Studies, ebsco)

The US has reached a watershed  [...] the terrorist threat to the US.


OSB in the Middle East is key to stopping terrorism – current approach is failing
Layne 2009 - holds the Mary Julia and George R. Jordan professorship of international affairs at Texas A & M University’s George H. W. Bush School of Government and Public Service. He is the author of The Peace of Illusions: American Grand Strategy from 1940 to the Present (Christopher, “ America’s Middle East grand strategy after Iraq: the moment for offshore balancing has arrived ” Review of International Studies, ebsco)

Conclusion Why offshore balancing is America’s  [...] and by strengthening America’s homeland defences.


OSB applies non-state actors – they balance too
Layne 2009 - holds the Mary Julia and George R. Jordan professorship of international affairs at Texas A & M University’s George H. W. Bush School of Government and Public Service. He is the author of The Peace of Illusions: American Grand Strategy from 1940 to the Present (Christopher, “ America’s Middle East grand strategy after Iraq: the moment for offshore balancing has arrived ” Review of International Studies, ebsco)

Terrorist organisations like Al-Qaeda  [...] the US and Middle Eastern terrorists.


Primacy ensures asymmetric capabilities
Layne 2009 - holds the Mary Julia and George R. Jordan professorship of international affairs at Texas A & M University’s George H. W. Bush School of Government and Public Service. He is the author of The Peace of Illusions: American Grand Strategy from 1940 to the Present (Christopher, “ America’s Middle East grand strategy after Iraq: the moment for offshore balancing has arrived ” Review of International Studies, ebsco)

In addition to soft balancing,  [...] dictum that empires inevitably provoke resistance. 


Terrorists are getting nuclear and biological devices – single biggest threat to security
Telegraph 2/2/11 (“ WikiLeaks: al-Qaeda 'is planning a dirty bomb'” http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/wikileaks/8296956/WikiLeaks-al-Qaeda-is-planning-a-dirty-bomb.html)

Security briefings suggest that jihadi groups  [...] cause "extraordinary loss of life". 


Nuclear attack inevitable by 2013
Allison 10 - Douglas Dillon professor of government and director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government (Graham, “A Failure to Imagine the Worst,” Foreign Policy, January 25th, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/01/25/a_failure_to_imagine_the_worst?page=0,0)

In his first speech to the  [...] and relentless determination to pursue it.


Bioweapon use goes global in six weeks – outweighs nuclear war
Levy, 07 (6-8-07, Janet Ellen, The American Thinking, “The Threat of Bioweapons,” http://www.americanthinker.com/2007/06/the_threat_of_bioweapons.html, JMP)

Biological weapons are among the most  [...] quantities can be developed within days.


Nuclear terror causes extinction
Dennis Ray Morgan, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yangin Campus, South Korea, “World on Fire: Two Scenarios of the Destruction of Human Civilization and Possible Extinction of the Human Race,” FUTURES v. 41, 2009, pp. 683-93, ScienceDirect.

In a remarkable website on nuclear  [...] environment and fragile ecosphere as well.


OSB solves the rise of a Eurasian hegemon – only external threat to the US
Layne 2009 - holds the Mary Julia and George R. Jordan professorship of international affairs at Texas A & M University’s George H. W. Bush School of Government and Public Service. He is the author of The Peace of Illusions: American Grand Strategy from 1940 to the Present (Christopher, “ America’s Middle East grand strategy after Iraq: the moment for offshore balancing has arrived ” Review of International Studies, ebsco)

Offshore balancing is based on the  [...] costs and risks of their defense.


Offshore balancing solves China’s rise – status quo containment is doomed – overstretch 
Mearsheimer 12/16/10 -  R. Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago (John J., “ Imperial by Design ” http://nationalinterest.org/print/article/imperial-by-design-4576?page=show)

Oddly enough, before being blown  [...] more capable of checking Beijing’s ambitions.


China’s buildup is solely to target the US
WSJ 1/12/11 (“ WSJ: US Defense Secretary Gates Goes To Rally Japan After China Visit ” http://online.wsj.com/article/BT-CO-20110112-713190.html)

In Washington Wednesday, Admiral Mike  [...] the United States," Mullen said. 


Global nuclear  war
Hunkovic, American Military University, 09 [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict
Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]

A war between China, Taiwan  [...] not be considered in this study.


Soft Power

Fixing soft power requires a change in policy – Iraq is key 
Nye 2004 - former Assistant Secretary of Defense and Dean of Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government (Summer, Joseph S. Jr, “ When Hard Power Undermines Soft Power ” NPQ)

NPQ | In your recent book [...] culture that can turn things around. 


Even if hard power is high soft power is key
Nye 2004  - former Assistant Secretary of Defense and Dean of Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government (Joseph S. Jr, “ Soft Power and American Foreign Policy ”  Political Science Quarterly Volume 119 Number 2 2004)

Because of its leading edge in  [...] foreign policy tasks that we face. 


Unilateralism and lack of soft power cripple transatlantic relations – polls prove
Nye 2004 (Joseph, former Assistant Secretary of Defense and Dean of Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government, “Soft Power, The Means to Success in World Politics,”)

There is increasing evidence that the  [...] unilateralism is an important threat.109


US/EU relations prevent global conflict.
Asmus 2003 (Ronald D.; Senior Fellow – Council on Foreign Relations) “Rebuilding the Atlantic Alliance” Foreign Affairs Sept/Oct l/n

Meeting in Washington in the spring  [...] be much the better for it.


Presence in and focus on Iraq reflects misplaced priorities – withdrawal key to stop climate change
Munslow and O’Dempsey 2009 -  Professor Emeritus of Politics, University of Liverpool AND  Senior Clinical Lecturer in Tropical Medicine (September, Barry and Tim, “ Loosing soft power in hard places: humanitarianism after the US invasion of Iraq ”  Progress in Development Studies 9, 1 (2009) pp. 3–13 EBsco)

Second, the vast amount of   [...] change will be felt by all. 


Warming causes extinction – only stronger efforts can solve and now is key
Cummins and Allen 10 (Ronnie, Int’l. Dir. – Organic Consumers Association, and Will, Policy Advisor – Organic Consumers Association, “Climate Catastrophe: Surviving the 21st Century”, 2-14, http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/02/14-6)

From an ethical, legal,  [...] disease, war, and starvation.


No offense – hard power can’t solve in the Middle East – soft power is key 
Munslow and O’Dempsey 2009 -  Professor Emeritus of Politics, University of Liverpool AND  Senior Clinical Lecturer in Tropical Medicine (September, Barry and Tim, “ Loosing soft power in hard places: humanitarianism after the US invasion of Iraq ”  Progress in Development Studies 9, 1 (2009) pp. 3–13 EBsco)

 There is a serious chasm  [...] is perceived by the peoples involved. 


Solvency 

Discussions of strategy have to start with why we’re in Iraq – losing the war is inevitable 
Layne 2007 – holds the Mary Julia and George R. Jordan professorship of international affairs at Texas A & M University’s George H. W. Bush School of Government and Public Service. He is the author of The Peace of Illusions: American Grand Strategy from 1940 to the Present (Fall, Christopher, “ Who Lost Iraq and Why It Matters: The Case for Offshore Balancing ” http://www.worldpolicy.org/blog/who-lost-iraq-and-why-it-matters-case-offshore-balancing)

Who Lost Iraq and Why it  [...] bound to result in geopolitical disaster.


No chance of victory – Iraqi opposition 
Parry 4/4/11 -  awarded the George Polk Award for National Reporting in 1984 for his work with the Associated Press on the Iran-Contra story and uncovered Oliver North's involvement in it as a Washington-based correspondent for Newsweek (Robert, “ WPost Seeks Longer Iraq Occupation ” http://www.consortiumnews.com/2011/040411.html)

As for Iraq, the new  [...] of enforced peace to the region.


Staying in Iraq kills stability and collapses the government – no popular support – troops can assist Iraqis from Qatar
Cole 4/10/11 -  Richard P. Mitchell Collegiate Professor of History at the University of Michigan. For three decades, he has sought to put the relationship of the West and the Muslim world in historical context. His most recent book is Engaging the Muslim World (Juan, “ Al-Sadr Threatens Mahdi Army Revival if US Troops Stay ” http://www.juancole.com/2011/04/al-sadr-threatens-mahdi-army-revival-if-us-troops-stay.html)

Given that Gates is an old [...] have to involve bases in Iraq. 



=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]