[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
**__Natural Porpoise AC__**
Rollin[[home#_ftn1|[1]]] defines animal rights.
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">If </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">__**one can**__... </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">**ethic to animals** </span>__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Rollin, 1981).</span>
I value justice, defined by American Heritage dictionary as **__<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 16pt;">Conformity to moral rightness</span>__**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Ethical theories must take account of the way in which we use normative language.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Soran Reader[[home#_ftn2|[2]]] writes,</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Thompson argues that... </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> as it 'should'. </span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> the standard is **maintaining consistency with one’s natural purpose.**</span>
Prefer this standard **additionally** because:
1. There is no way to derive normative content outside of descriptive facts about the world
2.<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> in order to be able say “I ought to act” an agent must be able to connect their nature with normativity. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">3.</span> descriptive terms only make sense in the context of the thing they’re describing.
4. naturalism is a prerequisite to ethics based on human rationality

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Contention:</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">First,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> the primary purpose of any living thing is survival. .</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Ted Benton[[home#_ftn3|[3]]] writes,</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">"humans are to... </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> capable of it."</span>__**
**<span style="color: #1a1a18; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Also</span>**<span style="color: #1a1a18; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, animals are naturally more virtuous than humans are.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Steven J. Bartlett[[home#_ftn4|[4]]] writes,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">"</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">humans are </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">not... </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">of </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">evolutionary superiority." </span>__**


<span style="color: #1a1a18; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Animals can exercise many human abilities.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Lori Gruen[[home#_ftn5|[5]]] writes,</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">"Many of the... </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">to use language</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">."</span>**


<span style="color: #1a1a18; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Natural distinctions are scalar. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Steven J. Bartlett[[home#_ftn6|[6]]] </span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">"According to evolutionary... </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">of this </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">planet."</span>__**



----
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]]B. E. Rollin, “Animal welfare, animal rights and agriculture,” Journal of Animal Science, 1990, 68:3456-3461.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[2]]]Soran Reader, “New Directions in Ethics: Naturalisms, Reasons and Virtue,” Ethical Theory and Moral Practice, Vol. 3, No. 4 (Dec., 2000), pp. 341-364</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[3]]]Ted Benton, “Natural relations: ecology, animal rights, and social justice,” Verso, 1993</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[4]]]Steven J. Bartlett, “Roots of Human Resistance to Animal Rights: Psychological and Conceptual Blocks,” 8 Animal L. 143 (2002)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[5]]]Gruen, Lori, "The Moral Status of Animals", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Fall 2010 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.),</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">[[http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/fall2010/entries/moral-animal/]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[6]]]Steven J. Bartlett, “Roots of Human Resistance to Animal Rights: Psychological and Conceptual Blocks,” 8 Animal L. 143 (2002)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[7]]]Mills, R. Milton. [PH.D- serves as Associate Director of Preventive Medicine for the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine] “The Comparative Anatomy of Eating”. 2009. </span>

==Negative== 
__**NC 1**__
I negate and value justice, defined by Cambridge dictionary as **__the condition of being morally correct__**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Ethical theories must take account of the way in which we use normative language.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Soran Reader[[home#_ftn2|[2]]] writes,</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Thompson argues that... </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> as it 'should'.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> the standard is **maintaining consistency with one’s natural purpose.**</span>
Prefer this standard **additionally** because:
1. There is no way to derive normative content outside of descriptive facts about the world
2.<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> in order to be able say “I ought to act” an agent must be able to connect their nature with normativity. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">3.</span> descriptive terms only make sense in the context of the thing they’re describing.
4. naturalism is a prerequisite to ethics based on human rationality

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">CONTENTION 1. Shawn Klein[[home#_ftn2|[2]]] writes,</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The mode of ... </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">not have rights.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">CONTENTION 2. Vegetarian Resource Group[[home#_ftn3|[3]]] writes,</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">" </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">As far back ... </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">the vegetarian diet." </span>__**

**__NC 2__**

I value justice
Morality must motivate
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">David Gauthier[[home#_ftn1|[1]]] ,</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Morals by agreement ...</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> presumption against morality. </span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> O</span>nly way to respect individuals’ rationality.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">David Gauthier[[home#_ftn2|[2]]] </span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A contractarian theory ... </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">morally neutral, base.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Morality needs to be applied to the real world.</span>

----
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]] David Gauthier, “MORALS BY AGREEMENT,” 1986</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[2]]] David Gauthier, “MORALS BY AGREEMENT,” 1986</span>

**Contention 1** contracts can only be formed between equals and humans reign over animals. Gauthier[[home#_ftn1|[1]]] :

**__morality requires a ...__** **__rationally grounded morality.__**

Contention 2 Animals don't have future directed interests.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Gruen[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]:</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>**__Consider a seal ...__** **__do not have.__**



----
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]] Ibid.</span>
[[home#_ftnref|[2]]] <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lori Gruen “The Moral Status of Animals” 2010 Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy</span>

----
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]]Soran Reader, “New Directions in Ethics: Naturalisms, Reasons and Virtue,” Ethical Theory and Moral Practice, Vol. 3, No. 4 (Dec., 2000), pp. 341-364</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[2]]] Shawn Klein, “The Problem of Animal Rights,” The Atlas Society, 2004</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[3]]] Vegetarian Resource Group (Adapted from a talk by John McArdle, Ph.D.), “Humans are Omnivores,” article originally published in the May/June 1991 edition of the Vegetarian Journal</span>

**__<span style="font-size: 9pt;">NC 3</span>__**

Presume neg since the burden of proof is on the aff
value = justice

The standard is maintaining accordance with practical possibility.

First. Ethical requirements to do impossible things are meaningless. 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Oppenheim[[home#_ftn1|[1]]],</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">"'Ought' implies 'can.' ... </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> impossibility and necessity. </span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Second. Normative reasons must actually justify action. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">
</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">
</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Contention 1. We uncontrollably favor our own species. </span>David DeGrazia[[home#_ftn2|[2]]] writes
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Our tendency to ...</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> operate very strongly. </span>__**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">
</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Contention 2. Animals are not conscious in the same way humans are.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Walters[[home#_ftn3|[3]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">**__[Take] the statement, ...__**  **__other as true.”__**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">
</span>

----
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Felix E. Oppenheim, National Interest, Rationality, and Morality, Political Theory, Vol. 15, No. 3 (Aug., 1987), pp. 369-389</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[2]]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">David DeGrazia, “Taking animals seriously: mental life and moral status,” Cambridge University Press, 1996 </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[3]]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">James Walters “What Is A Person?: An Ethical Exploration” 1997 University of Illinois Press</span>

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]