[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Plan: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase the development of nanotechnology in space beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Contention 1 is poverty</span>**


**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">A. The US economy is still fragile</span>**
**__Roubini Jan. 16 2012__** [Nouriel. Don’t Believe the Good News
Consumers are income-challenged, wealth-challenged, and debt-constrained. That doesn’t bode well for 2012. Roubini He anticipated the collapse of the United States housing market and the worldwide recession which started in 2008. He teaches at New York University's Stern School of Business. http://www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/project_syndicate/2012/01/u_s_economic_growth_will_be_anemic_in_2012.html]


**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">B. The recession substantially increased global poverty.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Global Economic Assessment by Austrilian Federal Government 2010</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 13pt;"> [</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">October 12. AusAid’s response to the global recession. http://www.ausaid.gov.au/makediff/gec.cfm]</span>


__<span style="font-family: Cambria;">C. Poverty causes violence that is worse than a perpetual nuclear war.</span>__

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Abu</span>**__<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">-</span>__**<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Jamal **__98__** [Mumia. Sept. 19. Incarcerated social activist and author who has written books and articles since being placed on death row. http://www.mumia.nl/TCCDMAJ/quietdv.htm]</span>

**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Garamond;">D. Large government investment in nanotech is key to status quo economic recovery.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Garamond;">Tour 2011</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;"> [James M. April 14. Tour has a Ph.D. from the Richard E. Smalley Institute for Nanoscale Science and Technology at Rice University. Pdf before House Science, Space and Technology Subcommittee on Research and Science Education.]</span>


**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">E. The U.S. economy is key to the global economy.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Werner 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;"> [Erica. November 10. Erica Werner is a reporter for the Associated Press. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2010/nov/10/obama-strong-us-economy-key-global-recovery/]]</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;">]</span>




**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Contention 2 is STEM.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">A. Plan revamps STEM education.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Garamond;">Murday et al 9</span>** <span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;">[Dr. James S. Murday - Office of Research Advancement</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;">University of Southern California, Sponsored by the National Science Foundation, Dr. Mihail Roco - Senior Advisor for Nanotechnology @ the National Science Foundation, Dr. Mary Poats - Engineering Education and Human Resource Development, Division of Engineering Education and Centers @ the National Science Foundation, “ Partnership for Nanotechnology Education,” 4/28, pdf, ZR]</span>

**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Garamond;">B. Federal research and development is critical to motivation and collaboration.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Garamond;">Nelson 7</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;"> [George D. Nelson - Director in Science, Mathematics and Technology Education Western Washington University, Congressional Testimony, “EDUCATORS' VIEWS ON SCIENCE EDUCATION,” lexis, ZR]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">C. STEM is key to long run economic growth-jobs.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Koebler 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">[Jason. January 18. Jason is an author on STEM and education for the U.S. news and is also an author for the Washingtonian. http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/stem-education/2012/01/18/innovateeducate-launches-stem-e-magazine]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">D. Economic collapse causes global war and increased terrorism-empirics prove.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Mead 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;"> [Walter Russell. February 4. Walter Russell Mead is the Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations and the author of God and Gold: Britain, America and the Making of the Modern World. http://www.tnr.com/article/only-makes-you-stronger-0.]</span>




**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 12pt;">Contention 3 is Warming.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 12pt;">A. Warming is real and is anthropogenic.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 12pt;">Borenstein 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">[Seth. Borenstein is a Science writer for the Associated Press.[[http://news.yahoo.com/biggest-jump-ever-seen-global-warming-gases-183955211.html]]</span>

**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Garamond;">B. Nano solves warming – green tech, carbon clean up, and pollution monitoring.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 12pt;">Peterson and Heller </span>****<span style="font-family: Garamond;">7 </span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;">[Christine Peterson, co- founder and President of Foresight Institute, serves on the Advisory Board of the International Council on Nanotechnology and the Editorial Advisory Board of NASA's Nanotech Briefs, and served on California's Blue Ribbon Task Force on Nanotechnology. Jacob Heller, Policy associate for the Foresight Nanotech Institute. A Truman Scholar, he received his B.A. in politics and economics from Pitzer College. “Nanotech’s Promise: Overcoming Humanity’s More Pressing Challenges” in “Nanoethics: The Ethical and Social Implications of Nanotechnology” Copyright 2007, BJM]</span>


**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 12pt;">C. Warming is the biggest terminal impact---leads to nuclear war, terrorism, famine, and global instability.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 12pt;">Harris 2004</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond;"> [Paul. February 22. Harris is a reporter for the British Guardian newspaper. http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2004/feb/22/usnews.theobserver.]</span>


**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">D. Warming independently causes extinction</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Sify 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;"> [Sydney newspaper citing Ove Hoegh-Guldberg, professor at University of Queensland and Director of the Global Change Institute, and John Bruno, associate professor of Marine Science at UNC Sify News, “Could unbridled climate changes lead to human extinction?”, http://www.sify.com/news/could-unbridled-climate-changes-lead-to-human-extinction-news-international-kgtrOhdaahc.html, WEA]</span>



**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 12pt;">E. U.S. involvement is key to combating warming.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 12pt;">Environmental America 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond;"> [December 3. Environment America is a federation of state-based, citizen-funded environmental advocacy organizations. America on the Move: State Leadership in the Fight Against Global Warming and What it Means for the World.]</span>










**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Contention 4 is hegemony.</span>**


**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">A. Nano is critical to US competitiveness and technological leadership.</span>**



**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Garamond;">Jenkins 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;">[Eva S.—Lt Col, USAF, Ph.D, career intelligence officer, Air Force instructor, and a European, Eurasian, and NATO area specialist, served on the Joint Staff Directorate of Intelligence staff, on the Defense Intelligence Agency Director’s Special Projects staff, and as a National Security Agency Director’s Fellow, received her Ph.D in international studies, “NANOTECHNOLOGY – ENABLING FUTURE SPACE VIABILITY”, March 18th, pdf, accessed May 3, 2011, ZR</span>


**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">B. Space development is the key to heg: ground defense systems depend on space assets.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Jenkins 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;">[Eva S.—Lt Col, USAF, Ph.D, career intelligence officer, Air Force instructor, and a European, Eurasian, and NATO area specialist, served on the Joint Staff Directorate of Intelligence staff, on the Defense Intelligence Agency Director’s Special Projects staff, and as a National Security Agency Director’s Fellow, received her Ph.D in international studies, “NANOTECHNOLOGY – ENABLING FUTURE SPACE VIABILITY”, March 18th, pdf, accessed May 3, 2011, AS. http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA540174]</span>


**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">C. Heg decline causes great power war – primacy sustains peace.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Zhang & Shi 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;"> [*Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C.; Lin Shi is from Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C. America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry, [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]]]</span>




**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Contention 5 is Solvency.</span>**



**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">A. Nano is key to economy, technology, hegemony, and efficiency.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Jenkins 2009</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;">[Eva S.—Lt Col, USAF, Ph.D, career intelligence officer, Air Force instructor, and a European, Eurasian, and NATO area specialist, served on the Joint Staff Directorate of Intelligence staff, on the Defense Intelligence Agency Director’s Special Projects staff, and as a National Security Agency Director’s Fellow, received her Ph.D in international studies, “NANOTECHNOLOGY – ENABLING FUTURE SPACE VIABILITY”, March 18th, pdf, accessed May 3, 2011, AS. http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA540174]</span>



**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">B. Nanotechnology is uniquely suited for space applications---temperature durability and lightweight.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Jenkins 2009</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 10pt;">[Eva S.—Lt Col, USAF, Ph.D, career intelligence officer, Air Force instructor, and a European, Eurasian, and NATO area specialist, served on the Joint Staff Directorate of Intelligence staff, on the Defense Intelligence Agency Director’s Special Projects staff, and as a National Security Agency Director’s Fellow, received her Ph.D in international studies, “NANOTECHNOLOGY – ENABLING FUTURE SPACE VIABILITY”, March 18th, pdf, accessed May 3, 2011, AS. http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA540174]</span>


**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">C. Nano is critical to military capabilities.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Garamond;">Jenkins 2009</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">[Eva S.—Lt Col, USAF, Ph.D, career intelligence officer, Air Force instructor, and a European, Eurasian, and NATO area specialist, served on the Joint Staff Directorate of Intelligence staff, on the Defense Intelligence Agency Director’s Special Projects staff, and as a National Security Agency Director’s Fellow, received her Ph.D in international studies, “NANOTECHNOLOGY – ENABLING FUTURE SPACE VIABILITY”, March 18th, pdf, chart omitted, italics in original, accessed May 3, 2011, ZR]</span>
=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]