[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">Plan: The United States federal government should create a limited first possession system of property rights on Mars.</span>

<span class="stylestylebold12pt" style="color: black; font-family: 'arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">ADV 1 Space Colonization</span>

<span class="stylestylebold12pt" style="color: black; font-family: 'arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">Limited first possession is the most efficient method of allocating property rightsCollins, Lecturer City Law School London, ’08</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;"> (David, 14 B.U. J. SCI. & TECH. L. 201, EFFICIENT ALLOCATION OF REAL PROPERTY RIGHTS ON THE PLANET MARS, Boston University Journal of Science and Technology Law, Summer, twm)VII. Bounded First Possession by Landfall__As an alternative to fixing future...of the few costs associated with private ownership of land on Mars, would be necessary.__ n83</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;"> </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Property rights is key to encourage the first colonizers.</span>**</span><span class="stylestylebold12pt" style="color: black; font-family: 'arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">Collins, Lecturer City Law School London, ’08</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;"> (David, 14 B.U. J. SCI. & TECH. L. 201, EFFICIENT ALLOCATION OF REAL PROPERTY RIGHTS ON THE PLANET MARS, Boston University Journal of Science and Technology Law, Summer, twm)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">The recognition of bounded land claims on a ... rise in population of an area.**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Private property rights key to colonization – no incentive to create livable areas without property rights.</span>**</span><span class="stylestylebold12pt" style="color: black; font-family: 'arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">Collins, Lecturer City Law School London, ’08</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;"> (David, 14 B.U. J. SCI. & TECH. L. 201, EFFICIENT ALLOCATION OF REAL PROPERTY RIGHTS ON THE PLANET M0ARS, Boston University Journal of Science and Technology Law, Summer, twm)However, __the land on Mars is naturally ...and to use the land in a productive manner are crucial incentives.__</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">Space colonization increases chances for long term human survival**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Baum, </span>**</span><span class="apple-style-span" style="color: black; font-family: 'arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">**Rock Ethics Institute, Pennsylvania State University,** </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">’09</span>**(Seth D. Baum Space Policy Volume 25, Issue 2, Pages 75-80; “</span><span class="apple-style-span" style="color: black; font-family: 'arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">Cost–benefit analysis of space exploration: Some ethical considerations”; 3 April 2009; </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">[[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0265964609000198]] [Schaaf]While __space colonization would provide a ...__the probability of long-term human survival.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">Space colonization is key to reduce the risk of extinction.</span><span class="heading3char" style="color: black; font-family: 'arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">Matheny, Research Associate at Oxford, 7 (Jason, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">Research Associate at the Future of Human Institute at Oxford University “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” //<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Risk Analysis</span>//, Volume 27, Issue 5, October, [[http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htm]])As for astronomical risks</span><span class="underline" style="color: black; font-family: 'arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">, to escape our sun's ... Solar System is, in the end, fundamentally about the survival of the species."</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">The plan is the most cost-effective way to reduce existential risk—when you evaluate impacts you have to include the value of all FUTURE generations of people.</span><span class="heading3char" style="color: black; font-family: 'arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">Matheny, Research Associate at Oxford, 7 (Jason, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">Research Associate at the Future of Human Institute at Oxford University “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” //<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Risk Analysis</span>//, Volume 27, Issue 5, October, [[http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htm]])6. COST EFFECTIVENESS AND UNCERTAINTY To ... 1,000 years, asteroid defense would be cost effective at $4,000 per life-year.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">AT DA Politics</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;"> </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Kelo decision proves protecting property rights is extremely popular with politicians and the public.</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Garst ’11</span>** (Brian, 9-3-11, [[http://biggovernment.com/bgarst/2011/09/03/years-later-land-seized-in-kelo-decision-used-for-debris-dump/]], “Years Later, Land Seized in Kelo Decision Used for Debris Dump, twm)In 2005, __Kelo__ v. City of New London made eminent ...theft, walked away years ago from their development plans.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Large Tea Party and Republican support for property rights.</span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;"> </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Mooney ’11</span>** (Kevin, 4-20-11, “Tea Party network emerges as counterbalance to state-level green pressure groups”, [[http://dailycaller.com/2011/04/20/tea-party-network-emerges-as-counterbalance-to-state-level-green-pressure-groups/]], twm)__Across the country, private citizens and business ...__Protection Agency (EPA).1AC – Novice –</span>

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]