[[toc]]
It was just brought to my attention that our wiki was deleted. I apologize for any inconvenience.
=Affirmative= 

==<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">1AC - Nanotech - Golden Desert</span>== 
===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">1AC – Plan Text</span>=== 
**Plan: The Department of Defense should substantially increase its deployment of nanotechnology beyond the earth's mesosphere.**

**Plan: The Department of Defense should substantially increase its development of nanotechnology beyond the earth's mesosphere.**


===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">[[#Affirmative-Nanotechnology 1AC-1AC – Deterrence Advantage]]1AC – Deterrence Advantage</span>=== 
**Contention 1: Deterrence**
**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">ORS is currently the predominant deterrence strategy, but even massive budget increases won’t solve systemic problems</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">McCain December 17</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (John, republican senator from Arizona, “REMARKS BY SENATOR JOHN McCAIN ON THE CONFERENCE REPORT OF THE FY2012 OMNIBUS APPROPRIATIONS BILL,” accessed: 5 January 2012, LexisNexis, JT)</span>

* "The budget requested $86 million
AND
will not solve our systemic space acquisition problems.

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">ORS was a good step, but it’s not enough. Other countries will keep developing satellites that are better. Nanotechnology creates assured deterrence for decades to come. Without a strong investment now, space weaponization is inevitable.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Colon 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Miguel, Lt Col in USAF – deputy commander of Space Group responsible for testing space and missle weapon systems, “Deterrence 2035 – The Role of Transparency and Diversity in a World of Nanosats,” </span><span style="background-color: initial; color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[https://www.afresearch.org/|https://www.afresearch.org]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, JT)</span>

A New Approach to Space Deterrence The book
AND
dictate not to attack; effectively deterring him.


**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Current vulnerabilities in US space assets invite attacks from multiple adversaries—a broad deterrence strategy beyond the threat of retaliation is necessary to defend against different military doctrines.</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rendleman 10</span>** (James, Col in US Air force, Astropolitics 8(220), “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco, JT)</span>

<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;">The 11 January 2007 test of a Chinese</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;">AND</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;">to counter new 21st Century adversary attack capabilities</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Space attacks are inevitable in the status quo because of reliance on space for terrestrial warfare. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Smith 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(M.V., Colonel, PhD in Politics and IR @ University of Reading, Citing Colin Gray, “Chapter 17: Security and Spacepower, Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press,</span><span style="background-color: initial; color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

It is a rule in strategy, one
AND
once or stretch them slowly over time.21


**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">40 countries are on the brink of space weapons – the US must act now to guarantee safe access to space and prevent conflict.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Donahue 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Jack, Major in USAF, April, “CATASTROPHE ON THE HORIZON: A SCENARIO-BASED FUTURE EFFECT OF ORBITAL SPACE DEBRIS,” </span><span style="background-color: initial; color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_af691818-359f-4999-be24-f88ca154bd94/display.aspx?rs=enginespage]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, accessed: 2 September 2011)</span>

<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;">Currently, the configuration of global space technologies</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;">AND</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;">) and becoming potential hazards to other satellites.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Specifically, China will weaponize space – the US must maintain leadership to prevent PLA control of power</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheng January 18</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Dean, research fellow in Asian Studies@Heritage, </span><span style="background-color: initial; color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2012/01/us-needs-to-meet-chinas-space-challenge-of-the-next-5-years]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, accessed: 24 January 2012, JT)</span>

The decision to pursue such systems provides an
AND
.S. should not ignore its implications.


**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">The PLA is more likely to initiate a space attack in a crisis because of miscalculation and instability. </span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MacDonald 11</span>**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-align: justify;">(Bruce, Sen Dir Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program@U.S. Institute of Peace, May 11, “MILITARY AND CIVIL SPACE PROGRAMS IN CHINA,” Testimony before congress, accessed: 5 September 2011, LexisNexis)</span>

One characteristic of too many wars in the
AND
for crisis and conflict in the years ahead.

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Conflict causes a US-China nuclear war. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Forden 8</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(Geoffrey, PhD and Research Associate at MIT, “How China Loses the Coming Space War (Pt. 2),” 1/10,</span><span style="background-color: initial; color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2008/01/inside-the-ch-1/]]</span>,)

The United States has five satellites in geostationary
AND
a nuclear war without a clear military goal.
**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">US China war escalates to extinction </span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheong 2k</span>**</span><span style="display: block; font-size: 10pt; text-align: justify;">(Ching, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Lexis)</span>

THE high-intensity scenario postulates a cross
AND
, we would see the destruction of civilization.

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Independently, perceived vulnerability causes the US to preemptively strike China—that escalates</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tellis, 7</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Ashley, Senior Associate at Carnegie, Survival, Autumn, “China’s Military Space Strategy”, ingenta)</span>

Finally, the growing Chinese capability for
AND
added complications of accidents and further misperception.96



**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Unchecked, the weaponization of space causes miscalculation leading to nuclear and biological warfare</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mitchell 1</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Gordon R., Member of the Center for Strategic and International Studies Working Group on Theater Missile Defenses in the Asia-Pacific Region., Winter “Japan-U.S. Missile Defense Collaboration: Rhetorically Delicious, Deceptively Dangerous”,**<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.pitt.edu/~gordonm/JPubs/JapanTMD.pdf]]</span>**]</span>
Any clear-cut distinction between offensive and
AND
into the most destructive military conflict ever seen.

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">And the deterrent nanotech provides also prevents weaponization of space</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schendzielos 8</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> – </span>major in the USAF,
AND
and lasting prohibitions against ASATs and space weapons.


===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">[[#Affirmative-Nanotechnology 1AC-1AC – Hegemony Advantage]]1AC – Hegemony Advantage</span>=== 
**Contention 2: Hegemony**
**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">China will use its growing space dominance to neutralize American hegemony – the US must stay ahead in space</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Radhakrishna January 3</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Rao, Institute of Peace and Conflict Studies, </span><span style="background-color: initial; color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ipcs.org/article/china/china-in-outer-space-a-strategy-for-global-supremacy-3547.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, accessed: 24 January 2012, JT)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A recently unveiled white paper spells out the </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">by the technology management consulting firm Futron Corp.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Multiple threats to US hegemony are coming because of technological gaps – that will destroy space leadership.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Eva S. </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jenkins </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">3/18/20</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">09 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">– Colonel; Vice Commander of the Air Force Technical Applications Center, Patrick Air Force Base, Fla; B.S. in mathematics at University of Miami; winner of the Defense Meritorious Service Medal with two oak leaf clusters, Meritorious Service Medal with one oak leaf cluster, Joint Service Achievement Medal Air Force Commendation Medal with oak leaf cluster (NANOTECHNOLOGY – ENABLING FUTURE SPACE VIABILITY)</span>

Addressing the Challenges. What will U.
AND
may hold the key to overcoming the challenges.

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Leadership in space is crucial to maintaining hegemony</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Young 8</span>** (A. Thomas, chairman of Institute for Defense Analysis, July, “Leadership, Management, and Organization for National Security Space,” accessed: 4 September 2011, <span style="background-color: initial; color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://dodreports.com/pdf/ada486551.pdf]]</span>, JT)
Today, U.S. leadership in
AND
are predicated upon the availability of space capabilities.

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Sustaining US military dominance is key to maintaining heg</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thayer 7</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Bradley, associate professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University, “American Empire: A Debate”, Routledge, pg 43-44)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Another critical question is not simply how much </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">like-minded states to advance common interests.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Nanotech facilitates continued US dominance in space – that’s key to our warfighting capabilities and overall hegemony</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Eva S. </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jenkins </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">3/18/20</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">09 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">– Colonel; Vice Commander of the Air Force Technical Applications Center, Patrick Air Force Base, Fla; B.S. in mathematics at University of Miami; winner of the Defense Meritorious Service Medal with two oak leaf clusters, Meritorious Service Medal with one oak leaf cluster, Joint Service Achievement Medal Air Force Commendation Medal with oak leaf cluster (NANOTECHNOLOGY – ENABLING FUTURE SPACE VIABILITY)</span>

The U.S. is at a
AND
space viability and dominance in 2035 and beyond.

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">The impact is massive transition wars across the globe that lead to extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brzezinski 5</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Zbigniew National Security Advisor in the Carter Administration, Professor of Foreign Policy at Johns Hopkins University, “The Choice: Global Domination or Global Leadership”, p. 2-4) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">History is a record of change, a </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">common effort to shape a secure international environment.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">American leadership solves nuclear wars in every region</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Khalilzad 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Zalmay, previous US ambassador to Afghanistan/Iran/UN now counselor@CSIS, February 8, “The Economy and National Security,” The national Review Online, </span><span style="background-color: initial; color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad?page=2]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, JT)</span>

We face this domestic challenge while other major
AND
most significant barrier facing Chinese hegemony and aggression.

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">And, realism and power politics are inevitable – this means the United States will inevitably act to ensure its own security and so will foreign powers – the only question is whether we can back it up</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mearsheimer 5</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (John, poli sci@U of Chicago, “The Rise of China will not be peaceful at all,” The Australian, 18 November, LexisNexis, JT)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The question at hand is simple and profound</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the only great power in the system. </span>


===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">1AC – Solvency</span>=== 
**Contention 3: Solvency**
**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Nanotech ensures the long-term effectiveness of space assets and preserves our competitiveness, but further government investment is needed.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Eva S. </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jenkins </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">3/18/20</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">09 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">– Colonel; Vice Commander of the Air Force Technical Applications Center, Patrick Air Force Base, Fla; B.S. in mathematics at University of Miami; winner of the Defense Meritorious Service Medal with two oak leaf clusters, Meritorious Service Medal with one oak leaf cluster, Joint Service Achievement Medal Air Force Commendation Medal with oak leaf cluster (NANOTECHNOLOGY – ENABLING FUTURE SPACE VIABILITY)</span>

It is hard to imagine life in the
AND
. Space is the frontier of the future.



==1AC - Nanotech - Berkeley== 
===1AC – Plan Text=== 
Plan: The Department of Defense should substantially increase its development of nanotechnology and deploy it beyond the earth’s mesosphere.


===1AC – Deterrence Advantage=== 
Contention 1: Deterrence
ORS is currently the predominant deterrence strategy, but even massive budget increases won’t solve systemic problems
McCain December 17 (John, republican senator from Arizona, “REMARKS BY SENATOR JOHN McCAIN ON THE CONFERENCE REPORT OF THE FY2012 OMNIBUS APPROPRIATIONS BILL,” accessed: 5 January 2012, LexisNexis, JT)

* "The budget requested $86 million
AND
will not solve our systemic space acquisition problems.

ORS was a good step, but it’s not enough. Other countries will keep developing satellites that are better. Nanotechnology creates assured deterrence for decades to come. Without a strong investment now, space weaponization is inevitable.
Colon 10 (Miguel, Lt Col in USAF – deputy commander of Space Group responsible for testing space and missle weapon systems, “Deterrence 2035 – The Role of Transparency and Diversity in a World of Nanosats,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[https://www.afresearch.org]]</span>, JT)

A New Approach to Space Deterrence The book
AND
dictate not to attack; effectively deterring him.


Current vulnerabilities in US space assets invite attacks from multiple adversaries—a broad deterrence strategy beyond the threat of retaliation is necessary to defend against different military doctrines.
Rendleman 10 (James, Col in US Air force, Astropolitics 8(220), “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco, JT)

The 11 January 2007 test of a Chinese
AND
to counter new 21st Century adversary attack capabilities.

Space attacks are inevitable in the status quo because of reliance on space for terrestrial warfare.
Smith 11 (M.V., Colonel, PhD in Politics and IR @ University of Reading, Citing Colin Gray, “Chapter 17: Security and Spacepower, Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]]</span>)

It is a rule in strategy, one
AND
once or stretch them slowly over time.21


40 countries are on the brink of space weapons – the US must act now to guarantee safe access to space and prevent conflict.
Donahue 10 (Jack, Major in USAF, April, “CATASTROPHE ON THE HORIZON: A SCENARIO-BASED FUTURE EFFECT OF ORBITAL SPACE DEBRIS,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_af691818-359f-4999-be24-f88ca154bd94/display.aspx?rs=enginespage]]</span>, accessed: 2 September 2011)

Currently, the configuration of global space technologies
AND
) and becoming potential hazards to other satellites.

Specifically, China will weaponize space – the US must maintain leadership to prevent PLA control of power
Cheng January 18 (Dean, research fellow in Asian Studies@Heritage, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2012/01/us-needs-to-meet-chinas-space-challenge-of-the-next-5-years]]</span>, accessed: 24 January 2012, JT)

The decision to pursue such systems provides an
AND
.S. should not ignore its implications.


The PLA is more likely to initiate a space attack in a crisis because of miscalculation and instability.
MacDonald 11 (Bruce, Sen Dir Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program@U.S. Institute of Peace, May 11, “MILITARY AND CIVIL SPACE PROGRAMS IN CHINA,” Testimony before congress, accessed: 5 September 2011, LexisNexis)

One characteristic of too many wars in the
AND
for crisis and conflict in the years ahead.

Conflict causes a US-China nuclear war.
Forden 8 (Geoffrey, PhD and Research Associate at MIT, “How China Loses the Coming Space War (Pt. 2),” 1/10, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2008/01/inside-the-ch-1/]]</span>,)

The United States has five satellites in geostationary
AND
a nuclear war without a clear military goal.
US China war escalates to extinction
Cheong 2k (Ching, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Lexis)

THE high-intensity scenario postulates a cross
AND
, we would see the destruction of civilization.

Independently, perceived vulnerability causes the US to preemptively strike China—that escalates

Tellis, 7 (Ashley, Senior Associate at Carnegie, Survival, Autumn, “China’s Military Space Strategy”, ingenta)

Finally, the growing Chinese capability for
AND
added complications of accidents and further misperception.96


Unchecked, the weaponization of space causes miscalculation leading to nuclear and biological warfare
Mitchell 1 [Gordon R., Member of the Center for Strategic and International Studies Working Group on Theater Missile Defenses in the Asia-Pacific Region., Winter “Japan-U.S. Missile Defense Collaboration: Rhetorically Delicious, Deceptively Dangerous”, **http://www.pitt.edu/~gordonm/JPubs/JapanTMD.pdf**]
Any clear-cut distinction between offensive and
AND
into the most destructive military conflict ever seen.

And the deterrent ORS provides also prevents weaponization of space
Schendzielos 8 – major in the USAF,
AND
and lasting prohibitions against ASATs and space weapons.


===1AC – Hegemony Advantage=== 
Contention 2: Hegemony
China will use its growing space dominance to neutralize American hegemony – the US must stay ahead in space
Radhakrishna January 3 (Rao, Institute of Peace and Conflict Studies, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ipcs.org/article/china/china-in-outer-space-a-strategy-for-global-supremacy-3547.html]]</span>, accessed: 24 January 2012, JT)

A recently unveiled white paper spells out the
AND
by the technology management consulting firm Futron Corp.



Multiple threats to US hegemony are coming because of technological gaps – that will destroy space leadership.
Eva S. Jenkins 3/18/2009 – Colonel; Vice Commander of the Air Force Technical Applications Center, Patrick Air Force Base, Fla; B.S. in mathematics at University of Miami; winner of the Defense Meritorious Service Medal with two oak leaf clusters, Meritorious Service Medal with one oak leaf cluster, Joint Service Achievement Medal Air Force Commendation Medal with oak leaf cluster (NANOTECHNOLOGY – ENABLING FUTURE SPACE VIABILITY)

Addressing the Challenges. What will U.
AND
may hold the key to overcoming the challenges.

Leadership in space is crucial to maintaining hegemony

Young 8 (A. Thomas, chairman of Institute for Defense Analysis, July, “Leadership, Management, and Organization for National Security Space,” accessed: 4 September 2011, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://dodreports.com/pdf/ada486551.pdf]]</span>, JT)
Today, U.S. leadership in
AND
are predicated upon the availability of space capabilities.

Sustaining US military dominance is key to maintaining heg
Thayer 7 (Bradley, associate professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University, “American Empire: A Debate”, Routledge, pg 43-44)

Another critical question is not simply how much
AND
like-minded states to advance common interests.

Nanotech facilitates continued US dominance in space – that’s key to our warfighting capabilities and overall hegemony
Eva S. Jenkins 3/18/2009 – Colonel; Vice Commander of the Air Force Technical Applications Center, Patrick Air Force Base, Fla; B.S. in mathematics at University of Miami; winner of the Defense Meritorious Service Medal with two oak leaf clusters, Meritorious Service Medal with one oak leaf cluster, Joint Service Achievement Medal Air Force Commendation Medal with oak leaf cluster (NANOTECHNOLOGY – ENABLING FUTURE SPACE VIABILITY)

The U.S. is at a
AND
space viability and dominance in 2035 and beyond.

The impact is massive transition wars across the globe that lead to extinction
Brzezinski 5 (Zbigniew National Security Advisor in the Carter Administration, Professor of Foreign Policy at Johns Hopkins University, “The Choice: Global Domination or Global Leadership”, p. 2-4) 

History is a record of change, a
AND
common effort to shape a secure international environment.

American leadership solves nuclear wars in every region
Khalilzad 11 (Zalmay, previous US ambassador to Afghanistan/Iran/UN now counselor@CSIS, February 8, “The Economy and National Security,” The national Review Online, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad?page=2]]</span>, JT)

We face this domestic challenge while other major
AND
most significant barrier facing Chinese hegemony and aggression.

And, a peaceful transition to multipolarity is impossible – realism, power politics, and interventionism are inevitable. There is no alternative to American power.
Brzezinski 2/1 (2/1/2012, Zbigniew Brzezinski, National Security Advisor in the Carter Administration, Professor of Foreign Policy at Johns Hopkins University, “Global stability depends on America not collapsing: Superiority of Washington's military and economic power creates order where there would normally be conflict,” Washington Post, http://gulfnews.com/opinions/columnists/global-stability-depends-on-america-not-collapsing-1.974027) CS
Not so long ago, a high-
AND
itself for a dangerous slide into global turmoil.




=Negative= 

==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">Disads</span>== 
===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">[[#Negative-Disads-Politics - Payroll - Golden Desert]]Politics - Payroll - Golden Desert</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 14pt;">A. Uniqueness: Payroll tax will pass – Obama push</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bloomberg 1/29 </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">1/29 Bloomberg.com “Boehner Says he’s confident congress will extend payroll tax cut” Ian Katz and Gopal Ratnam 2012</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">House Speaker <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://topics.bloomberg.com/john-boehner/|John Boehner]]</span> said he’s confident that </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">urging “no side issues. No drama.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 14pt;">B. Links</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 14pt;">1. Plan spends political capital – there is always massive opposition to space.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Powell 9</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> (Stewart M., Washington Bureau – Houston Chronicle, “Potential Uphill Battle for NASA”, Houston Chronicle, 9-13,<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/nation/6615751.html]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">NASA supporters are bracing for an uphill battle </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">capital to put forward an Obama space program.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 14pt;">2. Obama’s consistent focus on the middle class economy is reinvigorating his political strength - key to yearlong extension of payroll tax cut</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Calmes, 12/24 (Jackie, 12/24/2011, International Herald Tribune, “Big gains in a small victory for Obama; President offers a lesson on how and when to pick the right political battle,” Factiva)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">President Barack Obama did not win much substantively </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">the fight over a full-year extension.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 14pt;">3. Obama political capital is key to passage</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Longbottom, 10/13</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">(Wil, 10/13/2011, “'I won't take no for an answer on jobs bill': Defiant Obama vows to continue despite Senate defeat,”<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2048604/Obama-I-wont-answer-Jobs-bill.html?ito=feeds-newsxml]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">President Barack Obama has recorded a defiant new </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">now back the bill, according to SBS.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 14pt;">C. Impacts</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 14pt;">1. Full extension key to prevent a double dip recession</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stewart, 12/28 --- Observer's economics editor (Heather,12/28/2011, “Extending Obama's tax cuts should be new year's resolution for Republicans,” <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/business/economics-blog/2011/dec/28/obama-tax-cuts-new-year-resolution?newsfeed=true]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Republicans caved in at the last minute last </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">won't just be the Republicans' reputation that suffers.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 14pt;">2. Econ collapse causes war </span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Royal, </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Director of cooperative threat reduction,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> ‘10</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> [Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">economic-security debate and deserves more attention. </span>




===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">[[#Negative-Disads-Politics - Payroll]]Politics - Payroll</span>=== 
**A. Uniqueness: Payroll tax extension is Obama’s only focus – passage is likely**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">WSJ, 12/30</span> (Carol E. Lee, WSJ Online, 12/30/2011, “White House Looks to Shrunken 2012 Legislative Agenda”)

HONOLULU—President Barack Obama heads into 2012
AND
our children and grandchildren to grow up in."
**B. Links**
**1. Plan spends political capital – there is always massive opposition to space.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Powell 9</span> (Stewart M., Washington Bureau – Houston Chronicle, “Potential Uphill Battle for NASA”, Houston Chronicle, 9-13,<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/nation/6615751.html]]</span>)

NASA supporters are bracing for an uphill battle
AND
capital to put forward an Obama space program.”

**2. Obama’s consistent focus on the __middle class economy__** **is reinvigorating his political strength - key to yearlong extension of payroll tax cut**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Calmes, 12/24</span> (Jackie, 12/24/2011, International Herald Tribune, “Big gains in a small victory for Obama; President offers a lesson on how and when to pick the right political battle,” Factiva)

President Barack Obama did not win much substantively
AND
the fight over a full-year extension.

**3. Obama political capital is key to passage**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Longbottom, 10/13</span>(Wil, 10/13/2011, “'I won't take no for an answer on jobs bill': Defiant Obama vows to continue despite Senate defeat,”<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2048604/Obama-I-wont-answer-Jobs-bill.html?ito=feeds-newsxml]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President Barack Obama has recorded a defiant new </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">now back the bill, according to SBS.</span>

**C. Impacts**
**1. Full extension key to prevent a double dip recession**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stewart, 12/28</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> --- Observer's economics editor (Heather,12/28/2011, “Extending Obama's tax cuts should be new year's resolution for Republicans,” <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/business/economics-blog/2011/dec/28/obama-tax-cuts-new-year-resolution?newsfeed=true]]</span>)</span>

Republicans caved in at the last minute last
AND
won't just be the Republicans' reputation that suffers.

**2. Econ collapse causes war**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Royal, </span>Director of cooperative threat reduction,<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> ‘10</span> [Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]

Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline
AND
economic-security debate and deserves more attention.


===Politics - Berkeley=== 
A. Uniqueness: Obama is pushing to repeal Jackson-Vanik – it will pass now.
Barkley, 1/19 (Tom, 1/19/2012, “US Seen Lifting Trade Restrictions On Russia,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nasdaq.com/article/us-seen-lifting-trade-restrictions-on-russia-20120119-01370]]</span> )

WASHINGTON -- A senior World Trade Organization official
AND
expressed confidence that Congress will back the move.

B. Links:
1. Obama’s political capital is key to passage
Inside U.S. Trade, 1/13 (“WHITE HOUSE UNDER PRESSURE TO DO HEAVY LIFTING ON RUSSIA MFN VOTE,” 1/13/2012, Factiva )

Permanent MFN for Russia is coming to the
AND
carry the same clout, this aide said.

2. Plan drains his capital – space initiatives are especially controversial now.
Powell 9 (Stewart M., Washington Bureau – Houston Chronicle, “Potential Uphill Battle for NASA”, Houston Chronicle, 9-13, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/nation/6615751.html]]</span>)

NASA supporters are bracing for an uphill battle
AND
capital to put forward an Obama space program.”

C. Impacts:
1. Jackson Vanik repeal key to relations
China News 11 (http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/world/2011-12/27/c_131328195.htm)
Qualitative transformation of the Russia-U.
AND
Joe Biden urged a repeal of the law.

2. Relations solve multiple scenarios for extinction
Tayler, ‘8 (11/14/2008, Jeffrey, The Atlantic, “Medvedev Spoils the Party; It will take more than Obama's electoral triumph to improve the United States' strained relations with Russia,” http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2008/11/medvedev-spoils-the-party/7130/?single_page=true)

Like it or not, the United States
AND
to face a volatile future arm in arm. 

===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">[[#Negative-Disads-Space Debris]]Space Debris</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15pt;">Debris reaching a critical mass – cleanup methods won’t be able to keep up with new mass amounts of debris – prevention now is key</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">BBC News 9/1</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> <September 1, 2011. “Space junk at a tipping point, says report.” BBC News. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none;"><span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-us-canada-14757926]]</span></span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">></span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">A report by the National Research Council says </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">, or into a higher but safer orbit. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15pt;">Each new space launch drastically increases the space debris</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Australian Space Academy 7</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">“Briefing on Space Law,” ASA, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.spaceacademy.net.au/spacelaw/spacelaw.htm]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Since the start of the space age the </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">themselves then pose collision hazards to active spacecraft.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15pt;">Debris pollution causes strikes on Russian early-warning satellites, resulting in an accidental global nuclear war </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Jeffery Lewis ‘4</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">. Postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Study Program; worked in the office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy . Center for Defense Information, “What if Space were Weaponized?” July 2004, </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Available Online @ <<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]]</span>></span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">This is the second of two scenarios that </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">that allows national nuclear forces to operate safely. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15pt;">Extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Dean </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Babst ‘2</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">, retired government research scientist and Coordinator of the Nuclear Age Peace Foundation's Accidental Nuclear War Studies Program, February ’02, “Preventing an Accidental Armageddon,” </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Available online @ <<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2000/02/00_babst_armageddon.htm]]</span>></span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Although international relations have changed drastically since the </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">overkill, the potential for an accidental Armageddon.</span>






===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">[[#Negative-Disads-Weaponization]]Weaponization</span>=== 
**untley, 11** - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring,<span style="background-color: initial;"><span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]]</span></span>)

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">As is well understood, the space policies of the Bush administration were decidedly ….. the strategy remain to be developed.18 Many devils may lurk in these details. </span>

**Unilateral U.S. SSP causes an international backlash against hegemony**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Glaser, 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;"> - aerospace engineer, vice president at Arthur D. Little, consulting on consulting projects in aerospace, solar energy, and materials science (Peter, Ad Astra, Interview, “An energy pioneer looks back”, Spring, </span><span style="background-color: initial; color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;"><span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf]]</span></span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">) //DH</span>

<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">Glaser: Since it would be such a huge ….. a network of power satellites built by an international effort. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Unilateral action alienates allies and shatters other areas of cooperation**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Sabathier et. al 6**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">— senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program and former senior fellow and director of CSIS space initiative (September 18, 2oo6 ,Vincent G. Sabathier, D.A. Broniatowski, G. Ryan Faith, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “The Case for Managed International Cooperation in Space Exploration”, </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-size: 8pt;"><span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/060918_managed_international_cooperation.pdf]]</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> , FS)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">International cooperation is …….possibility of future beneficial cooperation would be more likely. </span>

**Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens, 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, </span><span style="background-color: initial; color: #0d0d0d;"><span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]]</span></span><span style="color: #0d0d0d;">)</span>

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Perhaps of even greater concern is that ……</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> their strong self-interest in preventing the testing and use of orbital weapons. The nations of Earth must soon decide whether it is possible to sustain the predominantly peaceful human space exploration that has already lasted half a century. The likely alternative would be unacceptable to all.</span>

**Space control is impossible, countermeasures override deterrence and risk nuclear escalation**
**Krepon et al, 11** – President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, also Theresa Hitchens, Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and Michael Katz-Hyman, Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space
Security and South Asia Projects (Michael, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February,<span style="background-color: initial;"><span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]]</span></span>)

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">While some have compared space to another "global commons," the high seas, …….Paradoxically, the preservation and growth of U.S. spacepower will be undercut by the use of force in space.</span>

**War is space occurs through miscalculation, risks extinction**
**<span style="color: black;">Mitchell, et al 1</span>**<span style="color: black;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="color: black;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July,</span><span style="background-color: initial; color: black;"><span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span></span><span style="color: black;">)</span>

__<span style="color: black;">A buildup of space weapons might begin with noble …… **the most destructive military conflict ever seen.**</span>__



==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">[[#Negative-CPs]]CPs</span>== 
===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">[[#Negative-CPs-Privatization]]Privatization</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Cambria;">CP Text: The United States federal government should pass the Zero Tax, Zero Gravity Tax Act for private companies to develop and deploy solar powered satellites above the Earth’s mesosphere.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Passage of Zero Tax, Zero Gravity Tax Act would increase private development of space</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Whittington 10</span>** Mark R. Whittington is a writer, Newspaper writer, author, and researcher with a BA in History, gd/al,09/17/10,<span style="background-color: initial;"><span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.associatedcontent.com/article/5803020/zero_taxes_zero_gravity_a_better_way.html?cat=15]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">The debate raging about how best to support the growth of …..anti-commercial space for opposing the Obama plan. </span>Sources: H.R. 5310: Zero

**<span style="font-family: Cambria;">SPS should be privatized – solves faster, costs less, and revitalizes the aerospace sector more effectively</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">NSS 06</span>, National Space Society, organization researching and analyzing various methods to explore and develop space, 12-6-2006, “Introduction to the motion to the National Space Society Board of Directors”, <span style="background-color: initial;"><span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.sspi.gatech.edu/sunsatcorpfaq.pdf]]</span></span>, DKreus
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Space Solar Power must be a commercial or ……</span> in commercial launch to orbit costs commensurate with, and as a direct result of a massively expanded market.


===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">[[#Negative-CPs-Japan Counterplan]]Japan Counterplan</span>=== 
**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Japan is capable of large scale space development programs</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nikkei Weekly 11</span> (November 14, “Keyword: Japan's space development effort,” accessed: 26 November 2011, LexisNexis, JT)

In Japan, the development of space is
AND
, called the Quasi-Zenith Satellite System.





===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">[[#Negative-CPs-Anti-Space Counterplan]]Anti-Space Counterplan</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15pt;">Text: The United States Congress should direct all relevant federal agencies to investigate and implement alternative non-space platforms to replace space systems in the event of conflict. Congress should expand the pool of experts capable of analyzing China’s space capabilities in the original language. Congress should specify clear guidelines for agency interaction with China. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 16pt;">The CP solves deterrence, hegemony and avoids miscalculation. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Cheng 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">– Dean, Research Fellow in Chinese Political and Security Affairs in the Asian Studies Center at The Heritage Foundation. “(China’s Space Program: A Growing Factor in U.S. Security Planning,” August 16, 2011, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/08/chinas-space-program-a-growing-factor-in-us-security-planning)-mikee]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Increase alternatives to space systems. Ironically, </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">plan forces and allocate resources to this end.</span>



===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">[[#Negative-CPs-Emissions Counterplan]]Emissions Counterplan</span>=== 
**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Counterplan Text: The United States federal government should mandate a reduction in its emissions of 20-30% by 2020.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">CP solves leadership and warming – only by taking leadership over emissions can the US spur international action key to solve, otherwise other countries will just hide behind our inaction</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Purvis in 8 -</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> founder, President and CEO of Climate Advisers, a DC-based consultancy in U.S. climate change policy, international climate change cooperation, global carbon markets, and climate-related forest conservation. The firm’s clients include philanthropic foundations, think tanks, environmental groups, governments, international organizations, companies and financial institutions. (July 2008. “ U.S. Global Leadership to Safeguard our Climate, Security, and Economy ” Better World Campaign. <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.betterworldcampaign.org/assets/pdf/climatechange-purvis-final-1.pdf]]</span>)</span>

Protecting the United States and the world from
AND
regulation, albeit in a more qualified manner.




===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">[[#Negative-CPs-Hardening CP]]Hardening CP</span>=== 
**CP TEXT: The United States federal government should mandate funds towards the NAS and EMP Committee for hardening of power grids**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 14pt;">Hardening is key to solve for solar storms, cyber-attacks, and violent weather</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">THE SPACE REVIEW ’08</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> (The Space Review is an online publication devoted to in-depth articles, commentary, and reviews regarding all aspects of space exploration: science, technology, policy, business, and more)< <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1553/2]]</span>></span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">As the likelihood of a geomagnetic storm far </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">renewable power sources ought to be a priority.</span>




===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">[[#Negative-CPs-RPS/Navy]]RPS/Navy</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 16px;">The United States federal government should implement a renewable portfolio standard which requires corporations to produce 20% of their electricity from sources of renewable energy including terrestrial wind, terrestrial solar, and terrestrial biomass. The United States federal government should substantially expand the size and capability of the Navy.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 16px;">CP Solves - National RPS solves dependence on fossil fuels and boosts the economy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 16px;">Fershee 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">- prof @ University of North Dakota Law, focus in energy law</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Joshua,“Changing Resources, Changing Market: The Impact of a National Renewable Portfolio Standard on the U.S. Energy Industry” Energy Law Journal, Vol. 29, No. 1,</span><span style="background-color: initial; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;"><span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://74.125.155.132/scholar?q=cache:5o1fbZrYa-AJ:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=0,23]]</span></span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;">) </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;">In May 2007, the House Committee on Energy and Commerce sent a letter to more than forty ……hundreds of thousands of jobs in the past six years.66 </span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 16px;">CP Solves - Space is insignificant compared to naval power. The CP solves deterrence, global economy, alliances, trade, and war fighting.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Ealgen and McGrath 5/16</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;">, Mackenzie Eaglen is Research Fellow for National Security in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, at The Heritage Foundation. Bryan McGrath is a retired naval officer and the Director of Delex Consulting, Studies and Analysis in Vienna, Virginia. On active duty, he commanded the destroyer USS Bulkeley (DDG 84) and served as the primary author of the current maritime strategy. (5/16/11, Mackenzie, Bryan, “Thinking about A Day Without US Sea Power: Implications for US defense Policies” </span><span style="background-color: initial; color: #000000; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;"><span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2011/05/Thinking-About-a-Day-Without-Sea-Power-Implications-for-US-Defense-Policy]]</span></span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;">) AT</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;">America is a maritime power and a strong U.S. Navy is……..demonstrate how rapidly a navy can become hollow and unable to influence events abroad.</span>


===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">[[#Negative-CPs-Consult Russia]]<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;">Consult Russia</span></span>=== 

**Text: The United States federal government should enter into binding consultation with the Russian Federation through the Bilateral Presidential Commission to propose that it <INSERT PLAN TEXT> The United States should support the proposal during consultation and abide by the result of consultation. We’ll clarify**



**Observation one is competition –**



**A) “should” and “will” are “used to express obligation” and “a requirement,” meaning it implies such permanence—Dictionary.com,** **03**



**B)** **Thus, the fiat of the plan is unconditional, with immediate action and enforcement. Consultation is mutually exclusive because it conditions the plan on Russia’s acceptance.**



**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Observation Two is the Net Benefit – </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">BPC key to relations – disagreements put us on the brink – failures to consult will collapse relations</span>**

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">**Rojansky**, 7/</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">13 [7/13/11, Matthew Rojansky, the deputy director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment “Lavrov's Visit and a New Foundation for U.S.-Russia Cooperation”, </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-size: 10.6667px;"><span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://carnegie.ru/publications/?lang=en&fa=45036]]</span></span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, SM]</span>



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov is in ….. we are capable of doing when two great nations work together</span>.



**Collapse of US-Russian relations causes full-scale nuclear war**



**FORDEN 2001**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Geoffrey, senior research fellow at the Security Studies Program at MIT, Policy Analysis)</span>



__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The danger posed by those incidents …..should be narrowly focused on solving real problems.</span>__

==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">[[#Negative-Kritiks]]Kritiks</span>== 
===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">[[#Negative-Kritiks-Hillman K]]Hillman K</span>=== 
**A) Framework**
**The psyche exists and comes first – it shapes our understanding of the world – everything depends on it**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Jung 06 </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Carl G., renowned scholar of psychoanalysis and founder of the Jung Institute, __The Undiscovered Self__, New American Library, New York, 81-83)</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">For more than fifty years we have known</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13.3333px;">... and can happen to everyone.</span>

**B) War is normal and inevitable – our history is one of wars – between 2 and 3 per year for all of human history**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hillman 04</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13.3333px;"> (James, retired Director of the Jung Institute, “A Terrible Love of War”, The Penguin Press, ISBN 1-59420-011-4, pgs 17-18)</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Halt! Is war abnormal? ... the salvational aspect of battle</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13.3333px;">.</span>

**C) Link - The enemy is a necessary precursor to war. The aff seeks to eradicate enemies in a never-ending mission to establish a peaceful utopia – this destroys the value to life. We love the enemy because he drives us to battle.**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hillman 04</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13.3333px;"> (James, retired Director of the Jung Institute, “A Terrible Love of War”, The Penguin Press, ISBN 1-59420-011-4, pgs 23-27)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13.3333px;">In both cases, </span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">whether human ...</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13.3333px;"> Israelis bulldozed West Bank houses and gardens. </span>

**D) Impacts**
**Peace is merely the absence of war – it leaves us in a state of psychic numbness**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hillman 04 </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13.3333px;">(James, retired Director of the Jung Institute, “A Terrible Love of War”, The Penguin Press, ISBN 1-59420-011-4, pgs 30-31)</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The worst of war is that it ends in peace</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13.3333px;">... Jesus that he declared for a sword.</span>

**And, that takes out the soul – humans become hollow beings that can’t relate to the world around us**
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Walter A</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: Calibri;"> Davis in 2001</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> (//Deracination: Historicity, Hiroshima, and the Tragic Imperative.// State Univesrity of New York Press, p. 95-96)</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">It is never enough</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> however. Inner discord remains</span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">...</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> in Kant’s struggle with the sublime. </span>

**E) The alternative is to love war.**
**Instead of going to war in the name of peace, we should enter war for war’s own sake. This means setting aside our fear and distaste for conflict so we can imagine ourselves embroile cd in beautiful strife.**
**Also, the alternative comes first and is a prerequisite to aff solvency because war is the primary psychological task that shapes all of our notions about society – unless we come to terms with the war in each of us, our desire for war will lash out and push us closer and closer to annihilation.**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hillman 04</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13.3333px;"> (James, retired Director of the Jung Institute, “A Terrible Love of War”, The Penguin Press, ISBN 1-59420-011-4, pgs 1-3)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13.3333px;">One sentence in one scene from </span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">...That is the purpose of this book.</span>



===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">[[#Negative-Kritiks-Capitalism Critique]]Capitalism Critique</span>=== 
**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">The plan is a last ditch effort at averting crisis by making an ‘outer spatial fix’ to resolve the core contradictions of capitalism. These endeavors inevitably fail creating an endless cycle of violence in an attempt to sustain capital.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dickens 10</span>**(Peter, Affiliated Lecturer in the Department of Sociology, Faculty of Politics, Psychology, Sociology and International Studies , University of Cambridge, "The Humanization of the Cosmos—To What End?," [<span style="background-color: initial;">[[https://monthlyreview.org/2010/11/01/the-humanization-of-the-cosmos-to-what-end]]</span>]

The Cosmos: Capitalism’s New “Outside”
AND
attempting to make their own cosmic “fixes.”

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">They theorize power wrong – their deferral from material analysis towards cultural critique destroys radical politics and renders capitalism invisible, ensuring its continued dominance</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Katz 2k</span>**(Adam, English instructor at Onodaga Community College, Postmodernism and the Politics of “Culture,” p. 104-105, JT)

Contemporary attempts to conceptualize these cultural shifts have
AND
pro­duced through the contradictory processes of material production.

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Capitalism renders whole populations standing reserves, making widespread extermination inevitable, culminating in the destruction of the planet</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Internationalist Perspective 2k</span>**, Spring 2000, “Capitalism and Genocide”, #36,<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;"><span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.geocities.com/wageslavex/capandgen.html]]</span></span>

Mass death, and genocide, the deliberate
AND
more and more frequent recourse to mass murder.

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Our alternative is to vote negative to refuse to participate in activities which support capitalism. We must hollow out capitalist structures by refusing to invest our energy in reforms and rescue operations</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Herod 2004</span>**(James, Getting Free, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;"><span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://site.www.umb.edu/faculty/salzman_g/Strate/GetFre/06.htm]]</span></span>)

It is time to try to describe,
AND
to perpetual slavery and possibly even to extinction.

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">And, method comes first. Our understandings of the ways in which society is constructed and how that affects our political imagination is a prerequisite to action or critique - any other framing mechanism makes capitalism and the case impacts inevitable.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tumino 1</span>** (Stephen, English@U Pittsburgh, “what is Orthadox Marxism and why it matters now more than ever,” Red Critique, Spring,<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;"><span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.redcritique.org/spring2001/whatisorthodoxmarxism.htm]]</span></span>, JT)
Any effective political theory will have to do
AND
knowledge work") that masquerades as social theory.




===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">[[#Negative-Kritiks-Astropolitics]]Astropolitics</span>=== 
**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Space is discursively constructed – this necessitates evaluating reps first. </span>**
**Stuart 9**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> – </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;">Fellow in Global Politics in the Department of Government at the London School of Economics and Political Science (Jill, “Unbundling sovereignty, territory and the state in outer space Two approaches” From Securing Outer Space, Edited by Borrman and Sheean—Chapter 1)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;">In regards to the study of sovereignty…… angles to that challenge. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The production of outer space as a sphere in which the U.S. must ensure full spectrum dominance simultaneously produces a militarization of __inner space__, or domestic politics—the politics of the aff ensures a __never-ending war__against alterity</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Orr, 4</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;"> – Professor of Sociology at Syracuse University (Jackie, The Militarization of Inner Space, Critical Sociology, Sage Journals)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;">“[Every American is a soldier” now, declared George W. Bush</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;"> onemont…..**__of civil society for the production of violence.__**</span>

**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The Alternative is to use the ballot as a political tool to refuse security. Only our discursive dissent can create the critical starting point necessary for breaking down oppressive systems of power premised on politics of fear and subjective control. Vote negative, not so much to imagine a world without security, but to respond to security’s totalizing attempt at power. </span>**
**Burke in 2**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">(Anthony, “Aporias of Security” Alternatives: Global, Local, Political, Vol. 27, 2002)-mikee</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;">It is perhaps easy to become despondent, but …….. shimmering possibilities might be.</span>


==<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;">Ecopsychology</span>== 
A) Framework
The psyche exists and comes first – it shapes our understanding of the world – everything depends on it
Jung 06 (Carl G., renowned scholar of psychoanalysis and founder of the Jung Institute, The Undiscovered Self, New American Library, New York, 81-83)
For more than fifty years
AND
and can happen to everyone.


B. Link
The Affirmative attempts at controlling space reveal a narcissistic and damaged psyche that objectifies the universe and natural world
Dickens and Ormrod 7 (Outer Space and Internal Nature: Towards a Sociology of the Universe, Sociology Vo. 41 (4) pp. 610-611)
There are strong indications
AND
plan to colonize Mars.


C. Impacts
1. As Narcissistic relationships to the natural world perpetuate a psychology of infantilism humans strike out against the natural world and participate in mad devastation of the planet
Hibbard 3 (Hibbard, Whit. Ecopsychology: a Review Vol. 19 no. 2 p. 34)

The purpose of this section,
AND
environmental crisis and individual neuroses.”80


2. With planetary devastation comes also the loss of human experience – not only is the survival of civilization at stake but our very souls, that which makes us human
Adams 6 (Will W. Adams. The Ivory-Billed Woodpecker, Ecopsychology, and the Crisis of Extinction: On Annihilating and Nurturing Other Beings, Relationships, and Ourselves. The Human Psychologist 34(2), Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Inc. P. 120-121)

Because these relational couplings 
AND
actually become less human.


D. The alternative is to embrace a new psychologically based cosmology – one that reconnects the relationship between self and nature
A new psychological relationship to the universe is essential to survival – we desperately need a new cosmology, which moves from objectifying nature to experiencing nature fully
Hibbard 3 (Hibbard, Whit. Ecopsychology: a Review Vol. 19 no. 2 p. 34)

Essential to the ecopsychological project
AND
that was never made for us.”127



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]