[[toc]]
=***Oil Biopolitics= 
==1AC-UGA== 
===<span style="font-size: 11pt;">1AC – Inherency</span>=== 
FIRST, is the Status Quo

The fossil fuel industry has shut down debate over energy policy; they control the government line, marginalizing and silencing all alternative views and discourse
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Scheer 6</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Hermann Scheer, German member of parliament, Energy Autonomy : The Economic, Social and Technological Case for Renewable Energy. London, GBR: Earthscan, 2006. p 133 [[http://site.ebrary.com/lib/northwestern/Doc?id=10167744&ppg=151]]) phol</span>
//<span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 10pt;">The hegemonic position … is sought and respected.</span>//

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Our current energy ideology relegates the mind to one-dimensional thought; rethinking our stance on energy is a precondition to dissolve restrictions</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Scheer 6</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Hermann Scheer, German member of parliament, Energy Autonomy : The Economic, Social and Technological Case for Renewable Energy. London, , GBR: Earthscan, 2006. p 131-132 [[http://site.ebrary.com/lib/northwestern/Doc?id=10167744&ppg=151]]) phol</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the energy system, too, </span>//<span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 10pt;">… formation and their specific consequences.</span>//

===1AC – Plan Text=== 

Thus Shaun and I advocate a re-evaluation of the government’s renewable energy posture, a re-illumination of the reasons behind its formation & consequences and a re-recognition of the politics of consumption of the SUV as the problem, with the following topical plan: The United States federal government should develop Space Based Solar Power.

===1AC – Automobility=== 

Contention 2 is Automobility

In an effort to maintain the American Ideal, the United States maintains a regulatory scheme that exempts SUV’s from fuel efficiency standards. This regulatory regime gave rise to the SUV producing new borders of identity to separate the self from the foreign.
**Campbell 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [David Campbell, Professor of Cultural and Political Geography@ Durham University, American Quarterly, Volume 57, Number 3, September 2005]</span>
__The value of oil comes …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">so to American consumer desire? </span>

The SUV was a militarized vehicle from its inception. Born of the Jeep, an emblem of the American military machine, It’s militaristic foundations were stretched to encompass societal conceptions of masculinity and security.
This drive has led SUVs to become more and more like mobile castles designed to conquer and survey everything around them
**Campbell 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [David Campbell, Professor of Cultural and Political Geography@ Durham University, American Quarterly, Volume 57, Number 3, September 2005]</span>
__The genealogy of the SUV …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">with their concerns about security. </span>

The current way that we … emblematic of a larger problematic relationship.
This relationship sets up a genocidal logic in which groups may be exterminated for the benefit of the population. We must recognize how the SUV folds the foreign into the domestic rendering each problematic. Only such analysis of the Biopolitics of oil and the SUV allow us to better understand the Biopolitics of Security.
**Campbell 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [David Campbell, Professor of Cultural and Political Geography@ Durham University, American Quarterly, Volume 57, Number 3, September 2005]</span>
__In the wake of 9/11 the … **understanding the biopolitics of security****.**__

The SUV is a uniquely important site for analysis. It functions as a node in an important series of biopolitical networks that construct our relationship to the world through a performative rebordering of American identity. Understanding these relationships through a biopolitical perspective seen through the SUV is necessary to enable resistance to militarized violence and intervention
**Campbell 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [David Campbell, Professor of Cultural and Political Geography@ Durham University, American Quarterly, Volume 57, Number 3, September 2005]</span>
__The SUV__ __is a vehicle of … the borders of our communities__

Vote aff to change the way that we relate to oil: just trying to change policy inevitably reproduces the same sort of relationships. However, once you work at the level of thought itself change becomes not only possible but urgent – the aff approach has the best, and only, chance of accomplishing anything
**Kritzman 88**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Lawrence D. </span><span class="Heading2Char">Kritzman</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, prof of French and Comparative Lit @ Dartmouth, “Practicing Criticism”, Foucault: Politics, Philosophy, Culture, </span><span class="Heading2Char">1988</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. pgs 154-156]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">FOUCAULT: First </span>__I’ll answer the … **will always be the same.**__

Performative Politics must be the priori issue in the round: It is a precondition to democratic engagement
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Kulynych 97</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Jessica J. Kulynych, Professor at Winthrop University, “Performing Politics: Foucault, Habermas, and Postmodern Participation”, Polity, Vol. 30, No.2, Winter 1997, p. 343-346]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">A performative perspective on participation … actually diverse and participatory democracy.</span>

==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Case</span>== 
===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AT: Automobility Inevitable</span>=== 

Automobility isn’t inevitable nor is it necessary – but their advocacies can’t solve, just the plan, small solvency deficits result it the systems re-expansion

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">John </span><span class="Heading2Char">Urry</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Professor of Sociology at Lancaster University, </span><span class="Heading2Char">2004</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Theory Culture Society, 21; 25</span>

<span style="color: #231f20; font-size: 8pt;">This system of </span>__<span style="color: #231f20;">automobility stemmed … </span>__<span style="color: #231f20; font-size: 8pt;">, the ‘century of the car’.</span>


===AT: Realism=== 



**4. The role of the ballot should be to open up future possibilities—by arguing realism is inevitable they inevitable place us in a false trap.**

**Dunmire 05** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Patricia Kent State U., 2005, //Discourse & Society,// 16 (4)481-513)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In Becomings: Explorations in Memory, … </span>__is still to be won.__



<span class="Heading2Char">5. Their view of international relations is outdated scholarship and their impact claims disprove their realism arguments</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">John </span><span class="Heading2Char">Agnew</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Maxwell Graduate School of Citizenship and Public Affairs, Syracuse University, </span><span class="Heading2Char">1994</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Review of International Political Economy 1:1 Spring</span>

__Systems of rule or political … - tary and trading regimes, etc.__



<span class="Underline">**6.** </span>**Realism is a self-fulfilling prophecy - states create the rules of the international system - if they act differently, the system adapts.**

<span class="Heading2Char">Wendt 99</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Alexander, Associate Professor of Political Science at Yale, Social Theory of International Politics, p. 331-2)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The underlying logic here is … of anarchy they will make.</span>




===2AC Impacts=== 

====Military Masculinity==== 



**This Military masculinity make extinction inevitable—vote affirmative to reject perpetuation of gendered lens—it’s the only way to open up new frameworks of thought**

**<span style="background-color: white;">Clark 4</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> [Mary E, French Cumbie Professor of Conflict Resolution at George Mason University, Rhetoric, Patriarchy & War: Explaining the Dangers of "Leadership" in Mass Culture, Women and Language. Urbana: Fall 2004. Vol. 27, Iss. 2; pg. 21, 8 pgs, ProQuest, SV]</span>

__<span style="background-color: white;">Today's Western patriarchal world view … new patterns of intersocietal interaction</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



====VTL==== 

**Automobility encapsulates us in a system that is self reproducing and takes over our lives, causing us to monitor and discipline ourselves without realizing it in order to meet – means no value to life because we’re always just slaves to the next destination**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">John </span><span class="Heading2Char">Urry</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Professor of Sociology at Lancaster University, </span><span class="Heading2Char">2004</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Theory Culture Society, 21; 25</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But this flexibility is necessitated … </span>__to see through the eye.__



====Community==== 



**Automobility precludes us from interacting as communities, causing vehicles that control us instead of vice versa**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">John </span><span class="Heading2Char">Urry</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Professor of Sociology at Lancaster University, </span><span class="Heading2Char">2004</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Theory Culture Society, 21; 25</span>

__Automobility____precludes__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> both of these </span>__…__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(see Urry, 2000: ch. 4, on the senses)</span>


==Framework== 
===2AC Framework=== 

**Affirm can be understood as to confirm an understanding of something**
<span class="Heading2Char">Websters 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – (Miriam-Webster Dictionary, 2011, “affirm,” </span><span style="color: #0000f6;">[[http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/affirm|… ]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
__Definition of AFFIRM transitive verb 1 a : validate, confirm b : to state positively <he affirmed his innocence> 2 : to assert (as a judgment or decree) as valid or confirmed 3 : to express dedication to <affirm life>__

**AND, even if they win that, then:**
**We are the government – it’s not a distant foreign body**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Raney 10</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> [Gary Raney – Ada County Sherriff, “ Ada County Sheriff Gary Raney Response to Inquiry regarding Oathkeepers”, October 25th, 2010, http://wearechangeidaho.org/CategoryArticles.php?id=1]</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">First premise: “</span>__<span style="background-color: white;">They</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">” – </span>__<span style="background-color: white;">the federal … we don’t want them to do</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**6. We cannot evaluate impact scenarios until we question the normative assumptions that inform their understanding of reality. There is no such thing as an autonomous subject or an objective reality, our understanding of reality is inherently formulated and distorted by those around us. If their discourse is flawed, than so are their impacts.**
**Ganaher 2**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Dr. Geoff Ganaher, Professor at University Queensland Australia in the STEPS Program, Contributor to Media and Culture Journals, “Foucault’s Anti-Humanism”, http://evans-experientialism.freewebspace.com/ganaher.htm]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"Much of the notice </span>__… , theory can indeed be practice.__

**d. illogical focus on policy kills intellectual responsibility**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">White92</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Lucie E., B.A. Radcliffe College, J.D. Harvard Law School, Cornell Law Review, “SYMPOSIUM: SEEKING ‘. . . THE FACES OF OTHERNESS . . .’: A RESPONSE TO PROFESSORS SARAT, FELSTINER, AND CAHN”, Nexis)</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> second </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">reason that Foucault's … </span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">the microdynamics of everyday life.</span>

**Debate praxis is being compromised as it is colonized by the restrictive logic of militarized institutions – imperils democratic education.**
<span class="Heading2Char">Mitchell 98</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - (Gordon, debate coach and professor), “pedagogical possibilities for argumentative agency in academic debate,” argumentation and advocacy, 1998, pg. 44-45.)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The undercultivation of student agency … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">talent to manufacture public loyalty. </span>

===AT: Predictability/Limits=== 
<span class="cite">Predictability Bad. We should experiment with politics – we should challenge various norms and realities with potential variations that upset our framing of the political. Our act of political defiance is effective because it it challenges normalized prescriptive politics – the same form of politics responsible for their framework arguments.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ballantyne 2007</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Andrew, Tectonic Cultures Research Group at Newcastle University, "Deleuze and Guattari for Architects" 98-99)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">At certain moments, small changes … its minds on other things</span>.

===AT: Current Events=== 

**Their preference for current events assumes the political informs the world – the fact that we can isolate a problem with the status quo proves our critical theory is just as relevant if not more-so.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brown 2K5 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Wendy, Professor of Poli Sci, UC Berkeley, “Critical Essays on Knowledge and Politics”, p.56)</span>


__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The rebuff of critical … </span><span class="underline0" style="font-size: 11pt;">, what could be more important</span>__?

===AT: Pragmatism/Cede the Political=== 

<span class="cite">Local disruption is the only means to effect political change – the neg traps us in the mindset of representations by the governing class, that only those in power can influence change destroying all movements.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Colebrook 2002</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Claire, Understanding Deleuze, Pg. xxxviii)</span>

Human freedom became //the// problem. <span style="font-size: 11pt;">… , effects, and organises our bodies</span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">.</span>**

<span class="cite">The affirmative is a prerequisite to political action – we can’t bring issues to the state without speaking about them first.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Weissberg 2004</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert Weissberg is Professor of Political Science Emeritus at the University of Illinois-Urbana., Society “</span><span class="ft1" style="font-size: 8pt;">Abandoning Politics,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">” May/June, </span><span class="ft4" style="font-size: 8pt;">http://transactionpub.metapress.com/app/home/content.asp) </span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The conventional wisdom tells us … </span><span class="ps38">as a whole quietly moves rightward.</span>

===AT: State Good=== 
**Being forced to act as the State or an advocate for the status quo totally invalidates a debater's agency, never able to speak from their own perspective or invoke change**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mitchell 98</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gordon R., Associate Professor of Communication and Director of the William Pitt Debating Union at the University of Pittsburgh. “Pedagogical possibilities for argumentative agency in academic debate”. Argumentation and Advocacy, Volume 35, Issue 2. Fall 1998. http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_hb6699/is_2_35/ai_n28720712/) SLS</span>
In the process of explaining … <span style="font-size: 11pt;">unwitting co-option of argumentative skills</span>.

**Fixation on state roleplaying is bad**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Claude 1988</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Inis, Professor of Government … </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">and the Global System</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, p18-20, HC)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This view of the state … –and that they sometimes claim.</span>

**Role playing as policymakers creates a regime of ‘truth’ that supports the existing division of resources and power structures, excluding opposing viewpoints. This turns their role playing good claims, their view of the world is biased to favor the system.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Smith, 1997</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Steve, University of Wales, Professor and Pro-Vice Chancellor of the University, University of Wales, Aberystwyth “Power and Truth, A Reply to William Wallace,” Review of International Studies, Vol. 23, No. 4 (Oct., 1997), p. 513, NAP)</span>
Those academics who do get … <span style="font-size: 11pt;">with truth and academic objectivity.</span>

**Role-Playing reduces debaters to nothing but spectators, forced to treat what should be public advocacy into simple competition. Their agency is further reduced as they retreat farther and farther from real politics**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mitchell 98 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Gordon R., Associate Professor of Communication and Director of the William Pitt Debating Union at the University of Pittsburgh. “Pedagogical possibilities for argumentative agency in academic debate”. Argumentation and Advocacy, Volume 35, Issue 2. Fall 1998. http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_hb6699/is_2_35/ai_n28720712/) SLS</span>
As two prominent teachers of … <span style="font-size: 11pt;">the drama of political life"</span> (1991, p. 8)

**The structure of preparatory pedagogy not only eviscerates debaters' agency during debate but separates debate from the already restricted public sphere of discourse, perpetuating a system of control over public discussion**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mitchell 98 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Gordon R., Associate Professor of Communication and Director of the William Pitt Debating Union at the University of Pittsburgh. “Pedagogical possibilities for argumentative agency in academic debate”. Argumentation and Advocacy, Volume 35, Issue 2. Fall 1998. http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_hb6699/is_2_35/ai_n28720712/) SLS</span>
Complete reliance on <span style="font-size: 11pt;">the laboratory … </span>talent to manufacture public loyalty.

===AT: Debate is just a Game=== 

**Debate is more than a game. Intellectuals are responsible for the thinking that shapes the moral consciousness.**
**Ketels 1996** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Assc Prof of English @ Temple Violet B.-former Director of the Intl Heritage Program; //“The Holocaust: Remembering for the Future: Havel to the Castle! The Power of the Word;// THE ANNALS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY OF POLITICAL AND SOCIAL SCIENCE; November; 548 Annals45 "THE RESPONSIBILITY OF INTELLECTUALS"</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ABSTRACT: This article argues the … and human life sacred again.</span>


=***Space Guard= 
==1AC== 
===Plan=== 
**TEXT: The United States federal government should substantially increase its real time civil Space Situational Awareness capabilities beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">TEXT: The United States federal government should develop a real time Space Guard civil Space Situational Awareness sensor network beyond the Earth’s mesosphere</span>**

**TEXT: The United States federal government should develop a real time Space Guard civil Space Situational Awareness sensor network beyond the Earth’s mesosphere under the supervision of the North American Aerospace Defense Command and in accordance with the model proposed by the Center for Space Standards and Innovation.**

===China [UGA]=== 
**China is NOT militarizing against us—our relationship is based on the security dilemma**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Zhang 2k11 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">[Baohui, Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University, Hong Kong, The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship Author(s): Baohui Zhang Source: Asian Survey, Vol. 51, No. 2 (March/April 2011), pp. 311-332 Published by: University of California Press Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/10.1525/AS.2011.51.2.311 .]</span>
__China’s military space program and … space planning and/or activity.”__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">6 </span>

<span class="Underline">**The Brink is now—PLA will push militarization**</span>
<span class="Underline">**BBC 1/17**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (British Broadcasting Company, “How China is advancing its military reach,” http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-asia-16588557)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">While much attention has been … generation leadership handover this year. </span>

**This action-reaction planning will escalate to space warfare**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens 2k8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 7pt;"> (Theresa, president of the Center for Defense Information, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"><span style="color: #0d0d0d;">[[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]]</span></span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 7pt;">)</span>
__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Perhaps of even greater concern … </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">would be unacceptable to all.</span>

**Escalation control and deterrence don’t apply to space**
**Krepon & Clary 2k4**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Michael Krepon Professor of politics @ University of Virginia & Research Assistant for the Weaponization of Space Project @ Stimson Center (Director of the Space Security Project @ Stimson Center & President/CEO of the Henry L. Stimson Center (89-00) & Christopher Clary, Space Assurance or Space Dominance? The Case Against Weaponizing Space, Henry L. Stimson Center, 2004]</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The inherent escalatory potential of … </span>__than in dominance__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and compellance.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Prefer Advantage framing—the probability of problems that requires cooperation is larger than their one shot disads**</span>
**Yudkowsky 2k6**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Eliezer Yudkowsky, Co-founder and Research Fellow of the Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence—a non–profit research institute dedicated to increasing the likelihood of, and decreasing the time to, a maximally beneficial singularity, one of the world’s foremost experts on Artificial Intelligence and rationality, “Cognitive Biases Potentially Affecting Judgment Of Global Risks,” Draft of a chapter in Global Catastrophic Risks, edited by Nick Bostrom and Milan Cirkovic, August 31st, 2006, Available Online at http://singinst.org/upload/cognitive-biases.pdf]</span>
<span class="Underline">According to probability theory, adding … or implausibly detailed risk scenarios. </span>

<span class="Underline">**The US signed onto the EU code of conduct but it will be unverifiable without the aff—nonmilitary SSA action is critical**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Kueter 2/13**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Jeff Kueter, President, George C. Marshall Institute, “Do We Need a Code of Conduct for Space? Considering Recent Developments in the Effort to Change Behavior in Space”, [[http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/1060.pdf]], February 13, 2012] SV</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In the absence of a competing … </span>than less, tension in space<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>


<span class="Underline">**Military SSA makes the code of conduct a hollow statement**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Chow 2k11 (November)**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Tiffany, Writer for Secure World Foundation, a private operating foundation that promotes cooperative solutions for space sustainability and the peaceful uses of space, “Space Situational Awareness Sharing Program: An SWF Issue Brief”, http://swfound.org/media/3584/ssa_sharing_program_issue_brief_nov2011.pdf] </span>
<span class="Underline">Recent announcements and policies</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> in … accessible SSA data and information. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">DoD efforts will always fail</span>
**GAO 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [United States Government Accountability Office, May 2011. SPACE ACQUISITIONS Development and Oversight Challenges in Delivering Improved Space Situational Awareness Capabilities http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d11545.pdf] </span>
<span class="Underline">Despite recent investments, </span>existing SSA … <span style="font-size: 7pt;">cost, schedule and performance goals. </span>

**The plan reverses Reactionary policy—commitment to non military action is key**
<span class="Underline">**Kueter 2/13**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Jeff Kueter, President, George C. Marshall Institute, “Do We Need a Code of Conduct for Space? Considering Recent Developments in the Effort to Change Behavior in Space”, [[http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/1060.pdf]], February 13, 2012] SV</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Lastly, </span>__if the U.S. is true …__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">will have changed very little. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Cooperation solves conflict**</span>
**Deudney 2k****9** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">- professor of political science at John Hopkins et al (Daniel, and John Ikenberry, professor of international affairs at Princeton, Foreign Affairs, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/63721/daniel-deudney-and-g-john-ikenberry/the-myth-of-the-autocratic-revival)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">This bleak outlook is based … than the autocratic revivalists acknowledge.</span>

**Only the aff solves**
**Bennett 11** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[James C. Bennett, Research Associate @ George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, the author of The Anglosphere Challenge, has been involved in space entrepreneurship, consulting, and advocacy for more than three decades “Proposing a ‘Coast Guard’ for Space,” Winter Issue, [[http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/proposing-a-coast-guard-for-space]], 11/5/11 (Last Modified Date)]</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">3. New responsibilities. In addition … </span><span class="Underline">search, rescue, and recovery operations.</span>

**Prefer our claims over their general K’s—Decades of research by space policy experts provide the foundation for the 1AC**
**Bowers et al 8** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">– Dual BA in Computer Science and Management Information Systems @ University of Nebraska-Omaha [ , Stephanie M. Cook (Master’s candidate in the Political Science @ University of Nebraska-Omaha, Edward James Dale (BA in Electronic Engineering @ University of Nebraska-Omaha, Josh Koch (Dual BA in Physics and Mathematics @ University of Nebraska-Omaha), John James Miller ( BA in Computer Engineering @ University of Nebraska-Omaha), Stephanie D. Silva (Master’s candidate in Public Administration @ University of Nebraska-Omaha) Space Debris: Applied Technology and Policy Prescriptions, USSTRATCOM Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Intern Pogram, Fall 2007 – Project 07-02, January 2008, pg. 8]</span>
__Communications, global commerce and national … **clarity**__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">to space-faring entities.</span>









===Radio [UGA]=== 
<span class="Underline">**Radio Interference will reach a tipping Point**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Lynn 2k11** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(William, U.S. Deputy Secretary of Defense and senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, “A Military Strategy for the New Space Environment”, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">is also cluttered by electronic signals Washington Quarterly 34:3 pp. 7-16, pg online)</span>
Space is<span class="Underline"> also </span>cluttered by … longer seems quite so limitless<span class="Underline">. </span>

<span class="Underline">**The Brink is Now—Spectrum Deconfliction is possible but lack of it will overload frequencies**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Tjelta and Struzak 11**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (2011, Terje Tjelta, PhD, Senior Research Scientist in Telenor Corporate Development, former researcher for the International Telecommunications Union, and Ryszard Strużak, PhD, Full University Professor, University of Technology at Warsaw, Department of Electronics and Telecommunications, IEEE Life Fellow, Academician International Telecommunication Academy, “Physical, technical, practical, economical, and regulatory aspects of spectrum management,” National Institute of Telecommunications, Wrocław, Poland, http://ursigass2011.org/abstracts/ursi/E05-1.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Global </span>radio regulation<span class="Underline">s</span> remain<span class="Underline"> very </span>… guarantee satisfactory quality<span class="Underline"> of experiences. </span>

<span class="Underline">**JSpoc fails at Radio Deconfliction—nonmilitary SSA is key**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Morring 2/24**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Frank Morring, Aviation Weekly, “USAF Notices Unreliable on Orbital Risks,” [[http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_channel.jsp?channel=space&id=news/awx/2012/02/24/awx_02_24_2012_p0-429306.xml&headline=USAF%20Notices%20Unreliable%20on%20Orbital%20Risks]], Feb 24, 2012] SV</span>
<span class="Underline">The spacecraft-conjunction </span>advisories put … for protecting “sensitive” SSA info<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Interference disrupts Radio Astronomy**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Goddard et al 4**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jan. 2004, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Global Science Forum, members include Michael Goddard (Chair), Spectrum Policy Director UK Radiocommunications Agency, Makoto Inoue, Director, Nobeyama Radio Observatory National Astronomical Observatory of Japan, Paul A. Vanden Bout, Senior Scientist and former Director U.S. National Radio Astronomy Observatory, William Hatch (retired), Associate Administrator, Office of Spectrum Management National Telecommunications & Information Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce “Report of the Task Force on Radio Astronomy and the Radio Spectrum,” http://www.oecd.org/dataoecd/54/33/28011602.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">The science of </span>radio astronomy … <span class="Underline">currently allocated to radio astronomy.</span>

====**Asteroid Detection**==== 
<span class="Underline">**Most recent surveys prove Radar is critical to Asteroid Detection**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Redd 11/7**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Nola Taylor Redd, “NASA Tracking Huge Asteroid with Radar for Tuesday Encounter,” [[http://www.space.com/13533-huge-asteroid-2005-yu55-radar-tracking.html]], 11/7/2011] SV</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> A quarter-mile wide asteroid … is used only slightly less. </span>

**Asteroid strikes are 100% certain and could occur at any time**
**Verschuur 96**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 158)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the past few years, … </span>__that will determine our fate__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Strikes cause Extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Marusek 2k7**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (James, nuclear physicist and engineer, formerly with the US Navy, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, “Comet and Asteroid Threat Impact Analysis,” http://www.aero.org/conferences/planetarydefense/2007papers/P4-3--Marusek-Paper.pdf)</span>
A deep impact produces<span class="Underline"> two … with regularity</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in geological time. 5</span>

**Asteroids shatter standard risk analysis—vote Aff no matter how low the probability**
**Posner 4** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Richard, US Court of Appeals judge and Senior Lecturer at the University of Chicago Law School, Catastrophe: Risk and Response 249-250)</span>
__Even if our insouciant reaction …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">otherwise to reduce the risk.</span>

**Their “low probability” logic is irrelevant and prevents action to stop asteroids**
**__Brownfield ‘4__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Roger – presented at the … expectation... and its attendant fear. </span>

**Nothing can outweigh extinction even if the risk is miniscule**
**Matheny 2k7**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Jason, Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, Vol 27, No 5)</span>
__We may be poorly equipped …__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">the costs of mitigating them.20</span>

**Only asteroid strikes cause immediate compound environmental crises—nothing else comes close**
**Chapman 2k4** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Senior Scientist at the Southwest Research Institute, Dept. of Space Studies, “the Hazard of near-Earth asteroid impacts on earth”, Earth and Planetary Science Letters 222)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">I have argued [59] that </span>__impacts … traces in the fossil record.__

====<span class="Underline">**The Big Leap**</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Radio Astronomy will result in scientific revolutions—Spectrum Management is Critical**</span>
<span class="Underline">**BPA 2k10**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (2010, Committee on Scientific Use of the Radio Spectrum, Committee on Radio Frequencies, Board on Physics and Astronomy, Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences, National Research Council of the National Academies, chaired by Adam Burrows, PhD from MIT, Full Professor in the Department of Astrophysical Sciences at Princeton University, includes many other smart people, “Spectrum Management for Science in the 21st Century,” [[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12800&page=R1]]) SV</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While Earth scientists study the … </span>development of<span class="Underline"> future </span>spectrum policy<span class="Underline">.</span>

**Radio Astronomy is key to Dark Matter Research**
**NRAO 2k10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [National Radio Astronomy Observatory, “Radio Astronomers Develop New Technique for Studying Dark Energy”, [[http://www.nrao.edu/pr/2010/highzhi/]], July 21, 2010]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Pioneering </span>__observations with the__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">National … Peterson, of Carnegie Mellon University.</span>

**Dark matter confirms the Big Bang Theory which solves Religion**
**Wilford 94** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(11/29/1994, John, award-winning journalist for The New York Times, writes science journalism, “Astronomy Crisis Deepens As the Hubble Telescope Sees No Missing Mass”, NYT, http://www.nytimes.com/1994/11/29/science/astronomy-crisis-deepens-as-the-hubble-telescope-sees-no-missing-mass.html?pagewanted=all&src=pm)</span>
__This line of investigation could …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">mass for such a radical transformation.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Space Science is zero sum with Religious Dogma and Religion Fractures guarantees extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Harris 2k6**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Sam, PhD in neuroscience from UCLA, philosophy degree from Stanford University, co-founder and CEO of Project Reason, and prolific author 2006, “Science Must Destroy Religion,” The Huffington Post, January 2nd, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/sam-harris/science-must-destroy-reli_b_13153.html, Note: We do not endorse the gendered language]</span>
<span class="Underline">Most people believe that the … </span>dangerous fractures in our world<span class="Underline">. </span>

**Put away your inevitability cards—Attempts to break down Religious dogmatism are key to reconceptualize morality**
**Harris 2k4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ( Author, Free Inquiry magazine, Volume 24, Number 6.Paul, The Myth of Secular Moral Chaos, Sam Harris, [[@http://www.secularhumanism.org/index.php]]).</span>
__One cannot criticize religious dogmatism … nothing to ensure a society’s health.__

<span class="Underline">**Every major lasting conflict has its roots in religion—new WMDs guarantee escalation and extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Harris 2k4**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Sam, PhD in neuroscience from UCLA, philosophy degree from Stanford University, co-founder and CEO of Project Reason, and prolific author, The End of Faith: Religion, Terror, and the Future of Reason, 25-26) </span>
Our world is fast succumbing<span class="Underline"> … </span>for the fall of civilization<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

===China [Emory]=== 
**China is NOT militarizing against us—the US-China relationship is based solely on the security dilemma**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Zhang 11 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Baohui, Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University, Hong Kong, The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship Author(s): Baohui Zhang Source: Asian Survey, Vol. 51, No. 2 (March/April 2011), pp. 311-332 Published by: University of California Press Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/10.1525/AS.2011.51.2.311 .]</span>
__China’s military space program and … space planning and/or activity.”__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">6</span>

**This dangerous spiral of action-reaction planning will escalate to space warfare**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;"> (Theresa, president of the Center for Defense Information, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, [[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]])</span>
__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Perhaps of even greater concern … </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">would be unacceptable to all.</span>

**Our impacts are a whole new game**
**Krepon & Clary 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Michael Krepon Professor of politics @ University of Virginia & Research Assistant for the Weaponization of Space Project @ Stimson Center (Director of the Space Security Project @ Stimson Center & President/CEO of the Henry L. Stimson Center (89-00) & Christopher Clary, Space Assurance or Space Dominance? The Case Against Weaponizing Space, Henry L. Stimson Center, 2004]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The inherent escalatory potential of … </span>__than in dominance__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and compellance.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">The Brink is now—technological warfare between the US and China</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Discovery News 11/1 </span>****<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> “SATELLITE BATTLEGROUND IN SPACE? China may be tinkering with U.S. satellites and experts say other countries are likely doing the same.” Tue Nov 1, 2011 [[http://news.discovery.com/space/satellites-cold-war-hacking-china.html]]] SV</span>
__<span style="background-color: lime;">Space has</span>____<span style="background-color: white;"> long been a battleground … hard to be too indignant."</span>__

**The first internal link is the plan’s approach toward code of conducts which solves trafficing**
**Krepon, Hitchens, & Katz-Hyman 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [February 2011, Michael Krepon is the President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, Theresa Hitchens is Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research, and Michael Katz-Hyman is a Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space Security and South Asia Projects “Preserving Freedom of Action in Space: Realizing the Potential and Limits of U.S. Spacepower”, Chapter 20 in “Towards a Theory of Spacepower: Selected Essays”]</span>
<span class="Underline">We view a </span>code of conduct<span class="Underline"> … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">drawn together as a coherent regime.</span>

<span class="Underline">**No offense—code of conduct norms are inevitable, the plan just makes them effective**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Kueter 7** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jeff, Masters in PoliSci and Security Policy/Science and Technology Studies and President of the George C. Marshall Institute, “China’s Space Ambitions—And Ours” The New Atlantis, Number 16, Spring 2007, pp. 7-22, http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/chinas-space-ambitions-and-ours]</span>
<span class="Underline">Another diplomatic tack contemplated by … </span>be proof enough <span class="Underline">of that.</span>

<span class="Underline">**The second internal link is verification—code of conducts will always be unverifiable and won’t materialize without a commitment to true SSA policy**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Lewis 11** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[James, PhD in International Economics and a senior fellow and program director at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, “Engagement and Sustainability in the 2010 National Space Policy” Frontier Volume 7 Number 2, pg 30]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The idea that there are … </span><span class="Underline">associated with the Cold War.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Realism is true in space, realist code of conducts will define the future of space—SSA is key**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Rendleman and Ryals 11** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Col. James Randleman is a J.D. and BS and was second lieutenant through the Air Force ROTC, Col. Robert Ryals is a BSEE, JD, and MA and a Force Space Command as a contractor in space control and as an instructor for the past five years at the Space Innovation and Development Center’s Advanced Space Operations School, “The New National Space Policy: More is Needed” February 2011, High Frontier Volume 7, No. 2]</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Interest in international space cooperation … </span><span class="Underline">intelligence community by DoD officials</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**And NSP commitments weren’t met in the context of SSA which means it fails**
**Smith 6/17**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Marcia S. Smith is the founder and editor of SpacePolicyOnline.com and President of Space and Technology Policy Group, LLC. Previously she was Director of the Space Studies Board and of the Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board at the U.S. National Research Council (2006-2009). Before that she was a specialist in aerospace and telecommunications policy at the Congressional Research Service (1975-2006), part of the U.S. Library of Congress, which provides objective, non-partisan research and analysis exclusively for the Members and committees of the U.S. Congress. She also was Executive Director of the U.S. National Commission on Space (1985-1986). “Impact of the Obama Space Policy One Year On -- Experts Say It’s All in the Implementation”, http://spacepolicyonline.com/pages/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1639:impact-of-the-obama-space-policy-one-year-on-experts-say-its-all-in-the-implementation-&catid=91:news&Itemid=84]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The upshot of the Secure … </span>__a part of policy__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, he added.</span>


**Prefer the specific claims of our authors over their general critiques—Decades of research by space policy experts provides the foundation for the 1AC**
**Bowers et al 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Dual BA in Computer Science and Management Information Systems @ University of Nebraska-Omaha [ , Stephanie M. Cook (Master’s candidate in the Political Science @ University of Nebraska-Omaha, Edward James Dale (BA in Electronic Engineering @ University of Nebraska-Omaha, Josh Koch (Dual BA in Physics and Mathematics @ University of Nebraska-Omaha), John James Miller ( BA in Computer Engineering @ University of Nebraska-Omaha), Stephanie D. Silva (Master’s candidate in Public Administration @ University of Nebraska-Omaha) Space Debris: Applied Technology and Policy Prescriptions, USSTRATCOM Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Intern Pogram, Fall 2007 – Project 07-02, January 2008, pg. 8]</span>
__Communications, global commerce and national … **clarity**__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to space-faring entities.</span>

===Nanosats [Big Lex]=== 
**Nanosats are inevitable in the future**
<span class="Underline">**Kelley 10/26**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Mike Kelley, Staff Writer for Alabama Live, 10/26/11, " Small satellites help Army see and communicate better, says symposium panel” http://www.al.com/42/index.ssf/2011/10/small_satellites_help_army_see.html]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">HUNTSVILLE, Alabama – </span>__The military has …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">coverage needed by the Army.</span>

**These Nanosats are useless without accurate civil SSA**
**Williamson 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Ray A. and Agnieszka Lukaszczyk, Secure World Foundation, [[http://swfound.org/media/3559/safeguardingspace-al-2008.pdf]]]</span>
<span class="Underline">Space situational awareness (SSA) should … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">community in some coordinated way.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">DoD SSA data will fail</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">GAO 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [United States Government Accountability Office, May 2011. SPACE ACQUISITIONS Development and Oversight Challenges in Delivering Improved Space Situational Awareness Capabilities </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d11545.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
Despite<span class="Underline"> recent </span>investments<span class="Underline">, existing </span>SSA … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">cost, schedule and performance goals.</span>
====Illegal Arms Trafficking==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Nanosats are key to mitigate global illegal arms trafficking</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Xefteris et al 10 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Panaiotios Xefteris and Maurizio Fargnoli, Research analysts at NahuelSAT, a Satellite developer and program in Argentina, “Using Small Satellite Constellations to Track and Monitor the Illicit Trafficking in Weapons and Sensitive Technologies” March 30, 2010 Chapter 11, pg 1-2]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Using Small </span><span class="Underline">Satellite </span>Constellations to … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">or for law enforcement purposes.</span>

<span class="Heading2Char">Arms trafficking makes global instability inevitable</span>
**Stohls 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Rachel Stohl 5, senior analyst at the Center for Defense Information in Washington, DC, CDI – Center for Defense Information, “Fighting the Illicit Trafficking of Small Arms,” Winter/Spring 2005 edition of SAIS Review, http://www.cdi.org/program/document.cfm?DocumentID=2996]</span>
<span class="Underline">This trade encompasses </span>illicit trafficking<span class="Underline"> … arms and light weapons fire.</span>

**Specifically, it causes failed states**
**Stohls 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Rachel Stohl 5, senior analyst at the Center for Defense Information in Washington, DC, CDI – Center for Defense Information, “The Tangled Web of Illicit Arms Trafficking,” Center for American Progress, 10-12-04, http://www.cdi.org/pdfs/terrorinshadows-stohl.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Small arms trafficking in the … </span>__terrorist organizations emerge and thrive.__

**Cutting off access to small arms undermines terrorist groups**
**Freier 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Jason Freier 5, intelligence specialist currently on contract with the U.S. Department of Defense. He is a Captain in the U.S. Marine Corps Reserves and a veteran of Operation Iraqi Freedom, “Arms and the Terrorist,” The Journal of International Security Affairs, No. 9, Fall, 2005, http://www.securityaffairs.org/issues/2005/09/freier.php]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">March 14, 2005, </span><span class="Underline">eighteen members of an … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">“exacerbate” and “prolong” regional instability.2</span>

====Arctic Monitoring==== 
**Nanosats solve Arctic Monitoring**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Lee et al 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [1. Dr. Regina Lee, York University: expert in ACS and nanosatellite 2. Dr. Sunil Bisnath, York University: expert in Precise Orbit Determination and GPS occultation 3. Mr. Hugh Chesser, York University: expert in structural and thermal design 4. Dr. Anton de Ruiter, Carleton University, expert in ACS and relative navigation system 5. Dr. Scott Gleason, Concordia University, expert in GNSS receiver design and remote sensi, Paper submitted to 2nd Nano- Satellite Symposium for Speech on March 14th 2011, http://www.spacemic.net/abstracts/[Finalist]%20Northern%20Communication%20and%20GPS-based%20science%20Nanosatellite%20constellation%20mission.pdf- Article , http://www.nanosat.jp/2nd/date/Program.pdf – Symposium information]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Mission Objectives The primary mission … and maintenance of the constellation.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Status quo monitoring fails</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Parthemore & Rogers 11</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> [Christine and Will, </span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Adjunct Professor in Johns Hopkins University's Global Security Studies Program, Fellow at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS) and serves on the Council of Advisors for U-Mass Boston's Collaborative Institute for Oceans, Climate and Security and</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> Research Associate and the Joseph S. Nye, Jr. Internship Coordinator at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS), “BLINDED: THE DECLINE OF U.S. EARTH MONITORING CAPABILITIES AND ITS CONSEQUENCES FOR NATIONAL SECURITY,” August 1, Center for New American Security,[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf]]]</span>
__The emerging gaps in U.S. earth … are prone to greater instability.__

<span class="Underline">**Icebergs in the Northwest Passage cause accidents and oil spills**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Byers & Lalonde 5** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Michael Byers holds the Canada Research Chair in Global Politics and International Law at the University of British Columbia; Suzanne Lalonde is a law professor at l'Université de Montréal. Together, they direct a project on sovereignty and the Northwest Passage funded by the Social Science and Humanities Research Council of Canada, “Our Arctic sovereignty is on thin ice” August 1, 2005, Liu Institute for Global Issues, http://www.ligi.ubc.ca/?p2=/modules/liu/publications/view.jsp&id=1886]</span>
__Climate change has other countries …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">that may flow from that."</span>

<span class="Underline">**Accidents cause nuclear war**</span>
<span class="Underline">**McDonough & Ware 8** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Alexa McDonough MP, Chair PNND Canada and Alyn Ware, PNND Global Coordinator, “Freeing the Poles of Nuclear Conflicts? Time for an Arctic Nuclear Weapon Free Zone!” April 17, 2008]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In October 2007 the National Snow … </span><span class="Underline">such as Canada or Denmark.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Arctic Oil Spills cause extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**SNS 10** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[State News Service, “Time Out On Arctic Offshore Oil Drilling Needed” May 6, 2010, pg Lexis]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The lawsuit, filed last January, … the Center for Biological Diversity.</span>

===Europe [Emory]=== 
**Secretive DoD policy is the impediment between US-Europe cooperation over GMES**
<span class="Underline">**Gleason 10** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Lt. Col Michael, PhD in IR and is the core division chief of Department of Political Science at US Air Force Academy and associate director and founding team member of the Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Studies, High Frontier: “Shaping the Future with a New Space Power: Now is the Time” pg 43, Frontier Volume 6, No. 2, pg]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As well, the need for </span><span class="Underline">… </span>__secrecy than the US does.__

<span class="Underline">**nothing has changed between the US and Europe in the last decade**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Roberts 5** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Maj. Tommy, MS from George Washington and BS from USAFA and is Space and Missile Force Programmer, Directorate of Plans and Programs, Headquarters Air Force, “Space Situation Awareness: How Much Should the US Share?” High Frontier, Volume 1, Number 3, Winter 2005]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What then are the GPS … </span>to improve <span class="Underline">their </span>SSA policy.

<span class="Underline">**This is definitely true in the status quo**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Chow 9/22**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Tiffany, Writer for Secure World Foundation, a private operating foundation that promotes cooperative solutions for space sustainability and the peaceful uses of space, “Space Situational Awareness Sharing Program: An SWF Issue Brief”, http://swfound.org/media/3584/ssa_sharing_program_issue_brief_nov2011.pdf]</span>
<span class="Underline">Recent announcements and policies</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in … accessible SSA data and information.</span>

<span class="Underline">**The reason it fails is SSA’s status under the DoD**</span>
**Bennett 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[James, C. Research Associate @ George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, “The Coast Guard Model: A Third Organizational Option For International SSA Data Sharing and Other US Space Responsibilities,” George Washington University, Space Policy Institute, http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/CoastGuardModel-GWUpaper.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Recent events have underscored the … </span>__Commandant__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">of the Space Guard.</span>

**Only the aff solves it**
**Bennett 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[James C. Bennett, Research Associate @ George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, the author of The Anglosphere Challenge, has been involved in space entrepreneurship, consulting, and advocacy for more than three decades “Proposing a ‘Coast Guard’ for Space,” Winter Issue, [[http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/proposing-a-coast-guard-for-space]], 11/5/11 (Last Modified Date)]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">3. New responsibilities. In addition … </span><span class="Underline">search, rescue, and recovery operations.</span>


<span class="Underline">**GMES is key to solve Arctic navigation and ice info**</span>
<span class="Underline">**M&E 11** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Maritime and Energy, “New GMES sea ice information service being established”, [[http://www.ksat.no/News/Press-release-GMES.html]]. 8/18/11]</span>
<span class="Underline">A new three-year 2 million … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">operating in ice-infested waters.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Leads to broader SSA integration**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Gleason 10** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Lt. Col Michael, PhD in IR and is the core division chief of Department of Political Science at US Air Force Academy and associate director and founding team member of the Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Studies, High Frontier: “Shaping the Future with a New Space Power: Now is the Time” pg 43, Frontier Volume 6, No. 2]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Shaping the Future </span>The time … <span class="Underline">more rapidly than otherwise possible.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">That solves Arctic insecurities and miscalc scenarios</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Rogers & Gulledge 10</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Will and Jay, </span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">*Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security and</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change, “Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy,” Center for New American Security, April,[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf]])</span>
__Change in the Arctic will … prepared to meet future challenges.__

<span class="Underline">**These provocations would cause nuclear submarine deployment**</span>
<span class="Underline">**McDonough & Ware 8** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Alexa McDonough MP, Chair PNND Canada and Alyn Ware, PNND Global Coordinator, “Freeing the Poles of Nuclear Conflicts? Time for an Arctic Nuclear Weapon Free Zone!” April 17, 2008 pg online @ disarmsecure]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In October 2007 the National Snow … </span><span class="Underline">such as Canada or Denmark.</span>

<span class="Underline">**These oil spills will cause a collapse of critical keystone species**</span>
<span class="Underline">**SNS 10** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[State News Service, “Time Out On Arctic Offshore Oil Drilling Needed” May 6, 2010, pg Lexis]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The lawsuit, filed last January, … the Center for Biological Diversity.</span>

**It also guarantees underwater collisions and “popcorn”-ing**
**Edwards 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Rob, freelance journalist who specializes in environmental issues, “Could Nuclear Warheads Go Off ‘like popcorn’”, June 26th, http://www.newscientist.com/article/mg19826625.000-could-nuclear-warheads-go-off-like-popcorn.html]</span>
<span class="Underline">If you thought that the … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. "It's a very, very scary thought."</span>

**The Bioaccumulative toxins are guaranteed to cause extinction of the human species—we will only realize once it’s too late**
**Montague 91**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Peter, editor, Rachel’s Health and Envt. Weekly, “Real Hope For The Great Lakes: Local Groups Form 'Zero Discharge Alliance,” Rachel’s Health and Environment Weekly, March 20th 1991, #225]</span>
Bioaccumulative toxin<span class="Underline">s are dangerous because </span>… to the extinction <span class="Underline">of humans</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**The Brink is now—ecological collapse causes extinction**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Donahue 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[James, 3/7/11, “Pushing The Mother’s Reset Button,” published author of five books, former reporter for The Times Herald, JPL]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">It is no secret … </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">to our planet and ourselves</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">.</span>**

===Inherency [Ohio Valley]=== 

**Contention 1 is Inherency**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">SSA systems fall short and JSpoc is overburdened</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">GAO 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [United States Government Accountability Office, May 2011. SPACE ACQUISITIONS Development and Oversight Challenges in Delivering Improved Space Situational Awareness Capabilities </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d11545.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
Despite<span class="Underline"> recent </span>investments<span class="Underline">, existing </span>SSA … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">cost, schedule and performance goals.</span>

**NSP commitments are underfunded and doomed to fail**
**Smith 6/17**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Marcia S. Smith is the founder and editor of SpacePolicyOnline.com and President of Space and Technology Policy Group, LLC. Previously she was Director of the Space Studies Board and of the Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board at the U.S. National Research Council (2006-2009). Before that she was a specialist in aerospace and telecommunications policy at the Congressional Research Service (1975-2006), part of the U.S. Library of Congress, which provides objective, non-partisan research and analysis exclusively for the Members and committees of the U.S. Congress. She also was Executive Director of the U.S. National Commission on Space (1985-1986). “Impact of the Obama Space Policy One Year On -- Experts Say It’s All in the Implementation”, http://spacepolicyonline.com/pages/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1639:impact-of-the-obama-space-policy-one-year-on-experts-say-its-all-in-the-implementation-&catid=91:news&Itemid=84]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The upshot of the Secure … </span>__a part of policy__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, he added.</span>

**Data secrecy dooms SSA**
**Bennett 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[James, C. Research Associate @ George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, “The Coast Guard Model: A Third Organizational Option For International SSA Data Sharing and Other US Space Responsibilities,” George Washington University, Space Policy Institute, http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/CoastGuardModel-GWUpaper.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Recent events have underscored the … </span>__Commandant__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">of the Space Guard.</span>

**AND, The aff solves**
**1. Cooperation and personnel**
**Bennett 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[James C. Bennett, Research Associate @ George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, the author of The Anglosphere Challenge, has been involved in space entrepreneurship, consulting, and advocacy for more than three decades “Proposing a ‘Coast Guard’ for Space,” Winter Issue, [[http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/proposing-a-coast-guard-for-space]], 11/5/11 (Last Modified Date)]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">3. New responsibilities. In addition … </span><span class="Underline">search, rescue, and recovery operations.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">2. NORAD</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Bennett 10** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[James, Fellow at the Secure World Foundation, “The Norad Experience: Implications for International Space Surveillance Data Sharing” August 1, 2010]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For the purposes of this … are questions for further study.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">3. Burden sharing</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Kelso 10** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[T.S, PhD in Operations Research, MS in Space Operations at Air Force Institute of Technology, BS in Physics at US Air Force Academy and is currently senior research astrodynamicist at the Center for Space Standards and Innovation, “How International Collaboration is Improving Space Situational Awareness” High Frontier Volume 6, No. 2]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today’s Solutions As with any … </span><span class="Underline">of another collision in orbit.</span>

**AND, Decades of research by space policy experts provides the foundation for the 1AC, which should be privileged over their generic “k turns case” arguments**
**Bowers et al 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Dual BA in Computer Science and Management Information Systems @ University of Nebraska-Omaha [ , Stephanie M. Cook (Master’s candidate in the Political Science @ University of Nebraska-Omaha, Edward James Dale (BA in Electronic Engineering @ University of Nebraska-Omaha, Josh Koch (Dual BA in Physics and Mathematics @ University of Nebraska-Omaha), John James Miller ( BA in Computer Engineering @ University of Nebraska-Omaha), Stephanie D. Silva (Master’s candidate in Public Administration @ University of Nebraska-Omaha) Space Debris: Applied Technology and Policy Prescriptions, USSTRATCOM Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Intern Pogram, Fall 2007 – Project 07-02, January 2008, pg. 8]</span>
__Communications, global commerce and national … **clarity**__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to space-faring entities.</span>

===Air Force [Glenbrooks]=== 
**It’s at a crossroads now**
**Moseley 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [18th Chief of Staff @ US Air Force [General T. Michael Moseley, “The Nation’s Guardians; America’s 21st Century Air Force,” CSAF White Paper, 29 Dec 2007, pg. http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA477488&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">No modern war has been … </span>__dominance is essential to victory__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Funding trade-offs kill recapitalization**
**McKinley 00**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Lt Col Cynthia A. S. McKinley (BA, Moorhead State University; MS, Troy State University; MAAS, School of Advanced Airpower Studies) is commander of the 21st Operations Support Squadron, Peterson AFB, Colorado, which provides mission support to Air Force Space Command’s (AFSPC) worldwide network of attack warning and space surveillance units. Prior to assuming command, she was the deputy director of the commander’s action group at AFSPC. A graduate of Squadron Officer School and Air Command and Staff College, Colonel McKinley has published articles in Aviation Week and Space Technology, Space News, and several symposia proceedings, She has also been a guest lecturer at Air War College and space war games. “Organizing America's Space Assets for the Twenty-First Century,” Aerospace Power Journal - Spring 2000, http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj00/spr00/mckinley.htm)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Funding Tensions - This cultural stress … portion of its current responsibilities.</span>

**Budget cuts make this worse**
**Shalal-Esa 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Andrea, “US Air Force sees mounting budget pressures,” [[http://in.reuters.com/article/2011/04/05/airforce-budget-idINN0511422720110405]]]</span>
__U.S. Air Force Secretary Michael …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">evacuation of U.S. personnel from Japan.</span>

**The plan solves**
**McKinley 00**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Lt Col Cynthia A. S. McKinley (BA, Moorhead State University; MS, Troy State University; MAAS, School of Advanced Airpower Studies) is commander of the 21st Operations Support Squadron, Peterson AFB, Colorado, which provides mission support to Air Force Space Command’s (AFSPC) worldwide network of attack warning and space surveillance units. Prior to assuming command, she was the deputy director of the commander’s action group at AFSPC. A graduate of Squadron Officer School and Air Command and Staff College, Colonel McKinley has published articles in Aviation Week and Space Technology, Space News, and several symposia proceedings, She has also been a guest lecturer at Air War College and space war games. “Organizing America's Space Assets for the Twenty-First Century,” Aerospace Power Journal - Spring 2000, http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj00/spr00/mckinley.htm]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The United States Space Guard - … </span>__all government and commercial sectors.__

**Air Power solves conflict—specifically over the Spratly Islands**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Tellis 98</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> [Ashley J. Tellis et al, Chung Min Lee, James Mulvenon, Courtney Purrington, and Michael D. Swaine, Sources Of Conflict In The 21st Century, http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR897/MR897.chap3.pdf, chapter 3, 1998]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The first key implication derived … lift and airborne tanker support.</span>

**Now is Key—Spratly conflict tensions are high and India gets drawn in**
**Time 9/19**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Time Magazine with CNN, Ishaan Tharoor, “ Is This How Wars Start? India and China Now Feud Over the South China Sea”, http://globalspin.blogs.time.com/2011/09/19/is-this-how-wars-start-india-and-china-now-feud-over-the-south-china-sea/#disqus_thread]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Last week, </span>__one of the … — and the fallout potentially incalculable__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===Multilateralism [Glenbrooks]=== 
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">China and the U.S. are engaged in a technological cold war – the brink is now</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Discovery News 11/1 </span>****<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> “SATELLITE BATTLEGROUND IN SPACE? China may be tinkering with U.S. satellites and experts say other countries are likely doing the same.” Tue Nov 1, 2011 [[http://news.discovery.com/space/satellites-cold-war-hacking-china.html]]] SV</span>
__<span style="background-color: lime;">Space has</span>____<span style="background-color: white;"> long been a battleground … hard to be too indignant."</span>__

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Space Militarization makes the worst types of violence inevitable</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Bormann 9**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Natalie, Visiting Assistant Professor at the Department of Political Science. Prior to her affiliation with Northeastern University she held a position at the Watson Institute for International Studies, Brown University, “A spatial reading of US weaponisation of space” From //Securing Our Space//” Pg. 86-88]</span>
<span class="Underline">The new technologies that allow … soon make no intervention possible.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">It also causes Russia’s hair-trigger nuclear posture</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Krepon 4**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Michael, MA from the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University, and a BA from Franklin & Marshall College and co-founder of Stimson, and director of the South Asia and Space Security programs, “Avoiding the Weaponization of Space”, A Code of Conduct for Responsible Space-Faring Nations, November 2004]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If the United States leads … </span><span class="Underline">the heavens into a shooting gallery.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">That causes extinction</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Caldicott 5**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Helen, Australian physician, won nobel peace prize 1985, president of the nuclear policy research institute in Washington. “Nuclear-War Threat Still Very real,” Interviewer Martin Sieff, UPI May 18,2]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Q. The Cold War has … </span>to death in the dark.

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">The plan enforces the NSP which solves weaponization</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Lewis 11** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[James, PhD in International Economics and a senior fellow and program director at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, “Engagement and Sustainability in the 2010 National Space Policy” Frontier Volume 7 Number 2, pg 30]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The idea that there are … </span><span class="Underline">associated with the Cold War.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Countries are watching the US—failure to implement the plan forgoes cooperation</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Rendleman and Ryals 11** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Col. James Randleman is a J.D. and BS and was second lieutenant through the Air Force ROTC, Col. Robert Ryals is a BSEE, JD, and MA and a Force Space Command as a contractor in space control and as an instructor for the past five years at the Space Innovation and Development Center’s Advanced Space Operations School, “The New National Space Policy: More is Needed” February 2011, High Frontier Volume 7, No. 2]</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Interest in international space cooperation … </span><span class="Underline">intelligence community by DoD officials</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===Debris [Glenbrooks]=== 
**Space debris is increasing – ASAT tests and lack of infrastructure**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">David 9 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Leonard, “Orbital Debris Cleanup Takes Center Stage,” October 7, http://www.space.com/7377-orbital-debris-cleanup-takes-center-stage.html] </span>
<span class="underline0">Active discussion is underway as … to the value of space assets</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**It’s reaching a tipping point now—failure to control it collapses space assets and causes miscalc**
**Telegraph 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [“Space so full of junk that a satellite collision could destroy communications on Earth,” February, http://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/space/8295546/Space-so-full-of-junk-that-a-satellite-collision-could-destroy-communications-on-Earth.html]</span>
The volume of<span class="Underline"> abandoned </span>rockets<span class="Underline">, … this kind of destructive force</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">."</span>

**Miscalculation in space escalates to nuclear and biological warfare**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Mitchell 1 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Gordon R., Member of the Center for Strategic and International Studies Working Group on Theater Missile Defenses in the Asia-Pacific Region., Winter “Japan-U.S. Missile Defense Collaboration: Rhetorically Delicious, Deceptively Dangerous”, **http://www.pitt.edu/~gordonm/JPubs/JapanTMD.pdf]** </span>
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Any clear-cut distinction between offensive …</span><span style="background-color: lime;">destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>**

Cooperative SSA results in debris removal—US efforts are critical and military SSA fails
Weeden 9 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Brian Weeden, Bachelor's in Science (B.S.) in Electrical Engineering from Clarkson University and a Masters in Science (M.S) in Space Studies from the University of North Dakota. He is also a graduate of the International Space University Space Studies Program, has over a decade of professional technical and operations experience in the national and international space security arena. His wealth of technical knowledge has established him as a thought leader for providing critical analysis that supports development of space policy on a global scale. Prior to joining the Foundation, Mr. Weeden served nine years on active duty as an officer in the United States Air Force working in space and ICBM operations. As part of U.S. Strategic Command's Joint Space Operations Center (JSpOC), Captain Weeden directed the orbital analyst training program and developed tactics, techniques and procedures for improving space situational awareness. In his current role as Technical Advisor, Mr. Weeden conducts research on global space situational awareness, space traffic management, protection of space assets, and prevention of conflict in space. “FEATURE: Space Sustainability: To Preserve And Protect...,” SAT Magazine, http://www.satmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=1415465455]</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">More recently, we have also … </span><span class="Underline">both governmental and commercial operators. </span>**

Now is key—lack of dedicated US civil SSA means international efforts will fail
Bennett 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[James, C. Research Associate @ George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, “The Coast Guard Model: A Third Organizational Option For International SSA Data Sharing and Other US Space Responsibilities,” George Washington University, Space Policy Institute, http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/CoastGuardModel-GWUpaper.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Recent events have underscored the … </span>__Commandant__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">of the Space Guard. </span>


===NASA Tradeoff [Ohio Valley]=== 

**Warming is coming now and climate denial must be rejected in policy discussion**

<span class="Underline">**CFR 9/25**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Council on Foreign Relations, reposted from the AP written by Charles Hanley AP Special correspondent, AP: The American 'Allergy' to Global Warming: Why?, [[http://www.cfr.org/climate-change/ap-american-allergy-global-warming-why/p26042?cid=rss-fullfeed-apthe_americanallergyto_-092511&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+cfr_main+%28CFR.org+-+Main+Site+Feed%29&utm_content=Google+Reader]], 2011] SV</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">NEW YORK (AP) — Tucked between treatises … </span><span class="Underline">protect the habitat that sustains us</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">."</span>



<span class="Heading2Char">Space Guard refocuses NASA</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">E-E 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ( Engineering Ethics, Written by a consulting engineer and who teaches engineering courses at Texas State University; citing James C. Bennett, "From NASA to USSG: Fixing the U. S. Space Programs", 6/20/11, </span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> engineeringethicsblog.blogspot.com/2011/06/from-nasa-to-ussg-fixing-u-s-space.htmlghs-avi)</span>

__The domination by NASA of …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">do the right thing about it.</span>



<span class="Heading2Char">That’s key to Earth Science which solves the environment</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Killeen 5</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Timothy, PhD, Director of the National Center for Atmospheric Research, 28th April 2005, “Senate Hearing on NASA's Earth Science Program”, [[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=16382]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is clear after decades … </span>__ecosystems__ __to simultaneous multiple stresses.__



**Warming causes Extinction and outweighs nuclear war**

**Morgan 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Dennis Ray, Professor of Current Affairs @ Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, South Korea, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race”, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693, ScienceDirect, Note: We do not endorse of the word Holocaust as an analogy to the Nazi Genocide of the Jewish Race but rather its actual definition: “a great or complete devastation or destruction, especially by fire.” Dictionary.com]</span>

__As horrifying as the scenario … **against our chances of survival**?__



**So does Biodiversity loss**

**Coyne and Hoekstra 7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[*professor in the Department of Ecology and Evolution at the University of Chicago AND </span>

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Associate Professor in the Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology at Harvard University (Jerry and Hopi, The</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">New Republic, “The Greatest Dying,” 9/24, [[http://www.truthout.org/article/jerry-coyne-and-hopi-e-hoekstra-the-greatestdying]])]</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Aside from the Great Dying, … </span>__greatest dying of them all.__**



Ozone depletion is coming now

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">ERL 6/13</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Environmental Research Web, “Ozone hole has affected whole Southern Hemisphere,” [[http://environmentalresearchweb.org/cws/article/news/46255]]]</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Researchers have, </span>__for the first …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">ozone hole will affect these."</span>**



Extinction

Greenpeace 95**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Full of Holes: Montreal Protocol and the Continuing Destruction of the Ozone Layer -- A Greenpeace Report with contributions from Ozone Action, http://archive.greenpeace.org/ozone/holes/holebg.html)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When chemists Sherwood Rowland and … </span>**__continuation of life on earth.__**

====Climate Denial Impact==== 
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Climate denialism is 21st century invisible racism at its finest</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Mooney 8/2**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Chris, science and political journalist specializing in science in politics, the psychology of denialism, Knight Science Journalism Fellow, MIT; Visiting Associate, Center for Collaborative History, Princeton U; 8/2/11 (“What’s Up With Conservative White Men and Climate Change Denial?,” http://www.desmogblog.com/what-s-conservative-white-men-and-climate-change-denial)]</span>
<span class="Underline">They’re </span>the conservative white men<span class="Underline"> ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> denial blogs serve to fan the flames.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Racism must be rejected in every instance without surcease</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Memmi 00** [Albert, Professor Emeritus of Sociology at the University of Paris, "Racism", translated by Steve Martinot, pg.163-165]</span>
<span class="Underline">The struggle against racism ... the stakes are irresistible. </span>
==2AC-Case== 
===CP Solvency Deficit Framing=== 
**Any solvency deficit to a counterplan means you vote Aff—constant asteroid risk means that we only have to be wrong once**
**Barbee 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (4/1, Brent W., BS, Aerospace Engineering degree from UT Austin; MS in Engineering from the Department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics at the University of Texas, Austin specializing in Astrodynamics and Spacecraft Mission Design, currently working as an Aerospace Engineer and Planetary Defense Scientist with the Emergent Space Technologies company in Greenbelt, Maryland, teaches graduate Astrodynamics in the Department of Aerospace Engineering at The University of Maryland, College Park, “Planetary Defense”, [[http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational/apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm|http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational//apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm]])</span>
__It is generally accepted that … process for defense against NEOs.__

===Radio UQ=== 
<span class="Underline">**Radio Frequency use is hitting a tipping point—Major countries plus developing countries**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Argentina, Brazil, China, Mexico, India, Indonesia, Thailand, US, Private Companies</span>
<span class="Underline">**Jakhu 2/26**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Dr. Ram Jakhu Ph.D, “International Regulatory Aspects of Radio Spectrum Management”, www.ictregulationtoolkit.org/en/Document.3301.pdfInstitute of Air and Space Law, McGill University, Last Date Modified: 2/26/2012]</span>
<span class="Underline">Telecommunication </span>satellites<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, which </span>operatewith<span class="Underline"> … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">management at the international level. </span>

===Cooperation Uniqueness-ROSE=== 
<span class="Underline">**Rose flows Aff—We must increase efforts for Civil SSA efforts—2012 is the Litmus test for TCBMs**</span>
**Rose 2/16**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Frank A. Rose, Deputy Assistant Secretary, Bureau of Arms Control, Verification and Compliance, Walter E. Washington Convention Center, “STATE’S ROSE ON INTERNATIONAL SPACE COOPERATION”, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Arms Control, Verification and Compliance Frank A. Rose addresses the 15th annual FAA Commercial Space Transportation Conference in Washington on the risks, transparency and benefits of international space cooperation. February 16, 2012, http://www.uspolicy.be/headline/state%E2%80%99s-rose-international-space-cooperation]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, </span>decades<span class="Underline"> of space activity </span>… <span style="font-size: 8pt;">in, and the peaceful use of, space. </span>

===AT—No Weaponization Now=== 
**1. China is weaponizing now—our BBC evidence postdates and the PLA is distinct which means their defense doesn’t apply**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wortzel 8</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Larry, Ret. Colonel United States Army, “The Chinese People’s Liberation Army and Space Warfare”, Astropolitics 6; 112-137) </span>
__The PLA is exploring__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in … </span>__space in any future conflict__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**5. New white paper proves nothing**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Cheng 1/18** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dean, Research Fellow in Chinese Political and Security Affairs in the Asian Studies Center at The Heritage Foundation, “Meeting the Chinese Space Challenge,” http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2012/01/us-needs-to-meet-chinas-space-challenge-of-the-next-5-years) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Several key characteristics of </span>China’s<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span><span class="Underline">some clue about potential priorities</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


===AT—Radio not Key=== 
**2. Arecibo is being used now and it has full funding—it is critical**
**Earth Issues 2/10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [http://www.earth-issues.com/tag/asteroid/, February 10, 2012]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A near-Earth asteroid named 2005 </span>__…__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">from the National Science Foundation. </span>

<span class="Underline">**3. Optical Systems fail without radio astronomy**</span>
**Schweickart et al 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Russel L., Bachelor of Science in Aeronautical Engineering, MIT Master of Science in Aeronautics and Astronautics, MIT, Association of Space Explorers International Panel on Asteroid Threat Mitigation, “Asteroid Threats: A Call For Global Response”, [[http://www.space-explorers.org/ATACGR.pdf)/DT|http://www.space-explorers.org/ATACGR.pdf)//DT]]</span>
__Asteroid impacts occur on both … us little or no warning.__
==__2AC-Disads__== 
===Politics=== 
<span class="Underline">**SBSS just funded – your DA’s are non-unique** </span>
<span class="Underline">**GovWin 1/4**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The GovWin News team follows the latest developments for GovWin from Deltek, the network that helps government contractors win new business every day. GovWin Recon is the team’s daily newsletter highlighting federal government contracting news and analysis from around the GovCon world. Get it delivered to your inbox, free! To contact the team or suggest an item for the Recon, send mail to tips@govwin.com. GovWin Recon: Jan. 4, 2012: Panetta to Present Budget Strategy; DOD Cannot Grant Highest LEED Certifications; FAC 2005-55 Added 01/04/2012 DOD Contract Announcements Contract Announcements for January 3, 2012 [Defense.gov] – http://govwin.com/govwin-news_blog/govwin-recon-jan-4-2012/353695</span>
<span class="Underline">Raytheon won</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Air Force …</span><span class="Underline"> Space Surveillance Block 10 System. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">8.</span>** No Link and plan popular
**Bennett 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[James C. Bennett, Research Associate @ George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, the author of The Anglosphere Challenge, has been involved in space entrepreneurship, consulting, and advocacy for more than three decades “Proposing a ‘Coast Guard’ for Space,” Winter Issue, [[http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/proposing-a-coast-guard-for-space]], 11/5/11 (Last Modified Date)]</span>
<span class="Underline">The USAF has had some … than the space regulatory role. </span>

**9. Link Turn— Ruppersberger/Kyl**
**Ruppersberger like the plan**
**Clark 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Colin, editor of defense issues for AOL news, “C.A> ‘Dutch’ Ruppersberger Pushes For Billion-Dollar Missile Defense Satellite,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/05/04/dutch-ruppersberger-billion-dollar-missile-defense-satellite_n_857740.html)</span>
A powerful<span class="Underline"> House </span>Democratannounced<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 8pt;">awareness a top administration space priority.</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Ruppersberger is influential</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dutch House 7 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">– “Ruppersberger Named 36th Most Powerful Member of Congress,”[[http://dutch.house.gov/2007/03/Ruppersberger-36th-Most-Powerful.html.shtml]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Washington, D.C.)- </span>Congressman<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> C.A. Dutch </span>Ruppersberger<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (D-… participation and grass roots organizing.</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Kyl supports SSA</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Morris 07</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Jefferson Morris – Aerospace Daily and Defense Report for Aviation Week, March 9 2007, “Kyl Calls For Bigger Space Budgets,” [[http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_generic.jsp?channel=aerospacedaily&id=news/kyl0309.xml&headline=Kyl%20Calls%20For%20Bigger%20Space%20Budgets]]</span>

<span class="Underline">In the wake of China's</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span><span class="Underline">defensive or offensive counterspace missions</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">."</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Kyl is influential</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Roll Call 09 – </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">March 17 2009, “Kyl Whips Quietly, but Effectively,” [[http://www.rollcall.com/issues/54_103/-33205-1.html]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While he lacks the sizzle … </span><span class="Underline">of the party’s top messengers.</span>

===Aerospace Integration DA=== 
**1. Aff solves the disad—It create a code of conduct which solves miltiraization and miscalc and it makes Military SSA effective**
<span class="Underline">**Kelso 10** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[T.S, PhD in Operations Research, MS in Space Operations at Air Force Institute of Technology, BS in Physics at US Air Force Academy and is currently senior research astrodynamicist at the Center for Space Standards and Innovation, “How International Collaboration is Improving Space Situational Awareness” High Frontier Volume 6, No. 2]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today’s Solutions As with any …</span><span class="Underline">the risk of another collision in orbit. </span>

**3. Invulnerable capability from satellites causes pre-emption—turns the disad**
**Chari 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Research Professor, Institute of Peace and Conflict Studies, “CHINA’S ASAT TEST Seeking the Strategic High Ground,”[[http://www.ipcs.org/pdf_file/issue/1512612560IPCS-Special-Report-34.pdf]])</span>
__<span style="background-color: lime;">Possession of satellites</span>__ __with both … and tensions in bilateral relations__<span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**7. Their author qualifications are reasons their evidence is suspect**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Grondin 7**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> — David Grondin, Lecturer in the School of Political Studies at the University of Ottawa, holds a Ph.D. in Political Science from the University of Quebec at Montreal, 2007 ("The US Religion of Technology in the Weaponization of Outer Space? A Case for Technological Atheism and Resisting Space War," Paper Presented At The Annual Meeting Of The International Studies Association 48th Annual Convention, February 28th, Available Online via All Academic at http://citation.allacademic.com/meta/p_mla_apa_research_citation/1/7/8/9/4/p178946_index.html, Accessed 07-18-2011)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">With </span>Space weaponization as conceived … <span style="font-size: 7pt;">, but only of a “total peace”. </span>

<span class="Underline">**8. Gradual Accretion solves their Aerospace Integration Concerns—their evidence assumes the big bang**</span>
**Bennett 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[James C. Bennett, Research Associate @ George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute, the author of The Anglosphere Challenge, has been involved in space entrepreneurship, consulting, and advocacy for more than three decades “Proposing a ‘Coast Guard’ for Space,” Winter Issue, [[http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/proposing-a-coast-guard-for-space]], 11/5/11 (Last Modified Date)]</span>
<span class="Underline">Broadly speaking, </span>there are two … <span class="Underline">of increasing his department’s turf</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**9. They critique the “Big Bang” approach—ill read the evidence they think we defend**
**McKinley 00**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Lt Col Cynthia A. S. McKinley (BA, Moorhead State University; MS, Troy State University; MAAS, School of Advanced Airpower Studies) is commander of the 21st Operations Support Squadron, Peterson AFB, Colorado, which provides mission support to Air Force Space Command’s (AFSPC) worldwide network of attack warning and space surveillance units. Prior to assuming command, she was the deputy director of the commander’s action group at AFSPC. A graduate of Squadron Officer School and Air Command and Staff College, Colonel McKinley has published articles in Aviation Week and Space Technology, Space News, and several symposia proceedings, She has also been a guest lecturer at Air War College and space war games. “Organizing America's Space Assets for the Twenty-First Century,” Aerospace Power Journal - Spring 2000, http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj00/spr00/mckinley.htm]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The United States Space Guard - … commanding, to on-orbit mission specialties.</span>


===Spacemil/Unilateralism=== 





**1. Nonunique—the US is increasing unilateralism now—that’s 1AC Chow—status quo increases in SSA will trigger your disads**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gasparini & Miranda 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Giovanni Gasparini space expert at Istituto Affari Internazionali, Italy, Valerie Miranda, assistant researcher at the Security and Defense Institute, 2010, “Space Situational Awareness: an Overview,” http://www.springerlink.com/content/n480x67nj5m0w92m/fulltext.pdf</span>

<span class="Underline">A Space Awareness system … to the relative small cost of attacking it.</span>



**3. Nonunique—****<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">X-37, Aurora, DoD, Obama, and speculation</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Lasker 10 </span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">a freelance journalist from Ohio. He has a new book out, "TECHNOIR: 13 Investigations from the Darkside of Technology". He specializes in cybewarfare and military technology, talking with Gagnon, director of the Global Network Against Weapons and Nuclear Power in Space (John Lasker, 27 May 2010 “US Space Weapon Now Circling the Globe” http://towardfreedom.com/home/content/view/1980/1/</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>



__<span style="background-color: yellow;">The US space weapon X-37 is now circling…**weaponization, and nuclearization of space**</span>**.**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">" </span>

==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2AC-Counterplans</span>== 
===SSA PIC=== 
<span class="Underline">**6. Civil SSA is a prerequisite**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">SWF Quoting Theresa </span><span class="Underline">**Hitchens**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in 200</span><span class="Underline">**8**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Secure World Foundation, Theresa Hitches is Director of the Center for Defense Information, “Traffic Management in Outer Space: Call for a Global Civil System”, [[http://www.newswise.com/articles/traffic-management-in-outer-space-call-for-a-global-civil-system]], 11/7/2008]</span>
<span class="Underline">Given an ever-crowded</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and … </span><span class="Underline">a solid first step</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">," Hitchens concluded. </span>

===ISPEC=== 
**10. I-SPIC fails—too bureaucratic and doesn't resolve military distrust—1NC Solvency Advocate**
**__Cox, '7__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—Colonel in the USAF (… Center?," USAWC Strategy Research Project)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">+++COLA = Collision Avoidance+++</span>
__The mere mention of establishing … governing organization, most likely the UN.__

<span class="Underline">**11. The aff strengthens NORAD which solves better than a new International program and solves the link to the net benefit**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Bennett 10** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[James, Fellow at the Secure World Foundation, “The Norad Experience: Implications for International Space Surveillance Data Sharing” August 1, 2010]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For the purposes of this … are questions for further study. </span>

**The Negotiator is still the military which means the CP doesn’t solve mistrust**
**__Chow, '10__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—SWF Research Assistant (Tiffany, “”SSA Sharing Program SWF Issue Brief.” http://swfound.org/media/6572/swf%20issue%20brief%20-%20ssa%20sharing%20program%20with%20execsum%20-%20final.pdf) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In addition to these issues of limitation … </span>__through the SSA Sharing Program.__


=***SSA= 
==<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Plans</span>== 
TEXT: The United States federal government should deploy an integrated Space Situational Awareness sensor network.
TEXT: The United States federal government should develop integrated Space Situational Awareness.

==__Heg__== 

Currently, the U.S. has leveraged advantages in space- cross domain superiority prove
**Zhang 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Baohui, Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University, Hong Kong, The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship Author(s): Baohui Zhang Source: Asian Survey, Vol. 51, No. 2 (March/April 2011), pp. 311-332 Published by: University of California Press Stable URL: [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/10.1525/AS.2011.51.2.311]]]</span>
__The U.S. is the leader in … atmosphere, space and electromagnetic spectrum.”__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">16</span>

Space parity is increasing – competitors acquiring ASAT capabilities
**Krepon 3** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Space Assurance or Space Dominance?, The Case Against Weaponizing Space, Michael Krepon with Christopher Clary Copyright © 2003 The Henry L. Stimson Center ]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A quarter-century ago, </span>__work … in its regional security environment.__

====__Scenario 1 is China__==== 

China is militarizing in the status quo- ASAT tests and PLA defense trajectory - militarization is occurring to counter U.S. space assets
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Zhang 11 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Baohui, Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University, Hong Kong, The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship Author(s): Baohui Zhang Source: Asian Survey, Vol. 51, No. 2 (March/April 2011), pp. 311-332 Published by: University of California Press Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/10.1525/AS.2011.51.2.311 .]</span>
__China’s military space program and … space planning and/or activity.”__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">6</span>

**China will asymmetrically attack US satellites—empirics**
**Choong 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [William, Senior Writer @ The Strait Times, articles appear in The International Institute of Strategic Studies, The Strait Times, “Reading too much into the stars?,” May 12, 2009, LexisNexis] SV</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">LAST month, China lofted a navigational … Soviet Union in 1962 and 1969 respectively.</span>

SSA solves satellite vulnerability and allow us to deter attacks
**Krepon 3** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Space Assurance or Space Dominance?, The Case Against Weaponizing Space, Michael Krepon with Christopher Clary Copyright © 2003 The Henry L. Stimson Center ]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There are a number of ways … </span>__damage to the GPS system__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 37</span>


Absent strong SSA deterrence will fail- Recognizing capabilities deters and ‘closes the loop’ on vulnerabilities
**Adams & France 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Richard J and Martin E, Major, Air Force Space Command and Colonel, Air Force Space Command “The Chinese Threat to US Space Superiority,” Winter, The High Frontier Journal, Vol. 1, Num. 3, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-070622-057.pdf]]]</span>
__If the US wishes to … neutralize or defeat a stronger foe__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Escalation causes extinction – causes resource depletion and destroys MAD
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bhagwat 10</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Admiral Vishnu Bhagwat, former Chief of the Naval Staff, India “The Weaponization of Space: Corporate Driven Military Unleashes Pre-emptive Wars” October 17, 2010 [[http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=21432]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As early as 1996, General Joseph … </span>__-sustaining resources of mother earth.__

ASAT strike causes Taiwan conflict to escalate
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Easton 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ian Easton, Research Fellow at the 2049 Project Institute, 2009. “The Great Game in Space,” http://www.project2049.net/documents/china_asat_weapons_the_great_game_in_space.pdf)</span>
Any<span class="Underline"> possible </span>U.S. <span class="Underline">… weapons could have.</span>

Taiwan War causes Extinction
**Straits Times 00**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">June 25, 2000, Pg. l/n</span>
__The__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> high-intensity </span>__scenario postulates a … see the destruction of civilisation__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

====__Scenario 2 is Space Dominance__==== 
SSA is key to Information Superiority and space dominance – key to sustain hegemony
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Baines 5 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Philip J, Senior Advisor, Science and Technology, Non-Proliferation, Arms Control and Disarmament Division, Department of Foreign Affairs, United Nations Institute of Disarmament Research, March 21-22 2005, “Safeguarding Space Security: Prevention of an Arms Race in Outer Space” kms1.isn.ethz.ch/.../Files/.../2005_SafeguardingSpaceSecurity-full.pdf]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">This leads to an argument … opposing space-based weapon deployment.</span></span>
SSA is critical to tightening OODA loops – it’s the crucial internal link to heg
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Baines 5 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Philip J, Senior Advisor, Science and Technology, Non-Proliferation, Arms Control and Disarmament Division, Department of Foreign Affairs, United Nations Institute of Disarmament Research, March 21-22 2005, “Safeguarding Space Security: Prevention of an Arms Race in Outer Space” kms1.isn.ethz.ch/.../Files/.../2005_SafeguardingSpaceSecurity-full.pdf]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In addition, it is also … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">discern the absence of a weapon.</span>__</span>
American hegemony is necessary to prevent conflict in every region of the world – trade, competition, Indo-Pak war, Russia war, and East Asian War
<span class="Heading2Char">Kagan 7</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Robert, a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund, “End of Dreams, Return of History, 6-19, [[http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The jostling for status and … **will provide an easier path**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Extinction
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pazner 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael J., Faculty – New York Institute of Finance, Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse, p. 137-138)</span>
<span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The rise in</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> isolationism and </span><span style="background-color: lime; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">… __beginnings of a new__ </span>//<span style="background-color: lime; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">world war</span>//**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**


==<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Miscalculation Adv</span>== 

Miscalculation is inevitable in the status quo- data sharing exists, however opacity will overwhelm accuracy
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NSTAC 9 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[The President’s National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee, “NSTAC Report to the President on Commercial Satellite Communications Misson Assurance,” November 2009, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.ncs.gov/nstac/reports/2009/NSTAC%20STF%20Report%20FINAL%2011302009.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Operators continuously and accurately track … </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">resources or appropriately skilled technicians.</span>__

Additionally, space debris is increasing – ASAT tests and lack of infrastructure
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">David 9 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Leonard, “Orbital Debris Cleanup Takes Center Stage,” October 7, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.space.com/7377-orbital-debris-cleanup-takes-center-stage.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
Active discussion is underway as … the value of space assets<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Enhanced SSA solves miscalculation- tracking abilities creates distinctions between threats and non-threats
**MacDonald 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Bruce W, former assistant director for national security at the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy as well as senior director for science and technology on the National Security Council staff, “China, Space Weapons, and U.S. Security,” i.cfr.org/content/publications/attachments/China_Space_CSR38.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">SSA is the ability … </span>__effective retaliation or deterrence strategy__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Specifically, Chinese defense planners are uncertain of U.S. military capabilities- and will act on misperceptions
**Blair and Yali 6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[//China Security// Published by the World Security Institute and produced jointly with the Chen Shi China Research Group Bruce G. Blair is the President of the World Security Institute. Chen Yali is the editor-in-chief of Washington Observer, [[http://www.wsichina.org/attach/china_security2.pdf]]]</span>
__In the pioneering space war … instruments__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">of dialogue and cooperation.</span>


Miscalculation in space escalates to nuclear and biological warfare
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Mitchell 1 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Gordon R., Member of the Center for Strategic and International Studies Working Group on Theater Missile Defenses in the Asia-Pacific Region., Winter “Japan-U.S. Missile Defense Collaboration: Rhetorically Delicious, Deceptively Dangerous”, **http://www.pitt.edu/~gordonm/JPubs/JapanTMD.pdf] SV</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Any clear-cut distinction between … </span><span style="background-color: lime;">destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>
==<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Solvency</span>== 

Contention 3 is Solvency
Current SSA infrastructure is lacking – bad command and control and lack of integration
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Turnbull 8 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Wallace R. III, Major and aeronautical engineer, “Beyond Awareness: Moving Towards Comprehensive Space Situational Knowledge”]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In order to forecast what … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">undetected in the LEO regime.</span>__

The plan solves existing flaws while ensuring future effectiveness
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">GAO 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [United States Government Accountability Office, May 2011. SPACE ACQUISITIONS Development and Oversight Challenges in Delivering Improved Space Situational Awareness Capabilities </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d11545.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">DOD has</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> significantly increased its … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">may need to be made.</span>

A credible SSA system strengthens both military and civilian components of space- ensures communication and integration
**Brown 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Patrick A, Major, USAF Space Protection Program (Integration) “Promoting the Safe and Responsible Use of Space: Toward a 21st Century Transparency Framework,” November, The High Frontier Journal, Vol. 5, Num. 1, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-081117-032.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
__Past proposals for international confidence … value and benefits are exponential__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
===Framework=== 
**Policymaking and philosophy are mutually exclusive—in the context of space policy, conflation causes policy failure**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chadwick6</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Dr. Richard W. is a professor of political science at University of Hawaii, March 2006, International Studies Association Annual Convention, “Technology, Power, Politics, Outer Space, and Ethics: Notes towards a New Paradigm, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.hawaii.edu/intlrel/ChadwickOuterSpaceISA.pdf</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
The scientist, political practitioner (from … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(their career, party and so on).</span>

==2AC== 
===Addons=== 
====**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">North Korea</span>**==== 
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">SSA is key to prevent North Korean lashout</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Putman 09** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Christopher, “Countering the Chinese Threat to Low Earth Orbit Satellites,” United States Marine Corps, Command and Staff College, 2009, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA510842&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ADDITIONAL RECOMMENDATIONS While this paper … the absence of hostile action.</span>

**Extinction**
**Hamel-Green 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (1/5, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.nautilus.org/]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
__The consequences offailing to …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">relationships with the United States.</span>
====__**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Econ</span>**__==== 
**Collapse in space would crush the global economy**
**Dolman 5** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Everett C. Dolman. Associate Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies. “US Military Transformation and Weapons.” September 14, 2005. [[http://www.e-parl.net/pages/space_hearing_images/ConfPaper%20Dolman%20US%20Military%20Transform%20%26%20Space.pdf]].]</span>
__No nation relies on space …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">, a true transformation from conflicts past.</span>

**Extinction**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Royal 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Thus, the answer to the … considered ancillary to those views.</span>

====**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Weaponization</span>**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">SSA is key to signal US resolve and deter space weaponization</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cynamon 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Charles, Colonel USAF 2/12/09 “Defending America’s Interests in Space” Air War College)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">There’s little doubt to most … capable of defeating an attack.</span></span>
**Extinction**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Krepon 4 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael,Co-founder of Stimson, and director of the South Asia and Space Security programs “Avoiding the Weaponization of Space” 2004 Arms Control Today )</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__If the U__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__leads …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">and nuclear </span>__weapons is realized.__</span>
====Japan Relations==== 

**SSA key to US-Japan relations**
**WEISGERBER 6/21** (MARCUS. Pentagon Correspondent at Defense News; “Japan, U.S. To Expand Missile Defense, Cyber Cooperation;” Defense News; [[http://www.defensenews.com/story.php?i=6881626&c=POL&s=TOP]])
__The United States …__ several years ago, which resulted in the creation of a large amount of space debris.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hayes & Hamel-Green, 10</span>** – *Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND ** Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,”<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf]]</span>)
The international community is … from the international community.


====Asteroid Strikes==== 
**SSA solves asteroids**
**Worden and Johnson-Freese 03** “Globalizing Space Security” Brigadier General Simon P. Worden, USAF, is director of development and transformation in the Space and Missile Systems Center at Air Force Space Command and Joan Johnson-Freese chairs the National Security Decision Making Department at the Naval War College [[http://www.dtic.mil/doctrine/jel/jfq_pubs/1233.pdf]]
Situational awareness includes … for sharing such data.

**extinction**
**McGUIRE 2002** (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 159-168)
The Tunguska events pale into insignificance when…, and sudden appearance, wc could do little about a new comet heading in our direction.

====NATO==== 
Improving SSA is key to NATO cooperation over SSA
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**ISAB 7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Study on Space Policy: Report of the International Security Advisory Board. . Washington, D.C.: U.S. State Department, April 27, 2007]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__Requirements to improve our own …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">with allies and other nations.</span></span>
That’s Key to Nato Deterrence
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Single 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Thomas Single, Major for USAF, Expert on Space, “Considerations for a NATO Space Policy”, European Space Policy Institute, 2008</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__The Alliance will maintain the … a top priority for the Alliance__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span>
Solves nuclear war
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Brzezinski 09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[ZBIGNIEW BRZEZINSKI, 2009, U.S. National Security Adviser from 1977 to 1981. His most recent book is Second Chance: Three Presidents and the Crisis of American Superpower, September 2009 - October 2009, (Foreign Affairs, SECTION: Pg. 2 Vol. 88 No. 5, HEADLINE: An Agenda for NATO Subtitle: Toward a Global Security Web, p. Lexis)]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">ADJUSTING TO A TRANSFORMED WORLD And … and the West more generally</span></span>
=***Scifi= 
==1AC-Northview== 

<span style="text-decoration: none;">“I always get the shakes before a drop. I've had the injections, of course, and hypnotic preparation, and it stands to reason that I can't really be afraid. The ship's psychiatrist has checked my brain waves and asked me silly questions while I was asleep and he tells me that it isn't fear, it isn't anything important -- it's just like the trembling of an eager race horse in the starting gate. I couldn't say about that; I've never been a race horse. But the fact is: I'm scared silly, every time. At D-minus-thirty, after we had mustered in the drop room of the Rodger Young, our platoon leader inspected us. He wasn't our regular platoon leader, because Lieutenant Rasczak had bought it on our last drop; he was really the platoon sergeant, Career Ship's Sergeant Jelal. Jelly was a Finno-Turk from Iskander around Proxima -- a swarthy little man who looked like a clerk, but I've seen him tackle two berserk privates so big he had to reach up to grab them, crack their heads together like coconuts, step back out of the way while they fell. Off duty he wasn't bad -- for a sergeant. You could even call him "Jelly" to his face. Not recruits, of course, but anybody who had made at least one combat drop. But right now he was on duty. We had all each inspected our combat equipment (look, it's your own neck -- see?), the acting platoon sergeant had gone over us carefully after he mustered us, and now Jelly went over us again, his face mean, his eyes missing nothing. He stopped by the man in front of me, pressed the button on his belt that gave readings on his physicals. "Fall out!" "But, Sarge, it's just a cold. The Surgeon said -- " Jelly interrupted. " `But Sarge!' " he snapped. "The Surgeon ain't making no drop -- and neither are you, with a degree and a half of fever. You think I got time to chat with you, just before a drop? Fall out!" Jenkins left us, looking sad and mad -- and I felt bad, too. Because of the Lieutenant buying it, last drop, and people moving up, I was assistant section leader, second section, this drop, and now I was going to have a hole in my section and no way to fill it. That's not good; it means a man can run into something sticky, call for help and have nobody to help him. Jelly didn't downcheck anybody else. Presently he stepped out in front of us, looked us over and shook his head sadly. "What a gang of apes!" he growled. "Maybe if you'd all buy it this drop, they could start over and build the kind of outfit the Lieutenant expected you to be. But probably not -- with the sort of recruits we get these days." He suddenly straightened up, shouted, "I just want to remind you apes that each and every one of you has cost the gov'ment, counting weapons, armor, ammo, instrumentation, and training, everything, including the way you overeat -- has cost, on the hoof, better'n half a million. Add in the thirty cents you are actually worth and that runs to quite a sum." He glared at us. "So bring it back! We can spare you, but we can't spare that fancy suit you're wearing. I don't want any heroes in this outfit; the Lieutenant wouldn't like it. You got a job to do, you go down, you do it, you keep your ears open for recall, you show up for retrieval on the bounce and by the numbers. Get me?" He glared again. "You're supposed to know the plan. But some of you ain't got any minds to hypnotize so I'll sketch it out. You'll be dropped in two skirmish lines, calculated two-thousand-yard intervals. Get your bearing on me as soon as you hit, get your bearing and distance on your squad mates, both sides, while you take cover. You've wasted ten seconds already, so you smash-and-destroy whatever's at hand until the flankers hit dirt." (He was talking about me -- as assistant section leader I was going to be left flanker, with nobody at my elbow. I began to tremble.) "Once they hit -- straighten out those lines! -- equalize those intervals! Drop what you're doing and do it! Twelve seconds. Then advance by leapfrog, odd and even, assistant section leaders minding the count and guiding the envelopment." He looked at me. "If you've done this properly -- which I doubt -- the flanks will make contact as recall sounds . . . at which time, home you go. Any questions?" There weren't any; there never were. He went on, "One more word -- This is just a raid, not a battle. It's a demonstration of firepower and frightfulness. Our mission is to let the enemy know that we could have destroyed their city -- but didn't -- but that they aren't safe even though we refrain from total bombing. You'll take no prisoners. You'll kill only when you can't help it. But the entire area we hit is to be smashed. I don't want to see any of you loafers back aboard here with unexpended bombs. Get me?" He glanced at the time. "Rasczak's Roughnecks have got a reputation to uphold. The Lieutenant told me before he bought it to tell you that he will always have his eye on you every minute . . . and that he expects your names to shine!" Jelly glanced over at Sergeant Migliaccio, first section leader. "Five minutes for the Padre," he stated. Some of the boys dropped out of ranks, went over and knelt in front of Migliaccio, and not necessarily those of his creed, either -- Moslems, Christians, Gnostics, Jews, whoever wanted a word with him before a drop, he was there. I've heard tell that there used to be military outfits whose chaplains did not fight alongside the others, but I've never been able to see how that could work. I mean, how can a chaplain bless anything he's not willing to do himself? In any case, in the Mobile Infantry, everybody drops and everybody fights chaplain and cook and the Old Man's writer. Once we went down the tube there wouldn't be a Roughneck left aboard -- except Jenkins, of course, and that not his fault. I didn't go over. I was always afraid somebody would see me shake if I did, and, anyhow, the Padre could bless me just as handily from where he was. But he came over to me as the last stragglers stood up and pressed his helmet against mine to speak privately. "Johnnie," he said quietly, "this is your first drop as a non-com." "Yeah." I wasn't really a non-com, any more than Jelly was really an officer. "Just this, Johnnie. Don't buy a farm. You know your job; do it. Just do it. Don't try to win a medal." "Uh, thanks, Padre. I shan't." He added something gently in a language I don't know, patted me on the shoulder, and hurried back to his section. Jelly called out, "Tenn . . . shut!" and we all snapped to. "Platoon!" "Section!" Migliaccio and Johnson echoed. "By sections-port and starboard-prepare for drop!" "Section! Man your capsules! Move!" "Squad!" -- I had to wait while squads four and five manned their capsules and moved on down the firing tube before my capsule showed up on the port track and I could climb into it. I wondered if those old-timers got the shakes as they climbed into the Trojan Horse? Or was it just me? Jelly checked each man as he was sealed in and he sealed me in himself. As he did so, he leaned toward me and said, "Don't goof off, Johnnie. This is just like a drill." The top closed on me and I was alone. "Just like a drill," he says! I began to shake uncontrollably. Then, in my earphones, I heard Jelly from the center-line tube: "Bridge! Rasczak's Roughnecks . . . ready for drop!" "Seventeen seconds, Lieutenant!" I heard the ship captain's cheerful contralto replying -and resented her calling Jelly "Lieutenant." To be sure, our lieutenant was dead and maybe Jelly would get his commission . . . but we were still "Rasczak's Roughnecks." She added, "Good luck, boys!" "Thanks, Captain." "Brace yourselves! Five seconds." I was strapped all over-belly, forehead, shins. But I shook worse than ever. It's better after you unload. Until you do, you sit there in total darkness, wrapped like a mummy against the accelerations, barely able to breathe -- and knowing that there is just nitrogen around you in the capsule even if you could get your helmet open, which you can't -- and knowing that the capsule is surrounded by the firing tube anyhow and if the ship gets hit before they fire you, you haven't got a prayer, you'll just die there, unable to move, helpless. It's that endless wait in the dark that causes the shakes -- thinking that they've forgotten you . . . the ship has been hulled and stayed in orbit, dead, and soon you'll buy it, too, unable to move, choking. Or it's a crash orbit and you'll buy it that way, if you don't roast on the way down. Then the ship's braking program hit us and I stopped shaking. Eight gees, I would say, or maybe ten. When a female pilot handles a ship there is nothing comfortable about it; you're going to have bruises every place you're strapped. Yes, yes, I know they make better pilots than men do; their reactions are faster and they can tolerate more gee. They can get in faster, get out faster, and thereby improve everybody's chances, yours as well as theirs. But that still doesn't make it fun to be slammed against your spine at ten times your proper weight. But I must admit that Captain Deladrier knows her trade. There was no fiddling around once the Rodger Young stopped braking. At once I heard her snap, "Center-line tube . . . fire!" and there were two recoil bumps as Jelly and his acting platoon sergeant unloaded -- and immediately: "Port and starboard tubes -- automatic fire!" and the rest of us started to unload. Bump! and your capsule jerks ahead one place -- bump! and it jerks again, precisely like cartridges feeding into the chamber of an old-style automatic weapon. Well, that's just what we were . . . only the barrels of the gun were twin launching tubes built into a spaceship troop carrier and each cartridge was a capsule big enough (just barely) to hold an infantryman with all field equipment. Bump! -- I was used to number three spot, out early; now I was Tail-End Charlie, last out after three squads. It makes a tedious wait, even with a capsule being fired every second; I tried to count the bumps -- bump! (twelve) bump! (thirteen) bump! (fourteen -with an odd sound to it, the empty one Jenkins should have been in) bump! -And clang! -- it's my turn as my capsule slams into the firing chamber -- then WHAMBO! the explosion hits with a force that makes the Captain's braking maneuver feel like a love tap. Then suddenly nothing. Nothing at all. No sound, no pressure, no weight. Floating in darkness . . . free fall, maybe thirty miles up, above the effective atmosphere, falling weightlessly toward the surface of a planet you've never seen. But I'm not shaking now; it's the wait beforehand that wears. Once you unload, you can't get hurt -- because if anything goes wrong it will happen so fast that you'll buy it without noticing that you're dead, hardly. Almost at once I felt the capsule twist and sway, then steady down so that my weight was on my back . . . weight that built up quickly until I was at my full weight (0.87 gee, we had been told) for that planet as the capsule reached terminal velocity for the thin upper atmosphere. A pilot who is a real artist (and the Captain was) will approach and brake so that your launching speed as you shoot out of the tube places you just dead in space relative to the rotational speed of the planet at that latitude. The loaded capsules are heavy; they punch through the high, thin winds of the upper atmosphere without being blown too far out of position -- but just the same a platoon is bound to disperse on the way down, lose some of the perfect formation in which it unloads. A sloppy pilot can make this still worse, scatter a strike group over so much terrain that it can't make rendezvous for retrieval, much less carry out its mission. An infantryman can fight only if somebody else delivers him to his zone; in a way I suppose pilots are just as essential as we are. I could tell from the gentle way my capsule entered the atmosphere that the Captain had laid us down with as near zero lateral vector as you could ask for. I felt happy -- not only a tight formation when we hit and no time wasted, but also a pilot who puts you down properly is a pilot who is smart and precise on retrieval. The outer shell burned away and sloughed off -- unevenly, for I tumbled. Then the rest of it went and I straightened out. The turbulence brakes of the second shell bit in and the ride got rough . . . and still rougher as they burned off one at a time and the second shell began to go to pieces. One of the things that helps a capsule trooper to live long enough to draw a pension is that the skins peeling off his capsule not only slow him down, they also fill the sky over the target area with so much junk that radar picks up reflections from dozens of targets for each man in the drop, any one of which could be a man, or a bomb, or anything. It's enough to give a ballistic computer nervous breakdowns -- and does. To add to the fun your ship lays a series of dummy eggs in the seconds immediately following your drop, dummies that will fall faster because they don't slough. They get under you, explode, throw out "window," even operate as transponders, rocket sideways, and do other things to add to the confusion of your reception committee on the ground. In the meantime your ship is locked firmly on the directional beacon of your platoon leader, ignoring the radar "noise" it has created and following you in, computing your impact for future use. When the second shell was gone, the third shell automatically opened my first ribbon chute. It didn't last long but it wasn't expected to; one good, hard jerk at several gee and it went its way and I went mine. The second chute lasted a little bit longer and the third chute lasted quite a while; it began to be rather too warm inside the capsule and I started thinking about landing. The third shell peeled off when its last chute was gone and now I had nothing around me but my suit armor and a plastic egg. I was still strapped inside it, unable to move; it was time to decide how and where I was going to ground. Without moving my arms (I couldn't) I thumbed the switch for a proximity reading and read it when it flashed on in the instrument reflector inside my helmet in front of my forehead. A mile and eight-tenths -- A little closer than I liked, especially without company. The inner egg had reached steady speed, no more help to be gained by staying inside it, and its skin temperature indicated that it would not open automatically for a while yet -- so I flipped a switch with my other thumb and got rid of it. The first charge cut all the straps; the second charge exploded the plastic egg away from me in eight separate pieces -- and I was outdoors, sitting on air, and could see! Better still, the eight discarded pieces were metal-coated (except for the small bit I had taken proximity reading through) and would give back the same reflection as an armored man. Any radar viewer, alive or cybernetic, would now have a sad time sorting me out from the junk nearest me, not to mention the thousands of other bits and pieces for miles on each side, above, and below me. Part of a mobile infantryman's training is to let him see, from the ground and both by eye and by radar, just how confusing a drop is to the forces on the ground -- because you feel awful naked up there. It is easy to panic and either open a chute too soon and become a sitting duck (do ducks really sit? -- if so, why?) or fail to open it and break your ankles, likewise backbone and skull. So I stretched, getting the kinks out, and looked around . . . then doubled up again and straightened out in a swan dive face down and took a good look. It was night down there, as planned, but infrared snoopers let you size up terrain quite well after you are used to them. The river that cut diagonally through the city was almost below me and coming up fast, shining out clearly with a higher temperature than the land. I didn't care which side of it I landed on but I didn't want to land in it; it would slow me down. I noticed a dash off to the right at about my altitude; some unfriendly native down below had burned what was probably a piece of my egg. So I fired my first chute at once, intending if possible to jerk myself right off his screen as he followed the targets down in closing range. I braced for the shock, rode it, then floated down for about twenty seconds before unloading the chute -- not wishing to call attention to myself in still another way by not falling at the speed of the other stuff around me. It must have worked; I wasn't burned. About six hundred feet up I shot the second chute . . . saw very quickly that I was being carried over into the river, found that I was going to pass about a hundred feet up over a flat-roofed warehouse or some such by the river . . . blew the chute free and came in for a good enough if rather bouncy landing on the roof by means of the suit's jump jets. I was scanning for Sergeant Jelal's beacon as I hit. And found that I was on the wrong side of the river; Jelly's star showed up on the compass ring inside my helmet far south of where it should have been -- I was too far north. I trotted toward the river side of the roof as I took a range and bearing on the squad leader next to me, found that he was over a mile out of position, called, "Ace! dress your line," tossed a bomb behind me as I stepped off the building and across the river. Ace answered as I could have expected -- Ace should have had my spot but he didn't want to give up his squad; nevertheless he didn't fancy taking orders from me. The warehouse went up behind me and the blast hit me while I was still over the river, instead of being shielded by the buildings on the far side as I should have been. It darn near tumbled my gyros and I came close to tumbling myself. I had set that bomb for fifteen seconds . . . or had I? I suddenly realized that I had let myself get excited, the worst thing you can do once you're on the ground. "Just like a drill," that was the way, just as Jelly had warned me. Take your time and do it right, even if it takes another half second. As I hit I took another reading on Ace and told him again to realign his squad. He didn't answer but he was already doing it. I let it ride. As long as Ace did his job, I could afford to swallow his surliness -- for now. But back aboard ship (if Jelly kept me on as assistant section leader) we would eventually have to pick a quiet spot and find out who was boss. He was a career corporal and I was just a term lance acting as corporal, but he was under me and you can't afford to take any lip under those circumstances. Not permanently. But I didn't have time then to think about it; while I was jumping the river I had spotted a juicy target and I wanted to get it before somebody else noticed it -- a lovely big group of what looked like public buildings on a hill. Temples, maybe . . . or a palace. They were miles outside the area we were sweeping, but one rule of a smash & run is to expend at least half your ammo outside your sweep area; that way the enemy is kept confused as to where you actually are -- that and keep moving, do everything fast. You're always heavily outnumbered; surprise and speed are what saves you. I was already loading my rocket launcher while I was checking on Ace and telling him for the second time to straighten up. Jelly's voice reached me right on top of that on the all-hands circuit: "Platoon! By leapfrog! Forward!" My boss, Sergeant Johnson, echoed, "By leapfrog! Odd numbers! Advance!" That left me with nothing to worry about for twenty seconds, so I jumped up on the building nearest me, raised the launcher to my shoulder, found the target and pulled the first trigger to let the rocket have a look at its target -- pulled the second trigger and kissed it on its way, jumped back to the ground. "Second section, even numbers!" I called out . . . waited for the count in my mind and ordered, "Advance!" And did so myself, hopping over the next row of buildings, and, while I was in the air, fanning the first row by the river front with a hand flamer. They seemed to be wood construction and it looked like time to start a good fire -- with luck, some of those warehouses would house oil products, or even explosives. As I hit, the Y-rack on my shoulders launched two small H. E. bombs a couple of hundred yards each way to my right and left flanks but I never saw what they did as just then my first rocket hit -- that unmistakable (if you've ever seen one) brilliance of an atomic explosion. It was just a peewee, of course, less than two kilotons nominal yield, with tamper and implosion squeeze to produce results from a less-than-critical mass -- but then who wants to be bunk mates with a cosmic catastrophe? It was enough to clean off that hilltop and make everybody in the city take shelter against fallout. Better still, any of the local yokels who happened to be outdoors and looking that way wouldn't be seeing anything else for a couple of hours -- meaning me. The dash hadn't dazzled me, nor would it dazzle any of us; our face bowls are heavily leaded, we wear snoopers over our eyes -- and we're trained to duck and take it on the armor if we do happen to be looking the wrong way. So I merely blinked hard -- opened my eyes and stared straight at a local citizen just coming out of an opening in the building ahead of me. He looked at me, I looked at him, and he started to raise something -- a weapon, I suppose -- as Jelly called out, "Odd numbers! Advance!" I didn't have time to fool with him; I was a good five hundred yards short of where I should have been by then. I still had the hand flamer in my left hand; I toasted him and jumped over the building he had been coming out of, as I started to count. A hand flamer is primarily for incendiary work but it is a good defensive anti-personnel weapon in tight quarters; you don't have to aim it much. Between excitement and anxiety to catch up I jumped too high and too wide. It's always a temptation to get the most out of your jump gear -- but don't do it! It leaves you hanging in the air for seconds, a big fat target. The way to advance is to skim over each building as you come to it, barely clearing it, and taking full advantage of cover while you're down -- and never stay in one place more than a second or two, never give them time to target in on you. Be somewhere else, anywhere. Keep moving. This one I goofed -- too much for one row of buildings, too little for the row beyond it; I found myself coming down on a roof. But not a nice flat one where I might have tarried three seconds to launch another peewee A-rocket; this roof was a jungle of pipes and stanchions and assorted ironmongery -- a factory maybe, or some sort of chemical works. No place to land. Worse still, half a dozen natives were up there. These geezers are humanoid, eight or nine feet tall, much skinnier than we are and with a higher body temperature; they don't wear any clothes and they stand out in a set of snoopers like a neon sign. They look still funnier in daylight with your bare eyes but I would rather fight them than the arachnids -- those Bugs make me queezy. If these laddies were up there thirty seconds earlier when my rocket hit, then they couldn't see me, or anything. But I couldn't be certain and didn't want to tangle with them in any case; it wasn't that kind of a raid. So I jumped again while I was still in the air, scattering a handful of ten-second fire pills to keep them busy, grounded, jumped again at once, and called out, "Second section! Even numbers! . . . Advance!" and kept right on going to close the gap, while trying to spot, every time I jumped, something worth expending a rocket on. I had three more of the little A-rockets and I certainly didn't intend to take any back with me. But I had had pounded into me that you must get your money's worth with atomic weapons -- it was only the second time that I had been allowed to carry them. Right now I was trying to spot their waterworks; a direct hit on it could make the whole city uninhabitable, force them to evacuate it without directly killing anyone -- just the sort of nuisance we had been sent down to commit. It should -- according to the map we had studied under hypnosis -- be about three miles upstream from where I was. But I couldn't see it; my jumps didn't take me high enough, maybe. I was tempted to go higher but I remembered what Migliaccio had said about not trying for a medal, and stuck to doctrine. I set the Y-rack launcher on automatic and let it lob a couple of little bombs every time I hit. I set fire to things more or less at random in between, and tried to find the waterworks, or some other worth-while target. Well, there was something up there at the proper range -- waterworks or whatever, it was big. So I hopped on top of the tallest building near me, took a bead on it, and let fly. As I bounced down I heard Jelly: "Johnnie! Red! Start bending in the flanks." I acknowledged and heard Red acknowledge and switched my beacon to blinker so that Red could pick me out for certain, took a range and bearing on his blinker while I called out, "Second Section! Curve in and envelop! Squad leaders acknowledge!" Fourth and Fifth squads answered, "Wilco"; Ace said, "We're already doin' it -- pick up your feet." Red's beacon showed the right flank to be almost ahead of me and a good fifteen miles away. Golly! Ace was right; I would have to pick up my feet or I would never close the gap in time -- and me with a couple of hundredweight of ammo and sundry nastiness still on me that I just had to find time to use up. We had landed in a V formation, with Jelly at the bottom of the V and Red and myself at the ends of the two arms; now we had to close it into a circle around the retrieval rendezvous . . . which meant that Red and I each had to cover more ground than the others and still do our full share of damage. At least the leapfrog advance was over with once we started to encircle; I could quit counting and concentrate on speed. It was getting to be less healthy to be anywhere, even moving fast. We had started with the enormous advantage of surprise, reached the ground without being hit (at least I hoped nobody had been hit coming in), and had been rampaging in among them in a fashion that let us fire at will without fear of hitting each other while they stood a big chance of hitting their own people in shooting at us -- if they could find us to shoot at, at all. (I'm no games-theory expert but I doubt if any computer could have analyzed what we were doing in time to predict where we would be next.) Nevertheless the home defenses were beginning to fight back, co-ordinated or not. I took a couple of near misses with explosives, close enough to rattle my teeth even inside armor and once I was brushed by some sort of beam that made my hair stand on end and half paralyzed me for a moment -- as if I had hit my funny bone, but all over. If the suit hadn't already been told to jump, I guess I wouldn't have got out of there. Things like that make you pause to wonder why you ever took up soldiering -- only I was too busy to pause for anything. Twice, jumping blind over buildings, I landed right in the middle of a group of them -- jumped at once while fanning wildly around me with the hand flamer. Spurred on this way, I closed about half of my share of the gap, maybe four miles, in minimum time but without doing much more than casual damage. My Y-rack had gone empty two jumps back; finding myself alone in sort of a courtyard I stopped to put my reserve H.E. bombs into it while I took a bearing on Ace -- found that I was far enough out in front of the flank squad to think about expending my last two A-rockets. I jumped to the top of the tallest building in the neighborhood. It was getting light enough to see; I flipped the snoopers up onto my forehead and made a fast scan with bare eyes, looking for anything behind us worth shooting at, anything at all; I had no time to be choosy. There was something on the horizon in the direction of their spaceport -- administration & control, maybe, or possibly even a starship. Almost in line and about half as far away was an enormous structure which I couldn't identify even that loosely. The range to the spaceport was extreme but I let the rocket see it, said, "Go find it, baby!" and twisted its tail -- slapped the last one in, sent it toward the nearer target, and jumped. That building took a direct hit just as I left it. Either a skinny had judged (correctly) that it was worth one of their buildings to try for one of us, or one of my own mates was getting mighty careless with fireworks. Either way, I didn't want to jump from that spot, even a skimmer; I decided to go through the next couple of buildings instead of over. So I grabbed the heavy flamer off my back as I hit and dipped the snoopers down over my eyes, tackled a wall in front of me with a knife beam at full power. A section of wall fell away and I charged in. And backed out even faster. I didn't know what it was I had cracked open. A congregation in church -- a skinny flophouse -- maybe even their defense headquarters. All I knew was that it was a very big room filled with more skinnies than I wanted to see in my whole life. Probably not a church, for somebody took a shot at me as I popped back out just a slug that bounced off my armor, made my ears ring, and staggered me without hurting me. But it reminded me that I wasn't supposed to leave without giving them a souvenir of my visit. I grabbed the first thing on my belt and lobbed it in -- and heard it start to squawk. As they keep telling you in Basic, doing something constructive at once is better than figuring out the best thing to do hours later. By sheer chance I had done the right thing. This was a special bomb, one each issued to us for this mission with instructions to use them if we found ways to make them effective. The squawking I heard as I threw it was the bomb shouting in skinny talk (free translation): "I'm a thirty-second bomb! I'm a thirty-second bomb! Twenty-nine! . . . twenty-eight! . . . twenty-seven! -- " It was supposed to frazzle their nerves. Maybe it did; it certainly frazzled mine. Kinder to shoot a man. I didn't wait for the countdown; I jumped, while I wondered whether they would find enough doors and windows to swarm out in time. I got a bearing on Red's blinker at the top of the jump and one on Ace as I grounded. I was falling behind again -- time to hurry. But three minutes later we had closed the gap; I had Red on my left flank a half mile away. He reported it to Jelly. We heard Jelly's relaxed growl to the entire platoon: "Circle is closed, but the beacon is not down yet. Move forward slowly and mill around, make a little more trouble -- but mind the lad on each side of you; don't make trouble for him. Good job, so far -- don't spoil it. Platoon! By sections . . . Muster!" It looked like a good job to me, too; much of the city was burning and, although it was almost full light now, it was hard to tell whether bare eyes were better than snoopers, the smoke was so thick. Johnson, our section leader, sounded off: "Second section, call off!" I echoed, "Squads four, five, and six -- call off and report!" The assortment of safe circuits we had available in the new model comm units certainly speeded things up; Jelly could talk to anybody or to his section leaders; a section leader could call his whole section, or his non-coms; and the platoon could muster twice as fast, when seconds matter. I listened to the fourth squad call off while I inventoried my remaining firepower and lobbed one bomb toward a skinny who poked his head around a corner. He left and so did I -- "Mill around," the boss man had said. The fourth squad bumbled the call off until the squad leader remembered to fill in with Jenkins' number; the fifth squad clicked off like an abacus and I began to feel good . . . when the call off stopped after number four in Ace's squad. I called out, "Ace, where's Dizzy?" "Shut up," he said. "Number six! Call off!" "Six!" Smith answered. "Seven !" "Sixth squad, Flores missing," Ace completed it. "Squad leader out for pickup." "One man absent," I reported to Johnson. "Flores, squad six." "Missing or dead?" "I don't know. Squad leader and assistant section leader dropping out for pickup." "Johnnie, you let Ace take it." But I didn't hear him, so I didn't answer. I heard him report to Jelly and I heard Jelly cuss. Now look, I wasn't bucking for a medal -- it's the assistant section leader's business to make pickup; he's the chaser, the last man in, expendable. The squad leaders have other work to do. As you've no doubt gathered by now the assistant section leader isn't necessary as long as the section leader is alive. Right that moment I was feeling unusually expendable, almost expended, because I was hearing the sweetest sound in the universe, the beacon the retrieval boat would land on, sounding our recall. The beacon is a robot rocket, fired ahead of the retrieval boat, just a spike that buries itself in the ground and starts broadcasting that welcome, welcome music. The retrieval boat homes in on it automatically three minutes later and you had better be on hand, because the bus can't wait and there won't be another one along. But you don't walk away on another cap trooper, not while there's a chance he's still alive -- not in Rasczak's Roughnecks. Not in any outfit of the Mobile Infantry. You try to make pickup. I heard Jelly order: "Heads up, lads! Close to retrieval circle and interdict! On the bounce!" And I heard the beacon's sweet voice: " -- to the everlasting glory of the infantry, shines the name, shines the name of Rodger Young!" and I wanted to head for it so bad I could taste it. Instead I was headed the other way, closing on Ace's beacon and expending what I had left of bombs and fire pills and anything else that would weigh me down. "Ace! You got his beacon?" "Yes. Go back, Useless!" "I've got you by eye now. Where is he?" "Right ahead of me, maybe quarter mile. Scram! He's my man ." I didn't answer; I simply cut left oblique to reach Ace about where he said Dizzy was. And found Ace standing over him, a couple of skinnies flamed down and more running away. I lit beside him. "Let's get him out of his armor -- the boat'll be down any second!" "He's too bad hurt!" I looked and saw that it was true -- there was actually a hole in his armor and blood coming out. And I was stumped. To make a wounded pickup you get him out of his armor . . . then you simply pick him up in your arms -- no trouble in a powered suit -and bounce away from there. A bare man weighs less than the ammo and stuff you've expended. "What'll we do?" "We carry him," Ace said grimly. "Grab ahold the left side of his belt." He grabbed the right side, we manhandled Flores to his feet. "Lock on! Now . . . by the numbers, stand by to jump -- one -- two!" We jumped. Not far, not well. One man alone couldn't have gotten him off the ground; an armored suit is too heavy. But split it between two men and it can be done. We jumped -- and we jumped -- and again, and again, with Ace calling it and both of us steadying and catching Dizzy on each grounding. His gyros seemed to be out. We heard the beacon cut off as the retrieval boat landed on it -- I saw it land . . . and it was too far away. We heard the acting platoon sergeant call out: "In succession, prepare to embark!" And Jelly called out, "Belay that order!" We broke at last into the open and saw the boat standing on its tail, heard the ululation of its take-off warning -- saw the platoon still on the ground around it, in interdiction circle, crouching behind the shield they had formed. Heard Jelly shout, "In succession, man the boat -- move!" And we were still too far away! I could see them peel off from the first squad, swarm into the boat as the interdiction circle tightened. And a single figure broke out of the circle, came toward us at a speed possible only to a command suit. Jelly caught us while we were in the air, grabbed Flores by his Y-rack and helped us lift. Three jumps got us to the boat. Everybody else was inside but the door was still open. We got him in and closed it while the boat pilot screamed that we had made her miss rendezvous and now we had all bought it! Jelly paid no attention to her; we laid Flores down and lay down beside him. As the blast hit us Jelly was saying to himself, "All present, Lieutenant. Three men hurt -- but all present!" I'll say this for Captain Deladrier: they don't make any better pilots. A rendezvous, boat to ship in orbit, is precisely calculated. I don't know how, but it is, and you don't change it. You can't. Only she did. She saw in her scope that the boat had failed to blast on time; she braked back, picked up speed again -- and matched and took us in, just by eye and touch, no time to compute it. If the Almighty ever needs an assistant to keep the stars in their courses, I know where he can look. Flores died on the way up. “</span>


<span class="Underline">This excerpt from Robert Heinlein’s novel //Starship Troopers// describes a human attack on the Skinnies, an alien species allied with humanity’s greatest enemies, the Arachnids or Bugs. Just as American soldiers today rely on dazzling technological superiority over our impoverished, low-tech enemies, troopers wearing robotic power armor execute a raid—not quite a war, but a limited intervention, designed to show what humanity is capable of. Much like the United States intervention in Libya, this is only a small part of a much broader conflict, but the consequences are real. Johnny Rico, the hero of //Starship Troopers//, kills untold numbers of civilians in this scene with flamethrowers, grenades, and nuclear warheads. There is no remorse for the alien enemy, but Johnny won’t leave his wounded comrades behind. Enemy lives may be cheap, but the Mobile Infantry looks out for its own.</span>

<span class="Underline">The soldiers of our Mobile Infantry are all volunteers, but in the society of //Starship Troopers//, citizenship is a privilege, not a right. No one can vote or participate in politics without first serving in combat. Heinlein’s novel has been criticized as thinly-veiled fascist propaganda, where the alien enemies are stand-ins for America’s Communist enemies in Asia. At the height of the Cold War, Heinlein seemed to be in favor of restricting democracy and giving up on the concept of equality. </span>

<span class="Underline">There is another reading, however—interventions might happen in the world of //Starship Troopers//, but at least the decisions are made by the same people who bear the costs. In modern America, civilians get behind interventions like the war in Libya because they are isolated from the true sacrifices of war. A hyperreal culture of mass media distortion makes war seem clean, even humanitarian. Heinlein’s politics might be extreme, but the story of //Starship Troopers// provides a corrective to this armchair militarism, forcing us to rethink constant imperial interventions.</span>
**SIMMERS 2011**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Erich, PhD in English, U of Florida expected 2011, “The Importance of Starship Troopers Today: Reflecting on Bloom, Heinlein, and Libya,” Weaponized Culture, April 27, http://weaponizedculture.wordpress.com/2011/04/27/the-importance-of-starship-troopers/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Wading through Twitter this morning, I … </span>__ground will pay the costs__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">These interventions are not harmless. Heinlein’s space war and the casual use of nuclear weapons will be brought on by the confluence of hyperreal media saturation and cost-free militarism. The endless manufacture of new threats and new interventions can only end in extinction.</span>
**KROKER AND KROKER 2006**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Arthur Kroker is Canada Research Chair in Technology, Culture and Theory, Professor of Political Science, and Director of the Pacific Centre for Technology and Culture at the University of Victoria. Marilouise Kroker is Senior Research Scholar at the University of Victoria. Interview with William Wood published in “Culture, power, and history: studies in critical sociology”, Stephen J. Pfohl, ed., Google Books] </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Krokers: The theory of viral … </span>__in the darkness of space.__


<span class="Underline">Thus the plan: The Mobile Infantry should assault alien worlds held by the Pseudo-Arachnids and their allies throughout the galaxy.</span>

Our reading of Starship Troopers can challenge the ontological and epistemological certainty of world politics—this deployment of the story can be an ironic challenge to the politics of security
**WHITEHALL 2003** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">– Associate Professor, Political Science, Acadia University (Geoffrey, “The problem of the ‘world and beyond,’ in “To seek out new worlds: science fiction and world politics” ed. Weldes, Senior Lecturer, Bristol University. Palgrave Macmillan 2003, 179) </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Notwithstanding the dominance of this … </span>__to a plurality of alternative interpretations.__

Destroying the hyperreal fictions of the media-militarist society requires us to tell stories that are impossibly false—science fiction is a gift that the system can only receive by destroying itself
**BOGARD 2004**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Bill Bogard, “Hyperfacticity and Fatal Strategies,” Science Fiction Studies, Vol. 30, No. 2)</span>
__A social science fiction is … its own desire. Fatal strategy__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">The point of our Aff is not that Starship Troopers is good or bad, just that our investigation of it can have positive social effects</span>
**ELKINS AND SUVIN 1979** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– former editor of Science Fiction Studies AND Professor Emeritus at McGill University (November, Charles and Darko, “ Preliminary Reflections on Teaching Science Fiction Critically ” Science Fiction Studies, Vol. 6, No. 3, JSTOR)</span>
__This means that the teacher …__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">, quite eccentric and idiosyncratic,</span> __tangents.__

<span class="Underline">Fiat is merely an act of imagination. Any act of imagination or even attempt at representation automatically includes science fiction elements—the only difference between our Aff and more traditional ones is that we acknowledge the role of fiction</span>
**FREEDMAN 2000**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> -- Associate Professor of English at Louisiana State University (Carl, “Critical Theory and Science Fiction” Wesleyan University Press, University Press of London, 20-22) </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">It is a priori likely that </span>__…__ //<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Star Wars</span>//<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> on the other. </span>

<span class="Underline">The point of our advocacy is to cultivate a more responsible model of democracy. Science fiction is critical to a functioning deliberative democracy because it educates citizens about the crucial role of technology in modern politics</span>
**BRAKE AND THORNTON 2003**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> -- *Principal Lecturer and Professor of Science Communication at the University of Glamorgan, AND **teacher of Science and Science Fiction degree at the University of Glamorgan (“Science fiction in the classroom.” 2003 Phys. Educ. 38 31, Google Scholar)** </span>
**__Our intention in relation to … science in many public debates.__**

**<span class="Underline">Deliberative democracy that breaks the monopoly of technological experts is critical to human survival</span>**
STANNARD 2006** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Matt, Department of Communication and Journalism, University of Wyoming, Spring 2006 Faculty Senate Speaker Series Speech, April 18, http://theunderview.blogspot.com/2006/04/deliberation-democracy-and-debate.html)</span>
__The complexity and interdependence of … way to resist this colonization__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>


==2AC== 
===Epistemology=== 



<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">This has caused all evidence from the state to the is inherently flawed—they parrot it from the state</span>**</span>

<span class="Heading2Char">Neocleous 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mark is a Professor at Brunel; Head of Department of Politics & History, he joined Brunel University in the Department of Government in 1994. “CRITIQUE OF SECURITY”, 2008. Pg. 182-183)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">I have been arguing</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">…</span><span class="UnderlineChar">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> political rhetoric of the state itself.</span>__</span>


===Humanism Bad=== 



**Reject their humanist approach it inevitably leads to the impacts they’re trying to stop and extinction**

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Anne</span> <span class="Heading2Char">Caldwell</span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Assistant Professor in the Department of Political Science at the University of Louisville</span>, <span class="Heading2Char">2004</span>, <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Bio-Sovereignty and The Emergence of Humanity, //Theory & Event// - Volume 7, Issue 2, project muse</span>

<span class="UnderliningCharChar">The complexity of the relationship … </span>__in institutional arrangements__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">" (Edkins 2000a: 146). </span>



===Utopianism Good=== 



**Science fiction the best form of utopian thinking – allows the criticism of traditional dominant capitalist structures and the emergence of hope**

**Freedman 2000**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- Associate Professor of English at Louisiana State University (Carl, “Critical Theory and Science Fiction” Wesleyan University Press, University Press of London, 67-70) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As a version of critical theory, … the dimension of utopian futurity.</span>


===Militarism/Exceptionalism Bad=== 



**By defining security around the predominance of US influence, every conflict of interests becomes justification for militarization, escalating to war.**

<span class="Heading2Char">Campbell 98</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David, Professor International Politics at University of New Castle, "Writing Security; United States Foreign Policy the Politics of Identity," 31-33)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Most important just as the source of …</span><span class="underline0"> of the cold war in particular.</span>



**This rhetoric of American Exceptionalism reifies an imperial mode of thought that creates totalized spaces to be mastered and destroyed, reducing everything to standing reserve**

**Spanos 00** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[William V., Professor of English @ State University of New York, </span>__America’s Shadow__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, p. 191-193]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What I have argued in …</span> __reduced opposition to a resonant silence.__



**Loss of the relationship between the Being and the Dasein leads to devaluation of life and is a fate worse than nuclear annihilation**

**Zimmerman 94**

(Michael, Prof of Philosophy at Tulane, Contesting Earth’s Future, p.119-120)

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Heidegger asserted that human self assertion, … never disclosed by humanity.</span>



**Technological thinking is ontologically violent and makes calculative modes of thinking inevitable**

**Botha 02** <span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 13pt;">(Catherine, Dept of Philosophy at the University of Pretoria, “Heidegger, Technology, and Ecology,” South African Journal of Philosophy, Vol 22, Issue 2, p. ebsco)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Technology is ontologically devastating… even notice what we had lost.</span>__