[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Constellation Affirmative== 
===1AC=== 
**Obama has derailed any funding for a space shuttle replacement—the result is outsourcing to the companies to design and operate launch vehicles. This outsourcing is destined to fail; only a public based initiative is a feasible solution.**
**Young 10** – former Director of NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center and President and Chief Operating Officer of Martin Marietta (A. Thomas, TESTIMONY TO THE COMMITTEE ON SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY May 26, 2010 http://science.house.gov/sites/republicans.science.house.gov/files/documents/hearings/052610_Young.pdf

My judgment is that implementation of the proposed human spaceflight … that road too many times with the same unsuccessful result.

**The privatization of the constellation program is the result of the logic of neoliberalism, which favors blind allegiance to the market, and privatization of nearly all governmental functions.**
R. Thomas **Buffenbarger**, **2010**, International President of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, “Dear Mr. President,” http://thesent.nl/jQ30I9

At a time when the U.S. economy in mired in the worst … innovative space technologies vital to future economic and national security.

**This privatization of the space program is not an isolated instance, but a manifestation of the ideology of neoliberalism that seeks to eradicate social spending and the public sphere in order to achieve unrestrained capitalism. This produces a new mode of warfare that necessitates continuous disaster, in the name of achieving profit, and economic expansion.**
**Klein 7** – Milibrand Fellow at the London School of Economics (Naomi, “The Shock Doctrine: the Rise of Disaster Capitalism,” p. 11-20, DS)

Friedman's Chicago School movement has been conquering territory around the … companies and their sovereignty to U.S. military bases and green zones.

**Neoliberalism is a logic based upon sacrificial genocide that culminates in collective suicide. This eviscerates democracy, and ensures imperial war. The only choice in the face of neoliberal violence, is to critically demand the end of neoliberalism to ensure true peace.**
**Santos 3** -- Professor of Sociology at the School of Economics, director of the Center for Social Studies at the University of Coimbra, Portugal (Boaventura de Sousa, taught at Yale University, “Collective Suicide?,” [[http://bad.eserver.org/issues/2003/63/santos.html]], DS)

According to Franz Hinkelammert, the West has repeatedly been under … imposed by the real axis of evil: neoliberalism plus war.

**The expansion of disaster capitalism will eventually set disasters spinning out of control—the impact is extinction.**
**Cook**, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Windsor, **2006** [Deborah, “Staying Alive: Adorno and Habermas on Self-Preservation under Late Capitalism,” Rethinking Marxism, 18(3):433-447, electronic]

In the passage in Negative Dialectics where he warns against … just the entire species, but all life on the planet.

**Neoliberalism doesn’t just authorize war it creates a new mode of biopolitics based upon the economic viability of populations. This demarcating of populations based upon a politics of disposability reduces all otherized populations into a state of bare life—in which the worst manifestations of the violence 20th century become the norm.**
**Giroux 8** -- The Global TV Network Chair Professorship at McMaster University in the English and Cultural Studies Department (Henry A., “Beyond the biopolitics of disposability: rethinking neoliberalism in the New Gilded Age,” Social Identities Vol. 14, No. 5, September, DS)

The mutually determining forces of every deepening inequality and an … ‘bare life’ is clearly visible in all of these examples.

**Thus, we demand that the United States federal government substantially increase funding for the Constellation program.**

**The privatization of the constellation program will inevitably set the stage for space wars, and will be used as a method to reassert neoliberal hegemony over the whole of life. In the face of this privatization, the plan is a method of using space to better the whole of humanity, rather than the elites of the military industrial complex.**
**Dickens 10** – teaches at the universities of Brighton and Cambridge, UK (Peter, “The Humanization of the Cosmos—To What End?”, 1 November 2010, Monthly Review, http://monthlyreview.org/2010/11/01/the-humanization-of-the-cosmos-to-what-end, DS)

Society is increasingly humanizing the cosmos. Satellites have for some … be part of the cosmos without colonizing, owning, or conquering it.

**Conceive of our demand as an occupation of the public debate space in order to challenge the economic calculus of neoliberalism. This creates a rallying point for a movement of movements opposed to neoliberalism, in which all expendable and disposable populations occupy public space, using the plan as a method to challenge biopolitical divisions, and neoliberal rationality to demonstrate our collective vulnerability.**
**Pinkus and Giorgi 6** -- *professor of Italian, French, and comparative literature at USC Assistant Professor of Spanish and Comparative Literature at USC (Karen, Gabriel, “Zones of Exception: Biopolitical territories in the Neoliberal Era,” Muse, DS)

The piquetero movement originating in Argentina during the ’90s, is … which neoliberalism turns “life” into “human life,” and vice versa.

**Our demand is an advance of what we have in common against neoliberal appropriation and competition. This enables a new form of politics based upon the reclaiming of the commons.**
**DeAngelis 9 –** Lecturer university of East London (Massimo, “Obama meets Lenin,” The Commoner.org http://www.commoner.org.uk/?p=80, DS**)**

I believe the key to the current crisis and the key to its .. inclusive, healthy, and convivial, rather than competitive, unjust and blatantly stupid.

**Our demand short circuits the functioning of neoliberalism upon the mirco-level, instead of conceding to negativity we should use this round to create an affirmative Biopolitics that challenges the structure of neoliberal domination.**
**Giroux 8 --** The Global TV Network Chair Professorship at McMaster University in the English and Cultural Studies Department (Henry A., “Beyond the biopolitics of disposability: rethinking neoliberalism in the New Gilded Age,” Social Identities Vol. 14, No. 5, September, DS)

Under the reign of neoliberalism, biopolitical mechanisms extend far beyond … break between what must live and what must die’ (Foucault, 2003, p. 255).

**A failure to challenge the rationales of neoliberalism guarantees a totalitarian politics in which any atrocity against devalued lives, racialized others, and inferior genders is normalized as the natural functioning of the socio-economic order.**
**Giroux 8** -- The Global TV Network Chair Professorship at McMaster University in the English and Cultural Studies Department (Henry A., “Beyond the biopolitics of disposability: rethinking neoliberalism in the New Gilded Age,” Social Identities Vol. 14, No. 5, September, DS)

Foucault is acutely aware that the impoverishment of the social … conception of the political is, at the very least, complicit. (Martin, 2007, p. 141)