[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Inherency== 

**Observation One is Inherency**

**U.S. climate satellites are battered and outdated—inevitable data gaps destroy environmental monitoring**
**Bohan 10**—Suzanne Bohan, Washington Post writer, Sept 19, 2010, “A dim view for Earth emerges” Washington Post pg. A06

The satellite, Landsat 7, is broken. And it's emblematic of the nation's **battered satellite environmental monitoring program****.** The bad news: It's only going to get worse, unless the federal agencies criticized for their poor management of the satellite systems over the past decade **stage a fast turnaround**. Many, however, view that prospect as a long shot. "I would say **our ability to observe the Earth from space is at grave risk of dying from neglect**," said Field, director of the Department of Global Ecology at the Carnegie Institution for Science at Stanford University. Inez Fung, a noted climatologist at the University of California at Berkeley, was shocked as she scanned a recent federal report warning of impending gaps in the country's ability to monitor Earth from space. The federal document, released in May, listed cuts in climate-monitoring sensors from the next generation of Earth-observing satellites. The current satellites beam down many types of indispensable data about the planet, such as ocean currents, ozone levels and snow cover, as well as the pictures viewers see every day on TV weathercasts. But key instruments on the new satellites have been eliminated: Gone is a sensor that would relay new data about the atmosphere and environmental conditions in the ocean and along coastal areas. The movement of pollutants and greenhouse gaseswould have been under the instrument's mechanical gaze, as well. Also absent is a critical sensor that monitors temperature changes over time on Earth. "That's like if you have a sick patient, and then say, 'I have no more thermometers,' " Fung said. In all, nine new climate instruments on the next generation of satellites were canceled or their capabilities scaled back in 2006, according to the Government Accountability Office report. Combined with a five-year delay in launching these next-generation satellites, with the first scheduled to blast off in 2011, these canceled or "degraded" instruments **leave the nation facing critical gaps in satellite monitoring** of the planet beginning in **2015****,** the report stated. And a National Academy of Sciences analysis of the disarray in the satellite program stressed that because of Earth's growing population, **it's more crucial than ever to monitor pollution, water quality, land use and other environmental conditions****.** Many blame the cuts on Bush administration policies that favored manned moon and Mars missions over shoring up aging Earth-observing satellite systems. Critics cite a 30 percent decline between 2000 and 2006 in NASA's Earth science budget - which funds environmental satellites - as evidence of the administration's lukewarm support of keeping an eye on the planet's condition. The National Academy of Sciences report, along with a chorus of experts in the field, also warns that the country is at risk of losing its worldwide technological leadership in Earth-observing satellites. Other casualties of the 2006 cuts include an instrument for tracking airborne particles such as sea spray, smog, volcanic ash and smoke - all factors contributing to the warming or cooling of the planet. The inclusion of a new instrument for monitoring soil moisture was canceled, which would have yielded information valuable to, among others, farmers and those monitoring the spread of deserts worldwide. These cuts spell a 46 percent decline in data about the Earth's conditions that these new satellites were designed to provide, and the GAO report concluded that because of the trouble-plagued satellite program, "**our nation's ability to understand climate change may be limited."** Those in the field use harsher language. Many Earth-monitoring satellites "are really **in desperate shape**," said Field, with Stanford's Carnegie Institution. In the 1960s, the United States began using satellites to observe its lands, oceans, atmosphere and the space environment near Earth. The satellites continuously monitor the planet's dynamic environment and allow humans to peer into inaccessible places. Information beamed by these spacecraft is now essential for forecasting weather, tracking conditions on Earth and in its atmosphere, and projecting long-term climate trends. With satellite data, rising sea levels can be monitored, helping communities on islands and along coastal areas plan. Satellites help farmers assess soil conditions before planting, allow foresters to examine logging activities, let water managers monitor the mountain snowpack that provides water to cities, and track the migration of wildlife such as buffalo and elephants. **Satellite data are also essential for crafting international agreements for reducing global warming**, said Molly Macauley, an economist with Resources for the Future, a research institute in Washington.

**Data gaps impede climate risk-management—monitoring key to prevent tipping point**
**Government Office for Science 3/14**- UK, Tipping Points meeting, London, 14 March 2011 Note prepared on behalf of the Government Office for Science by the Met Office: Peter Good, Jason Lowe, Richard Wood http://www.bis.gov.uk/assets/bispartners/goscience/docs/t/11-974-tipping-points-meeting-london-14-march-2011

There is wide acceptance in the scientific community that there are likely to be “tipping points” in the climate system, where a significant, qualitative change in state occurs in response to a small perturbation. **Crossing such tipping points could lead to accelerated**, committed or **irreversible change**. However there is substantial scientific uncertainty in quantifying the position and likelihood of passing key thresholds, and in terms of associated impacts. Current estimates of the likelihood of triggering large-scale and/or irreversible climate events are largely based on expert judgement, informed by paleo-climatic evidence, computer models and current understanding of the underlying physical processes. The high level of uncertainty, combined with the potential for very significant impacts if one or more “tipping points” were to be triggered, means that the policy response is likely to require a risk management approach. Paleo-climate reconstructions provide evidence of past rapid change events, for example the Paleocene-Eocene Thermal Maximum (PETM), which took place around 50 million years ago and involved a major climatic warming which took place over around 1000 years, possibly driven by rapid methane release. Current cumulative anthropogenic carbon release is around one third of the way towards the level that triggered such events in the past. Climate models are used to provide short term forecasts and longer term projections, to interpret recent climatic variations and paleo-climatic changes, and to understand the physical processes that may drive threshold behaviour. However several examples are known where the models used in the IPCC Fourth Assessment may not represent physical mechanisms of tipping elements correctly, due to limitations in resolution and in the processes that can currently be included in models. ‘Early warnings’ for tipping points through Earth system monitoring may be possible and may help manage the risks, although the uncertainty in modelling such events remains large. Three types of ‘health check’ approach were mentioned: (i) general statistical methods, (ii) process-based identification of key variables to monitor, and (iii) initial value prediction. Each was seen to have different advantages and disadvantages. **The critical need for long-term monitoring was emphasised**, while many existing observations are tied to short-term research programs. A clear set of long term monitoring priorities for tipping points has not yet been developed. It is important to be able to interpret ‘surprises’ in new observations (e.g. the 2007 dip in Arctic sea-ice), so that such observations can be put into context. These interpretations must be developed through careful application of quantitative, process-based knowledge of the climate system. After a high level review of the scientific evidence, the meeting considered how the risk of “tipping points” and system thresholds could be better included in policy development and wider public debate. There was consensus that the science in this area is particularly hard to communicate clearly. In part this is due to the danger of communicating an overly negative message; positive messages that make the public feel part of the solution are more likely to effect behaviour change. There was broad agreement on the requirement for a set of different (but self-consistent) narratives to meet the needs of individual audiences, using metaphors to aid clarity and understanding, and applying a risk-management framework.

==Adaptation== 
**Plan: The United States federal government should deploy the Climate Absolute Radiance and Refractivity Observatory.**

**Advantage One - Adaptation**

**Current uncertainty about climate change prevents adaptation**
**Gifford 11** - Robert Gifford, Professor of psychology at University of Victoria, May – June 2011, “The dragons of inaction: Psychological Barriers That Limit Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation,” American Psychologist Vol. 66, No. 4, 290–302 DOI: 10.1037/a0023566

Experimental research on resource dilemmas demonstrates that perceived or real uncertainty reduces the frequency of pro-environmental behavior (e.g., de Kwaadsteniet, 2007; Hine & Gifford, 1996). Individuals tend to interpret any sign of uncertainty, for example in the size of a resource pool or the rate at which the resource regenerates, as sufficient reason to harvest at a rate that favors self-interest rather than that of the environment. Uncertainty about climate change also quite likely func- tions as a justification for inaction or postponed action related to climate change. In the climate change context, presentations of the very carefully chosen level-of-confi- dence phrases (such as “likely” or “very likely,” p. 3) from the 2007 assessment report of the United Nations Intergov- ernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) led many individuals to interpret the phrases as having a lower like- lihood than the IPCC experts intended (Budescu, Broomell, & Por, 2009). Thus, well-intended efforts by climate change scien- tists to fairly characterize the degree of certainty about climate change seem to lead to a general underestimation of climate change risk on the part of the lay audience. Yet the scientific and ethical reality is that a certain degree of uncertainty is an inescapable element of any climate model—or any model, for that matter. Thus, climate sci- entists are left with a very perplexing problem: how to present the likelihood of climate change outcomes honestly without promoting misguided optimism on the part of the lay audience, which of course helps to justify inaction on the part of the public.

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Climate change is progressing now – now is the key time</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Thompson 10</span>- Lonnie G. Thompson The Ohio State University Climate Change: The Evidence and Our Options Byrd Polar Research Center Publication 1402 The Behavior Analyst 2010, 33, 153–170 No. 2 (Fall) http://researchnews.osu.edu/archive/TBA--LTonly.pdf
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Positive feedback increases the rate of change. Eventually a tipping point may be reached, after which it could be impossible to restore normal conditions. </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Think of a very large boulder rolling down a hill</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">: When it first starts to move, </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">we might stop it by pushing against</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> it or wedging chocks under it or building a barrier, but </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">once it has reached a certain velocity, there is no stopping it</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">. W</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">e do not know if there is a tipping point</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> for global warming, </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">but </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">the possibility cannot be dismissed, </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">and it has ominous </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">implication</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">s</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">. Global warming is a very, very large boulder. </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Even if there is no tipping point</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> (or we manage to avoid it), </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">the </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">acceleration of warming means serious trouble. In fact, if we stopped emitting greenhouse gases into the atmosphere tomorrow, </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">temperatures would continue to rise for 20 to 30 year</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">s because of what is already in the atmosphere. Once methane is injected into the troposphere, it remains for about 8 to 12 years (Prinn et al., 1987). Carbon dioxide has a much longer residence: 70 to 120 years. Twenty percent of the CO2 being emitted today will still affect the earth’s climate 1,000 years from now (Archer & Brovkin, 2008). If, as predicted, global temperature rises another 3u C (5.4u F) by the end of the century</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">the earth will be warmer than it has been in about 3 million years (Dowsett et al., 1994; Rahmstorf, 2007). Oceans were then about 25 m higher than they are today. We are already seeing important effects from global warming; the effects of another 3u C (5.4u F) increase are hard to predict. However, such a drastic change would, at the very least, put severe pressure on civilization as we know it.</span>



**Scenario 1 Migration**
**And, failure to adapt to climate change could cause up to 1 billion refugees**
**Tacoli 10** - Cecilia Tacoli, Acting Head, Human Settlements Group, Team Leader, Rural-urban @ international institute for environment and development, December 2010, “Moving to adapt to climate change,” reflect and act, IIED
By 2050, climate change is expected to push hundreds of millions of people — up to 1 billion, by some estimates — to leave their homes seeking better land, jobs and other resources. The figures are intimidating — but they don’t offer the specifics needed to prepare for the transformation. Uncertainties about local impacts of climate change, as well as thin data on migration today, make it difficult or impossible to precisely predict future mobility patterns. But we can better understand how environmental change in fragile areas affects people’s livelihoods and influences migration — and how governments and civil society can take these links into account. In 2009, IIED, in partnership with three local NGOs — Mainumby, IED Afrique and Tamasha — began case studies looking at these questions in Bolivia, Senegal and Tanzania.

**Displacement causes conflict which will escalate**
**Jacques 10** – Bahati Ntama Jacques, Policy Analyst @ Africa Faith and Social Justice Network, February 9, 2010, “Climate Change: What About the Displaced?” Around Africa, http://afjn.org/focus-campaigns/other/other-continental-issues/82-general/792-climate-change-what-about-the-displaced.html
Climate change-related disasters not only affect ecosystems, but cause people to relocate either by choice or by force. Some will be displaced within the boundaries of their affected countries (Internal Displacement or ID) and others will cross state borders. Some will be displaced because of sudden-onset hydro-meteorological disasters, such as flooding, hurricanes, landslides, etc. Others will be affected by slow-onset disasters, like desertification, rising sea levels and droughts. Sea level rise will, in some cases, lead to permanent loss of small state islands, Maldives being an example, which means permanent displacement of the inhabitants of the island. In high-risk zones authorities have to choose between the cost of rebuilding every time a disaster hits or of just displacing the people permanently. Furthermore, as a result of displacement, disputes over resources such as water and land will cause violence. It is more than likely that some of the violence will end up in armed conflict.

**Stress caused by migration could trigger nuke war**
**Campbell et al. 7** - <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kurt M. Campbell is CEO and co-founder of the Center for a New American Security and former deputy assistant secretary of defense for Asia and the Pacific. Leon Fuerth is a research professor of international affairs at The George Washington University, and former national security advisor to Vice President Al Gore. Jay Gulledge, Ph.D., is the senior scientist and program manager for science and impacts at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. Alexander T. J. Lennon is the editor-in-chief of CSIS’s flagship journal, The Washington Quarterly. J.R. McNeill is a professor of history at Georgetown University. Derek Mix is a research associate in the CSIS Europe Program. Peter Ogden is senior national security analyst at the Center for American Progress. John Podesta is president and CEO of the Center for American Progress and former chief of staff for President Bill Clinton. Julianne Smith is the director of the CSIS Europe Program and the Initiative for a Renewed Transatlantic Partnership. Richard Weitz is a senior fellow and director of program management at Hudson Institute. R. James Woolsey is a vice president for Booz Allen Hamilton and former director of the CIA. NOVEMBER 2007, “The Age of Consequences: The Foreign Policy and National Security Implications of Global Climate Change,” center for new American security</span>
In the case of severe climate change, projected massive nonlinear events in the global environ- ment give rise to massive nonlinear societal events. In this scenario, nations around the world will be overwhelmed by the scale of change and perni- cious challenges, such as pandemic disease and water and food shortages. The internal cohesion of nations will be under great stress, including in the United States, due to a dramatic rise in migration, changes in agricultural patterns and water avail- ability, and wealthier members of society pulling away from the rest of the population. Protests, civil unrest, and violent upheaval of governments are possible. The flooding of coastal communities around the world, especially in the Netherlands, the United States, South Asia, and China, has the potential to challenge regional and even national identities. Armed conflict between nations over resources and even territory, such as the Nile and its tributaries, is likely, and nuclear war is possible. Globalization could halt and alliances collapse. The catastrophic scenario finds strong and sur- prising intersections between the two great security threats of the day — global climate change and international terrorism waged by Islamist extremists. The catastrophic scenario means the destruction of hope itself, as human society struggles to adapt. Both migration and religious fervor are likely to spike. The scenario notes that understanding the threat in light of the other great threat of our age, terrorism, can be illuminating. Although distinct in nature, both threats are linked to energy use in the industrialized world, and, indeed, the solutions to both depend on trans- forming the world’s energy economy — America’s energy economy in particular. Indeed, aviation fuel and non-nuclear fuel for destroyers could become unobtainable just as logistical issues and the demand for military use are strained.

**Scenario 2 - Disease**
**Satellites have the capability to predict where disease epidemics could develop**
**Kalluri et al 7**-<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Satya Kalluri, PhD in Geography and assistant research scientist at the Department of Geography at the University of Maryland; Peter Gilruth, PhD in Forestry and Forest Product Techniques and has over 20 years of experience as an environmental scientist and project manager and strategist with the US Government and the UN Development Programme (UNDP) and currently in the private sector where he collaborates closely with the US space agency NASA; David Rogers, PhD in Geological and Geotechnical Engineering and Professor at Missouri University of Science and Technology; Martha Szczur, writer of several books on pathogens and health geographics, 2007, “Surveillance of Arthropod Vector-Borne Infectious Diseases Using Remote Sensing Techniques: A Review,” pdf available online: <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.plospathogens.org/article/info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.ppat.0030116]]</span></span>

Epidemiologists are adopting new remote sensing techniques to study a variety of vector-borne diseases. Associations between satellite-derived environmental variables such as temperature, humidity, and land cover type and vector density are used to identify and characterize vector habitats. The convergence of factors such as the availability of multi-temporal satellite data and georeferenced epidemiological data, collaboration between remote sensing scientists and biologists, and the availability of sophisticated, statistical geographic information system and image processing algorithms in a desktop environment creates a fertile research environment. The use of remote sensing techniques to map vector-borne diseases has evolved significantly over the past 25 years. In this paper, we review the status of remote sensing studies of arthropod vector- borne diseases due to mosquitoes, ticks, blackflies, tsetse flies, and sandflies, which are responsible for the majority of vector-borne diseases in the world. Examples of simple image classification techniques that associate land use and land cover types with vector habitats, as well as complex statistical models that link satellite-derived multi-temporal meteorological observations with vector biology and abundance, are discussed here. Future improvements in remote sensing applications in epidemiology are also discussed. Hematophagous arthropod vectors such as mosquitoes, ticks, and flies are responsible for transmitting bacteria, viruses, and protozoa between vertebrate hosts, causing such deadly diseases as malaria, dengue fever, and trypanosomiasis. Until the early 20th century, vector-borne diseases were responsible for more deaths in humans than all other causes combined. These diseases prevented the development of large areas of the tropics, especially in Africa [1]. Table 1 provides a list of common arthropod vectors, the diseases they carry, and the type of pathogen responsible for the disease. Floods and other natural disasters create environments conducive to the spread of communicable diseases such as malaria, diarrhea, and cholera. Some studies suggest that climate change and increased climate variability are fostering the spread of infectious diseases beyond their traditional geographic domains [2]. For example, West Nile virus, which was previously confined to Africa, Asia, and Europe (i.e., the Old World), has recently spread to North America. The mosquito Aedes albopictus, a vector of both dengue fever and West Nile virus and a native to Asia, has recently established in North America [3]. The ‘‘burden’’ of prominent infectious diseases worldwide transmitted by arthropod vectors is given in Table 2 [4]. Disease burden is expressed in Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALYs), which is the sum of years lost prematurely due to mortality and disability for incidence cases of the disease [5]. One DALY represents the loss of a year of healthy life. Passive disease surveillance involves voluntary reporting by people who are ill enough to go to a treatment center; such centers are therefore only effective for detection and mitigation after a person has been infected. On the other hand, active disease surveillance, which involves ‘‘searching’’ for evidence of disease proactively through routine and continuous monitoring in endemic areas, could help prevent an outbreak, or slow transmission at an earlier stage of an epidemic. Improved methods are required for forecasting, early detection, and prevention of vector-borne diseases due to the increasing trend of large-scale epidemics such as malaria [6]. Of late, satellite remote sensing technology has shown promising results in assessing the risk of various vector-borne diseases at different spatial scales. Satellite measurements and other remote sensing techniques cannot identify the vectors themselves, but may be used to characterize the environment in which the vectors thrive. Environmental variables such as land and sea surface temperature and amount, type, and health of vegetation can be identified and measured from space. A list of environmental factors that can be mapped through remote sensing and their potential linkages with various diseases has been previously described [7]. Satellites have the ability to detect anomalies and deviations from the normal climate patterns that are conducive to the breeding of disease- carrying vectors such as mosquitoes. Techniques to map disease occurrence and risk from satellite data therefore require at least some understanding of the relationships between a vector-borne disease and the air, land, and water environment in which it occurs. The objectives of this review are to summarize developments in the application of remote sensing techniques for studying infectious diseases in humans due to arthropod vectors and to identify future opportunities for further research.

**Unanticipated epidemics would cause extinction**
**Powell 2k** – Corey S. Powell, Senior Editor, Discover Magazine; Adjunct Professor, Science Journalism, NYU; Author: God in the Equation: How Einstein Transformed Religion, October 1, 2000, “20 Ways the World Could End,” Discover Magazine, http://discovermagazine.com/2000/oct/featworld

Global epidemics If Earth doesn't do us in, our fellow organisms might be up to the task. Germs and people have always coexisted, but occasionally the balance gets out of whack. The Black Plague killed one European in four during the 14th century; influenza took at least 20 million lives between 1918 and 1919; the AIDS epidemic has produced a similar death toll and is still going strong. From 1980 to 1992, reports the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, mortality from infectious disease in the United States rose 58 percent. Old diseases such as cholera and measles have developed new resistance to antibiotics. Intensive agriculture and land development is bringing humans closer to animal pathogens. International travel means diseases can spread faster than ever. Michael Osterholm, an infectious disease expert who recently left the Minnesota Department of Health, described the situation as "like trying to swim against the current of a raging river." The grimmest possibility would be the emergence of a strain that spreads so fast we are caught off guard or that resists all chemical means of control, perhaps as a result of our stirring of the ecological pot. About 12,000 years ago, a sudden wave of mammal extinctions swept through the Americas. Ross MacPhee of the American Museum of Natural History argues the culprit was extremely virulent disease, which humans helped transport as they migrated into the New World

**Scenario 3 – Nuke War**
**Unanticipated Climate Change makes war, instability, and nuclear proliferation inevitable**
**Schwartz and Randall 3**- An Abrupt Climate Change Scenario and Its Implications for United States National Security By Peter Schwartz, co-founder and chairman of Global Business Network and Doug Randall, California-based Global Business Network, October 2003 http://www.edf.org/documents/3566_AbruptClimateChange.pdf

The two most likely reactions to a sudden drop in carrying capacity due to climate change are defensive and offensive. The United States and Australia are likely to build defensive fortresses around their countries because they have the resources and reserves to achieve self-sufficiency. With diverse growing climates, wealth, technology, and abundant resources, the United States could likely survive shortened growing cycles and harsh weather conditions without catastrophic losses. Borders will be strengthened around the country to hold back unwanted starving immigrants from the Caribbean islands (an especially severe problem), Mexico, and South America. Energy supply will be shored up through expensive (economically, politically, and morally) alternatives such as nuclear, renewables, hydrogen, and Middle Eastern contracts. Pesky skirmishes over fishing rights, agricultural support, and disaster relief will be commonplace. Tension between the U.S. and Mexico rise as the U.S. reneges on the 1944 treaty that guarantees water flow from the Colorado River. Relief workers will be commissioned to respond to flooding along the southern part of the east coast and much drier conditions inland. Yet, even in this continuous state of emergency the U.S. will be positioned well compared to others. The intractable problem facing the nation will be calming the mounting military tension around the world. As famine, disease, and weather-related disasters strike due to the abrupt climate change, many countries’ needs will exceed their carrying capacity. This will create a sense of desperation, which is likely to lead to offensive aggression in order to reclaim balance. Imagine eastern European countries, struggling to feed their populations with a falling supply of food, water, and energy, eyeing Russia, whose population is already in decline, for access to its grain, minerals, and energy supply. Or, picture Japan, suffering from flooding along its coastal cities and contamination of its fresh water supply, eying Russia’s Sakhalin Island oil and gas reserves as an energy source to power desalination plants and energy-intensive agricultural processes. Envision Pakistan, India, and China – all armed with nuclear weapons – skirmishing at their borders over refugees, access to shared rivers, and arable land. Spanish and Portuguese fishermen might fight over fishing rights – leading to conflicts at sea. And, countries including the United States would be likely to better secure their borders.With over 200 river basins touching multiple nations, we can expect conflict over access to water for drinking, irrigation, and transportation. The Danube touches twelve nations, the Nile runs though nine, and the Amazon runs through seven. In this scenario, we can expect alliances of convenience. The United States and Canada may become one, simplifying border controls. Or, Canada might keep its hydropower—causing energy problems in the US. North and South Korea may align to create one technically savvy and nuclear-armed entity. Europe may act as a unified block – curbing immigration problems between European nations – and allowing for protection against aggressors. Russia, with its abundant minerals, oil, and natural gas may join Europe. In this world of warring states, nuclear arms proliferation is inevitable. As cooling drives up demand, existing hydrocarbon supplies are stretched thin. With a scarcity of energy supply – and a growing need for access -- nuclear energy will become a critical source of power, and this will accelerate nuclear proliferation as countries develop enrichment and reprocessing capabilities to ensure their national security. China, India, Pakistan, Japan, South Korea, Great Britain, France, and Germany will all have nuclear weapons capability, as will Israel, Iran, Egypt, and North Korea. Managing the military and political tension, occasional skirmishes, and threat of war will be a challenge. Countries such as Japan, that have a great deal of social cohesion (meaning the government is able to effectively engage its population in changing behavior) are most likely to fair well. Countries whose diversity already produces conflict, such as India, South Africa and Indonesia, will have trouble maintaining order. Adaptability and access to resources will be key. Perhaps the most frustrating challenge abrupt climate change will pose is that we’ll never know how far we are into the climate change scenario and how many more years – 10, 100, 1000 --- remain before some kind of return to warmer conditions as the thermohaline circulation starts up again. When carrying capacity drops suddenly, civilization is faced with new challenges that today seem unimaginable.

==Leadership== 

**Advantage Two is Climate Leadership**

**Now is the key time for Obama to assert leadership on climate change**
**New York Times, 6-22**- John M. Broder, June 22, 2011, “Gore Criticizes Obama for Record on Climate”, http://www.nytimes.com/2011/06/23/science/earth/23gore.html

Former Vice President Al Gore sharply criticized President Obama as lacking leadership on climate change in a magazine essay published online Wednesday, saying his policies had been little more effective than those of President George W. Bush. Related in Opinion In the 7,000-word article in Rolling Stone, Mr. Gore said that Mr. Obama clearly understood the threat to the planet posed by global warming and that he had appointed a number of committed environmental advocates to key positions. But Mr. Gore said that in the face of well-financed attacks from fossil fuel industries and denial and delay from Republicans in Congress, Mr. Obama had failed to act decisively to alter the nation’s policies on climate change and energy. Addressing climate change on national and international levels will require forceful American leadership, Mr. Gore said. “Yet President Obama has never presented to the American people the magnitude of the climate crisis,” he wrote. “He has simply not made the case for action. He has not defended the science against the ongoing, withering and dishonest attacks. Nor has he provided a presidential venue for the scientific community — including our own National Academy — to bring the reality of the science before the public.” A White House spokesman defended Mr. Obama’s record in a written statement. “The president has been clear since Day 1 that climate change poses a threat domestically and globally, and under his leadership we have taken the most aggressive steps in our country’s history to tackle this challenge,” said Clark Stevens, a White House press officer. Under Mr. Obama, Mr. Stevens said, the United States has spent billions of dollars on clean-energy technology, imposed tough new emissions standards for cars and trucks and taken the lead in international talks on climate change. Mr. Gore’s extended outburst of frustration signals a public turning point for him, and perhaps for other environmental advocates who have been quietly seething for months over what they view as the administration’s timidity. Mr. Gore, who shared a Nobel Peace Prize for his climate advocacy, praised some of the president’s actions, including the new vehicle standards and the investments in green technology. But in recent months he has told friends that the president has been too passive on climate change and has not been sufficiently supportive of Lisa P. Jackson, the Environmental Protection Agency administrator, who has tried to advance greenhouse gas regulation against stiff Congressional opposition. Much of Mr. Gore’s essay is devoted to criticism of the news media as failing to report accurately on the scientific consensus that climate change is real and that it is most likely caused by human activities. He said the media had been cowed by an aggressive lobbying and public relations campaign financed by the oil, gas and coal industries, or had presented ideological entertainment in the guise of news reporting. Mr. Obama has tried to move the country away from fossil fuels, and has made the connection between oil imports and national security, Mr. Gore wrote. “But in spite of these and other achievements, President Obama has thus far failed to use the bully pulpit to make the case for bold action on climate change,” he said. “After successfully passing his green stimulus package, he did nothing to defend it when Congress decimated its funding. After the House passed cap and trade, he did little to make passage in the Senate a priority.” Paul Bledsoe, a former energy aide in the Clinton White House and now senior adviser at the Bipartisan Policy Center, said: “I entirely disagree with Gore here. Obama has consistently made a compelling case for climate action based on the science and has fought in Congress and internationally for robust policies to cut emissions and promote clean energy. The administration’s failing on climate has in fact been political.” Mr. Gore also turned to public officials of both parties. “Many politicians, unfortunately, also fall into the same two categories: those who cheerlead for the deniers and those who cower before them,” he wrote. “The latter group now includes several candidates for the Republican presidential nomination who have felt it necessary to abandon their previous support for action on the climate crisis; at least one has been apologizing profusely to the deniers and begging for their forgiveness.” Mr. Gore does not name them, but Mitt Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts; Jon M. Huntsman Jr., a former governor of Utah and ambassador to China; and Tim Pawlenty, a former governor of Minnesota, have backtracked on their support for state and federal action to address global warming. Near the end of the article, Mr. Gore acknowledged that he might be hobbling a president trying to do the right thing in a difficult environment. “All of his supporters understand that it would be self-defeating to weaken Obama and heighten the risk of another step backward,” he wrote. But he said he felt compelled to speak out because the stakes were incalculable. “The climate crisis, in reality, is a struggle for the soul of America,” Mr. Gore concluded, using the voice of prophet and teacher that he has assumed on this topic for more than 20 years. “It is about whether or not we are still capable — given the ill health of our democracy and the current dominance of wealth over reason — of perceiving important and complex realities clearly enough to promote and protect the sustainable well-being of the many. What hangs in the balance is the future of civilization as we know it.”

**Earth Observation satellites key to US environmental leadership- near-term support key to long-term credibility**
**Sabathier and Faith 7**- Vincent Sabatheir, senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program. From 2004 to 2009, he was senior fellow and director for space initiatives at CSIS. He is also senior adviser to the SAFRAN group and consults internationally on aerospace and telecommunications; Ryan Faith, associate for the Center for Strategic and International Studies, 31 July 2007, “Minding the Gaps: Keeping Exploration Alive,” Online: http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/070731_space_commentary.pdf

Finally, the third challenge relates to the collection of environmental data through earth observation satellites. Global concern with climate change makes the sacrifice of earth observation to support human space exploration a very unappealing option. Further, the United States has already committed to a bold leadership role with the July 2003 launch, by former secretary of state Colin Powell and current National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) administrator VADM Conrad Lautenbacher (USN, ret.), of a worldwide effort to build the Global Earth Observation System of Systems. If we establish an organization to create a system like GEOSS and then immediately fail to meet our agreed-on commitments, it will be very difficult indeed to generate future support for international projects, and as a consequence, our basic ability to lead in other space-related areas—especially returning to the Moon—will be greatly compromised. Historically, the way that NASA has dealt with such competing priorities is through the senseless cannibalism of one project after another. This may not, however, currently be an option. On one hand, the broad, bipartisan support for a national vision of space exploration and the immediate interest should encourage solid, robust support for human space exploration; on the other hand, the growing concern of global climate change necessitates full support of earth observation. In these space leadership challenges, failure to provide near-term support will immediately erode our credibility, while in the longer term, our leadership role is at great risk.

**Two internal links to heg:**
**First is global leadership- American policy sends a global signal**
**Shepard 10**- Don Shepard, Natural Resources/Water Resources University Laboratory Teacher & Former Financial Representative and Army National Guard Accountant, ““U.S. Environmental Policy and Leadership,” online: http://www.brighthub.com/environment/science-environmental/articles/39623.aspx
Will Obama Meet New Standards?

Even with these goals and very early achievements it is unclear if the overall “political will”, no matter how different from the last eight years, is sufficient to tackle the challenges of global environmental change, particularly when the will of the presidential administration may not be enough. There are many representatives who do not share Obama’s enthusiasm for environmental issues. As pointed out previously, there have already been compromises made that have decreased funding for environmental initiatives. The American people can help by not letting the environmental agenda once again take a back seat, though only time will tell just how strong the will and influence of the Obama administration is. Opportunity for Leadership in Copenhagen The U.S. is the world superpower. I argue that the latest world economic troubles only serve to accentuate the extent to which this is true, as economies of the world are suffering due to the domino effect triggered by the collapse of the U.S. housing market. The Kyoto treaty was only a piece of paper without the U.S. on board. The other major polluting nations such as China and India will not take the problem of global environmental change seriously until America does. Copenhagen is a chance to right the ship before it is too late. Our nation is just as capable of steering the ship in the right direction as it is in the wrong direction. This means allowing Earth to take the helm, and remembering humanity adapts to her, not her to humanity. Update: Copenhagen; What happened? Dissapointment seems to be the predominant reaction from environmental organizations to the Copenhagen Climate Summit. Indeed, no binding agreement, or even a pledge to make a binding agreement in 2010 was achieved. This was not, however, the true test of the Obama administration's environmental policy. The real test is whether Obama can get a legitimate climate bill through the Senate. U.S. environmental leadership can still be the beacon it needs to be with a strong message from our lawmakers.

**Environmental leadership is the crucial determinant of US primacy—more important than power projection or force posture**
**Carstens 1-** David H. Carstens 1, Chief of Operations, Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, Eighth US Army, Korea, Spring 2001 (Parameters, <span style="color: blue;">[[@http://carlisle-www.army.mil/usawc/Parameters/01spring/carstens.htm]]</span>)
Dramatic events such as the end of the Cold War, the turn of the century, and now a new presidency offer opportunities for the United States to reconsider its national security policy.[1] The notion that the focus should be limited to defending against an emerging peer competitor or rogue state is flawed, however, and current analyses of emerging threats are generally too narrowly defined. Internal regional strife, not power-projecting challengers to US primacy, will likely spark the crises of the 21st century for which US strategy must be prepared. A tidal wave of public outcry over the deteriorating state of regional economies and the global environment is rushing toward the shores of the world's most powerful nations. In an era in which there are few imminent threats to US security, government as well as corporate leaders praise the superpower status of our nation. In such times it is not surprising that labor and environmental reform issues are often placed on the back burner. Nevertheless, these are the issues that will take center stage in the coming decades. From its current position of vast global power, the United States can either choose to meet this challenge head on, or be overcome by it. My intent is not to dismiss the current theories of strategy, but rather to add to them. Four such strategies (and many variations on these) compete for relevancy in the current public debate: neo-isolationism, selective engagement, cooperative security, and primacy.[2] The implications of each are normally outlined in a traditional analysis of foreign affairs in which there exists a constant competition for power between states. Although this tradition continues, the real danger the world now faces "stem[s] not from conflicts between countries but from conflicts within them."[3] Such internal strife over distribution of wealth, labor inequality, scarcity of resources, and declining environmental conditions will spill over into neighboring states, creating chaos. The new grand strategy of the United States, therefore, needs to respond to regional internal weaknesses, not to the external strengths of perceived rogue and competitor states. [continues] With the rising inequality brought on by globalization comes a torrent of economic, labor, and environmental problems which, if left unchallenged, will fuel the fires of regional crisis in the 21st century. For the global market to survive, nations need to collectively establish and maintain economic, labor, and environmental policies that provide for the common good. Such standards also need to be collectively enforced with the same zeal as is currently reserved for defense against armed attack. In the eyes of the world, American leadership diminishes every time we choose not to act upon a potentially devastating human crisis. To the contrary, successful actions in support of regional economic and environmental well-being bolster confidence in American leadership at home and abroad. Further, immediate action today may prevent the wars of tomorrow, especially in those areas where imminent chaos is most pronounced. The United States cannot afford to look away from global economic and environmental despair, saving its strength for the "big fight." The future US grand strategy, if not entirely based on environmental and economic internationalism, should expand the definition of US interests to include global economic reform and environmental standards enforcement. The greatest danger America faces is neither China nor Iraq. It is indifference to this emerging crisis.

**Second is readiness – Climate change kills it- disrupts electricity grid, energy, military bases and battle ground conditions**
**CNA 7**- The CNA Corporation is a nonprofit institution that conducts in-depth, independent research and analysis, National Security and the Threat of Climate Change May 30, http://securityandclimate.cna.org/report/National%20Security%20and%20the%20Threat%20of%20Climate%20Change.pdf

**Severe weather has a direct effect on military readiness**. Ships and aircraft operations are made more difficult; military personnel themselves must evacuate or seek shelter. As Army Gen. Paul Kern explained of his time dealing with hurricanes in the U.S. Southern Command: “A major weather event becomes a distraction from your ability to focus on and execute your military mission.” In addition, U.S. forces may be required to be more engaged in stability operations in the future as climate change causes more frequent weather disasters such as hurricanes, flash floods, and extended droughts. A warming Arctic holds great implications for military operations. The highest levels of planetary warming observed to date have occurred in the Arctic, and projections show the high northern latitudes warming more than any other part of the earth over the coming century. The Arctic, often considered to be the proverbial “canary” in the earth climate system, is showing clear signs of stress [33]. The U.S. Navy is concerned about the retreat and thinning of the ice canopy and its implications for naval operations. A 2001 Navy study concluded that an ice-free Arctic will require an “increased scope of naval operations” [35]. That increased scope of operations will require the Navy to consider weapon system effectiveness and various other factors associated with operating in this environment. Additionally, an Arctic with less sea ice could bring more competition for resources, as well as more commercial and military activity that could further threaten an already fragile ecosystem. **The DoD is almost completely dependent on electricity from the national grid to power critical missions** at fixed installations and on petroleum to sustain combat training and operations. Both sources of energy and their distribution systems are susceptible to damage from extreme weather. The national electric grid is fragile and can be easily disrupted. Witness the Northeast Blackout of 2003, which was caused by trees falling onto power lines in Ohio. It affected 50 million people in eight states and Canada, took days to restore, and caused a financial loss in the United States estimated to be between $4 billion and $10 billion [36]. People lost water supplies, transportation systems, and communications systems (including Internet and cell phones). Factories shut down, and looting occurred. As extreme weather events becomes more common, so do the threats to our national electricity supply. One approach to securing power to DoD installations for critical missions involves a combination of aggressively applying energy efficiency technologies to reduce the critical load (more mission, less energy); deploying renewable energy sources; and “islanding” the installation from the national grid. Islanding allows power generated on the installations to flow two ways—onto the grid when there is excess production and from the grid when the load exceeds local generation. By pursuing these actions to improve resiliency of mission, DoD would become an early adopter of technologies that would help transform the grid, reduce our load, and expand the use of renewable energy. For deployed systems, the DoD pays a high price for high fuel demand. In Iraq, significant combat forces are dedicated to moving fuel and protecting fuel supply lines. The fuel delivery situation on the ground in Iraq is so limited As extreme weather events becomes more common, so do the threats to our national electricity supply that that the Army has established a “Power Surety Task Force” to help commanders of forward operating bases cut the number of fuel convoys by using energy more efficiently. Maj. Gen. Richard Zilmer, USMC, commander of the multinational force in the Anbar province of Iraq, asked for help in August 2006. His request was for renewable energy systems. According to Gen. Zilmer, “reducing the military’s dependence on fuel for power generation could reduce the number of road-bound convoys … ‘Without this solution [renewable energy systems], personnel loss rates are likely to continue at their current rate. Continued casualty accumulation exhibits potential to jeopardize mission success.…’ ” Along a similar vein, Lt. Gen. James Mattis, while commanding general of the First Marine Division during Operation Iraqi Freedom, urged: “Unleash us from the tether of fuel.” Energy-efficiency technologies, energy conservation practices and renewable energy sources are the tools forward bases are using to stem their fuel demand and reduce the “target signature” of their fuel convoys. Numerous DoD studies dating from the 2001 Defense Science Board report “More Capable Warfighting Through Reduced Fuel Burden” have concluded that high fuel demand by combat forces detracts from our combat capability, makes our forces more vulnerable, diverts combat assets from offense to supply line protection, and increases operating costs. Nowhere are these problems more evident than in Iraq, where every day 2.4 million gallons of fuel is moved through dangerous territory, requiring protection by armored combat vehicles and attack helicopters [37]. DoD planners estimate that it costs $15 to deliver one gallon of fuel from its commercial supplier to the forward edge of the battlefield and about $26 to deliver a gallon of fuel from an airborne tanker, not counting the tanker aircraft cost. Furthermore, DoD’s procedures for determining the types of systems it needs do not take these fuel burden considerations into account. DoD should require more efficient combat systems and should include the actual cost of delivering fuel when evaluating the advantages of investments in efficiency [38, 39]. DoD should have an incentive to accurately account for the cost of moving and protecting fuel and to invest in technologies that will provide combat power more efficiently. Deploying technologies that make our forces more efficient also reduces greenhouse gas emissions. The resulting technologies would make a significant contribution to the vision President Bush expressed in his State of the Union speech when he said, “America is on the verge of technological breakthroughs that will … help us to confront the serious challenge of global climate change.” Given the human and economic cost of delivering fuel to combat forces and the almost total dependence on the electric grid for critical missions, DoD has strong operational economic incentives to aggressively pursue energy efficiency in its combat systems and its installations. By investing at levels commensurate with its interests, DoD would become an early adopter of innovative technologies and could stimulate others to follow. Climate change threats also create opportunities for constructive engagement such as stability operations and capacity building. The U.S. military helped deliver relief to the victims of ... reducing the military’s dependence on fuel for power generation could reduce the number of road-bound convoys … 41 the 2005 Indian Ocean tsunami because it is the only institution capable of rapidly delivering personnel and materiel anywhere in the world on relatively short notice. DoD Directive 3000.05, issued in 2006, provides the mandate to conduct military and civilian stability operations in peacetime as well as conflict to maintain order in states and regions. The Combatant Command’s Theater Security Cooperation Program, which seeks to engage regional states, could be easily focused on climate change mitigation and executed in concert with other U.S. agencies through U.S. embassy country teams. The objective would be to build the host nation military’s capabilities and capacity to support civilian government agencies. It also enhances good governance and promotes stability, making failed states and terrorist incursion less likely. Because many climate change problems cross borders, it could also promote regional communication and cooperation. If the frequency of natural disasters increases with climate change, future military and political leaders may face hard choices about where and when to engage. Deploying troops affects readiness elsewhere; choosing not to may affect alliances. And providing aid in the aftermath of a catastrophic event or natural disaster can help retain stability in a nation or region, which in turn could head off U.S. military engagement in that region at a later date.

**Loss of U.S. hegemony causes nuclear wars around the globe**
**Kagan 2007** **–** Robert Kagan, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund, August/September 2007, “End of Dreams, Return of History,” The Hoover Policy Review, online: **[[@http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html]]**
The jostling for status and influence among these ambitious nations and would-be nations is a second defining feature of the new post-Cold War international system. Nationalism in all its forms is back, if it ever went away, and so is international competition for power, influence, honor, and status. American predominance prevents these rivalries from intensifying — its regional as well as its global predominance. Were the United States to diminish its influence in the regions where it is currently the strongest power, the other nations would settle disputes as great and lesser powers have done in the past: sometimes through diplomacy and accommodation but often through confrontation and wars of varying scope, intensity, and destructiveness. One novel aspect of such a multipolar world is that most of these powers would possess nuclear weapons. That could make wars between them less likely, or it could simply make them more catastrophic. It is easy but also dangerous to underestimate the role the United States plays in providing a measure of stability in the world even as it also disrupts stability. For instance, the United States is the dominant naval power everywhere, such that other nations cannot compete with it even in their home waters. They either happily or grudgingly allow the United States Navy to be the guarantor of international waterways and trade routes, of international access to markets and raw materials such as oil. Even when the United States engages in a war, it is able to play its role as guardian of the waterways. In a more genuinely multipolar world, however, it would not. Nations would compete for naval dominance at least in their own regions and possibly beyond. Conflict between nations would involve struggles on the oceans as well as on land. Armed embargos, of the kind used in World War i and other major conflicts, would disrupt trade flows in a way that is now impossible. Such order as exists in the world rests not merely on the goodwill of peoples but on a foundation provided by American power. Even the European Union, that great geopolitical miracle, owes its founding to American power, for without it the European nations after World War II would never have felt secure enough to reintegrate Germany. Most Europeans recoil at the thought, but even today Europe’s stability depends on the guarantee, however distant and one hopes unnecessary, that the United States could step in to check any dangerous development on the continent. In a genuinely multipolar world, that would not be possible without renewing the danger of world war. People who believe greater equality among nations would be preferable to the present American predominance often succumb to a basic logical fallacy. They believe the order the world enjoys today exists independently of American power. They imagine that in a world where American power was diminished, the aspects of international order that they like would remain in place. But that ’s not the way it works. International order does not rest on ideas and institutions. It is shaped by configurations of power. The international order we know today reflects the distribution of power in the world since World War ii, and especially since the end of the Cold War. A different configuration of power, a multipolar world in which the poles were Russia, China, the United States, India, and Europe, would produce its own kind of order, with different rules and norms reflecting the interests of the powerful states that would have a hand in shaping it. Would that international order be an improvement? Perhaps for Beijing and Moscow it would. But it is doubtful that it would suit the tastes of enlightenment liberals in the United States and Europe. The current order, of course, is not only far from perfect but also offers no guarantee against major conflict among the world ’s great powers. Even under the umbrella of unipolarity, regional conflicts involving the large powers may erupt. War could erupt between China and Taiwan and draw in both the United States and Japan. War could erupt between Russia and Georgia, forcing the United States and its European allies to decide whether to intervene or suffer the consequences of a Russian victory. Conflict between India and Pakistan remains possible, as does conflict between Iran and Israel or other Middle Eastern states. These, too, could draw in other great powers, including the United States. Such conflicts may be unavoidable no matter what policies the United States pursues. But they are more likely to erupt if the United States weakens or withdraws from its positions of regional dominance. This is especially true in East Asia, where most nations agree that a reliable American power has a stabilizing and pacific effect on the region. That is certainly the view of most of China ’s neighbors. But even China, which seeks gradually to supplant the United States as the dominant power in the region, faces the dilemma that an American withdrawal could unleash an ambitious, independent, nationalist Japan. In Europe, too, the departure of the United States from the scene — even if it remained the world’s most powerful nation — could be destabilizing. It could tempt Russia to an even more overbearing and potentially forceful approach to unruly nations on its periphery. Although some realist theorists seem to imagine that the disappearance of the Soviet Union put an end to the possibility of confrontation between Russia and the West, and therefore to the need for a permanent American role in Europe, history suggests that conflicts in Europe involving Russia are possible even without Soviet communism. If the United States withdrew from Europe — if it adopted what some call a strategy of “offshore balancing” — this could in time increase the likelihood of conflict involving Russia and its near neighbors, which could in turn draw the United States back in under unfavorable circumstances. It is also optimistic to imagine that a retrenchment of the American position in the Middle East and the assumption of a more passive, “offshore” role would lead to greater stability there. The vital interest the United States has in access to oil and the role it plays in keeping access open to other nations in Europe and Asia make it unlikely that American leaders could or would stand back and hope for the best while the powers in the region battle it out. Nor would a more “even-handed” policy toward Israel, which some see as the magic key to unlocking peace, stability, and comity in the Middle East, obviate the need to come to Israel ’s aid if its security became threatened. That commitment, paired with the American commitment to protect strategic oil supplies for most of the world, practically ensures a heavy American military presence in the region, both on the seas and on the ground. The subtraction of American power from any region would not end conflict but would simply change the equation. In the Middle East, competition for influence among powers both inside and outside the region has raged for at least two centuries. The rise of Islamic fundamentalism doesn ’t change this. It only adds a new and more threatening dimension to the competition, which neither a sudden end to the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians nor an immediate American withdrawal from Iraq would change. The alternative to American predominance in the region is not balance and peace. It is further competition. The region and the states within it remain relatively weak. A diminution of American influence would not be followed by a diminution of other external influences. One could expect deeper involvement by both China and Russia, if only to secure their interests. 18 And one could also expect the more powerful states of the region, particularly Iran, to expand and fill the vacuum. It is doubtful that any American administration would voluntarily take actions that could shift the balance of power in the Middle East further toward Russia, China, or Iran. The world hasn ’t changed that much. An American withdrawal from Iraq will not return things to “normal” or to a new kind of stability in the region. It will produce a new instability, one likely to draw the United States back in again. The alternative to American regional predominance in the Middle East and elsewhere is not a new regional stability. In an era of burgeoning nationalism, the future is likely to be one of intensified competition among nations and nationalist movements. Difficult as it may be to extend American predominance into the future, no one should imagine that a reduction of American power or a retraction of American influence and global involvement will provide an easier path.
==Solvency== 
**Observation Three is Solvency**

**CLARREO ensures accurate data and guarantees successful adaptation**
**Madigan 11** – Jay Madigan, Senior Engineer and Web Development - Science Programmer at SSAI /NASA, 03/15/2011, “Societal Benefits,” online: http://clarreo.larc.nasa.gov/about-SocietalBenefits.php

In 2007, the National Research Council (NRC) conducted a survey of Earth science and its applications from space, identifying key scientific questions and societal objectives on which to focus Earth observations beginning in 2005. The Council organized the science missions into three time-phased tiers, identifying the mission(s) most appropriate to answer key science questions and address societal objectives. In addition to the NRC’s Decadal Survey, a summary of the policy documents that support the science goals of the CLARREO mission can be found here. Selected as a high-priority, tier one mission, the Climate Absolute Radiance and Refractivity Observatory (CLARREO) is a climate mission that will bring revolutionary accuracy to climate measurement—and provide a global benchmark measurement for conclusively determining long-term climate trends. The urgency for CLARREO results from the growing need for higher accuracy, long-term climate change observations than current instruments are capable of providing. Data from CLARREO will dramatically increase how accurately we define the real climate future that society faces—and assist policy makers in formulating more informed decisions about how to respond. The timing of the CLARREO mission is a result of recent advances in a wide range of scientific, measurement, and technological areas. These advances combine to enable CLARREO to be a completely new type of climate mission: a mission focused on accuracy at decade time scales. Because CLARREO measurements will cover the majority of the solar and infrared spectrum, CLARREO will provide this accuracy for most of the climate variables essential for assessing climate change, greatly expanding the uses of existing space-based data sets for societal benefit. Previous Earth science missions have focused on providing data for one aspect of the climate system such as clouds or aerosols. CLARREO will provide a global perspective of climate change, becoming the first mission to collect data that provide a single and highly accurate view of the entire climate system. By obtaining this global view, CLARREO will be used by climate modelers and decision makers to accurately predict climate change and to develop intelligent plans and methods to minimize and adapt to it. Kevin Brown, CLARREO Project Manager who is leading the CLARREO mission states, “The integrity of CLARREO measurements and their ability to accurately portray the Earth’s climate on a global scale, allows for greater confidence in policy derived from CLARREO observations.” CLARREO differs from other satellites because its measurements are tied to internationally-recognized standards, the same type of rigorously-tested standards used by National Metrology Institutes to determine the temperature of a material or length of a second. Using these international standards, measurements from CLARREO, as well as other satellites, may be pooled into one long-term observational record that is free from small drifts in measurements due to slight differences between satellites. This allows scientists to test the satellite observations for small errors that mirror the variability of the climate itself. Testing for these errors provides for a clear interpretation of measurement trends, greatly enhancing confidence in the data’s accuracy.

**Current models—CLARREO solves climate gaps- tests accuracy in global observation systems**
**Anderson 7**- Jim Anderson, Philip S. Weld Professor in the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, Harvard University, Decadal Survey: CLARREO Workshop <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.docstoc.com/docs/30803707/DRAFT-Decadal-Survey-%28DS%29-CLARREO-Workshop-Report-Edited-]]</span>
CLARREO is a Highly Leveraged Interdisciplinary Climate Change Mission • Accurate decadal-length records are essential for climate change detection, attribution, and for testing climate prediction accuracy. They represent the most critical test of uncertainty in future climate change prediction. • While process study missions (e.g. CALIPSO/CloudSat) are critical to improve underlying climate model physics (e.g. clouds), decadal change observations are critical to determine the impact of those climate model improvements on the accuracy of predicting future climate change. Both elements are critical, and CLARREO is the major Decadal Study mission addressing serious accuracy issues in decadal climate change observation. • The CLARREO mission is unique in its broad interdisciplinary impact on climate change science: the other NRC Decadal Survey missions are primarily focused on one climate process or discipline. • CLARREO provides new solar reflected and infrared emitted high spectral resolution benchmark radiance climate data records that can be used to test climate model predictions, improve climate change fingerprinting, and attribution. • CLARREO provides an orbiting calibration observatory that can be used to calibrate other solar and infrared space-borne sensors (e.g. VIIRS, CrIS, Landsat, Geostationary, CERES) and thereby improve to climate accuracy a wide range of sensors across the GEO observing system. It also improves the scientific value of all of these instruments. • Key climate variable decadal records

**International standards— CLARREO is superior to current satellites for climate records- SI traceability allows a global climate record**
**Anderson 7**- Jim Anderson, Philip S. Weld Professor in the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, Harvard University, Decadal Survey: CLARREO Workshop http://www.docstoc.com/docs/30803707/DRAFT-Decadal-Survey-%28DS%29-CLARREO-Workshop-Report-Edited-by

The ability of this CLARREO mission to calibrate passive sensors on-orbit via SI traceability and to address sampling issues without subsidiary information is a notable departure from the current strategy pursued for climate satellite records. The necessity for this departure was recognized by the NRC as follows: NRC Objective: Global Benchmark Climate Record Benchmark Observations: What are they? The NRC Decadal Survey recognized that when the global climate record emerges as a significant contributor to public policy (societal) decisions, that record will be attacked relentlessly. If the climate record cannot stand up to those attacks, the record cannot effectively serve society. Recognition of this led to the requirement that the design of climate observing and monitoring systems from space must ensure the establishment of global, long-term climate records, which are of high accuracy, tested for systematic errors on-orbit, and tied to irrefutable standards such as those maintained in the U.S. by the National Institute of Standards and Technology For the NRC report, this mission definition was essential for the prioritization process that fully considered scientific/societal impact, cost, ability to complement other systems, degree of readiness, risk mitigation, and contributions to other thematic areas. The ASIC3 report also chose a CLARREO-like mission as one of its high priority recommendations based on similar requirements. Once the context of responsiveness to societal objectives is understood, the path leading all the way to details of instrument design may be defined. A summary of requirements flowdown from high level science requirements to data products to mission and payload requirements for the IR and GPS components is included below.

**Monitoring solves migration, disease and climate leadership**

(**NAST****2008** NASA Aeronautics Support Team), “NASA’s Role in the 21st Century,” White Paper, Fall, p. 8-9.
2) Monitoring and predicting climate change and the impact of mitigation strategies. 3) Stimulating the reinvention of the US air transportation system into an environmentally friendly, safe and energy efficient system. 4) Development of the replacement for the Space Shuttle and continuation of human space exploration. 1) Intelligent, robotic exploration of the solar system and universe There is still the spirit of exploration in much of what NASA does today, no more so than the programs that produce the robotic explorers of the universe. While no one disputes that exploration and discovery in our universe and beyond must remain a key part of NASA, it is a very real question as to how best to achieve the maximum amount of exploration/discovery given real budget, technology and time constraints. Given that human space exploration is massively expensive, one should ask the obvious question, “Should NASA’s continued exploration of the Moon, Mars, and other worlds involve just a handful of humans (astronauts), or should this exploration program be restructured so that it will provide the opportunity for all humans to explore?” Robotic explorers will increasingly provide, through the technologies of machine intelligence, 8 virtual reality, and high bandwidth communication, a near-real-time space exploration experience to all citizens, making everyone a virtual astronaut instead of a privileged few. Further, not requiring the development and fielding of future exploration systems that protect humans from the harsh environment of space will radically reduce the cost and time required to explore other worlds. With current projections showing that machine intelligence will begin to rival human intelligence by the beginning of the third decade of this century, the argument that human intelligence is required as the primary emphasis in space exploration is greatly diminished. Impact on Innovation & Competitiveness: Information technology will be a key driver of the 21st century economy including the rapid advancement in machine intelligence and communication bandwidth. Focusing NASA on robotic space exploration will create investments in both of these key areas as the agency strives to build ever more intelligent robots that can explore autonomously and send vast quantities of data back to earth. In fact, the demands of robotic space exploration will serve to accelerate the development of machine intelligence and provide that critical early adoption of each succeeding generation of machine needed to spur its introduction into commerce. This approach to exploration will serve to solidify the US’s global leadership in the development and commercialization of these key technologies. 2) Monitoring and predicting climate change and the impact of mitigation strategies Climate change is likely to be a dominating global issue for the rest of this century. NASA’s Earth science program is already the global leader in the measurement and prediction of climate change. The focus of climate change science/studies is now shifting to better prediction of its evolution and impacts, and developing and monitoring effective mitigation strategies. NASA must next be challenged with dramatically improving its climate prediction capability as well as taking on the new challenge of accurately predicting the impacts of climate change on our civilization and the biosphere. Additionally, there are already many speculative proposals for climatechange mitigation strategies which attempt to introduce climate forcing that acts opposite to the greenhouse effect or which attempt to capture or reduce existing greenhouse gases. Given the complex feedbacks in the climate system, understanding the possible unintended consequences of such mitigation strategies will become more important Impact on Innovation & Competitiveness: NASA is uniquely positioned to take on this challenge of predicting the efficacy of potential mitigation strategies and monitoring their effectiveness once implemented. Innovation will be supported by the development of enormous supercomputing resources needed to both crunch data, and also to model the earth’s climate and atmosphere. Given the massive amounts of national and international wealth that may be invested in mitigation strategies, global competitiveness will either be harmed or advanced by shifting budgetary resources to deal with global warming, or saving those expenditures if little action is warranted. 9
Taking on such a role will provide the US a global leadership position in this most vital effort of our civilization for the remainder of the century

=Negative= 
==**Militarization Disadvantage**== 
**Obama stopped militarization and increased cooperation – Tensions lowering now** 
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Baohui **Zhang**, Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Pacific Studies at Lingnan University, Hong Kong, **11** Asian Survey, "The Security Dilemma in the US-China Military Space Relationship," November 2, 2011, </span><span style="color: black;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/pdfplus/10.1525/AS.2011.51.2.311.pdf?acceptTC=true]]</span>, [Zheng] 
**<span style="background-color: lime;">Despite the pessimism about the U.S.-China military space relationship, </span>this article suggests that the security dilemma is susceptible to changes in the strategic environments of the different parties.** Perceptions that threats from other countries are rising or declining could intensify—or mollify—the security dilemma. Indeed, **recent and important developments in the strategic environments of both countries have created conditions to ease tensions. These developments include the current strategic adjustment of the U.S. under the Obama administration, which has endorsed the banning of weapons in space; the recent U.S. willingness to curb missile defense; and the altered situation in the Taiwan Strait. These developments have significantly changed the strategic landscape between China and the U.S. and moderated the major factors contributing to the space security dilemma. This new strategic landscape may offer a window of opportunity for arms control in outer space.** 
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Space exploration evolves to allow more militarization which makes nations afraid to commit to binding international space law</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Balsamello 10</span>
[Frank J. Georgetown Law Journal, August, 98 Geo. L.J. 1769]
<span class="underline">One significant reason that </span>states are reluctant to commit to binding international space law is the fear of becoming militarily disadvantaged<span class="underline">. As technology has evolved to allow for more space exploration</span>, space tourism, and space advertising, <span class="underline">it has also evolved to allow for space militarization</span>. 118 Since the beginning of the space age, many states and international leaders have stressed the need to avoid space "wars" or the usage of outer space for hostile purposes. 119 However, according to the U. N. General Assembly, the<span class="underline"> current </span>space law treaty regime is still not an airtight guarantee that there will never be an "arms race in outer space<span class="underline">."</span> 120 It is therefore not surprising that concerns about self-defense have made states reluctant to sacrifice any rights to the strategically significant "high ground"--space being literally the highest "ground." 121 Over the last several years, the United States has even been a leader in asserting the legality of military activities in outer space, with President George W. Bush [*1789] taking a particularly hawkish tone. 122 The U.S. military has long pursued space capabilities, 123 and there is reason to believe that the line between space and military technologies will become even more blurred as the Pentagon and NASA work to compete with China's rapidly developing space program<span class="underline">.</span> 124 <span class="underline">This potential militarization of space </span>has always been an underlying concern of the space powers, and <span class="underline">is a major reason that the space powers have been unwilling to engage in international or domestic space lawmaking</span>.

**No country wants a space race – the plan forces it**
<span class="Cite">Kyl 7</span> **–** US senator and Attorney**.** [Jon Kyl. Published on February 1, 2007. Delivered on January 29, 2007.  China's Anti-Satellite Weapons and American National Security. The Heritage Foundation. <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Lecture/Chinas-Anti-Satellite-Weapons-and-American-National-Security]]</span>
EDWARD ROUTER, SUNSHINE PRESS: Giv­en the asymmetrical nature of offense versus defense in space, are you concerned about the costs that would be involved in a space arms race, both to defend our satellites and to develop offensive capa­bilities against a Chinese economy that's booming? SENATOR KYL: That's a very interesting ques­tion, because your mind immediately goes back to the Reykjavik Summit and the Reagan decision to move forward with then-called SDI and the subse­quent Soviet belief that it would be very difficult to beat us in that particular arms race. I think that the same thing is true here. Clearly, the United States has<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> such </span>an edge on this technol­ogy and<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> such a robust </span>capability<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> financially </span>to engage in this kind of effort thatcountries like Chi­na<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, for example, </span>would rather not have to engage in the arms race in the sense that we leave the field to them. If they could somehow figure out a way to bind us through some kind of a treaty, I think that would be their dream. Knowing that they<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> might </span>have to<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> actually</span> compete<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> with us </span>in<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> such </span>a race<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**would pose serious problems**</span> for them. I don't mean just the Chinese<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> here. I mean anybody else as wel</span>l. Your question assumed the asymmetric nature of this, and there is an asymmetric quality to it which might favor, just hypothetically speaking, a country like Iran, for example, only having to use a medium-range missile, and certainly with some kind of a crude nuclear warhead, an electromagnetic pulse, to do the job. Otherwise, the Chinese technology of the kinetic impact would be required. I would suggest that, even though there is an asymmetric aspect to this--namely, that it might be easier to take out the satellite than it is to defend against it--that's not as easy as it seems in terms of our capability for both passive and active measures and things that we could do if we really got serious about it. In any event, even if there is an asymmetry<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> to the problem</span>, given the challenge that we have, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the importance of maintaining our ability to defend our assets, </span>we have no choice but to ensure that we have the technology to do that

**Space weapons cause the formation of a Russia/China alliance**
**Krepon 4** (Michael, Prof. of Politics @ Univ. of Virginia, “ Weapons in the Heavens: A Radical and Reckless Option,” http://www.armscontrol.org/print/1689)
Even if space weapons are not used, their flight-testing or presence overhead, capable of impairing a country’s ability to see, hear, navigate, detect impending danger, and fight, would have profound implications for international relations. The medium of space is not country-specific. The placement of space weapons in low-Earth orbit will be of concern to any country over which the space weapon passes or could pass with orbital adjustments. Washington policymakers do not talk often or publicly about space warfare, and China and Russia continue to seek improved ties to the United States. There is, however, considerable awareness in Moscow and Beijing about the Pentagon’s plans and deep skepticism that the Pentagon’s interest in space warfare is directed solely at states such as North Korea and Iran. Instead, the Air Force’s new counterspace doctrine is widely viewed in the broader context of the Bush administration’s endorsement of pre-emptive strikes and preventive wars, open-ended national missile defense deployments, and the integration of improved broad-area surveillance and conventional deep-strike capabilities alongside U.S. nuclear forces, which remain on high states of alert. If U.S. counterspace programs proceed, Russia and China can be expected to forge closer ties, pursuing joint diplomatic initiatives to prevent the weaponization of space, alongside military research and development programs to counter U.S. military options. Instead of engaging in a Cold War-like nuclear arms race with Washington, Moscow and Beijing will compete asymmetrically, using less elaborate and expensive techniques, such as by trailing expensive U.S. space weapons and satellites with cheap space mines.[9] 

**That kills hegemony and causes proliferation, Korean instability, China rise, and undermines US leadership in Asia**
**Blank 9** (Stephen Blank, Research Professor of National Security Affairs at the Strategic Studies Institute of the U.S. Army War College, March 2009, “Russia And Arms Control: Are There Opportunities For The Obama Administration?,” online: http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub908.pdf )
Consequently, the danger is that this ideological strategic rivalry will harden, leading to a polarized, bilateral, and hostile division of Asia into blocs based on a Sino-Russian bloc confronting a U.S. alliance system led by alliances with Japan, South Korea, and Australia. Some Western writers have already opined that Sino-Russian relations appear to be tending towards an anti-American alliance in both Northeast and Central Asia.235 But more recently both Asian and Western writers have begun to argue that such a polarization in Asia could be taking shape. The shared interest of perceiving America as an ideological and geopolitical threat has also united Moscow and Beijing in a common cause.236 Already in the 1990s, prominent analysts of world politics like Richard Betts and Robert Jervis, and then subsequent Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) studies, postulated that the greatest security threat to American interests would be a Russian-Chinese alliance.237 Arguably, that is happening now and occurs under conditions of the energy crisis that magnifies Russia’s importance to China beyond providing diplomatic support, cover for China’s strategic rear, and arms sales. That alliance would encompass the following points of friction with Washington: strategic resistance to U.S. interests in Central and Northeast Asia, resistance to antiproliferation and pressures upon the regimes in Iran and North Korea, an energy alliance, an ideological counteroffensive against U.S. support for democratization abroad, and the rearming of both Russia and China, if not their proxies and allies, with a view towards conflict with America.239 One South Korean columnist, Kim Yo’ng Hu’i, wrote in 2005 that, China and Russia are reviving their past strategic partnership to face their strongest rival, the United States. A structure of strategic competition and confrontation between the United States and India on the one side, and Russia and China on the other is unfolding in the eastern half of the Eurasian continent including the Korean peninsula. Such a situation will definitely bring a huge wave of shock to the Korean peninsula, directly dealing with the strategic flexibility of U.S. forces in Korea. If China and Russia train their military forces together in the sea off the coast of China’s Liaodong Peninsula, it will also have an effect on the 21st century strategic plan of Korea. We will now need to think of Northeast Asia on a much broader scale. The eastern half of Eurasia, including Central Asia, has to be included in our strategic plan for the future.240 Since then, Lyle Goldstein and Vitaly Kozyrev have similarly written that, If the Kremlin favors Beijing, the resulting Sino-Russian energy nexus—joining the world’s fastest growing energy consumer with one of the world’s fastest growing producers—would support China’s growing claim to regional preeminence. From Beijing’s point of view, this relationship would promise a relatively secure and stable foundation for one of history’s most extraordinary economic transformations. At stake are energy reserves in eastern Russia that far exceed those in the entire Caspian basin. Moreover, according to Chinese strategists, robust Sino-Russian energy links would decrease the vulnerability of Beijing’s sea lines of communication to forms of “external pressure” in case of a crisis concerning Taiwan or the South China Sea. From the standpoint of global politics, the formation of the Sino-Russian energy nexus would represent a strong consolidation of an emergent bipolar structure in East Asia, with one pole led by China (and including Russia) and one led by the United States (and including Japan).241 Russia’s tie to China certainly expresses a deep strategic identity or congruence of interests on a host of issues from Korea to Central Asia and could have significant military implications. Those implications are not just due to Russian arms sales to China, which are clearly tied to an anti-American military scenario, most probably connected with Taiwan. They also include the possibility of joint military action in response to a regime crisis in the DPRK.242
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]