**Nov/Dec 2011**

**AC 1:**

See Hockaday KQ (Kathy Qiu)'s page for AC.

**NC 1:**

Reason is the only non-escapable basis for morality. David. Velleman. Professor of Philosophy at New York University. Self To Self. 2006. Cambridge University Press. “As we have…act for reasons.”

Reasons must be subjectively universal. Stephen Engstrom. Professor of Philosophy at the University of Pittsburgh. //Universal Legislation as a Form of Practical Knowledge//. “As I mentioned…and practical knowledge.”

Subjective universalizability requires respect for individual independence. Arthur Ripstein. Professor of Law and Philosophy at the University of Toronto. “Beyond the Harm Principle.” 2006. “The sovereignty principle…violation of independence.”

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Violating independence is non-universalizable.</span>

SO the **STANDARD** is **CONSISTENCY WITH INDIVIDUAL INDEPENDENCE**.

I contend that obligating individuals to assist people in need violates individual independence.

Obligations reliant on distributive justice violate the independence of benefactors by forcing them to become means to the ends of people in need. Anarachy, State, and Utopia, Robert Nozick, Political Professor at Harvard.1974. “Whether done through…a property right.”

Distributive justice eliminates the individuals’ freedom to choose. Anarachy, State, and Utopia, Robert Nozick, Political Professor at Harvard 1974. “Apparently, patterned principles…are voluntarily undertaken.”

**OFF 1:**

<span style="font-family: Times;">UTIL generates overdemandingness. </span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">FIRST, util obligates actors to take the action that will maximize good consequences.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">SECOND, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times;">consequences collapses into overdemandingness. Peter Singer. </span><span style="font-family: Times;">DeCamp Professor of <span style="color: #083b9a; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bioethics|Bioethics]]</span> at <span style="color: #083b9a; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Princeton_University|Princeton University]]</span> and Laureate Professor at the <span style="color: #083b9a; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Centre_for_Applied_Philosophy_and_Public_Ethics|Centre for Applied Philosophy and Public Ethics]]</span> at the <span style="color: #083b9a; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Melbourne|University of Melbourne]]</span>. </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times;">Famine, Affluence, and Morality. //Philosophy and Public Affairs//, vol. 1, no. 1 (Spring 1972) [revised edition]. </span><span style="font-family: Times;"><span style="color: blue; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.utilitarian.net/singer/by/1972----.htm]]</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times;">. 1972. “The view that…gave just </span><span style="font-family: Times;">£5.” </span>

<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Times;">Beneficence alienate individuals. “Roughtly, Williams’ own… dispositions, and commitments.” Timothy Chappell, [Professor of Philosophy at the </span><span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Times;">Open University Ethics Centre</span><span style="font-family: Times;">], “Integrity and Demandingness”, </span><span style="color: #101010; font-family: Times;">Ethic Theory Moral Prac (2007) 10:255–265.,</span></span>

<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #333333; font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Coercing individuals to take action leads to psychological reactance where they resist the duty imposed on them. Dr Simon Moss is a senior lecturer in the School of Psychology, Psychiatry, and Psychological Medicine at Monash University. Psychological Reactance Theory. [[http://www.psych-it.com.au/Psychlopedia/article.asp?id=65]]. 2008. . “Specifically, a perceived diminuition…</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;"> as flawed or misguided.”</span></span>