[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
===Cosmetic Testing AC=== 

I affirm. First are theoretical interpretation issues. Justice cannot be evaluated as a binary; it must be a comparison between a choice and the alternatives. There are multiple reasons to prefer. A) Textuality. MacKay defines animal rights, 1997 – Animal Liberation Front ["Opinionatedly Yours" #1: July 2, 1997 What Do We Mean by Animal Rights?
http://www.animalliberationfront.com/Philosophy/Opinionatedly/What%20is%20Animal%20Rights.htm

Variants of a question often heard … society in which they occur.

Thus, The resolution questions governmental policy, because only the government can establish a law, so the only textual interpretation of justice is in the context of policy making. Anything else allows us to impose extra-resolutional normative considerations, killing predictability. 

B) Reciprocity. Justice as a binary is not reciprocal because they need a risk of a link whereas I need to win 100% defense along with independent offense. Reciprocity is key to fairness cause it’s the only way to maintain equitable burdens. Also, if they ignore all of my arguments, they can still win a minimal impact, which skews time and nullifies all aff strategies.

C) Ground. Debate about desirability is key ground. Appeals to truth or falsity cut out impact turn ground by refusing to defend something as good or bad. Desirability ground is key because a major portion of the literature deals with the consequences of taking the resolutional action. Ground is key to fairness because ground determines what arguments each side of the debate can run.

D) Impact comparison. Accepting shady definitional arguments or other so called 'a priori' strategies leads to proliferation of cheap-shot overviews and underdeveloped spikes. Forcing a debate about impacts requires substantive argumentation with developed internal links. Truth-based burdens destroy meaningful weighing analysis since debate is not exempt from the principle of bivalence. This encourages generic strategies which gut topic-specific education. Topic specific education is essential because a) they deal with real world issues and b) without topic specific education there would be no reason to have a resolution in the first place.

E) Debatability.  The true/false paradigm locks judges into irresolvable debates where the aff wins an argument, which makes the resolution tautological, and the neg wins a non-competitive argument that makes it contradictory. This invites intervention. Debatability is key to fairness because the only way for judges to make objective and fair decisions is if they are not put into irresolvable debates.

Fariness matters because debate is a competitive activity and anything that precludes an objective evaluation of the round ought to be put down. AND Education matters. Education is important because debate is an academic activity in which we learn about different arguments and positions in an attempt to find the best actions. This is a voting issue if contested.  It has all of the elements of a theory shell, and it’s the first interpretation presented.

Second is the justice-based framework. I value justice defined as giving each their due.  Justice and obligations are synonymous because if obligations exist then individuals are due to have them fulfilled, otherwise there would be no meaning behind the conception of obligation.

First, The Mackay evidence indicates animal rights must be codified in law.  This can only happen through governmental action.  This devolves into utility. Goodin writes, 
[Robert E. Goodin. Philosopher of … argue, a uniquely defensible public philosophy.

Second, pain and pleasure are the governors of all meaningful life.  Shouler writes, 
Kenneth Shouler [Ph.D.]. Psychological Hedonism: Pleasure, Pain, and Value. Google. 2011.
Nature has put man under … to it all the while.
Thus, pain and pleasure directly control human action.  This however is not restricted to humans; pain and pleasure are the guides of all sentient beings.  The rejection of pain is an instinctive trait present in all living beings.  The same way it controls human interaction, it similarly controls non-human animal life.  

And, we must minimize suffering because it destroys the value of existence. Crowe writes, 
Jonathan Crowe [Senior Lecturer and Fellow, Centre for Public, International and Comparative Law, T. C. Beirne School of Law, University of Queensland]. LEVINASIAN ETHICS AND ANIMAL RIGHTS. University of Windsor. 2008. Lexis Nexis.
The notion of suffering plays … our recognition and our aid. 39
Thus, the standard is minimizing suffering. 

Plan Text: The US Congress will create a ban on animal cosmetic tests and the use of animal testing data in product liability suits. Lewis clarifies the advocacy.
Noah Lewis [Harvard Law School Class of 2005, LEDA at Harvard Law School]. Testing Cosmetics on Animals: An Idea Who's Time Has Gone. February 2011
The FDA lacks statutory authority … to pursue wider clinical testing.

Millions of animals suffer and die every year in sacrifice for cosmetic tests and the tests aren’t even necessary. PETA writes, 
PETA [International Animal Rights Organization] Animals Used for Experimentation.  2011. Google.
More than 100 million animals every … to painful and crude tests.

The common LD50 test kills over 50% of the animals used. Meneal 2 writes, 
Kelly Renz Mcneal [Lawyer for the ITSSD and affiliate with ABAE Environmental Committee Law Division] DEATH: THE PRICE OF BEAUTY: ANIMAL TESTING AND THE COSMETICS INDUSTRY. 2005. Google.
The LD50 test was originally … who die, are examined pathologically.73

And, Empirical analysis shows that animal testing has no unique benefit. Meneal 3 writes, 
Kelly Renz Mcneal [Lawyer for the ITSSD and affiliate with ABAE Environmental Committee Law Division] DEATH: THE PRICE OF BEAUTY: ANIMAL TESTING AND THE COSMETICS INDUSTRY. 2005. Google.
It is important to note … success rate is this minute

There are several more beneficial and cost effective tests to be run. Meneal 4 writes, 
Kelly Renz Mcneal [Lawyer for the ITSSD and affiliate with ABAE Environmental Committee Law Division] DEATH: THE PRICE OF BEAUTY: ANIMAL TESTING AND THE COSMETICS INDUSTRY. 2005. Google.
The most common types of … test substances following topical application.14

Animal testing does not account for how different species are. The IDA writes, 
IDA [ an international organization on animal rights ] Cosmetic Testing: Facts. ca. 2009 Google.
Not only is animal testing … how the compound is administered. 

In determining whether this is true, presume aff in the absence of offensive evidence for either side to combat social bias against animals. Degrazia writes.  
David Degrazia. Taking Animals Seriously: Animal Life and Moral Status.  Cambridge University Press. 1996. Book.
If animals are not due … against animals is very high. (51-52)
Therefore, even if the resolution is phrased in a way that gives permissibility ground to the negative, you affirm in the absence of any argument for or against recognition of animal status because this evidence argues we have a reason to affirm in the absence of a compelling reason not to. 

And, Animals are capable of feeling pain. Degrazia writes.
David Degrazia. Taking Animals Seriously: Animal Life and Moral Status.  Cambridge University Press. 1996. Book.
For the sake of argument, … escape the source of pain). (136)

Even if animals lack sentience, non-phenomenally conscious pain is still a state of moral concern. Carruthers writes. 
“Suffering without subjectivity.” Peter Carruthers. 2004. http://drum.lib.umd.edu/bitstream/1903/4357/1/Suffering-without-subjectivity.pdf
The real point (and what … thought account of phenomenal consciousness.