[[toc]]
Want to contact Miles or Zack?
Send us an e-mail
Aff: [[mailto:Milesperhour23@gmail.com|Milesperhour23@gmail.com]]
Neg: [[mailto:Marks.zack1@gmail.com|Marks.zack1@gmail.com]]
Full Text if you want it, just ask.
=Affirmative= 
====SBSS==== 
=====Inherency===== 
**Contention one: Inherency**

**Space Based Space Satellites funding was cut**
**Butler 11 – Writer for Aviation Week**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Amy, “USAF Steers Away From Second SBSS Satellite”, [[http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_channel.jsp?channel=space&id=news/asd/2011/02/18/02.xml]], 02/18/11)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A </span>__clone of__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the Space-… worked just fine,” Shelton says. </span>

**Status Quo efforts aren’t enough – These trigger the link to your DA and cause scenarios for conflict**
**Hitchens 7 – Director of the World Security Institute’s Center for Defense Information and author of Future Security in Space: Charting a Cooperative Course**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“Ante Up on Space Situational Awareness”, http://www.cdi.org/program/document.cfm?documentid=3867&programID=68&from_page=../friendlyversion/printversion.cfm) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the wake of the … importance of the SSA problem. </span>

=====Text:===== 
**<span style="background-color: white;">The United States federal government should substantially increase deployment and development of Space Based Space Surveillance satellites.</span>**

=====**Cooperation**===== 
**Advantage one: Cooperation**

**There is a space cold war – Policy makers will act on perception and retaliate**
**Discovery News 11/1**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“SATELLITE BATTLEGROUND IN SPACE? China may be tinkering with U.S. satellites and experts say other countries are likely doing the same.” Tue Nov 1, 2011 http://news.discovery.com/space/satellites-cold-war-hacking-china.html)</span>

__Space____has__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> long </span>__been a battleground … hard to be too indignant."__


**Cooperative frameworks are inevitable but will fail without the plan- countries will only perceive the NSP with an ssa policy**
**Rendleman and Ryals 11 -** * <span style="font-size: 8pt;">a J.D. and BS and was second lieutenant through the Air Force</span> <span style="font-size: 9pt;">ROTC AND  </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">BSEE, JD, and MA and a Force Space Command as a contractor in space control and as an instructor for the past five years at the Space Innovation and Development Center’s Advanced Space Operations School,</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Col. James Randleman is Col. Robert Ryals is a “The New National Space Policy: More is Needed” February 2011, High Frontier Volume 7, No. 2, pg online </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Interest in international space cooperation … </span>__to fully embrace the concept.__**

Three Internal Links:

1) Solidifies all existing space treaties- SSA distinguishes between military and civilian uses of space systems, leads to effective verification
Baines and Cote 9- **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">*Deputy Director of the Non-proliferation and Disarmament Division at the Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade Canada AND</span>** researcher in the same division and an MA candidate at the Norman Paterson School of International Affairs at Carleton University
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Phillip J. and Adam, Philip J. Baines, “Promising confidence- and security-building measures for space security”, http://www.unidir.org/pdf/articles/pdf-art2906.pdf)</span>

__Verification and governance are **crucial** …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">arms race in outer space.</span>

**2) Miscalculation**
**Rendleman 10 – Retired Colonel in U.S. Air Force**
(James R., “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Astropolitics: The International Journal of Space Politics & Policy, Volume 8, Issue 2 & 3, 2010, Pages 220 - 255 )

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Samuel Black argues that </span>__‘‘space …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">assure viability of its systems. Pg. 221-223</span>

**3) Data Sharing- U.S. leadership and data processing facilities are vital for success**
**Robinson 11 -** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Resident Fellow @ European Space Policy Institute (ESPI) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jana,“Transparency and confidence-building measures for space security,” Space Policy 27 (2011) 27e37)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Build space TCBMs with like-… missions and value-added capabilities. Pg. 36-37</span>

**Even if these fail – Plan is vital to show US resolve to deter weaponization**
**Cynamon 9 -** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Colonel USAF</span>
(Charles,“Defending America’s Interests in Space”, 2/12/09 , Air War College)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There’s little doubt to most … capable of defeating an attack. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war</span>**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Hitchens, 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, </span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]]</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Perhaps of even greater concern … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">would be unacceptable to all.</span>

**War is space occurs through miscalculation, risks extinction**
**Mitchell, et al 1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span>)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The dizzying speed of space … **destructive military conflict ever seen**.</span>__

=====Conventional Dominance===== 
**Advantage two: Conventional dominance**

**Scenario one: Nuclear Primacy**

**Lack of space surveillance creates ambiguity in threat recognition – ensures first strikes and atrophies our deterrent capabilities**
**Burke 6 -** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Deputy Director in the Missile Defense Agency w/ operational experience in missile operations, space surveillance, space control, missile warning, and command and control </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Lieutenant Colonel Alan W. Burke, “Space Threat Warning: Foundation for Space Superiority, Avoiding a Space Pearl Harbor,” Air War College, 17 April 2006, pg. http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA476999&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf/]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Implications of the Erosion of … satellites without fear of retribution.57 Pg. 8-12</span>

**Limited SSA causes first strike instability- lack of attribution encourages covert attacks and miscalculation**
**Morgan 10****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ph.D. in policy studies</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Forrest E., 2010 “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space A Preliminary Assessment” RAND)</span>
__First-strike instability is made … -strike stability in that domain__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 18</span>

**Nuclear first strike capabilities rely on space deterrence – creates an incentive to attack, adversaries recognize it’s America’s Achilles Heel**
**Morgan 10-** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ph.D. in policy studies</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Forrest E., 2010 “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space A Preliminary Assessment” RAND)</span>

__Given__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the great </span>__extent__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to </span>__… -on attacks, and rapid escalation.__

**The impact is global nuclear war**
**Caves 10 –Senior Research Fellow in the Center for the Study of Weapons of Mass Destruction at the National Defense University**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John P. Caves Jr., “Avoiding a Crisis of Confidence in the U.S. Nuclear Deterrent,” Strategic Forum, No. 252, January 2010)</span>

__Perceptions of a compromised U.S. nuclear deterrent__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">… -armed terrorists alone could inflict.</span>

**We control multiple scenarios for escalation:**

**a) Primacy deters challengers - military capabilities are stabilized in great power relations**
**Morgan and Paul 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Patrick M. and T.V. Complex Deterrence: Strategy In the Global Age)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Even though they want to … , worldview, and capabilities in mind.24</span>

**b) <span class="Underline">Counterforce deters regional nuclear use, increasing the credibility of US damage-limitation attacks </span>**
<span class="Underline">**Glaser and Fetter 5 -** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor and Deputy Dean of the Irving B. Harris Graduate School of Public Policy Studies at the University of Chicago and Professor and Dean of the School of Public Policy at the University of Maryland</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Charles L. and Steve Fetter “Counterforce Revisited; Assessing the Nuclear Posture Review's New Missions,” International Security, UP AND ATOM: NEW NUCLEAR CHALLENGES; Pg. 84, Fall 2005)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Underlying these constraints on U.S. foreign … </span><span class="Underline">of U.S. intervention in the region</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

<span class="Underline">**And that discourages all nuclear use** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Spring 3 - Fellow in National Security Policy at Heritage** </span>
<span class="Underline">(Baker, ”Ten Principles for Combating Nuclear Proliferation,” [[http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/893776/posts]], /10/2003)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1. U.S. </span>__military and arms control … less certain of U.S. security commitments.__

**c) Deterrence is good enough – empirical testing proves no root cause of war**
**Moore 4 – Dir. Center for Security Law @ University of Virginia, 7-time Presidential appointee, & Honorary Editor of the American Journal of International Law**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John Norton, “Solving the War Puzzle: Beyond the Democratic Peace,” pages 41-2.)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If </span>__major interstate war is …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">are dramatically increased or decreased? </span>

**Scenario two: China**

**Global Trade war is inevitable – Collapse of Kyoto protocol**
**Lloyd 11 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Writer for the Austrailian</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Graham, “Warning on Trade War after Kyoto’s demise”, [[http://www.theaustralian.com.au/national-affairs/climate/warning-on-trade-war-after-kyotos-demise/story-e6frg6xf-1226215625146]], 12/7/11)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">THE </span>__collapse of__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the </span>__Kyoto …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to break the negotiating deadlock. </span>

**That’s the biggest internal link to US-China war**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ben </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Landy 7</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Ben Landy, Director of Research and Strategy at the Atlantic Media Company, publisher of the Atlantic Monthly, National Journal, and Government Executive magazines. Landy served in various research and project management positions at the Brookings Institution and Center for Strategic and International Studies, two leading public policy think tanks in Washington, D.C. Ben holds a bachelor of arts degree from Yale University. April 3, 20</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">07</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, [[http://chinaredux.com/2007/04/03/protectionism-and-war/#comments|http://chinaredux.com/2007/04/03/protectionism-and-war/#comments]]</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The greatest threat for the … **budgets and anti-satellite tests**</span>__

**Goes Nuclear – Leads to extinction**
**Hunkovic 9 - Professor at the American Military University**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Lee, [[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A </span>__war between China__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Taiwan … be considered in this study. </span>

**China is building an Underground Great Wall – Our Weapons won’t be effective**
**Holmes 11 - an associate professor of strategy at the US Naval War College and co-author of Red Star over the Pacific.**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(James, “China’s Underground Great Wall”, [[http://the-diplomat.com/flashpoints-blog/2011/08/20/chinas-underground-great-wall]], 08/20/11)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There’s been much media coverage … more open to verification measures.</span>

**The Plan solves:**

**a)****Creates****Transparency**
**Delgado 2010**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Laura M., September 12, International Cooperation is Good, But China Presents Challenges, Conference Participants Conclude, [[http://www.spacepolicyonline.com/pages/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1099:international-cooperation-is-good-but-china-presents-challenges-conference-participants-conclude&catid=99:news&Itemid=92]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bruce MacDonald, who served as … </span><span class="underline0">, </span>more transparent<span class="underline0">...at least translucent."</span>

**That’s k2 to rational policy decisions**
**Michael 4/25** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Michael, Associate Research Professor and Director of the Mahan Scholars Program at the United States Naval War College in Newport, Rhode Island Defense and Deterrence in China’s Military Space Strategy Publication: China Brief Volume: 11 Issue: 5 March 25, 2011 01:22 AM Age: 90 days By: Michael S. Chase] [[http://www.jamestown.org/programs/chinabrief/single/?tx_ttnews%5btt_news%5d=37699&tx_ttnews%5bbackPid%5d=25&cHash=e3f0fcd233f563e2364ad7bc49425244|http://www.jamestown.org/programs/chinabrief/single/?tx_ttnews[tt_news]=37699&tx_ttnews[backPid]=25&cHash=e3f0fcd233f563e2364ad7bc49425244]]</span>

__Because satellites are so essential …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">is owned by a third party [17]. </span>

**b) Even if we go to war – plan solves Chinese modernization**
**Blair and Yali 6 - *President of the World Security Institute AND**  editor-in-chief of Washington Observer**
//(China Security// Published by the World Security Institute and produced jointly with the Chen Shi China Research Group [[http://www.wsichina.org/attach/china_security2.pdfhn|http://www.wsichina.org/attach/china_security2.pdf**hn**]])

<span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 11pt;">Greater situational awareness</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> through enhanced … improve China’s force enabling capacity</span><span class="underline0">.</span>

=====Solvency===== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Solvency</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Preliminary Tests of SBSS show success</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Brinton 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Turner. Staff Writer covering military space and missile defense; “SBSS Satellite Sending Back Healthy Signals from Orbit;” [[http://www.spacenews.com/military/1002927-sbss-sending-signals-orbit.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON — The U.S. Air Force’s first … built to correct the problem. </span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">S</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">pace Based Space Surveillance solves Space Situational Awareness – tracking, intelligence, economy, and security </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Ray 10</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Justin Ray is editor of Spaceflight Now, an online website based at Cape Canaveral that has documented U.S. and international space news since 1999.] Space surveillance project successfully blasts off BY JUSTIN RAY SPACEFLIGHT NOW Posted: September 26, 2010[[http://spaceflightnow.com/minotaur/sbss/|**http://spaceflightnow.com/minotaur/sbss/**]]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">"</span><span style="background-color: lime; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">SBSSwill</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">help </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">make … </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">satellite up there," Citron said.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Space is key </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Pfaltzgraff 9 - </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">president Institute Foreign Policy Analysis and PhD Professor at Tufts University</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Robert ,“Space and U.S. Security: A Net Assessment” January 2009, Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, principal investigator, [[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/Space_and_U_S_Security_Net_Assessment_Final_Dec15_08.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Surveillance and Reconnaissance. Space-based … leasing existing commercial satellite capacity.29 </span>
**U.S. space militarization does not lead to arms race:**

**A) Too expensive and time-consuming**
**Dolman 5 -** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Associate Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Everett C. Dolman. “US Military Transformation and Weapons.” September 14, 2005. [[http://www.e-parl.net/pages/space_hearing_images/ConfPaper%20Dolman%20US%20Military%20Transform%20%26%20Space.pdf]]. Accessed June 24, 2011.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">And America would respond … … few years—</span>__is **extremely** remote____.__

**B) X-37B**
**The China Post 10**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [The China Post, “Weapons of the Future the Sky should be the Limit” December 7, http://www.chinapost.com.tw/editorial/world-issues/2010/12/07/282551/Weapons-of.htm]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dec. 3, 2010 may go down in … </span>**__with potential first-strike capability.__**

====Asteroid Mining Aff==== 
=====Plan===== 
**Plan: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase funding for asteroid mining technology and operations.**
======Advantage one: Too rare for Earth====== 

**A trade war in the Status Quo is inevitable – Taiwan Arms Sales and Recent Jobs bill prove. Even if the bill doesn’t pass, tensions are still high**
**Reuters 10 – 4**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“China Warns of Trade War if US Bill on Yuan passes”, http://www.cnbc.com/id/44766724/China_Warns_of_Trade_War_If_U_S_Bill_on_Yuan_Passes, 10/4/11)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">An angry </span>__China warned__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Washington.........</span> __against any more attacks__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," Wang said. </span>

**A trade war will cause supply disruptions – Only way China can hedge against the US**
**Parthemore 11 - Fellow @ Center for a New American Security. Director of the Natural Security Program**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Christine Parthemore (MA from Georgetown’s Security Studies Program), “Elements of Security: Mitigating the Risks of U.S. Dependence on Critical Minerals,” Center for a New American Security, June 2011, pg. http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Minerals_Parthemore.pdf//edlee]//</span>

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Assessing U.S. Vulnerability - Analysts vary widely.....growth and job development. Pg. 11</span>//


//**Just the fear of a shortage causes our impact – Countries will behave like shortages exist in the short –term even if they don’t**//
//**Parthemore 11 - Fellow @ Center for a New American Security. Director of the Natural Security Program**//
//[<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Christine Parthemore (MA from Georgetown’s Security Studies Program), “Elements of Security: Mitigating the Risks of U.S. Dependence on Critical Minerals,” Center for a New American Security, June 2011, pg. http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Minerals_Parthemore.pdf</span>//edlee]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Minerals are a subject of much contention. ................federal government attention in the coming years. Pg. 6-10 </span>


**Rare earth elements are key to all missile guidance systems for first-strike capabilities**
**Kennedy 10 –President of Wings Enterprises**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(J. Kennedy “Critical and Strategic Failure of Rare Earth Resources,” online: <span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.smenet.org/rareEarthsProject/TMS-NMAB-paperV-3.pdf]]</span> March 2010)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The national defense issues are equally important. </span>__.........................__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in favor of “the principles of free trade.”</span>

**The U.S. is upgrading accuracy of nuclear ICBMs now - key to counterforce and nuclear primacy**
**Lieber & Press 7 –Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame, and Daryl G. Press is Associate Professor of Government at Dartmouth, 2007**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Keir A. Lieber, “U.S. Nuclear Primacy and the Future of the Chinese Deterrent,” online: <span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.wsichina.org/%5Ccs5_5.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Furthermore</span>__, the U__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates................ U.S. weapons grow even more capable. </span>

**Accuracy upgrades are key to ensure counterforce capabilities as the arsenal is inevitably reduced**
**McDonough 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - </span>**Doctoral Fellow at the Centre for Foreign Policy Studies at Dalhousie University**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(David S, , March, “Tailored Deterrence: The ‘New Triad’ and the Tailoring of Nuclear Superiority,”http://www.canadianinternationalcouncil.org/download/resourcece/archives/strategicd~2/sd_no8_200, da 11/16,)</span>

__Less noticed is the continuing .......................__ __for disarming counterforce strikes.__

**The impact is global nuclear war**
**Caves 10 –Senior Research Fellow in the Center for the Study of Weapons of Mass Destruction at the National Defense University**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John P. Caves Jr., “Avoiding a Crisis of Confidence in the U.S. Nuclear Deterrent,” Strategic Forum, No. 252, January 2010)</span>

__Perceptions of a compromised U.S. nuclear deterrent .....................__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> nuclear-armed terrorists alone could inflict.</span>

**We control multiple scenarios for escalation:**

**a) Primacy deters challengers - military capabilities are stabilized in great power relations**
**Morgan and Paul 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Patrick M. and T.V. Complex Deterrence: Strategy In the Global Age)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Even though they want to retain nuclear weapons, </span>__..................... t__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">arget’s motivations, risk acceptance, worldview, and capabilities in mind.24</span>

**b) Prevents nuclear escalation - contains all conflicts at the conventional level**
**Lieber and Press 7 - Assistant professor of political science @ U of Notre Dame; and consultant on military analysis projects for the U.S. Department of Defense for 13 years, and an associate professor of government @ Dartmouth (**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Keir A. and Daryl G. Winter,. “U.S. Nuclear Primacy and the Future of the Chinese Deterrent,” China Security, http://www.wsichina.org/cs5_5.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Third, the </span>__growth of U.S. nuclear counterforce ..................____the United States at the conventional level.__

**c) Deterrence is good enough – empirical testing proves no root cause of war**
**Moore 4 – Dir. Center for Security Law @ University of Virginia, 7-time Presidential appointee, & Honorary Editor of the American Journal of International Law**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John Norton, “Solving the War Puzzle: Beyond the Democratic Peace,” pages 41-2.)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If </span>__major interstate war is ................__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">levels of deterrence are dramatically increased or decreased? </span>

**Multipolarity is non – responsive – allows for peaceful power shifts and fosters cooperation**
**Morgan and Paul 9****- Political Science School of Social Sciences and a PHD from Yale AND** professor of International Relations in the Department of Political Science at McGill University ***Tierney Chair, Peace & Conflict, Political Science School of Social Sciences and a PHD from Yale AND** professor of International Relations in the Department of Political Science at McGill University and specializes in International Relations, especially international security, international conflict & conflict resolution, regional security and South Asia
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Patrick M. and T.V. Complex Deterrence: Strategy In the Global Age)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Among the great powers................... its effort to regain its lost superpower status.</span>

**Just Beginning the mining solves US security calculations – The notion of shortages will become a historical footnote**
**Kolber 06 – Co-founder and Vice-President @ Space Energy Access Systems**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jonathan Kolber, “Investing in Outer Space,” Oct 11th, 2006 | Penny Sleuth, pg. http://pennysleuth.com/investing-in-outer-space///edlee]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The mining of asteroids has been a passion.................</span> __rapidly diminish to a historical footnote__


**Earth Mining Fails – permit disputes stop domestic operations**
**Montgomery 11 – Contributor for Research Investing News**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Michael, contributor for Resource Investing News, “The Rare Earth Debate Continues in Congress,” http://resourceinvestingnews.com/18381-the-rare-earth-debate-continues-in-congress.html]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The policy directives of the bills ...............CEO of the National Mining Association. </span>


======Advantage two: fear the Asteroid====== 

<span class="Underline"> **Status quo efforts to monitor near-Earth objects are insufficient—dangerous objects are still undiscovered** </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">NRC 10 - National Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,” <span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842]]</span>)</span>

<span class="Underline">Ground-based </span>telescopes have difficulty ...............<span style="font-size: 8pt;">NEO population as possible, especially imminent impactors.</span>

<span class="Underline"> **Asteroid impact is 100% certain and could occur at any time**</span>
<span class="Underline">**VERSCHUUR 96 – Adjunct Professor Of Physics at U of Memphis**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Gerrit, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 158)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the past few years, ..................</span><span class="Underline"> human nature that **will determine our fate**</span>

**A strike is coming – Recent Threats**
<span class="Underline">**NRC 2010**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (National Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,” [[http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842]])</span>

__Several recent events and new ..................__ __that they might pose to humanity__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**The impact is extinction**
**McGUIRE 2k – Professor of Geohazards at University College of London and is one of Britain’s leading volcanologist**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Bill, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 159-168)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Tunguska events pale into insignificance </span>__..............__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">new comet heading in our direction. </span>

**Current detection efforts ignore small asteroids—the impact is accidental nuclear war**
**Jaroff 2k– Columnist at Time Magazine**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Leon, , Sep 17, [[http://www.time.com/time/columnist/jaroff/article/0,9565,351731,00.html]]?)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Anyhow, after all that, I had good reason .................. </span> __nuclear exchange and killed millions__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**Any solvency deficit to a counterplan means you vote Aff—constant asteroid risk means that we only have to be wrong a single time and the human species will end**
**BARBEE 9**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - </span>**Aerospace Engineer and Planetary Defense Scientist with the Emergent Space Technologies company in Greenbelt, Maryland**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">4/1, Brent W., , “Planetary Defense”, [[http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational/apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm)/DT|http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational//apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm)//DT]]</span>

__It is generally accepted that ..................__ __process for defense against NEOs.__

<span class="Underline"> **Asteroids shatter standard risk analysis—vote Aff no matter how low the probability of our advantage is**</span>
<span class="Underline">**POSNER 4 - US Court of Appeals judge and Senior Lecturer at the University of Chicago Law School**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Richard, Catastrophe: Risk and Response 249-250)</span>

Even if our<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> insouciant </span>reaction ...............<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in higher taxes or otherwise to reduce the risk.</span>

======Solvency====== 

<span class="Underline">**Increased funding for asteroid mining solves rare element shortages and technological barriers**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Forgan and Elvis 11 - Institute for Astronomy, University of Edinburgh & Harvard Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics** </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Duncan H. Forgan and Martin Elvis, “Extrasolar Asteroid Mining as Forensic Evidence for Extraterrestrial Intelligence,” http://arxiv.org/PS_cache/arxiv/pdf/1103/1103.5369v1.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Planets have ﬁnite natural resources. .................</span><span class="Underline">development into a space-faring species</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**And Funding is key – mission failures are inevitable without it** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Gertsch No date - Writer for the National Space Society**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert E. Gertsch, No date, Mining Studies, http://www.nss.org/settlement/nasa/spaceresvol3/astermin1.htm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span class="Underline">benefits of automation are ........</span>help<span class="Underline">ing </span>to amortize the large R&D costs

<span class="Underline">**Plan catalyzes effective asteroid detection capabilities – needed to return to Earth safely**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Sonter 6**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - </span><span class="Underline"> **scientific consultant working in the Australian mining and metallurgical industries,** providing advice on radiation protection, industrial hygiene, safety, and remediation of radioactively contaminated sites. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mark Sonter , Asteroid Mining: Key to the Space Economy, From Ad Astra Online February 2006, http://www.nss.org/settlement/asteroids/key.html, ES</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>Near Earth Asteroids offer..............<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> including carbon dioxide and ammonia.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Your turns don’t apply even if the detection fails – it stimulates a market for innovation**</span>
<span class="Underline">**International Space University 10**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Space Studies Program, “Asteroid Mining, Technologies Roadmap, and Applications,” online]</span>

<span class="Underline">One proposal to address .....................</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> construction of human settlements in space. </span>

<span class="Underline">**The Tech is here – all technology has been tested on a smaller scale**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Science Clarified 11**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(How will humans mine asteroids and comets, http://www.scienceclarified.com/scitech/Comets-and-Asteroids/How-Humans-Will-Mine-Asteroids-and-Comets.html , 04-13-11, NC)</span>

<span class="Underline">Assuming </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">such </span><span class="Underline">commitments do materialize</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, ...........</span><span class="Underline"> in the asteroid</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> belt and beyond. </span>

<span class="Underline">**The plan jump starts the Industry – creates better mining** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Gerlach 5**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - </span><span class="Underline"> **Charles L. founder and CEO of Gerlach Space Systems LLC** </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(INTERNATIONAL SPACE DEVELOPMENT CONFERENCE National Space Society Profitably Exploiting Near-Earth Object Resources May 19–22, 2005. Google Scholar) TS</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While untested and fraught ............</span><span class="Underline"> to take the first steps. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Privatization fails** </span>

<span class="Underline">**a) no common interest with military goals**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Parthemore 11**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - </span>**Fellow @ Center for a New American Security. Director of the Natural Security Program**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Christine, “Elements of Security: Mitigating the Risks of U.S. Dependence on Critical Minerals,” http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Minerals_Parthemore_1.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In </span><span class="Underline">developing new policies related to ......... while private interests are not.</span>

<span class="Underline">**b) Cooperation fails – Actor will withhold key information** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Parthemore 11**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - </span>**Fellow @ Center for a New American Security. Director of the Natural Security Program**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Christine, “Elements of Security: Mitigating the Risks of U.S. Dependence on Critical Minerals,” http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Minerals_Parthemore_1.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In addition to continuing ..............Democratic Republic of the Congo. 53 </span>

<span class="Underline">**c) And only federal legislation solves this - demonstrates resolve and builds cooperation**</span>
<span class="Underline">**International Space University 10 – Space Studies Program**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [ “Asteroid Mining, Technologies Roadmap, and Applications,” online]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span class="Underline">first activity is an ................</span> liability, and distribution

<span class="Underline">**The plan is a pre requisite to future mining ventures – best starting point**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Science Clarified 11** </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(How will humans mine asteroids and comets, 04-13-11, NC)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As planetary scientist Jo............</span><span class="Underline"> expensive digging and processing, to free them</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**U.S. space militarization does not lead to arms race**

**a) Too expensive and time-consuming**
**Dolman 5 - Associate Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Everett C. Dolman. “US Military Transformation and Weapons.” September 14, 2005. <span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.e-parl.net/pages/space_hearing_images/ConfPaper%20Dolman%20US%20Military%20Transform%20%26%20Space.pdf]]</span>. Accessed June 24, 2011.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">And America would respond...................</span>__is **extremely** remote____.__

**B) Space weaponization and conflict are inevitable**
**Kitfield 10**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> - </span>**<span style="color: black;">Senior Correspondent @ The National Journal, writer for Air Force Magazine, B.A. Journalism, University of Georgia, distinguished writer on defense, national security, and foreign policy</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[James, Air Force Magazine, “Crowded Congested Space” August 2010, </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2010/August%202010/0810space.aspx</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the “commons” </span>__above Earth, ....................__ __their own uses, both military and commercial.__

**C) X-37B**
**The China Post 10**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [The China Post, “Weapons of the Future the Sky should be the Limit” December 7, http://www.chinapost.com.tw/editorial/world-issues/2010/12/07/282551/Weapons-of.htm]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dec. 3, 2010 may go down....................</span> __spacecraft **with potential first-strike capability.**__
=Negative= 
==T== 
===its=== 
**A. ‘Its’ is a possessive pronoun showing ownership**
**Glossary of English Grammar Terms, 2005**
(http://www.usingenglish.com/glossary/possessive-pronoun.html)

Mine, yours, his, hers, __its__, ours, theirs __are__ the __possessive pronouns__ __used to__ substitute a noun __and to show__ possession or __ownership.__
EG. This is your disk and that's mine. (Mine substitutes the word disk and shows that it belongs to me.)

**NASA support of commercial space development is distinct from ‘its own’ space development programs**
**Berger, 11** - Houston Chronicle's space, weather and science reporter. (“NASA still being torn between commercial space and its own rockets,” Houston Chronicle Blog, 2/14, [[http://blog.chron.com/sciguy/2011/02/nasa-still-being-torn-between-commercial-space-and-its-own-rockets/]]

The president’s budget for ................ new NASA rocket and crew vehicle.

**B. Violation – the plan increases incentives for the commercial development of space – this is distinct from federally owned projects**

**C. Voting issue**
1. Allowing for private companies explodes the topic – infinite possible incentives and it allows the aff to provide incentives to other __countries__ and claim cooperation and relations advantages with everyone who has a space program

2. Ground – the core question on the topic is preparing to defend or attack government space programs, we lose the one generic CP option the neg should expect
==K== 
===Frontier 1NC=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Space is the final frontier – the affirmative’s unilateral expansion into space is a strategy to free the American empire of material constraints – this narrative justifies violent, infinite expansion through technology</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Williamson, 87</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Ray, Office of Technology Assessment, United States Congress, “Outer Space as Frontier: Lessons for Today,” Western Folklore, October)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Folklorists have a distinctive .................. </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">ecocatastrophes in our future</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">."7</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Unilateral pursuit of the final frontier legitimizes infinite violence against the other in order to heal the empire</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Slotkin, 85</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Richard, Olin Professor of American Studies @ Wesleyan, //The Fatal Environment,// p. 60-61)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">This ideology of savage war.................... </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">America is an exceptionally violent society</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The alternative is to rethink space exploration as a global human enterprise reject the 1ACs frontier rhetoric – reverse the need to infinitely expand unilaterally and instill public dialogue into space policy discussions</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Billings, 6</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Linda, PhD, Research Associate at SETI Institute, “To the Moon, Mars, and Beyond: Culture, Law and Ethics in Space-Faring Societies,” IASTS 21st Annual Conference, February 3-4, 2006, Baltimore, MD, [[http://lindabillings.org/lb_papers/space_law_ethics_culture.pdf]])</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Facing an opportunity ....................... </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> why we should be going into space</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">DAs</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Wep 1NC</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Huntley, 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> - </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">As is well understood, the space policies ................. Many devils may lurk in these details. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The perception of pursuing space dominance will destroy the commitment to the new Obama National Space Policy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Dant, 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> - chief of staff of the Air Force fellow and the director of space policy for the under secretary of defense for policy (Daniel, High Frontier, February, " The National Space Policy: Sustainability and Cooperation in a Congested, Competitive, and Contested Domain,” [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Cooperation for contested and competitive domain/..................... of responsible space-faring nations.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Unilateral action alienates allies and shatters other areas of cooperation</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Sabathier et. al 6</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">— senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program and former senior fellow and director of CSIS space initiative (September 18, 2oo6 ,Vincent G. Sabathier, D.A. Broniatowski, G. Ryan Faith, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “The Case for Managed International Cooperation in Space Exploration”, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/060918_managed_international_cooperation.pdf , FS)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">International cooperation is valuable to...................... future beneficial cooperation would be more likely. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war</span>**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Hitchens, 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, [[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]])</span>

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Perhaps of even greater.................... </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">would be unacceptable to all.</span>

===Politics 1NC=== 

====**Bronx**==== 
**China Currency bill past the Senate, but Boehner will block a vote on it in the House**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">**MiniNews, 10-11**, 11, [[https://mninews.deutsche-boerse.com/index.php/us-congresswksenate-vote-china-fx-and-obamas-jobs-plan?q=content/us-congresswksenate-vote-china-fx-and-obamas-jobs-plan]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Congress faces another busy week ............. </span>__<span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 11pt;">House vote on the bill</span>__<span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Political capital necessary to stop the legislation. Passage will collapse relations with China and trigger a trade war</span>**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">**Reuters, 9/2/1**1, [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/02/us-usa-obama-trade-idUSTRE7814CZ20110902]] DOA: 9/2/11</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Democrats like House Minority....................</span> **__political capital to block it__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Boehner key – the bill will pass in the House if he allows a vote. He’s blocking it now**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">**Reuters, 10/11**/11, [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/10/11/usa-china-idUSN1E79A0W320111011]]</span>

__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The bill is widely expected ..........................</span>__ more than the 218 that would be needed for passage.
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Plan alienates Boehner – he opposes space spending</span>**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Fiscal Times, 9-14/10, [[http://www.thefiscaltimes.com/Articles/2010/09/14/Boehner-Budget-Rollback-would-Cut-Scores-of-Agencies.aspx#page1|http://www.thefiscaltimes.com/Articles/2010/09/14/Boehner-Budget-Rollback-would-Cut-Scores-of-Agencies.aspx#page1]]</span>

__House Republican Leader John ....................__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> spending proposed by President Obama.</span>


**US-China trade war triggers a war**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ben </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Landy 7</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Ben Landy, Director of Research and Strategy at the Atlantic Media Company, publisher of the Atlantic Monthly, National Journal, and Government Executive magazines. Landy served in various research and project management positions at the Brookings Institution and Center for Strategic and International Studies, two leading public policy think tanks in Washington, D.C. Ben holds a bachelor of arts degree from Yale University. April 3, 20</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">07</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, [[http://chinaredux.com/2007/04/03/protectionism-and-war/#comments|http://chinaredux.com/2007/04/03/protectionism-and-war/#comments]]</span>

__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The greatest threat for the 21st ....................</span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> **military budgets and anti-satellite tests**</span>__

**HOT WAR WITH CHINA ENSURES Extinction**

**//Strait Times ‘00//**
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(June 25, </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Regional Fallout: No one gains in war over Taiwan”, Lexis;)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">THE DOOMSDAY SCENARIO THE high-intensity scenario ....................</span> __sovereignty above everything else.__

==CPs== 
===Privatization CP=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Text: The United States federal government should restrict the missions of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to only allow activities that occur beyond the Earth-Moon system, bar NASA from building and operating launch vehicles and lunar exploration equipment, require all other nondefense and nonemergency launches and lunar exploration equipment to be purchased from the private sector, and enforce the Commercial Space Act Requirement that NASA must acquire scientific data from private firms. Andestablish five ten-million dollar prizes for the [do the aff ]</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The CP solves – phases out NASA and spurs market ingenuity that’s necessary to solve the aff. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Hudgins, 1999</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Edward L., director of regulatory studies – CATO, “35. National Aeronautics and Space Administration,” CATO Handbook for Congress, [[http://www.cato.org/pubs/handbook/hb107/hb107-35.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">In general, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">all activities on the ‘‘</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">near frontier’’ </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> ....................</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> can</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Mars and other </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">future goals be attained.</span>__



===CyberSecurity CP=== 
**Text: The United States Federal Government should implement the 10 steps to boost cyber-security as per our Cyberspace Policy Review ev**

<span class="Underline">**The US is implementing 10 steps to boost cyber security in the short term** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Cyberspace Policy Review 9** </span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">(USfg policy report, 2009, [[http://www.whitehouse.gov/assets/documents/Cyberspace_Policy_Review_final.pdf]], ZBurdette)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Table 1:</span><span class="Underline"> Near-Term Action Plan</span> .......<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> .................. that addresses privacy and civil liberties interests, leveraging privacy-enhancing </span>

===Adv CP v Greenhill [Spaceguard]=== 
**CP Text: The United States federal government should**
- **deploy Aerogel to remove space debris.**
- **implement the 10 steps to boost cyber-security as per our Cyberspace Policy Review ev**
- **Provide all necessary funding and support for the development of Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion technology**
- **substantially increase its education, science, technology and energy cooperation and exchanges with China as per the recommendations of Chinese State Councillor Liu**

**<span style="color: black;">Best Way to Capture Space Debris is Aerogel – sustains impact and captures small debris </span>**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Burchell 06</span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> – PHD in planetary physics</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">(Mark J. Burchell, May 2006, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">COSMIC DUST COLLECTION IN AEROGEL, Vol. 34: 385-418, pg 406) </span>

__<span style="color: black;">Aerogel has</span>____<span style="color: black;"> now been .......................</span>____<span style="color: black;"> results based on captured cosmic dust.</span>__

**Key to solving for Air force Overstretch**
That’s Their Mosely ev

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">The US is implementing 10 steps to boost cyber security in the short term </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Cyberspace Policy Review 9</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 5pt; text-decoration: none;">(USfg policy report, 2009, [[http://www.whitehouse.gov/assets/documents/Cyberspace_Policy_Review_final.pdf]], ZBurdette)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt; text-decoration: none;">Table 1:</span><span class="Underline"> Near-Term Action Plan</span>
<span class="Underline">1.</span> Appoint<span class="Underline"> a </span>cybersecurity.............<span style="font-size: 5pt; text-decoration: none;"> that addresses privacy and civil liberties interests, leveraging privacy-enhancing </span>

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">OTEC solves and even reverses warming trends</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">**Potomac 10** (Paul Potomac, NASA scientist, engineer, and previous Chief Technologist. </span>American Energy Policy V -- Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, OP ED News. 15/15/10, NP)</span>

<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 11pt;">Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion</span> ...................<span style="font-size: 11pt;">multi-trillion-dollar energy economy</span>.

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Science Co-op is a pillar of US-China relations, creates massive economic growth and security coop - Spills over to every area</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Lempinen ’09** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Edward W., staff writer for the American Association for the Advancement of Science, April 24th, "U.S.-China Science and Technology Cooperation at 30: Looking Forward" http://www.aaas.org/news/releases/2009/0424china.shtml [mrl]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thirty years ago, as U.S................</span><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;"> Norris said of Obama's relations with China. "</span>

===Unilateral Restraint CP=== 
**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">The United States federal government should:</span>**

<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">-</span> **<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">Announce a policy of conditional unilateral restraint</span>**

<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">-</span> **<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">Permanently ground the X-37B and allow international verification</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;"> - </span>****establish an international center for sharing Space Situational Awareness data**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Conditional restraint stops weaponization and ensures all of the AFFs advantages </span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Mueller 2</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">*</span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Dr. Karl P. Mueller is a political scientist with the RAND Corporation, specializing in air and space strategy and other defense policy issues. From 1994 to 2001, he was Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the U.S. Air Force's School of Advanced Airpower Studies. He has lectured and written on a wide variety of national security topics, including nuclear and conventional deterrence theory, the political implications of space weaponization, military and economic coercion, the Bosnian and Kosovo wars, the moral dimensions of U.S. foreign policy, and the security strategies of small states and middle powers [</span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://isanet.ccit.arizona.edu/noarchive/mueller.html]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, March 27th 2002, “Is the Weaponization of Space Inevitable?”]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> 2. Enlightened Self-Interest. ……………weaponization to justify its costs.</span>

**Data Sharing- U.S. leadership and data processing facilities are vital for success**
**Robinson 11 -** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Resident Fellow @ European Space Policy Institute (ESPI) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jana,“Transparency and confidence-building measures for space security,” Space Policy 27 (2011) 27e37)</span>

Build space TCBMs with …………value-added capabilities. Pg. 36-37


===RPS CP=== 
**The United States federal government should:**
**-implement a renewable portfolio standard which requires corporations to produce 20% of their electricity from sources of renewable energy including terrestrial wind, terrestrial solar, and terrestrial biomass.**
**-enact a revenue-neutral tax policy that raises the federal tax on gasoline by one dollar per gallon.**
**-increase the military’s development and use of biofuels, hybrid transportation, solar water purification systems, solar tent shields, portable solar panels and solar chargers.**
**-exempt graduates from accredited universities in the United States from the employment-visa quota and preference category system if they hold an advanced degree in science or technology.**

**National RPS solves dependence on fossil fuels, boosts the economy- equivalent to taking 71 million cars off the road**
**Fershee 8- prof @ University of North Dakota Law, focus in energy law**
(Joshua,“Changing Resources, Changing Market: The Impact of a National Renewable Portfolio Standard on the U.S. Energy Industry” Energy Law Journal, Vol. 29, No. 1, http://74.125.155.132/scholar?q=cache:5o1fbZrYa-AJ:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=0,23)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In May 2007, the House............ the past six years.66 </span>

**Gas tax creates demand for clean fuel and cars**
**Krasner 7- JD Candidate UConn law school**
(Samantha, “America's Addiction to Oil: A Comprehensive Strategy For Reducing Our Nation's Dependence,”Connecticut Law Review Volume 40, lexis)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Part III will address...............</span>__fuel- efficient choices__.

===Competitiveness Advantage CP=== 
**Text: The United States federal government should**
**-lower the corporate tax rate to 20% for all other corporations**
**- Take any measures indicated by our Zrust evidence.**
**-identify strategies for all students that support Department of Transportation’s needs,**
**-Any other measures indicated by our DOT evidence.**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-</span>**remove satellites and related aerospace technology from the U.S. Munitions List.**

**-rescind the China Military Catch All Rule**
**- invest in research and development funding tax credits.**




**Lowering CTR solves competitiveness – boosts investment and encourages innovation.**
**Zrust 6/2**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Vice President of Tax The Boeing Company( James, testimony before the Committee on Ways and Means U.S. House of Representatives “Hearing on How Business Tax Reform Can Encourage Job Creation”, June 2, 2011, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://waysandmeans.house.gov/UploadedFiles/Zrust_testimony.pdf</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 8pt;">AE</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Competitiveness- Lower Statutory ...............l issues we face today.</span>

**The CP revitalizes the aerospace industry through STEM**
<span class="Underline">**DOT 10**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Department of Transportation’s recommendations via the Future of Aviation Advisory Committee to Congress, The Aviation Advisory Committee will provide information, advice, and recommendations to the Secretary of Transportation on ensuring the competitiveness of the U.S. aviation industry and its capability to address the evolving transportation needs, challenges, and opportunities of the global economy. 2010; [[http://www.dot.gov/faac/FAAC_Recommendations.pdf]]; JN)</span>
**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">-Aerospace industry is aging—reinvigoration key</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">-Status quo STEM disorganized—CP necessary</span>**

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">RECOMMENDATION # 15 SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, ENGINEERING</span><span class="Underline"> ...............work over the long term</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span>
**a. Increase competitiveness and jobs.**
**Aerospace Industries Association 11,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the most authoritative and influential trade association representing the nation's leading manufacturers and suppliers of civil, military and business aircraft, helicopters, unmanned aircraft systems, space systems, aircraft engines, homeland and cybersecurity systems, materiel and related components, equipment services and information technology (5/25/11, Satellite Industry Association Industries Association Welcome Proposed Satellite Export Control Reform Amendment” </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewpr.rss.spacewire.html?pid=33654) AT</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Washington, D.C., May 25, 2011 -................... </span>__e passage of this amendment.__

**b. Export controls are ineffective and hurt US technology sales.**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Overly 11,</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (3/25/11, Steven, Washington Post, “For the US Satellite Industry Strict Export Controls Cost Market Share” http://www.washingtonpost.com/capital_business/for-the-us-satellite-industry-strict-export-controls-cost-market-share/2011/03/25/AFEMJVkB_story.html) AT</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">When the defense .............................</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> share,” he said.you're</span>






=Strategies= 
==Bronx== 
**RD 2 v Resevoir DK [DSCOVR]**
**1NC: Politics, Wep, Frontier, Private CP, Case**
**Block: Politics, Wep, Case**
**2NR: Wep, Case**

**Rd 4 Bronx Law MT [ Dark Matter, an analogy for black/white binary]**
**1NC: LatCrit K, T/FW, Cap K, Case**
**Block: ALL**
**2NR: LatCrit K, Case**

**RD 5 Edgemont MX [Mil broadband satellites? Look it up:**
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - Edgemont (NY) - Isaac Marshall & Helen Xu#x1AC|http://wiki.debatecoaches.org/2011-2012+-+Edgemont+%28NY%29+-+Isaac+Marshall+%26+Helen+Xu#x1AC]]]
**1NC: Politics, Wep, Cybersecurity CP, Private CP, Frontier, T-its, case**
**Block: Politics, Wep, Cyber CP, Frontier, T-its, case**
**2NR: Wep, Cyber CP, case**

**Doubles Bronx Law AH [ LatCrit movement/ Project]**
**1NC: T/FW, Cap, Case**
**Block: All**
**2NR: T/FW, case**

**Octos Greenhill PS [ Spaceguard/ SSA]**
**1NC: Politics, wep, adv cp, Frontier, Case**
**Block: Politics, Wep, Adv CP, Frontier Case**
**2NR: Politics, Case**

==Glenbrooks== 

**RD 1 v Nevada Union FB [ DSCOVR]**
**1NC: Politics, Wep, Ukraine CP, Frontier, Private CP, Case**
**Block: Politics, Frontier, Priv, Case**
**2NR Frontier and Case**

**Rd 4 v Damien LO [ PACs]**
**1NC: Wep DA,** **Unilat Restraint CP,** **Super committee DA,** **Frontier K,** **Case**
**Block: Politics, Wep DA, Unilat Restraint CP, Case**
**2NR: Unitlat Restraint CP, Wep DA, case**

**Rd 6 v Juan Diego IR [ SSSSSSSSPSSSSSSSSSS]**
**1NC: Wep DA, Politics, Frontier, Unilat Restraint, Competitiveness CP, Case**
**Block: Wep DA, Politics, Unilat Restraint, Competitiveness CP, Case**
**2NR: Politics, Case**

==**Blake**== 
**Rd 1 v HoFlo CG [TSPS]**
**1NC: Politics, wep, Geo DA, FSE CP, case**
**Block: Tix, Geo DA, FSE CP, Case**
**2NR: FSE CP, Geo Da, Case** 

**Rd 3 v College Prep B team? [DSCOVR]** 
**1NC: T, Tix, GEO DA, Wep, Frontier, Case**
**Block: K, tix, Geo Wep, Case**
**2NR: Wep, case**

**Rd 6 v Kent Denver [Climate sat]**
**1NC: T, Wep, Tix, Frontier, Unilat Restraint CP, Case**
**Block: Wep, Frontier, Unilat Restraint CP, Case**
**2NR: Frontier**

**Rd 7 v Edina HP [ORS]**
**1NC: T, Unilat Restraint CP, Wep, Case**
**Block: Case, Wep, Unilat Restraint CP**
**2NR: All**


==**MBA**== 
**Rd 1 v OPRF [Cyborgs]**
**1NC: Consult Russia, Politics, Virilio, T, Case**
**Block: Consult Russia, Politics, Case**
**2NR: Consult, Case**

**Rd 6 v Baltimore City College [ Neolib, space common]**
**1NC: Consult Russia, Politics, T, FW, Case**
**Block: Consult, Case, FW**
**2NR: Consult, Case**



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]