<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[toc]]
</span>





Email [[mailto:john.lewis@kinkaid.org|john.lewis@kinkaid.org]] for cites

=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">September-October</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Affirmative</span>== 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Negative</span>== 

=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">November-December</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Affirmative</span>== 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Negative</span>== 

=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">January-February</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Affirmative</span>== 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Negative</span>== 

=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">March-April</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Affirmative</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC --- Mexico (TFA Rd. 1, 3 and 5)</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC Plantext</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Plan: The United States federal government should implement targeted killings against drug cartels in Mexico.**</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC Terrorism Advantage</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Winning the war on cartels key to prevent a terrorist attack on US homeland**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Shingal 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Ankur Shingal, University of California, Los Angeles, “At the Tipping Point: Why the United States Must Assist Mexico in the Mexican Drug War” Agathai Quarterly Journal, Vol. 1, No. 2, Winter 2011 http://www.mortarboardatucla.org/uploads/4/7/8/9/4789362/winter_journal.pdf#page=26</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The fourth and final contention as…imperceptible </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">tunnels across its own border</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**That would be nuclear**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Hunter 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Thomas Byron Hunter served as an intelligence officer with the Defense intelligence Agency, specializing in the analysis of terrorist tactics, techniques, and procedures. Mr. Hunter has written for many leading intelligence and security-related publications, including Janes Intelligence Review, the United States Naval Institute's Proceedings and The Journal of Counterterrorism and Homeland Security International. He has also served as the managing editor of the Journal of Strategic Security and Special Operations Journal. Mr. Hunter holds a Master's Degree in Unconventional Warfare from the American Military University and a Master's Degree in international Security Studies from the University of St. Andrews, Scotland, “Targeted Killing: Self-Defense, Preemption, and the War on Terrorism” Journal of Strategic Security, 2009 http://scholarcommons.usf.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1048&context=jss&sei-redir=1#search=%22Targeted%20Killing%3A%20Self-Defense%2C%20Preemption%2C%20War%20Terrorism%22</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">According to Walter Laquer</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, in The…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">equal</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> to the use of WMD</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Extinction**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Ayson 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Robert Ayson is Professor of Strategic Studies, Director of Strategic Studies: New Zealand and Senior Research Associate with Oxford’s Centre for International Studies, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects” Studies in Conflict and Terrorism, Vol. 33, No. 7, July 2010, p. 571-593</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Washington's</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> early response to a terrorist…itself unable or unwilling to provide</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC Stability Advantage</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Mexico is on the brink of collapse due to cartel violence—failure there ensures full scale war**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Shingal 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Ankur Shingal, University of California, Los Angeles, “At the Tipping Point: Why the United States Must Assist Mexico in the Mexican Drug War” Agathai Quarterly Journal, Vol. 1, No. 2, Winter 2011 http://www.mortarboardatucla.org/uploads/4/7/8/9/4789362/winter_journal.pdf#page=26</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The third reason why the United…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">a war on its home front</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Cartel takeover causes economic collapse and global oil shocks** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Moran 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Michael Moran, “Six Crises, 2009: A Half-Dozen Ways Geopolitics Could Upset Global Recovery” Roubini Global Economics, July 31, 2009 http://fbkfinanzwirtschaft.wordpress.com/2009/08/07/six-crises-2009-a-half-dozen-ways-geopolitics-could-upset-global-recovery/</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">A story receiving more attention in…he deftly sidestepped once in office. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Extinction** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Elhefnawy 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Nader Elhefnawy, “The Impending Oil Shock” Survival: Global Politics and Strategy Vol. 50, No. 2, March 25, 2008, p. 37-66 DOI:10.1080/00396330802034242 Taylor and Francis Online</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Some states</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, particularly </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">in the underdeveloped</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">bring radical ideologies to the fore.78 </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Collapse forces US isolationism** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Haddick 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Robert Haddick, MBA, is Editor of Small Arms, Former Director of Research at the Fremont Group, former Marine Corps Officer, and his articles have been previously published in prestigious publications such as the New York Post and The Wall Street Journal, “Now that would change everything” December 21, 2008 http://westhawk.blogspot.com/2008/12/now-that-would-change-everything.html</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">There is one dynamic in the…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">no running from</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> a Mexican collapse</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**US decline causes collapse of democracy, free trade and ensures great power conflict** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kagan 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Robert Kagan is a senior fellow in foreign policy at the Brookings Institution “Why the World Needs America” The Wall Street Journal, February 11, 2012 http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970203646004577213262856669448.html</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">If</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> all of </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">this sounds too…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the American order came into being. </span></span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC Solvency</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Targeted killings** **are __critical__ to destroying Mexican drug cartels**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Van Horen 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Matthew Van Horen, “Developing Strategies to Defeat Mexico’s Drug Cartels” Foreword.com, an open platform focusing on policy analysis and recommendations for decision-makers, October 3, 2011 http://foreword.com.au/2011/10/developing-strategies-to-defeat-mexicos-drug-cartels/</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(iii) </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A ‘kingpin’ targeting strategy involves identifying,…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">harder to combat Mexican government forces.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Drone strikes solve—take out key leaders**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Del Bosque 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Melissa Del Bosque has a Masters in Journalism from U.T. Austin, “Congressman Won't Rule Out Drone Strikes in Mexico” Texas Observer, April 4, 2011 http://www.texasobserver.org/lalinea/congressman-suggests-drone-strikes-in-mexico</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">U.S. </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Congressman Silvestre Reyes</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, a Democrat…surveillance drone crashed in El Paso.</span></span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AR AT Drones/Technological Warfare K</span>==== 

**No impact --- empirically confirmed**
**Goure 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Daniel Goure, PhD in international relations and Russian studies from the Johns Hopkins University, is a vice president of the Lexington Institute, “Drones and the Changing Nature of Warfare: Hold the Presses!” CATO Unbound January 13th, 2012 http://www.cato-unbound.org/2012/01/13/daniel-goure/drones-and-the-changing-nature-of-warfare-hold-the-presses/</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Attempts to connect an increased</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">…don’t kill terrorists, governments do</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC --- Iran (TFA Octos and Quarters)</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC Plantext</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Plan: the USFG should implement covert targeted killings of scientists working on Iran’s nuclear program**</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC Iran-Israel War Advantage</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Iran is developing nuclear weapons now—killings are key to preventing Iran-Israel nuclear war**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Edelman <span class="Bold12">et al </span>11** <span style="font-size: 80%;">Eric S. Edelman is a distinguished fellow @ the center for strategic and budgetary assessments; he was U.S. undersecretary of defense for policy in 2005-2009, Andrew F. Krepinevich Jr. is President of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, Evan Braden Montgomery is a Research Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, “Why Obama Should Take Out Iran's Nuclear Program,” Nov 9, Foreign Affairs, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/136655/eric-s-edelman-andrew-f-krepinevich-jr-and-evan-braden-montgomer/why-obama-should-take-out-irans-nuclear-program#</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The November</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 8</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> International Atomic Energy … </span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">tremendous pressure to act quickly.</span>__**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span class="Bold12">That causes great power nuclear conflict</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Morgan 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dennis Ray Morgan, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Years later, in 1982, at the … and suffering in a nuclear winter.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC Terrorism Advantage</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span class="Bold12">Iranian proliferation causes nuclear terrorism</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span class="Bold12">Sagan 6 </span>**<span style="font-size: 80%;">Scott D. Sagan is Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford University, “How to Keep the Bomb From Iran,” Foreign Affairs; Sep/Oct2006, Vol. 85 Issue 5, p45-59, 15p</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">THE MOST DANGEROUS GAME </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">DEALING … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">of nuclear weapons left unclear.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Iran will give nuclear weapons to al-Qaida and Hezbollah—causes attacks on the US and Israel**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Emerson & Himelfarb 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Steven Emerson and Joel Himelfarb “Would Iran Provide A Nuclear Weapon to Terrorists?” inFocus Quarterly, Vol. 3, No. 4, Winter 2009 http://www.jewishpolicycenter.org/1532/iran-nuclear-weapon-to-terrorists</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">When this worst-case scenario … </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">dropped on Hiroshima</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in August 1945. </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Nuclear terrorism causes Extinction**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Ayson 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Robert Ayson is Professor of Strategic Studies, Director of Strategic Studies: New Zealand and Senior Research Associate with Oxford’s Centre for International Studies, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects” Studies in Conflict and Terrorism, Vol. 33, No. 7, July 2010, p. 571-593</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Washington's</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> early response to a terrorist … unable or unwilling to provide</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC Heg Advantage</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Iranian nuclear capability destroys heg**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**AIPAC 2/10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [“Iranian Nuclear Weapons Capability Unacceptable” The America Israel Public Affairs Committee, February 10, 2012 http://www.aipac.org/~/media/Publications/Policy%20and%20Politics/AIPAC%20Analyses/Issue%20Memos/2012/02/AIPAC%20Memo%20-%20Iranian%20Nuclear%20Capability%20Unacceptable.pdf]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">If the U</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">S</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">allows … </span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">out attacks against American interests</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**US decline causes collapse of democracy, free trade and ensures great power conflict**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kagan 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Robert Kagan is a senior fellow in foreign policy at the Brookings Institution “Why the World Needs America” The Wall Street Journal, February 11, 2012 http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970203646004577213262856669448.html</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">If</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> all of </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">this sounds … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">American order came into being. </span></span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC Prolif Advantage (Quarters only)</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Specifically, it causes Saudi Arabian proliferation—causes regional nuclear war and collapses the NPT**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Edelman** et al **11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Eric S. Edelman is a distinguished fellow @ the center for strategic and budgetary assessments; he was U.S. undersecretary of defense for policy in 2005-2009, Andrew F. Krepinevich Jr. is President of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, Evan Braden Montgomery is a Research Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, “Why Obama Should Take Out Iran's Nuclear Program,” Nov 9, Foreign Affairs, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/136655/eric-s-edelman-andrew-f-krepinevich-jr-and-evan-braden-montgomer/why-obama-should-take-out-irans-nuclear-program#</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">FROM ISLAMABAD TO RIYADH </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The … , rather than violates, the NPT</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**The impact is nuclear war**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Edelman** et al **11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Eric S. Edelman is a distinguished fellow @ the center for strategic and budgetary assessments; he was U.S. undersecretary of defense for policy in 2005-2009, Andrew F. Krepinevich Jr. is President of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, Evan Braden Montgomery is a Research Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, “Why Obama Should Take Out Iran's Nuclear Program,” Nov 9, Foreign Affairs, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/136655/eric-s-edelman-andrew-f-krepinevich-jr-and-evan-braden-montgomer/why-obama-should-take-out-irans-nuclear-program#</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">N-PLAYER COMPETITION </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Were Saudi … **Great Game, with unpredictable consequences.**</span>__</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC Solvency</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Targeted killings are key to nuclear negotiations**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Cummings 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Andrew Cummings was an adviser on the Middle East and US affairs in the UK cabinet office national security staff, “A covert campaign is the only way to stop Iran's nuclear ambitions” The Guardian, January 12, 2012 http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2012/jan/12/covert-campaign-iran-nuclear</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">As yet </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">another Iranian scientist … have any hope of success</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**They’re key to preventing Iranian nuclear development**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Sinkinson 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Jim Sinkinson is the Vice President of FLAME, “Killing Iranian Nuclear Scientists May Be the Best Hope for Stopping the Mullahs” The FLAME Hotline is a newsletter delivering updates and analysis on current issues about Israel and the Middle East conflict, January 24, 2012 http://www.factsandlogic.org/flame_hotline_012412-p.html</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Iran is the world's leading … Iran's development of nuclear weapons</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Killings are critical—take out key scientists**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Spector 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Leonard S. Spector, “The perfect storm: Three ways to thwart Iran's nuclear ambitions – short of war” The Christian Science Monitor, January 18, 2012 [[http://www.csmonitor.com/Commentary/Opinion/2012/0118/The-perfect-storm-Three-ways-to-thwart-Iran-s-nuclear-ambitions-short-of-war]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The second component of a US … clandestine US activities are continuing</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span>

====1AR Heg Advantage --- AT Terrorism Impact Turn==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Heg solves terrorism**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kagan 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Robert, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and Senior Transatlantic Fellow at the German Marshall Fund, “End of Dreams, Return of History,” Hoover Institution, No. 144, August/September, [[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policy-review/article/6136]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Throughout all these efforts, whose…weapons will eventually be made.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AR AT Retaliation/Relations</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Covert action can be easily denied—prevents retaliation**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Tobey 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> William Tobey is a senior fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. He was most recently deputy administrator for defense nuclear nonproliferation at the National Nuclear Security Administration. There, he managed the US Government’s largest program to prevent nuclear proliferation and terrorism by detecting, securing, and disposing of dangerous nuclear material. Tobey also served on the National Security Council staff in three administrations, working in defense policy, arms control, and counterproliferation positions. He has participated in international negotiations ranging from the START I talks with the Soviet Union to the six-party talks on the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula, “Nuclear scientists as assassination targets” Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists 68:61, 2012, http://people.reed.edu/~ahm/Courses/Reed-POL-422-2012-S1_NP/Syllabus/EReadings/10.2/10.2.Tobey2012Nuclear.pdf</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">From the perspective of the … </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">likelihood and severity of retaliation</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span>

====1AR AT Arrests CP==== 

**Permutation—arrest and interrogate terrorists but use targeted killing when apprehension is too risky**
**Fisher 7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Uri Fisher has a PhD in political science from university of Colorado, Boulder, “Deterrence, Terrorism, and American Values” Homeland Security Affairs, Vol. 3, No. 1, February 2007 http://www.hsaj.org/?fullarticle=3.1.4</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The primary goal of the…to establishing a deterrent mechanism.</span>__

**Arrests empirically cause more harm to those involved**
**Cullen 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Peter Cullen, Colonel in the US Army, USAWC Class of 2007, SRP submitted in partial fulfillment of the requirements of the Master of Strategic Studies Degree, U.S. Army War College, Carlisle Barracks (March 30, 2007) “Role of Targeted Killing in the Campaign Against Terror” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA471529&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">These concerns highlight some of…the least attractive moral option.</span>

**Capture isn’t always possible**
**Rittgers 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> David Rittgers, a legal policy analyst at the Cato Institute, served three tours in Afghanistan as a Special Forces officer and continues to serve as a reserve judge advocate, “Both Left and Right Are Wrong about Drones” Cate Institute, February 25, 2010 http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11257</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Criticism from conservatives is largely…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">case for the long term</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Arrests cause more damage to innocents—turns soft power**
**Statman 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Daniel Statman, “Targeted Killing” Theoretical Inquiries in Law, Vol. 5 (2004) p. 179-198 [[http://philo.haifa.ac.il/staff/statman/papers%20in%20english/E23.pdf]]</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The moral legitimacy of targeted…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and to the general population.</span>

====1AR AT Soft Power DA==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Soft power low**</span>**—American human rights record and inevitable decline of the economy****—the neg doesn't do anything to change the status quo**
**Mahbubani 6/23** <span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Kishore, former Singapore diplomat and now dean of the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy at the National University of Singapore, transcript of a discussion involving Mahbubani, Nye, and Moyo, published in NYT opinion, NYT,“The Seesaw of Power.” Discussion moderated by Serge Schmemann. <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/06/24/opinion/global/24iht-june24-ihtmag-nye-36.html?_r=2&pagewanted=1]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">Mahbubani : Let me put across…__that Americans themselves are creating__.</span>

**Soft power doesn’t solve—causes backlash and resentment**
**Gray 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Colin S., Professor of International Politics and Strategic Studies at the University of Reading, England, April, “Hard Power and Soft Power: the Utility of Military Force as an Instrument of Policy in the 21st Century” Strategic Studies Institute</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">An inherent</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and unavoidable </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">problem…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">is also to be deplored.</span>

**Cyber-war impact would be small---infrastructure is resilient**
**<span class="tagChar">Lawson 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Sean, Ph.D., Department of Communication University of Utah "Beyond Cyber-Doom: Cyberattack Scenarios and the Evidence of History" Jan 11 mercatus.org/sites/default/files/publication/beyond-cyber-doom-cyber-attack-scenarios-evidence-history_1.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">__In the last three years__,…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">governance in our social systems.</span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Negative</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Arrests CP</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Text: the United States federal government should capture and interrogate suspected terrorists**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Solves the aff—empirically**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Ratner 7**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> [Steven R. Ratner is Bruno Simma Collegiate Professor of Law at the University of Michigan Law School, “Predator and Prey: Seizing and Killing Suspected Terrorists Abroad” The Journal of Political Philosophy, Vol. 15, No. 3 (2007) p. 251–275 Wiley Online Library]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">In terms of recent US … </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">European Court of Human Rights</span>__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Arrests are better b/c targets can be interrogated**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Byman 6**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> [Daniel Byman is Director of the Center for Peace and Security Studies and of the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University's School of Foreign Service and a nonresident Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution's Saban Center for Middle East Policy, “Do Targeted Killings Work?” Foreign Affairs, Vol. 85, No. 2 (March - April 2006) p. 95-111 [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/20031914]]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Assessing Whether Israel's targeted killings … </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">men</span>__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> also </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">tell no tales</span>__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Experts agree that interrogation is necessary to prevent terrorism**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Thiessen 9**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Marc Thiessen is a visiting fellow at the Hoover Institution and served in senior positions in the Pentagon and the White House from 2001 to 2009 “The CIA’s Questioning Worked” April 21, 2009 [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/04/20/AR2009042002818_pf.html]]</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Consider the Justice Department memo…vast majority would support continuing it.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC International Relations DA</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Targeted killing destroys US international credibility and support**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Cullen 7**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> [Peter Cullen, Colonel in the US Army, USAWC Class of 2007, SRP submitted in partial fulfillment of the requirements of the Master of Strategic Studies Degree, U.S. Army War College, Carlisle Barracks, March 30, 2007, “Role of Targeted Killing in the Campaign Against Terror” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA471529&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]]</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Another criticism is that the … defend itself against transnational terrorism.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Targeted killings strain international relations—empirically confirmed**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Blum and Heymann 10**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> [Gabriella Blum is Assistant Professor of Law, Harvard Law School and Philip Heymann is James Barr Ames Professor of Law, Harvard Law School, “Law and Policy of Targeted Killing” Harvard National Security Journal, Vol. 1 (June 27, 2010) [[http://www.harvardnsj.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/06/Vol-1_Blum-Heymann_Final.pdf]]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">When targeted killing operations are … </span>__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">that left eighteen civilians dead).</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Lack of international support kills counter terrorism—turns the case**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Byman 6**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> [Daniel Byman is Director of the Center for Peace and Security Studies and of the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University's School of Foreign Service and a nonresident Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution's Saban Center for Middle East Policy, “Do Targeted Killings Work?” Foreign Affairs, Vol. 85, No. 2 (March - April 2006) p. 95-111 [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/20031914]]]</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">It is true that the … least, the United States has to.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC International Law DA</span>=== 

**Targeted killing violates the ICCPR**
**Anderson 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Kenneth Anderson is Professor of Law at Washington College of Law, American University, and Research Fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University and Member of its Task Force on National Security and the Law, “Targeted Killing in U.S. Counterterrorism Strategy and Law” A Working Paper of the Series on Counterterrorism and American Statutory Law, a joint project of the Brookings Institution, the Georgetown University Law Center, and the Hoover Institution (May 11, 2009) http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2009/0511_counterterrorism_anderson/0511_counterterrorism_anderson.pdf</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The ICCPR is a core</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">…superseding ordinary human rights law</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Upholding international law is vital to preventing global nuclear conflict**
**Shaw 1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Martin Shaw is a Professor of International Relations at the University of Sussex Review of International Studies, 27: 627-647 http://journals.cambridge.org/article_S0260210501006271</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The new politics of international…rather than inward-looking old conservatives.</span>

***I also read a human rights and heg impact some rounds