<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[toc]]
</span>


=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Politics__</span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__China Bashing DA__</span>== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">China currency bill won’t pass now as long as Boehner and Obama are expending political capital to stop it</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Financial Times 10-4</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (“US currency bill drama belies grind ahead” [[http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/ec234e82-eebc-11e0-959a-00144feab49a.html#axzz1bNkNv4XI|http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/ec234e82-eebc-11e0-959a-00144feab49a.html#axzz1bNkNv4XI]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">So, are they serious? Monday’s overwhelming vote….</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Losing contentious spending fights kill Boehner’s capital</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">McManus 11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Doyle, Washington Columnist for the LA Times. “Doyle McManus: No party for John Boehner”[[http://www.limaohio.com/articles/boehner-63801-spending-federal.html]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Last week, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Boehner and Reid agreed to</span><span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">…</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Currency bill causes trade war, kills dollar heg, and kills relations</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">De Santis 10-7</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Hugh De Santis is a strategic analyst and consultant. He is a former career officer in the Department of State and senior official at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and the RAND Corporation. “China Currency Manipulation: Protectionism Not The Answer” [[http://acus.org/new_atlanticist/china-currency-manipulation-protectionism-not-answer]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Election-year politics aside, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">imposing tariffs</span><span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">…</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Trade war destroys global econom causing global war and risks nuclear war between the US and China</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Eland 05</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Ivan, Senior Fellow and Director of the Center on Peace & Liberty at The Independent Institute. “Avoid Threatening China Over Its Currency.” May 31, 2005 [[http://www.independent.org/newsroom/article.asp?id=1515]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Some senators are already threatening to raise tariffs…</span>


==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jackson-Vanik (Blake)</span>== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lawmakers support a Jackson-Vanik repeal – state department push</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AFP 12-15</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(“US lawmakers decry Russia vote, warn of blacklist”[[http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5iH9wxknv_vcycrpLJd0TnW12g0ng?docId=CNG.42d583e694cffdb6a1c0086c90997fa9.91]])</span>

<span class="Underline0" style="background-color: #ffffff;">State Department officials urged the committee AND </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">move for US-Russia relations. </span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Obama’s PC is key</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Moscow Times 12-14</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(“Russia in WTO: U.S. Congress Not Ready For Russian WTO Entry”[[http://www.themoscowtimes.com/business/article/russia-in-wto-us-congress-not-ready-for-russian-wto-entry/449843.html#ixzz1giqgHeOP|http://www.themoscowtimes.com/business/article/russia-in-wto-us-congress-not-ready-for-russian-wto-entry/449843.html#ixzz1giqgHeOP]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Members of the World Trade Organization AND </span><span class="Underline0" style="background-color: #ffffff;">the administration of</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> President Bill </span><span class="Underline0" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Clinton</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jackson-Vanik repeal key to Russian relations and the US economy</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Miller 11</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Jacqueline McLaren, senior associate at the EastWest Institute. “The WTO and the Reset.” [[http://www.ewi.info/wto-and-reset]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span class="Underline0" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jackson-Vanik</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> amendment to AND </span><span class="Underline0" style="background-color: #ffffff;">the U.S. economy. </span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Increasing US Russia Relations key to solve prolif, nuclear terrorism and nuclear use</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Perry and Scowcroft, ’09</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (William and brent, Chairs CFR, april, “US Nuclear Weapons Policy”)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Despite nearly universal opposition, North AND </span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">a high level of mutual trust</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">. </span>

==Payroll Tax Cut (Lane Tech)== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">PTC will pass, Obama has the upper hand, it’s at the top of the docket and Obama’s pushing it</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">WSJ 12-31</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Wall Street Journal. “WSJ: White House Looks To Shrunken 2012 Legislative Agenda” Factivia.)</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The president's central focus after he AND </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">and grandchildren to grow up in." </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[Insert Link]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Obama must use all of his PC to get it passed</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Philadelphia Inquirer 11</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(“POINT: Don't expect miracles on job growth” [[http://articles.philly.com/2011-09-08/news/30130709_1_jobs-plan-american-economy-rare-tax]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">The fundamental problem in the American AND </span><span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">tax cut</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> and continuing unemployment insurance. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Failure to pass an extension causes a double-dip recession</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CNN Money 12-20</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(“Economists: Payroll tax deadlock could hobble economy” [[http://www.chicagotribune.com/business/breaking/chi-economists-payroll-tax-deadlock-could-hobble-economy-20111220,0,7377025.story]])</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">If Congress fails to pass an AND us much, much more growth." </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Double-dip recession would cause massive depression with no hope of recovery</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CNN Money 11</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(“Recession 2.0 would hurt worse” 8-10.[[http://money.cnn.com/2011/08/10/news/economy/double_dip_recession_economy/index.htm]])</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Another recession could be even worse AND no policy effort to counteract it. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Economic collapse would end U.S. leadership and start multiple international wars.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Aaron </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedberg</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Professor of politics at Witherspoon Institute, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">and</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Gabriel </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schoenfeld</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Senior Editor of Commentary and Wall Street Journal, 10/28/20</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">08</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Then there are the dolorous consequences AND as the one we now face.</span>

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">START DA</span>= 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Current US policy supports arms control and follows the new START treaty</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tauscher 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Ellen, Secretary for Arms Control and International Security, Speech given at Nuclear Treaty Conference in New York, Sep 23 11, [[http://www.uspolicy.be/headline/under-secretary-tauscher-nuclear-treaty-conference-new-york]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">I am so pleased to be AND Treaty (</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__NPT__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">) Review Conference.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">If U.S. doesn’t consult Russia on SMD, they will withdraw from START</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Anton </span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kulikov</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Jan 27**, 2011**Russia responds to USA with own air and space defense system[[http://english.pravda.ru/russia/politics/27-01-2011/116683-russia_defense_system-0/]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Russian Defense Minister Anatoly Serdyukov said AND </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">consultative committee,</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> reports RIA Novosti.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">START prevents accidental nuclear war</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">DPC, 2010</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://dpc.senate.gov/docs/fs-111-2-30.html]]</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The START Treaty has led to AND , and global security</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">.[[http://dpc.senate.gov/docs/fs-111-2-30.html#_edn8|[8]]]</span>



=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Mil DA]]Mil DA</span>= 



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">A. US is pursuing multilateral cooperation in all facets of space- prefer our evidence</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">DOS 11/17</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (U.S. Department of State. “Leading with Diplomacy to Strengthen Stability in Space.”[[http://www.state.gov/t/avc/rls/177306.htm]])</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Orbital Debris Mitigation One </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">issue that AND </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">faring nations to begin similar dialogues. </span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">B. Space exploration is used as a tool of dominance --- unilateral actions are perceived as a demonstration of power regardless of actual use</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Lele 10 </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Ajey, Research Fellow, Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, “An Asian Moon race?”, Space Policy)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">1. Asia in space </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Globally AND </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">against the backdrop of these realities.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">C. Space weaponization causes prolif, decreases relations, kills the environment, and causes terrorism, leading to extinction</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Krepon 4,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> s co-founder of Stimson, and director of the South Asia and Space Security programs, in ‘4</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Michael, Georgetown Journal of International Affairs, Summer/Fall 2004, Safeguarding Space for All: Security and Peaceful Uses—Conference Report, 25–26 March 2004, United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research (UNIDIR), 2005]</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">The United States and the international AND barriers against the weaponization of space.</span>


=<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">HEG Bad</span>= 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">
</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">1. </span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">We will concede that we are transitioning away from hegemony and that the aff will prolong primacy; however, we will show that the status quo transition is better and the aff’s solvency is temporary.</span>__
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">
</span>
**__2. Multipolarity is inevitable – trying to retain hegemony ensures a war-filled transition__**
Christopher Layne (Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University) 2006 “The Peace of Illusions” p 190

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Advocates of hegemony claim that ...</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">United States in great power Eurasian wars. </span>

**__3.US attempts to maintain an unsustainable unipolar system leads to war with China__**
**__Layne 7__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Christopher, Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University and Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute, literary and national editor of the Atlantic, Review of International Studies (2009), "The Case Against the American Empire," American Empire: A Debate, p. 73-74, DB)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">To be sure, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the United States ... Sino-American conflict is virtually </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">certain.</span></span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">4. Sino-American conflict leads to extinction</span>__**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Straits Times 6-25-</span><span style="background-color: silver; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">2000</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">THE high-intensity scenario postulates ... see the destruction of civilisation.</span>


**__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">5.Heg collapse doesn’t cause global nuclear war – conflicts would be small and </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">manageable</span>__**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Richard </span><span class="Heading2Char" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">__<span style="background-color: silver;">Haas</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> (president of the Council on Foreign Relations, former director of policy planning for the Department of State, former v</span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">ice president and director of foreign policy studies at the Brookings Institution, the Sol M. Linowitz visiting professor of international studies at Hamilton College, a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, a lecturer in public policy at Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government, and a research associate at the International Institute for Strategic Studies) April </span><span style="background-color: silver; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">2008</span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> “Ask the Expert: What Comes After Unipolarity?” http://www.cfr.org/publication/16063/ask_the_expert.html</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Does a non polar world increase</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> ... terrorist groups, militias, rogue states, etc. </span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">6. Intervention is not inevitable. Most Americans oppose it and it is unconstitutional. Non-interventionism would be going back to our country’s roots.</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Leithner 3</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Chris, director of Leithner & Co. Pty. Ltd. and author. Montreal, November 22, 2003 / No 133. “AMERICA'S TRADITION OF NON-INTERVENTIONISM.” http://www.quebecoislibre.org/031122-9.htm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hirsh is simply wrong</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">: interventionism ... that have resulted from their overturn. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">
</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">
</span>