[[toc]]
=Kritiks= 
=== === 
===Dialectical Materialism K=== 

**A. The failure of the Left**
**Against the squo’s paralyzing politics, it is more important that ever to return to Marx, and to emphasize his insight that transformations in consciousness can never lead to social transformations—only struggling to transform the real material conditions that structure social relations can bring about social change**
**Marx, 1845**
(Karl, The German Ideology, http://www.marxists.org/archive/marx/works/1845/german-ideology/ch01b.htm)

This conception of history depends AND as men make circumstances.

**Unfortunately, Marx’s insight has been all but discarded by the new left, with its emphasis on being postmodern, postcolonial, poststructural, postMarxist, or post-anything. This post-al politics of the contemporary left focuses on discourse and language at the expense of analyzing real material conditions. This post-al logic is complicit with capitalism, especially insofar as it obscures the operation of political economy and the material reality of capitalism**
**Zavarzadeh,** Dept English @ Syracuse, **1994**
(Mas’ud, “The Stupidity that Consumption is Just as Productive as Production”, The Alternative
Orange, V 4, Fall/Winter, [[http://www.etext.org/Politics/AlternativeOrange/4/v4n1_cpp.html]])

The task of this text[1] is to lay bare AND philosophical argument but a tropological description.[5]

**And, Criticism itself can never generate revolutionary action—they get stuck in utopian appeals or ethical gestures which mollifies us into avoiding practical, material action**
**Alea,** Cuban Film Theorist, **1985** (Tomas Gutierrez, “The Viewer's Dialectic”, Jump Cut, No 30, March,
[[http://www.ejumpcut.org/archive/onlinessays/JC30folder/ViewersDialectic2.html]])

There's a paralyzing effect in AND all other types of theory."[11]

**And, their appeal to discourse negates the necessity of changing material conditions and is merely a self-righteous attempt of intellectuals to center themselves as a kind of hero, as the new subject of social change, over and opposed to those actually oppressed and disenfranchised**
**Poitevin, PhD Cand Sociol** @ UC-Davis, **2001**(Rene Francisco, “The end of anti-capitalism as we knew it: Reflections on postmodern Marxism”, TheSocialist Review, http://www.findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_qa3952/is_200101/ai_n8932891)The Postmodern Intellectual as Revolutionary Subject, Or Capitalocentrism Strikes Back

Let us bracket for a moment AND new vanguardism on post-structuralist steroids.

**This appeal to performance renders the judge into a spectator position that creates reactionary tendencies and makes social transformation impossible**
**Alea,** Cuban Film Theorist**, 1985**(Tomas Gutierrez, “The Viewer's Dialectic”, Jump Cut, No 30, March, http://www.ejumpcut.org/archive/onlinessays/JC30folder/ViewersDialectic2.html)

Some assume, with the greatest of good AND has had such a sustained acceptance.

**B) The impacts**
**Unrestrained capitalism leads to extinction**
**Harman,** Editor of the Socialst Worker **1997** (Chris, Economics of the madhouse, Pg 90-1) The system may have entered a new phase. But the way it operates is not new. It is, in its essentials exactly the way described by Marx

The only sense in which Marx is “outdated” AND countries turning fertile regions into desert

**And, capitalism destroys the environment and is the root cause of oppression**
**Latin America Solidarity Coalition, 2003** (“Getting to the Roots: Ecology and Environmental Justice”, http://www.lasolidarity.org/papers/enviro.htm)

The globalization of capital AND to desperation, degradation and suffering.

**And, our kritik short circuits their impacts—Discourse and performance can never transform structures of oppression—the effectiveness of this political strategy is disproven by the failure of the left in the status quo**
**Poitevin,** PhD Cand Sociol @ UC-Davis, **2001**
(Rene Francisco, “The end of anti-capitalism as we knew it: Reflections on postmodern Marxism”, The Socialist Review, http://www.findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_qa3952/is_200101/ai_n8932891)

From Radical Democracy to Revolutionary Democracy Let AND agenda is not going to do it either.

**And, no turns—Language cannot change the OBJECTIVE reality of oppression—this means that their framework can never access our capitalism impacts**
**Zavarzadeh,** Dept English @ Syracuse, **1994**
(Mas’ud, “The Stupidity that Consumption is Just as Productive as Production”, The Alternative
Orange, V 4, Fall/Winter, http://www.etext.org/Politics/AlternativeOrange/4/v4n1_cpp.html)

The unsurpassable objectivity which AND more tolerable, justifiable and naturalized.

**C) The alternative**
**Reject their assertion that discourse and performance can change material social realities.**

**We must return to Marx, recognizing that the only hope for human survival is a politics which engages in struggles to change material social relations rather than discursive attempts to change assumptions—any attempt to work within the system of capitalism is doomed to failure—our alternative is the only hope for human survival**
**Harman,** Editor of the Socialst Worker **1997** (Chris, Economics of the madhouse, Pg 99-100)

‘A reprise in the early 21st century AND on the lives of the mass of people.
=== === 
===State Environmentalism K=== 

**A) Environmental Reformism is merely an exercise in blame shifting and assuaging guilt—shielding us from ever having to take responsibility for our own personal complicity in the environmental crisis**
**Bobertz 1995** (Bradley, Nebraska Law, <span class="verdana">Legitimizing Pollution Through Pollution Control Laws: Reflections on Scapegoating Theory, 73 Tex. L. Rev. 711)</span>

A routine pattern in environmental AND <span class="Underline">should be cause for concern.</span>

**Additionally, the Affirmative’s production centered focus impoverishes our understanding of the environmental crisis, diminishing our ability to understand and respond to the consumptive practices that create pollution.**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Princen </span>2003** (Thomas, Global Environmental Politics, February)

<span class="Underline">Research within the economic strands AND </span>illustrates the need for such a focus.


**B) Consumption is the root cause of the Affirmative harms and constitutes a systemic harm that not only outweighs the case, but creates the possibility of extinction**
<span class="verdana">**Dauvergne 5** (Peter,</span> “<span class="ssl0">Dying of Consumption: Accidents or Sacrifices of Global Morality?”</span><span class="verdana"> Global Environmental Politics, August)</span>

Private consumption expenditures are AND global morality in an era of consumptive prosperity.

**C) Alternative: Reject the way the 1AC frames the problem in favor of an interrogation of consumptive practices — before we can go about fixing the world, we have to start off with an examination of the self, and how we are all personally implicated.**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Nayar 99</span>** (Jayan, Warwick Law, Transnational Law & Contemporary Problems, Fall)

Rightly, we are concerned with AND to consider the "technologies" of ordering.

**Finally, this is an especially attractive option considering that the affirmative cannot win that they have any practical effects—**
**Schlag 90** (Pierre, Stanford LR, November, Lexis)

In fact, normative legal thought AND normative advice into effect.
=== === 
===Orientalism K=== 

**Everywhere, the academy is forced into binary relations between the rational, moral West and the wicked, illogical East—this sustains academic orientalism making discursive violence inevitable.**
**Izadi and Saghaye-Biria 2k7**. Foad Izadi, doctoral student in communication, and Hakimeh Saghaye-Biria, masters student in communication, both at LSU, “A Discourse Analysis of Elite American Newspaper Editorials: The Case of Iran’s Nuclear Program,” Journal of Communication Inquiry 31.2,[[http://jci.sagepub.come/cgi/content/abstract/31/2/140]]

An important characteristic of Orientalist discourse is...articulated on the basis of the ideological square.

**[LINK]**

**Orientalism necessitates war and genocide against the supposedly irrational Oriental other. Accepting this ideology sparks a new wave of Crusades. The only way to deal with a completely excluded other is to seek its elimination. Once we have designated a group of people is inherently different. The road to their genocide is short indeed.**
PINAR **BATUR ‘7** Vassar College (Handbook of the Sociology of Racial and Ethnic Relations, “Heart of Violence: Global Racism, War, and Genocide”)

Albert Memmi argued that "We have no idea what...For Muslims this day is a day for rejoicing and celebration.

**The alternative is to reject the affirmative for their complicity with Orientalism. As critical intellectuals, it is our job to politicize and challenge the cult of policy-making, which constructs problematic modes of knowing and dealing with Eastern countries. Our criticism opens space for a new global politics of contestation can challenge hegemonic modes of knowing.**
**Biswas 2k7.** Shampa Biswas, Associate Professor at Whitman College, Empire and Global Public Intellectuals: Reading Edward Said as an International Relations Theorist, Millennium - Journal of International Studies 2007

One of the profound effects of the war on terror...It is to that that I turn next.
==== ==== 
====**Link-Prolif**==== 

**<span class="cite">Engaging in a discourse that problematizes Eastern possession of nuclear weapons is distinct Orientalism </span>**
**<span class="cite">Gusterson 99</span>** (Hugh, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, http://people.reed.edu/~ahm/Courses/Stan-PS-314-2009-Q1_PNP/Syllabus/EReadings/Gusterson1999Nuclear.pdf, date accessed: 7/7/2010)


<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline">The Non-Proliferation Treaty AND </span>biological weapons (Panofsky 1998; Sloyan 1998). </span>
=== === 
===Queer Theory K=== 

**Notions of preserving some sort of future for our species valorize reproductive, heterogenital sex, while subordinating queer sex to nothing more than “meaningless acrobatics.” This impregnates heterosexuality with the future of signification, necessitating violence against queerness.**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Edelman 2004**</span> (Lee Edelman, Prof. English at Tufts University, “No Future: Queer Theory and the Death Drive,” 2004, pp. 11-13)

<span class="underline0">Charged,</span> after all, <span class="underline0">with AND </span>that “mean<span style="color: red;">i</span>ng,” despite itself, means.

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Heteronormativity instills a fundamental fear of impurity in society; this amplifies systemic violence against queerness and places our species on a trajectory towards omnicide.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Sedwick 1990</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Eve Sedgwick, Professor of English CUNY, “Epistemology of the Closet,” 1990, pp. 127-130.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">From at least the biblical story of Sodom AND ones by opened and opened and opened?</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The sacralization of the Child as an idol of reproductive futurism depends on the sacrifice of the queer. Privileging large scale impacts over the systemic violence outlined in our criticism is the kind of bankrupt rationale that legitimizes violence in the first place.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Edelman 2004</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Lee Edelman, Prof. English at Tufts University, “No Future: Queer Theory and the Death Drive,” 2004, pp. 28-31) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The sacralization of the Child thus AND insist that the future stop here.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Our alternative is queer apocal(o)ptic/ism: this is the relentless problematization of the Symbolic, and all imagery and idolatry associated with reproductive futurism. Apocal(o)ptic/ism begins at the level of the self and branches out to capture the apocalyptic moments of destruction wherein the underlying structures of heteronormative hegemony are disrupted.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">**Giffney 2008** (Noreen Giffney, Proffessor at University College Dublin Ireland, “Queer Apocal(o)ptic/ism: The Death Drive and the Human,” Published in “Queering the Non/Human, 2008, pp 57-58)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">What characterises queer apocal(o)ptic/ism? AND it can only ever disturb one' (Edelman 2004,17).</span>
=== === 
===Anthro K=== 

**Modern definitions of warfare are implicitly anthropocentric in that every definition of life contains a normative judgement about the value of that life – focusing on the visible wars inscribed in human history while ignoring the everyday violence on nonhuman life is locked within modern humanist ethics.**
**Kochi 09** – (2009, Tarik, PhD, Lecturer in Law & International Security, University of Sussex, “Species War: Law, Violence, and Animals,” Law, Culture and the Humanities 2009; 5: 353–369, Proquest)

Grotius and Hobbes are sometimes described… for preservation within the early modern juridical ordering of war.

**Human centrism allows us to exploit nature, eventually causing extermination of all life.**
**Ahkin, 10** – (Melanie Ahkin, Monash University, 2010, “Human Centrism, Animist Materialism, and the Critique of Rationalism in Val Plumwood’s Critical Ecological Feminism,” Emergent Australian Philosophers, a peer reviewed journal of philosophy, [[http://www.eap.philosophy-australia.com/archives.html]])

These five features provide the basis… transformation of the human centric framework.

**The alternative is to endorse the global suicide of humanity – our total rejection of human agency and the continuation of human life functions as a valuable thought experiment that allows us to end the oppression of the squo.**
**Kochi and Ordan 08** – (Dec. 2008, Tarik Kochi, PhD, Lecturer in Law & International Security, University of Sussex, Noam Ordan, linguist and translator, conducts research in Translation Studies at Bar Ilan University, research focus on human cultural history, “An argument for the global suicide of humanity,” Borderlands, [[http://www.borderlands.net.au/vol7no3_2008/kochiordan_argument.pdf]])

For some, guided by the pressure of moral conscience… hard we try to forget, suppress or repress it.
=== === 
===Schmitt K=== 

**Space weaponization strips nations of their sovereignty and imbues the US with the ability to decide the sovereign exception globally without contest – destroys the westphalian nomos and unbrackets war.**
**Duvall and Havercroft 06** – (Oct. 2006, Raymond, PhD, professor of political science at the university of Minnesota, and Jonathan, PhD, professor of political science at the university of Oklahoma, “Taking Sovereignty Out of This World: Space Weapons and Empire of the Future,” [[http://www.ligi.ubc.ca/sites/liu/files/Publications/Havercroft_paper.pdf]])

The tactical advantages of these types of weapons… any point on Earth on extremely short notice.

**Such a world is endlessly violent and necessitates the extermination of humanity.**
**Prozorov 06** - (2006, Sergei Prozorov, Professor of International Relations at Petrozavodsk State University, “Liberal Enmity: The Figure of the Foe in the Political Ontology of Liberalism,” Millennium – Journal of International Studies, [[http://mil.sagepub.com/cgi/reprint/35/1/75.pdf]])

For Schmitt, the immanentist orientation of modern… will inevitably resist its subjection.

**The alternative is to reject the aff in favor of an ontological frame of sovereignty.**
**Rasch 05** – (Spring 2005, William Rasch, Professor and Chair of Germanic Studies. Ph.D. University of Washington/Seattle, “Lines in the Sand: Enmity as a Structuring Principle,” South Atlantic Quarterly 104(2): 253-262 (2005), Duke University Press)

Schmitt, then, starts from the premise of imperfection… stability and peace to stave off chaos and civil war.
=== === 
===Fear of Death K=== 

**We begin this speech with the words of the eternal and all-powerful, not the mere mortals cited by the 1AC. Death, the Master of Life and Beyond, has spoken thus: I am the only certainty, feared by all in spite of my inevitability. The affirmative stands aligned with the zombie consciousness robots typical of human beings, “living” to sponge up the knowledge of others and perfect in order to defer Death. This is no way to live at all. Such participation in the stupid programmed zombie consciousness espoused by the 1AC is a voting issue for education**
**This is Death in 2007**(June 26, “Death - The Master of Life,” Transcribed and typed by Death through the interdimensional portal, Desteni Trust/ [[http://www.desteni.co.za/Osho/death1.htm]])

[Yes, this is Death...It dies with me, Death.]

**Death is a fantasy – our biology means we cannot truly “die” or cease to be, rather we enter a new form of becoming: becoming earth. Even if we are all wiped from the face of the earth in a hailstorm of nuclear bombs the process of life goes on even at the micro level. There is no unique warrant for why the biological construct of human deserves a place higher than the construct of atoms. This desire to be secure from death is the most personal level of microfascism that negates our ability to live life to its fullest and breeds ressentiment.**
**Deleuze and Guattari 1972**, Anti-Oedipus, 330-39, Murray

[But it seems things are becoming very obscure..."bring off" frustration.]

**Don’t fall prey to the “life is obviously good” move they will inevitably make in the 2AC- the rest of material reality is just as “alive” as any organism- you should make the affirmative justify its privileging of humanity before voting to save lives**
**de Landa ‘96** (Manuel, Adjunct Associate Professor at Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation at Columbia University (New York), the Gilles Deleuze Chair of Contemporary Philosophy and Science at the European Graduate School, “An Interview with Manuel de Landa,” with Konrad Becker and Miss M. at VirtualFutures, Warwick [[http://www.t0.or.at/delanda/intdelanda.htm]])

[Philosophically, it is a terrible mistake...that non-organic life has a breathing rhythm all to itself.]

**The defining feature of the affirmative is its insistence on preserving a human species confronted with inevitable annihilation. The will to survive locks humanity into perpetual suffering by taking up the impossible mission of sustaining existence**
**Sanderson ‘7**(Matthew Walter, PhD dissertation Southern Illinois University, “RELIGIOUS SUBLIMITY AND THE TRAGIC VIEW OF LIFE IN KANT, SCHOPENHAUER AND NIETZSCHE,” August, ProQuest)

[Secondly, this structure of will-driven representation...we are sunk in nature as though trapped in a hell on earth.]

**Paradise is forever just beyond the horizon. The will’s desire is incessant and insatiable, precluding contentment with the status quo and guaranteeing the prolongation of an irrational survivalist policy**

**Ali ‘7 9** (Zain Imtiaz, Department of Philosophy at University of Auckland, “Al-Ghazali and Schopenhauer on knowledge and suffering,” Philosophy East and West 57.4 (Oct 2007): p409(11), Academic OneFile)

[Schopenhauer's aim is to unmask the naive...and therefore suffering as long as it is not satisfied".]

**The magnitude of conscious suffering far outweighs any happiness they can articulate**
**Schalkx and Bergsma ‘7** (Rozemarijn, University for Humanistics, and Ad, Faculty of Social Sciences at Erasmus University Rotterdam, “Arthur’s advice: comparing Arthur Schopenhauer’s advice on happiness with contemporary research,” Journal of Happiness Studies, Feb 28)

[Optimists think of the world as a place that is habitable...sought after by modern people.]

**Their appeals to reality are never actually accepted and inevitably fall short, as our world is one of disappointment. Humanity’s liberation from unhappiness cannot be achieved by reformism, but a resignation from life that recognizes the failure of our subjectivity**
**Ali ‘7**(Zain Imtiaz, Department of Philosophy at University of Auckland, Al-Ghazali and Schopenhauer on knowledge and suffering, Philosophy East and West 57.4 (Oct 2007): p409(11), Academic OneFile)

[Also, as long, as the Will dominates...anxious character of ordinary consciousness.]

**Only after renouncing consciousness can we hope to perceive the true life essence at bottom of all material that surrounds us**
**Death ‘7**(June 26, “Death - The Master of Life,” Transcribed and typed by Death through the interdimensional portal, Desteni Trust/[[http://www.desteni.co.za/Osho/death1.htm| http://www.desteni.co.za/Osho/death1.htm]])

[What I am stating to you human beings is...is presented to you by me as Death.]

**A rethinking of reality that abandons the Will is the only path for escape from suffering. A recognition of the status quo’s chaotic beauty provides meaning to our present existence instead of one continually deferred onto a more desirable tomorrow**
**Ali ‘7**(Zain Imtiaz, Department of Philosophy at University of Auckland, Al-Ghazali and Schopenhauer on knowledge and suffering, Philosophy East and West 57.4 (Oct 2007): p409(11), Academic OneFile)

[Thus aesthetic experience...within a larger whole and in truer proportion.]

=== === 
===Security K=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The Aff promotes a securitizing view of space by justifying the plan through a politics of fear --- this is an intentional narrative that conceals ideological bias and serves as a pretext for militarization.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">**Mellor 7** (Felicity, Lecturer in Science Communication – Imperial College (UK), “Colliding Worlds: Asteroid Research and the Legitimization of War in Space”, Social Studies of Science, 37(4), August, p. 499-502)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Since the late 1980s, a small AND the militarization of space.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Disorder and insecurity are inevitable. Attempting to control danger is the impetus for global destruction.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">**Der Derian 98** (James, Professor of Political Science – University of Massachusetts, On Security, Ed. Lipschutz, p. 24-25)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">No other concept in international relations </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">AND </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">identities calcifying into a fearful sameness</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The alternative is to vote neg to reject the dominant framing of security; this critical praxis is a prerequisite to effective policy solutions.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">**Bruce 96** (Robert, Associate Professor in Social Science – Curtin University and Graeme Cheeseman, Senior Lecturer – University of New South Wales, Discourses of Danger and Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">This goal is pursued in ways AND choose not to understand them, and why?</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Use your ballot to rip open the aporias within language.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">**Burke 2** (Anthony, Int'l Studies @ U of New South Wales, “Aporias of Security,” in //Alternatives// 27, p. 18-23)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Refusing Security It is perhaps AND its shimmering possibilities might be.</span>
=== === 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Fog of War K</span>=== 


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">CRITICISM IS AN ATTEMPT TO RATIONALIZE ITS CONTENTS AND EXERT CONTROL OVER THEM – THIS ONLY PERPETUATES INTELLECTUAL WAR WITH THE SYSTEM</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">MANN 96</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Paul, Ph. D English @ Pomona, The Nine Grounds of Intellectual Warfare, Postmodern Culture, January)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">War is sublime. AND past armed conflict.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">THE ONLY TARGET THAT CAN BE DESTROYED IS THE ONE THAT CAN BE SEEN. WE MUST ADOPT STEALTH POLITICS.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">MANN 96</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Paul, Ph. D English @ Pomona, The Nine Grounds of Intellectual Warfare, Postmodern Culture, January)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Even if fog cannot AND perfection in state terrorism.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">VOTE NEGATIVE TO MAKE THE AFFIRMATIVE DISAPPEAR. JAM THE BIOPOLITICAL RADAR BY MAKING YOUR TRUE ALLEGIANCES SECRET. REMAIN WITH THE FOG OF WAR TO HONE OUR TACTICS UNTIL THE TIME IS RIGHT.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">MANN 96</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Paul, Ph. D English @ Pomona, The Nine Grounds of Intellectual Warfare, Postmodern Culture, January)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The standpoint, identification with AND to make them disappear.</span>

=== === 
===Virilio K vs. Climate Denialism AFF=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Earth observation presumes the existence of a neutral position from which universal claims about the stability of the world can be issued. The Olympian view will be extended over the whole earth resulting in global surveillance. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">**MacDonald 7** (Fraser, School of Anthropology, Geography, and Environmental Studies at the University of Melbourne, “Anti-Astropolitik – outer space and the orbit of geography,” Progress in Human Geography 31(5) (2007) pp. 592–615)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">In all these geographical precedents, AND</span><span class="Styleunderline12pt" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> goal of astrostrategy</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Haraway, 1991: 195).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">By highlighting privileged consequences of the plan to brand it as a solution the 1AC ignores potential negative consequences of their strategy. The excess of information surrounding the affirmative assures failure. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">**Dean 9** (Jodi, Professor of Political Theory at Hobart and William Smith Colleges, “Reflexive? Can you repeat that?,” July 20)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">[[http://jdeanicite.typepad.com/i_cite/2009/07/reflexive-can-you-repeat-that.html#more|http://jdeanicite.typepad.com/i_cite/2009/07/reflexive-can-you-repeat-that.html#more]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The change in the functioning </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> first, strongest, richest, fastest, biggest.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Acceleration into space creates the global accident – culminates in extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">**Adams**, Masters Political Science, </span>**<span class="Heading2Char" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">03</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Jason, Popular Defense in the Empire of Speed: Paul Virilio and the Phenomenology of the Political Body,” November 2003)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">It certainly is true AND</span><span class="Styleunderline12pt" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> whole of matter that is exterminated</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">”.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The affirmative organizes our faculties of perception around the industrial mode of production. The alternative is to vote negative—refusing to condemn difference opens our minds and bodies to inestimable sources energy and information</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">**Virilio 2008** /Paul, Negative Horizon, pp34-5/</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Old phantoms battled before </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> relativity of the instant of vision.</span>

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]

<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"> <span class="cite">Engaging in a discourse that problematizes Eastern possession of nuclear weapons is distinct Orientalism </span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"> <span class="cite">Gusterson 99</span> (Hugh, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, http://people.reed.edu/~ahm/Courses/Stan-PS-314-2009-Q1_PNP/Syllabus/EReadings/Gusterson1999Nuclear.pdf, date accessed: 7/7/2010) </span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; margin-left: 0in; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;"> <span class="underline">The Non-Proliferation Treaty AND </span>biological weapons (Panofsky 1998; Sloyan 1998). </span>