[[toc]]
=Contact Info= 

**Email [[mailto:jmill126@gmail.com|jmill126@gmail.com]] for cites.**

**We'll automatically post the 1AC and most 1NC's we read. Any other things specifically requested will be posted.**

=Aff= 
==Space Corps 1AC - Emory== 

Plan: The United States Department of Defense should develop a Space Corps.

Advantage 1 – Space War

Space war is inevitable despite rhetoric—empirics prove
Smith 2011 (M.V., Colonel, PhD in Politics and IR @ University of Reading, Citing Colin Gray, “Chapter 17: Security and Spacepower, Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)

In anticipating the …slowly over time.21

**United States’ rejection of the EU Code of Conduct just furthers our unilateral push for space hegemony – now is the key time to take action**
**Sirota 1/23** [David, Salon, “Space: The Next War Zone?” [[http://www.salon.com/2012/01/23/space_the_next_war_zone/singleton/]]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For most of the last …</span> __so often imagines.__


**And there is a global threat to US hegemony**
Kitfield 10-Senior Correspondent @ The National Journal, writer for Air Force Magazine, B.A. Journalism, University of Georgia, distinguished writer on defense, national security, and foreign policy, author of two books on national security, [James, Air Force Magazine, “Crowded Congested Space” August 2010, http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2010/August%202010/0810space.aspx

In the “commons” <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">above Earth…</span> conflict," the report concluded.

We Solve- two internal links:

1. Military power:

Military dominance is entirely dependent on space assets
Blair 08 – diplomatic editor (David, February 22, 2008, //The Daily Telegraph//, “The fragile jewels of American global power,” Lexisnexis)

HUNDREDS of miles … America's Achilles heel.

A space doctrine sustains military effectiveness and a victory in the inevitable Space War
Newberry 97 [Robert, USAF Major, “SPACE DOCTRINE FOR THE 21ST CENTURY,” Air University, March]

The lack of space doctrine… fight a war in space.


2. Space leadership:

A new space doctrine, creates institutional capabilities to solve crisis escalation, dramatically improving space leadership

Hamel 6 [Hamel, Michael. //Building Space Power for the Nation: Air Force Achievements, Challenges, and Opportunities.// **<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Air & Space Power Journal</span>** 20:55-63 Summer 2006.]




The DOD is organized … lessons and experience.

Space leadership the backbone of US hegemony
Stevens 7 Robert J. Stevens – Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Lockheed Martin Corporation, summa cum laude graduate of Slippery Rock University, master's degree in engineering and management from the Polytechnic University of New York, with a Fairchild Fellowship, earned a master's degree in business administration from Columbia Business School, graduate of the Department of Defense Systems Management College Program Management, served in the United States Marine Corps, (Lockheed Martin, 4/10/2007, 23rd National Space Symposium, “The Next 50 Years of U.S. Space Leadership”, http://www.lockheedmartin.com/news/speeches/Next50YearsOfUSSpaceLeadership.html)

I want to thank the organizers of … only to abandon the position.

Hegemony key to prevent great power nuclear wars

Zhang and Shi, 2011 (Yuhan, Researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, America’s Decline: A Harbinger of Conflict and Rivalry, January 22, [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]])

This does not necessarily …devoid of unrivalled US primacy.

The Space Corps would be the best model for a United States Space doctrine
Moorhead 4 [Richard D, US Army Major, “Will We Need a Space Force?,” MILITARY REVIEW, July/August]

War in space is … a separate Space Force.

Advantage 2 – Deterrence

Current vulnerabilities in US space assets are the Achilles heel of deterrence – makes a space attack inevitable
Rendleman, 10 [ Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science]

The 11 January 2007 test of a …Century adversary attack capabilities.

<span style="text-decoration: none;">A Space Corps is necessary to solve every reason satellites are at risk of attack – we hold the vital internal link to stopping command, communication, and navigation vulnerabilities</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Barber 2 [Norman, “Why Should Space be a Separate Service.” </span>Norfolk, VA, Joint Forces Staff College, 2002. 17 p., [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA421657&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]]

<span style="text-decoration: none;">A separate Space …</span>regions during critical times.19

Space deterrence is key to stopping EMP attack. Try or die for space deterrence; it solves every impact through interception – timeframe for action is 2020
IFPA 9
Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, IFPA’s and services help government policy-makers, military and industry leaders, and the broader public policy communities make informed decisions in a complex and dynamic global environment, the Institute maintains a global network of research advisors and consultants. [Space and Security, A Net Assessment, January, Principal Investigator: Dr. Robert L. Pfaltzgraff, Jr. P. X–16 [[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/Space_and_U_S_Security_Net_Assessment_Final_Dec15_08.pdf]]] (leap)


<span style="color: #221e1f;">Terrorists already have …the weaponization of space.</span>


EMP attack would kill hundreds of millions
Marsteller 11/24 (Jackson, November 24, 2011, “The Next Great Threat to America,” //Right Side News//, **EMP = electromagnetic pulse attack, [[http://www.rightsidenews.com/2011112415012/us/homeland-security/emps-the-next-great-threat-to-america.html]])

An EMP is a high-…, or lack of medicine.”

<span style="color: #221e1f;">US space vulnerabilities greatly increase the risk of terrorism</span>
IFPA 9
Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, IFPA’s and services help government policy-makers, military and industry leaders, and the broader public policy communities make informed decisions in a complex and dynamic global environment, the Institute maintains a global network of research advisors and consultants. [Space and Security, A Net Assessment, January, Principal Investigator: Dr. Robert L. Pfaltzgraff, Jr. P. X–16 [[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/Space_and_U_S_Security_Net_Assessment_Final_Dec15_08.pdf]]] (leap)

<span style="text-decoration: none;">The proliferation of</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">… another nation’s territory.</span>

Terrorism will go nuclear, sparking global nuclear war
Spiece 6 (Patrick Speice, JD Candidate, 47 Wm and Mary L. Rev. 1427, February 2006, Lexis)

Terrorist groups could acquire … use of nuclear weapons.

<span style="text-decoration: none;">A Space Corps would be perceived as a negotiation tool to curb all arms</span>
Gayl 4 [Gayl F. Time for a MILITARY SPACE SERVICE. U.S. Naval Institute Proceedings [serial online]. July 2004;130(7):43-48. Available from: Academic Search Complete, Ipswich, MA. Accessed December 12, 2011]

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Finally, the Space ….</span> for an uncertain, yet imaginable, future.




=Neg= 

==Specific Rounds== 
===Emory=== 
Round 1: v. Milton GV (Space Guard)
2NR: Elections DA

Round 3 v. Sequoyah MW
2NR: Security

Round 6. Gulliver Prep MZ (Deterrence)
2NR: Security