[[toc]]
=Negative= 
==Disads== 
===Weaponization=== 

**Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization**
**Huntley 11** (Senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, [[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]])

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">As is well understood, the space policies …lurk in these details. </span>

**Link**

**Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;"> (President of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, [[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]])</span>

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Perhaps of even greater concern is that several other nations, …</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> has already lasted half a century. The likely alternative would be unacceptable to all.</span>

**Extinction**
**<span style="color: black;">Mitchell et al 1</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, [[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]])</span>

__<span style="color: black;">A buildup of space … conflict ever seen.</span>__

===JWST=== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">JWST is secure in the status quo but new space priorities would trade off</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plait 11/21</span>** (Phil, formerly worked at the physics and astronomy department at Sonoma State University, received his Ph.D. in astronomy from the University of Virginia, first worked with the COBE satellite and then with the STIS on the Hubble Space Telescope for five years, “NASA’s budget: JWST saved, but not much good news,” 2011, http://blogs.discovermagazine.com/badastronomy/2011/11/21/nasas-budget-jwst-saved-but-not-much-good-news/)

<span style="font-family: Times;">A few days ago, the US … next few years as well.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">JWST is key to spark space colonization.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harrold, 08</span>** – staff writer for the Gazette [July 18, 2008, Max Harrold, The Gazette, “Earth's twin coming into view; Scientists believe habitable planet will be spotted soon,” Lexis]

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">With less fanfare than H.G. Wells's science fiction…</span> __has said it's okay to look."__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Colonization is key to avoid the infinite possibilities of extinction on Earth</span>**
Stephen <span class="Heading3Char">Hawking</span>, pretty much the smartest man ever, British theoretical physicist and profession of math, University of Cambridge, 10-16-<span class="Heading3Char">01</span>, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nutri.com/space/]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">"The human race is likely … is needed to preserve it."</span>

===Politics=== 
====PTC==== 

**PTC will pass now but political capital is key to get GOP on board**
**CNN 2/11** (“Obama, GOP spar over economy in weekly addresses,” 2012, [[http://politicalticker.blogs.cnn.com/2012/02/11/obama-gop-spar-over-economy-in-weekly-addresses/]])

(CNN) - __A fight over … And this tax cut is common-sense."__

**Link**

**Expiring of Payroll Tax Cuts collapses the economy---destroys consumer spending, growth, and consumer confidence**
**Hill 12/28** (Patrice, Writer @ the Washington Post, "Economists fear withdrawal symptoms if payroll-tax cut vanishes," 2011, [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/dec/28/economists-fear-withdrawal-symptoms-if-payroll-tax/]])

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">It was the tax cut that nobody …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">it is not sustainable over the long term.”</span>

**<span class="cite">Collapse causes extinction</span>**
**<span class="cite">Bearden 2k</span>**
Thomas. (Lt. Col in US Army), “The Unnecessary Energy Crisis”, Free Republic, June 24, p. online

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">History bears out that </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">desperate …the biosphere</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">, at least for many decades.</span>

===Elections=== 

**Obama has the Millennial vote now but it’s not unconditional – they’re key to the election**
**Heffner and Lowery 1/26** (Alexander, a Harvard senior, Wesley, an Ohio University senior,
During his State of the Union address, President Obama framed a populist message for economically strapped middle-class American families, contrasting his policies with those of the Republican Party, which he portrayed as catering exclusively to the mega-wealthy.

Appealing to middle-income … demographic to the foreground now.

**<span class="cite">Link</span>**

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Millennials and Hispanics hate spending – sways their vote</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Phillips 10</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Carol Phillips in Blog, Gen Y, Millennial Brands, Millennial Target, Millennials. “Earth to Gen Y: NASA’s Millennial Makeover.” October 9, 2010. [[http://millennialmarketing.com/2010/10/earth-to-gen-y-nasas-millennial-makeover/]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Gen Y represents a specific culture</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … office of public communications. </span>

**Republican Win Kills Interventionism**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lobe 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jim Lobe, Foreign Policy Analyst, “NeoCons Losing hold over Republican Foreign Policy” 6/16/11, [[http://original.antiwar.com/lobe/2011/06/15/neocons-losing-hold-over-republican-foreign-policy%C2%A0/]])</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nearly ten years after seizing …</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">democracy-promotion should be a long-term U.S. priority.</span>__
**Interventionism key to solve nuclear conflict**
**Kagan 7 (**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace[Robert “End of Dreams, Return of History” Policy Review </span>[[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10|http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally, there is the United States itself…</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> influence and global involvement will provide an easier path.</span>


==Kritiks== 
===Security=== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Security is a speech act that __manufactures__ low probability threats and worst-case scenarios in order to build up the state’s defenses and defend its territory</span>**
**Lipschutz 1998** [Ronnie, prof of politics at UC Santa Cruz, “Negotiating the Boundaries of Difference and Security at Millennium's End,” On Security, ed. Ronnie Lipschutz, http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/index.html]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What then, is the form and … security, the speech act.</span>

**Disorder and insecurity are inevitable. Attempting to control danger is the impetus for global destruction**
**<span class="Heading2Char">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Der Derian 98</span>__</span>** (James, Professor of Political Science – University of Massachusetts, On Security, Ed. Lipschutz, p. 24-25)

<span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="color: windowtext;">No other concept in international </span>__</span><span style="color: windowtext;">…__calcifying into a fearful sameness__</span>__.__

**The alternative is to reject the aff**
**Vote Neg to reject the dominant framing of security; this critical praxis is a prerequisite to effective policy solutions**
**<span class="Heading2Char">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bruce 96</span>__</span>** (Robert, Associate Professor in Social Science – Curtin University and Graeme Cheeseman, Senior Lecturer – University of New South Wales, Discourses of Danger and Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">This goal is pursued in ways which are … Australia’s policy-makers and their academic advisors are unawar</span>

===Normativity=== 

**A) LINK: THERE IS NO REASON TO VOTE AFFIRMATIVE: THEY CANNOT ARTICULATE ANY LINKAGE BETWEEN THEIR PRESCRIPTIONS AND PRACTICAL, WORLDLY EFFECTS**
**SCHLAG, PROFESSOR OF LAW@ UNIV. COLORADO, 1990 (PIERRE, STANFORD LAW REVIEW, NOVEMBER, PAGE LEXIS)**

In fact, **__normative legal thought is so much … wonderful normative advice into effect.__**

**AND, THEIR CONCEPTION OF COMMUNICATION IS NORMATIVE- THE AFFIRMATIVE VIEWS LANGUAGE AS A NEUTRAL CONDUIT FOR THOUGHT, WHICH NEGLECTS THAT MUCH OF LANGUAGE IS INEFFECTIVE**
**SCHLAG, PROFESSOR OF LAW@ UNIV. COLORADO, 1990 (PIERRE, STANFORD LAW REVIEW, NOVEMBER, PAGE LEXIS)**

One answer is precisely that **__… part of the participants in constructing communication__**.

**B)** **IMPACTS: FIRST, NO HARMS-**
**THEIR DESCRIPTION OF THE STATUS QUO PRESUPPOSES A RATIONAL, AUTONOMOUS SUBJECT THAT NOT ONLY DESCRIBES THE BUREAUCRACY, BUT ALSO OUR AGENCY TO ACT AS EMPOWERED CARTESIAN EGOS- IN REALITY, THESE SUBJECT POSITIONS DO NOT EXIST**
**SCHLAG IN 1991 (PIERRE, COLORADO LAW PROF. 139 U. PA. L. REV.801, APRIL)**

For these legal thinkers, **__it will seem …__** in the legal academy practice.

**2. SOLVENCY TURN: THEIR RHETORICAL PERFORMANCE SHIELDS US FROM RESPONSIBILITY FOR OUR OWN CONTRIBUTIONS TO MATERIAL PAIN AND SUFFERING-**
**DELGADO IN 1991 (RICHARD, COLORADO LAW PROFESSOR, 139 PA. L. REV. 933, APRIL)**

But what is the cash value … faced with subsistence claims.

**3: EXTERNAL IMPACT: THE AFFIRMATIVE’S RHETORICAL PERFORMANCE IS PREMISED ON THE IDEA OF A RATIONAL SUBJECT WITH FREE WILL WHO CAN ACT UPON THE LAW AND BUREAUCRATIC CONTROL- THIS IS THE BASIS FOR THEIR SOLVENCY CLAIMS AND THE CLAIM YOU SHOULD VOTE FOR THEM- THIS NORMATIVE MODEL OF SUBJECTIVITY IN FACT IS BUREAUCRATIC CONTROL- ITS ESSENTIAL MEANING IS THE INFLICTION OF PAIN AND DEATH.**
**SCHLAG, PROFESSOR OF LAW@ UNIV. COLORADO, 1990 (PIERRE, STANFORD LAW REVIEW, NOVEMBER, PAGE LEXIS)**

All of this can seem very funny. That's … **__practices__** -- academic and otherwise.

===Capitalism=== 

**The 1AC humanizes space, offering it up as a playground for the wealthy – causes nationalist competition and space war**
**<span class="Heading2Char">Dickens 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">,</span> teaches at the Universities of Brighton and Cambridge, UK, in ‘10
[Peter, “The Humanization of the Cosmos—To What End?”, Monthly Review, Vol. 62 No. 6, http://monthlyreview.org/2010/11/01/the-humanization-of-the-cosmos-to-what-end]
<span class="underline">Society is increasingly humanizing the … of the cosmos and our relationship to it.</span>1
**The alternative is to reject the AFF. Humanizing outer space under capitalist terms guarantees environmental catastrophe and war – The 1NC attests to the possibility of performing revolutionary cosmology**
**<span class="Heading2Char">Dickens 10</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">,</span>** teaches at the Universities of Brighton and Cambridge, UK, in ‘10
[Peter, “The Humanization of the Cosmos—To What End?”, Monthly Review, Vol. 62 No. 6, http://monthlyreview.org/2010/11/01/the-humanization-of-the-cosmos-to-what-end]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span>humanizing outer space<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> can be for good …</span><span class="underline"> part of the cosmos without colonizing, owning, or conquering it.</span>

===Virillio (v. Colonization)=== 

**Calls to get off the rock represent a shift away from the temporal constraints of humanity – the impact is ongoing war of movement**
**<span class="Heading2Char">Virilio 10 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">– (Paul, </span>Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, Switzerland, “The Futurism of the Instant: Stop-Eject,” Polity Press)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">After the 'sustainable' settlement that characterized …</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> over from the empires of yore. </span>

**Humanity flourishes when surrounded by the living environment on which it depends—space colonization condemns forms of life on which we depend to obsolescence**
**<span class="Heading2Char">EO Wilson 1990</span>** /Professor in Entomology at Harvard, “Arousing Biophilia: A Conversation with E.O. Wilson,” March/ http://arts.envirolink.org/interviews_and_conversations/EOWilson.html
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I was speaking with a couple of you …. And so it can be with each species in turn.</span>

**The affirmative can replace the physical environment but cannot replicate the psychological and spiritual benefits of the biosphere—dooms their project**
**<span class="Heading2Char">Wilson 2008</span>** /A Conversation with E.O. Wilson, PBS Nova, edited by Peter Tyson/
http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/nova/nature/conversation-eo-wilson.html
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">But if you save only the physical …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">psychological and spiritual [benefits].</span>
**We control uniqueness—the progress of speed perpetuates an economy of violence that makes war inevitable**
**<span class="Heading2Char">Virilio 2008</span>** /Paul, Negative Horizon, pp42-43/
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The violence of speed is only an extermination… upkeep of a large animal for the course?</span>

**The affirmative organizes our faculties of perception around the industrial mode of production. The alternative is to vote negative—refusing to condemn difference opens our minds and bodies to inestimable sources energy and information**
**<span class="Heading2Char">Virilio 2008</span>** /Paul, Negative Horizon, pp34-5/
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Old phantoms battled before my eyes…: he destroyed the relativity of the instant of vision.</span>

==CPs== 

===Offsets=== 

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Text: The National Aeronautics and Space Administration should [plan]. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration should [plan] by holding Senior Reviews over extended missions.</span>**

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Observation 1: The status quo is always an option to us or you after the round – proving the CP worse does not logically justify the plan. Logic creates good education and predictable rules.</span>**

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Observation 2: Presumption remains negative—the CP is less change and a tie goes to the runner.</span>**

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Observation 3: The CP is non-topical. It violates the word “increase”. The CP decreases funding for space exploration. </span>**

**<span class="cite">Increase is to make greater</span>**
<span class="cite">**American Heritage Dictionary 2000** http://www.thefreedictionary.com/increase</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">v. in·creased, in·creas·ing, in·creas·es</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">v.intr.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">To become greater or larger</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2. To multiply; reproduce.</span>
**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Observation 4: The CP competes. It’s mutually exclusive with the aff’s increase. Any permutation severs the increase and proves the resolution is false.</span>**

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">The resolution proposes a controversial policy direction that divides ground. The topic could have said “change space exploration or development” if this was aff ground.</span>**

**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Senior Review will terminate unnecessary missions – solves for new space development</span>**
**<span class="cite">Future Planetary Exploration 12-28-11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> “Planetary Missions Up For Review”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">http://futureplanets.blogspot.com/2011/12/planetary-missions-up-for-review.html</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">You may never have heard of the upcoming</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">NASA Senior Review</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">, but it </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">may … and build new missions</span>

===Near-Space=== 

**Text: The United States federal government should substantially decrease dependence on space assets in favor of near-space assets, starting with mission critical capabilities including but not limited to early warning satellites. The United States federal government should cancel Operationally Responsive Space.**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">That solves vulnerability and prevents an arms race</span>**
**<span class="cite" style="font-size: 12pt;">Weston, Air Force Major, 9</span>**(Scott A., 3/1/2009, Air and Space Power Journal, “Examining Space Warfare,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj09/spr09/weston.html]]</span>, mat)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The main argument for US weaponization of space turns on the …</span><span class="underline">even</span> security advantages<span class="underline">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">45</span>

===Stratosats=== 

**A. Competition**

**The mesosphere is above the stratosphere**
**National Weather Service, 11** (“Layers of the Atmosphere”, 2/11, [[http://www.srh.noaa.gov/jetstream/atmos/layers.htm|http://www.srh.noaa.gov/jetstream//atmos/layers.htm]])

Stratosphere __The Stratosphere__ __…__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> called the mesopause.</span>

**B. Solvency**

**StratoSats solve climate monitoring**
**Pankine et al 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Alexey, Zhanqing Li, David Parsons, Michael Purucker, Elliot Weinstock, Warren Wiscombe, and Kerry Nock, “Stratospheric Satellites for Earth Observations,” American Meterological Society August 2009, __[[http://denali.gsfc.nasa.gov/research/purucker/pankine_stratsats_bams_2009.pdf]]__]</span>

__At present, no investment is … only dimly perceived are certain to emerge.__

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">C. Net Benefit</span>**</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Aff satellites screw up radio astronomy</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">OECD 04</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">(O</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">rganization for Economic Co-operation and Development Global Science Forum, members include Michael Goddard (Chair), Spectrum Policy Director UK Radiocommunications Agency, Makoto Inoue, Director, Nobeyama Radio Observatory National Astronomical Observatory of Japan, Paul A. Vanden Bout, Senior Scientist and former Director U.S. National Radio Astronomy Observatory, William Hatch (retired), Associate Administrator, Office of Spectrum Management National Telecommunications & Information Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, January 2004, “OECD Global Science Forum: Report of the Task Force on Radio Astronomy and the Radio Spectrum,” </span>[[http://www.oecd.org/dataoecd/54/33/28011602.pdf|__http://www.oecd.org/dataoecd/54/33/28011602.pdf__]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The science of radio astronomy could be adversely …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">y allocated to radio astronomy.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Radio astronomy solves NEO tracking</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Irvine et al 5</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">([edited by William M. Irvine, PhD from Harvard, Professor of Astronomy at University of Massachusetts, Amherst, </span><span class="Underline">**//<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">AND</span>//**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Esperanza Carrasco, PhD, researcher at INAOE, </span><span class="Underline">**//<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">AND </span>//**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Itziar Aretaga, astronomer, astrophysicist, researcher at INAOE], 2005, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">“Planetary Science and Astrobiology,” </span>[[http://www.lmtgtm.org/book/chapter6.pdf|__http://www.lmtgtm.org/book/chapter6.pdf__]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">However, such transmitters for mm …transmitting in order to monitor the echo)</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Specifically, Aricebo’s radio astronomy is uniquely key to solve asteroids</span>**</span>
**<span style="color: black;">Fortuno 07</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Louis Fortuno, governor of Puerto Rico, October 3rd, 2007, “HR 3737: To provide for National Science Foundation and National Aeronautics and Space Administration utilization of the Arecibo Observatory,” </span>[[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=25609|__http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=25609__]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

__<span style="color: black;">Arecibo Observatory is the … posed by near-Earth objects</span>__<span style="color: black;">.</span>

**Extinction**
**<span class="CiteChar">Globus 11</span>** (Al Globus, curator for NASA, “Why Build Orbital Space Colonies?” [[http://space.alglobus.net/Basics/why.html]],)

<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">If we don't do something, sooner or later Earth …</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">bombardment Earth was still suffering through. </span>

===Solar Storms=== 

**Text: The President of the Unites States of America should require that the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy develop and coordinate a comprehensive strategy to prepare for a solar storm that includes: expanding funding and accelerate research and development of next-generation power conversion technologies, and investments in smart grid technologies, automated protective mechanisms and voltage stabilization systems.**

**The smart grid, automated responses, and voltage stabilization solve response time, response effectiveness, and recovery from a solar storm**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sovacool, </span>__**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">PhD in Science and Technology, and Cooper, Prof of Public Affairs, **__11__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (May 2011, Benjamin K. Sovacool, prof of Public Policy, PhD in Science and Technology Studies, and Christopher Cooper, Prof of Political Science and Public Affairs, Ph.D in Political Science, Director of the Public Policy Institute, The Electricity Journal, Volume 24, Issue 4, Pages 47-61 “Not Your Father's Y2K: Preparing the North American Power Grid for the Perfect Solar Storm,” http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1040619011000972#sec0040,ngoetz)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">D. Use smarter grid technologies to … perfect solar storm finally arrives.</span>

**The counterplan is key to create a coordinate a response across jurisdictions**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sovacool, PhD in Science and Technology, and Cooper, Prof of Public Affairs, 11</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (May 2011, Benjamin K. Sovacool, prof of Public Policy, PhD in Science and Technology Studies, and Christopher Cooper, Prof of Political Science and Public Affairs, Ph.D in Political Science, Director of the Public Policy Institute, The Electricity Journal, Volume 24, Issue 4, Pages 47-61 “Not Your Father's Y2K: Preparing the North American Power Grid for the Perfect Solar Storm,” http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1040619011000972#sec0040,ngoetz)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">***Note SWPC is Space Weather Prediction Center, and a part of NOAA</span>

<span class="Underline">The SWPC is the only … with regulating critical infrastructure</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

==Turns== 

===Heg Bad=== 

**US has lost global influence – further decline inevitable – new international age**
**Kabalan 10/7** (Marwan, Dean of the Faculty of International Relations and Diplomacy, Kalamoon University, Damascus, Syria, “New Shape of the International System,” 2011, [[http://gulfnews.com/opinions/columnists/new-shape-of-the-international-system-1.886849]])

In the span of two decades, __the ,,, Washington is left with to control events.__

**Asymmetrical military dominance results in nuclear backlash**
**__Fingar, Et Al, 2008__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">/C. Thomas, Chairman @ the National Intelligence Council, “Global Trends 2025: A Transformed World,” [[http://www.dni.gov/nic/PDF_2025/2025_Global_Trends_Final_Report.pdf/]]</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Future asymmetries in</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> conventional military forces</span>__

**Heg causes US-Sino War**

**Layne 6**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/Christopher, holdstheMaryJuliaandGeorgeR.Jordanprofessorshipofinternationalaffairs@TexasA&MUniversity’sGeorgeH.W.BushSchoolofGovernmentandPublicService, “China’s challenge to US hegemony.” [[http://marshallfoundation.org/ChallengeforChina.rtf/]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Does this mean that the United States …has always been a tempting strategic option. </span>

**Impact’s extinction**
**__Straits Times 2000__** /June, 25, No one gains in war over Taiwan/

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">THE DOOMSDAY SCENARIO</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">THE high-… putssovereignty above all else. </span>

**Heg causes US-Russian Cold War**
**__Roberts 2008__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">/Craig, former Assistant Secretary of the US Treasury and former associate editor of the Wall Street Journal, “The Cost of Hegemony is Beyond Reach,” December 1, [[http://www.opednews.com/articles/The-Cost-of-Hegemony-is-Be-by-Paul-Craig-Roberts-081201-774.html/]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Undeterred by massive budget … seeking world </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">hegemony</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">.</span>
**Cold wars go nuclear**
**__Chomsky__** **__2007__** /Noam, Professor Emeritus @ MIT, August, [[http://www.zmag.org/znet/viewArticle/14625/]]

__Washington's__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">feverish</span> __new Cold War__ "<span style="font-size: 8pt;">…</span> __in this case a real hot war.__


===SO2 Screw=== 

**There’s no uniqueness - Global cooling is the overall trend**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Taylor ‘9</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> Senior Fellow of The Heartland Institute and managing editor of Environment & Climate News /James M, March, Environment and Climate News, “Global Cooling Continues”, The Heartland Institute, Google/</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Continuing a decade-long …, are too sensitive to CO2 increases,”</span>Christy added<span style="font-size: 11pt;">.</span>
**There’s no offense – CO2 increases are inevitable because of human exhalations**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lovelock ‘9</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">, </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Consultant of NASA, former president of the </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marine_Biological_Association|Marine Biological Association]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and Honorary Visiting Fellow of </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Green_Templeton_College,_Oxford|Green Templeton College, Oxford]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (James, The Vanishing Face of Gaia: A Final Warning: Enjoy it While You Can, 74-75)</span>
It is surprising that politicians …<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> footprint is larger and more deadly.</span>

**They cause faster warming – because large emission reductions remove sulfate aerosols which cool the Earth**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lovelock ‘9</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Consultant of NASA, former president of the </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marine_Biological_Association|Marine Biological Association]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and Honorary Visiting Fellow of </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Green_Templeton_College,_Oxford|Green Templeton College, Oxford]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (James, The Vanishing Face of Gaia: A Final Warning: Enjoy it While You Can, 55-56</span>
In 2004 <span style="font-size: 10pt;">two IPCC contributors</span>, Peter Cox … in a fool's climate and are damned whatever we do."

**CO2 stays in the air longer than SO2 – that means there is only a risk of fast warming if we stop emitting**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Monastersky, 91</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> – Richard, Staff writer for Business Net News, “CO2 limits may initially worsen warming - carbon dioxide and global warming” http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m1200/is_n7_v139/ai_10381518</span>
To investigate the outcome of that …<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> dioxide warming</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">, </span>he found<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">.</span>

===Dedev=== 

**<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Movements to localize civilization and end ecological destruction are rapidly gaining strength; global economic collapse is the critical mass for achieving dedevelopment</span>**
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Ted **Trainer**, Senior Lecturer in Sociology at the School of Social Work, University of New South Wales, Modified 5/29/200**3**, </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://ssis.arts.unsw.edu.au/tsw/D24TheTransIsUnderway.html]]</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Although </span>__****__<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">a minor phenomenon …viable local alternatives</span>__**<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">." (p. 150.) </span>

**<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Global war will kill everyone in 2025 without dedev</span>**
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Christopher **Chase-Dunn**, Director of the Institute for Research on World-Systems, University of California-Riverside, **and** Bruce **Podobnik**, Assistant Professor in the Department of Sociology and Anthropology at Lewis and Clark College, 19**99**, in The Future of Global Conflict, ed. Bornschier and Chase-Dunn, p. 43</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">While the onset of a … (Chase-Dunn and O’Reilly, 1989; Goldfrank, 1987).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Development is causing a rash of ethnic violence and wars that will kill everyone</span>**
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Waltraud Q **Morales**, Professor of Comparative and International Studies, University of Central Florida, 20**02**, in On the Edge of Scarcity, Dobkowski and Wallimann, eds, pp. 122-123.</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">Scarcity has proved to be the curse of both … sustainability and human security.</span>

===Extinctions Good=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Palatino Linotype';">Extinctions are good – human abuse is key to diversify ecosystems</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Palatino Linotype';">Boutler, 2002</span>__**
<span style="font-family: 'Palatino Linotype';">Michael, professor for paleobiology at the Natural History Museum and the University of East London. Launched Fossil Record 2, editor Palaeontological Association, secretary International Organisation of Palaeobotany and UK representative at the International Union of Biological Sciences, "Extinction: Evolution and the End of Man" p. 170-171</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Palatino Linotype';">The same trend of … selection of vulnerable organisms.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Palatino Linotype';">The impact is the destruction of all life on Earth</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Palatino Linotype';">Boutler, 2002</span>__**
<span style="font-family: 'Palatino Linotype';">Michael, professor for paleobiology at the Natural History Museum and the University of East London. Launched Fossil Record 2, editor Palaeontological Association, secretary International Organisation of Palaeobotany and UK representative at the International Union of Biological Sciences, "Extinction: Evolution and the End of Man" p. 182-184</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Palatino Linotype';">The system of life on …</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Palatino Linotype';"> reach a critical edge.</span>__**

===Deforestation Good=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Palatino Linotype';">Deforestation is key to Brazil’s Economy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Palatino Linotype';">Butler ‘8</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Palatino Linotype';">, Primary editor of MongaBay.com /Rhett A., “Deforestation in the Amazon”/</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Palatino Linotype';">Brazilian deforestation is strongly </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Palatino Linotype';">…</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Palatino Linotype'; font-size: 6pt;">l forest for these purposes when it normally would not be so. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Palatino Linotype';">Brazil key to the global economy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Palatino Linotype';">Cohen ‘8</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Palatino Linotype';"> (Roger Cohen is a Staff Writer for the International Herald Tribune, “Cohen: The world is upside down”, 6/1/08, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Palatino Linotype'; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.iht.com/articles/2008/06/01/opinion/edcohen.php?page=1]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Palatino Linotype';">) </span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Palatino Linotype';">For a while the world was flat. </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Palatino Linotype';">…</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Palatino Linotype';">a Brazilian economist and consultant. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Palatino Linotype';">Nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Palatino Linotype';">Nyquist ‘7</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[7-6-07,J. R. Nyquist, economic expert, “The Path of Dissolution,” http://www.financialsense.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2007/0706.html, accessed 7-6-07]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The world is made up of …</span><span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Palatino Linotype'; font-size: 11pt;">the “balance of terror</span>__</span><span class="UnreadTextChar">__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.”</span>__</span>