[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Gender 1AC -== 
== == 
**We start with some background information: the history of space travel in the United States has been based off of a model that attempts to regulate which bodies should do what, this system was used to prevent the Mercury 13, a group of females from participating in early space exploration**
**Sage 2009** (Daniel, BA, MA, PhD, Research Associate for Civil & Building Engineering at Loughborough University, Giant leaps and forgotten steps: NASA and the performance of gender. The Sociological Review, Winter 2009, 57: 146–163
The masculine self-identity…recreational equipment (from Parade Magazine Sunday Supplement, December 1962 – quoted in Kevles, 2003: 4).

**Normative gender binaries still exist within NASA due to heteronormative structures**
**Sage 2009** (Daniel, BA, MA, PhD, Research Associate for Civil & Building Engineering at Loughborough University, Giant leaps and forgotten steps: NASA and the performance of gender. The Sociological Review, Winter 2009, 57: 146–163)

It is important to note… environments: the spacecraft.

**This had caused male bodies to be viewed as the norm against which female bodies are judged and sets up a heteronormative system of norms in order to conquer for the good of everyone**
**Griffin 9** (Penny __Griffin__, Lecturer in Politics and International Relations at the University of New South Wales, Australia, 20__09__, Securing Outer Space, ed. N. Bormann & Michael Sheehan, p. 73)

Humans, suggests Crawford … good of everyone.

**NASA’s beliefs concerning sexuality shape the future of space and society**
**Moore and Casper ‘95** [Casper, Monica J. and Moore, Lisa Jean, Monica J. Casper was awarded her Ph.D. in sociology in 1995 by UCSF and in 1996 completed a postdoctoral fellowship in biomedical ethics at Stanford University. She served several years as a faculty member in sociology at UC Santa Cruz, and in 2004 became director of women’s and gender studies at Vanderbilt University. Lisa Jean Moore, MPH in Epidemiology at The University of California, Berkeley, Ph.D. in Sociology at The University of California, San Francisco, BA of Sociology and English at Tufts University and a professor of Sociology and Gender Studies, at The State University of New York, School of Natural and Social Sciences. University of California Press, “Inscribing Bodies, Inscribing the Future: Gender, Sex, and Reproduction in Outer Space,” Sociological Perspectives, Vol. 38, No. 2 (Summer, 1995), pp. 311-333] as a total institution, …nature of human sexuality.
**This sort of normative violence enables physical violence at the same time as it erases it from view**
**Chambers and Carver 8**(Samuel and Terrell, senior lecturer in politics at swaansea university and prof of political theory @ Bristol, Judith Butler and Political Theory, pg 75-6)'

‘The world is a… our ordinary view.

**And this sort of normative violence shapes our lives and the lives of those around us every day rendering certain lives unreal and unrealizable**
**Chambers and Carver** **8 (**Samuel and Terrell, senior lecturer in politics at swaansea university and prof of political theory @ Bristol, Judith Butler and Political Theory, pg 78)

Butler calls the …violence of the letter.

**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should send a space mission beyond the Earth's mesosphere staffed entirely by females** 

**1AC is key to analyzing and breaking down normative conceptions of gender**
**Sage 2009** (Daniel, BA, MA, PhD, Research Associate for Civil & Building Engineering at Loughborough University, “Giant leaps and forgotten steps: NASA and the performance of gender”,)

Popular portrayals of American spaceflight … NASA and (iii) female astronauts.


**The method of the 1AC is crucial to generating any real change – only by generating change in thought can we have any real change**
**Kritzman 88** (Lawrence D. Kritzman, prof of French and Comparative Lit @ Dartmouth, “Practicing Criticism”, Foucault: Politics, Philosophy, Culture, 1988. pgs 154-156)

<span style="font-size: 15px;">FOUCAULT: First I’ll answer the… will always be the same</span>.

**Geneology allows us to realize new modes of liberation and break out of the ethics of science**
**Smart 94** (Barry Smart, Prof of sociology @ U of Portsmouth, 1994,Michel Foucault. Critical Assessments, pg 174-5)
<span class="underline">While Foucault's genealogy …</span>live a beautiful life.

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]