[[toc]]
=1AC= 
==Greenhill== 

**Contention One is Hegemony:**

**Our space assets are vulnerable now – an attack would __shatter__ our deterrent capabilities and the risk is high**
**Rendleman, 10** - Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The 11 January 2007 test of a Chinese ground-based… …robust enough to counter new 21st Century adversary attack capabilities.</span>

**And, offensive deterrence fails – causes attacks on our assets and kills space dominance – a __new system__ of defensive deterrence is key**
**Rendleman, 10** - Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)

The strategy to deter nuclear attack worked throughout the Cold War… …particularly against kinetic-kill ASATs and jammers.

**And, plan is key to __deterrence by denial__ – destroys the incentive for conflict**
**Sheldon 8 - Fellow at the Marshall Institute** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[John Sheldon - was program director for Space Security at the Centre for De-fence and International Security Studies, Washington Roundtable on Science & Public Policy, “Deterrence in Space”, Nov. 13, </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/622.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Accessed July 14 2011]</span>

__There are__ __more concretemeasuresfor deterring attacks… …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">more traditional systems that are being used in orbit.</span>

**And, hardening and redundancy is key to protect our assets – it’s the only protection against rogue actors – diplomacy fails**
**Haddick 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Robert, Managing Editor of Small Wars Journal, “Lost In Space” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/02/11/this_week_at_war_lost_in_space?page=0,1</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The U.S. Department of Defense released its first-ever</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">… …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">at a worse time for the Pentagon's budget masters.</span>

**40 countries are developing ASATs now – absent effective deterrence the risk of conflict becomes exponentially higher**
**Donahue, 10** – USAF Major (Jack, “CATASTROPHE ON THE HORIZON: A SCENARIO-BASED FUTURE EFFECT OF ORBITAL SPACE DEBRIS,” [[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_af691818-359f-4999-be24-f88ca154bd94/display.aspx?rs=enginespage]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Currently, the configuration of global space technologies… …and becoming potential hazards to other satellites.</span>

**And, absent reinforcement of deterrent capabilities space conflicts erupt – this destroys our assets**
**Smith, 11** – USAF Colonel, Director of the Air Force Space and Cyber Center at Air University. He served in the Pentagon’s National Security Space Office as the Chief of the Future Concepts shop (M.V., Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]])

Spacefaring prowess is a common attribute of the dominant powers… …to remove doubt in the minds of commanders.

**Our assets are critical to the __credibility__ and __effectiveness__ of forward-deployed troops – that’s key to hegemony**
**Marshall, 8** - NASA Ames Research Center (Will, Astropolitics, 6:154–199, “REDUCING THE VULNERABILITY OF SPACE ASSETS: A MULTITIERED MICROSATELLITE CONSTELLATION ARCHITECTURE,” Ebsco Political Science)

__Space assets are one of the most critical ‘‘Achilles’ heels’’… …__that could benefit from further research.

**Hegemony based on forward-deployed presence is key to conflict ­__de-escalation__ – the alternative is great-power conflict**
**Thayer 6****<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">professor of security studies @ Missouri State (Bradley, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy”, November/December, p. 32-37)</span>

__A grand strategy based on American primacy means ensuring… …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">due to the economic prosperity it provides. </span>

**And, hegemony is better than __any__ alternative – even if there are some disadvantages to maintaining it we can’t risk the costs of allowing for decline**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Goure 11</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Daniel, Vice President with the Lexington Institute, “Unsettled World Won’t Let US Reduce Its Military,” </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.defpro.com/news/details/20969/?SID=3f7de7dc9a8343394bd7e1cfb97fd429]]</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, dml) </span>



<span class="styleboldunderline">__<span style="color: black;">The conventional wisdom</span>__</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">in the national security community</span><span class="styleboldunderline">__<span style="color: black;">… …The world has </span>__</span>//no one else//<span class="styleboldunderline">__<span style="color: black;"> to whom it can turn.</span>__</span>

**Even if hegemonic decline is inevitable, the plan will set up a smooth transition and prevent great power war**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dolman 6</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “ Toward a U.S. Grand Strategy in Space,” March 10th, Washington Roundtable on Science and Public Policy, http://www.marshall.org/article.php?id=408, EMM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dolman: Well, I think that some assumptions that you made… …</span>__a power to create and enforce__ __some sort of order.__

**And, here’s our solvency advocate for the entirety of the plan**
**Morgan 10 –** senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Forrest, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space: A Preliminary Assessment,” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]], dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although satellites are inherently difficult to defend… …</span>__might bring more states into the conflict__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Contention Two is China:**

**__Multiple factors__ portend a coming Chinese attack on US space assets due to perceived vulnerability**
**Wortzel, 8** - Colonel, United States Army (Retired) (Larry, Astropolitics, 6:112–137, “THE CHINESE PEOPLE’S LIBERATION ARMY AND SPACE WARFARE,” Ebsco Political Science)

__The PLA is exploring in theoretical research, basic research, and applied research… …will have access to space in any future conflict__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**And, sovereignty claims prove – treaties don’t solve**
**Space and Missile Defense Report 2007** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[China Will Attack U.S. Space Assets In Any War; Pentagon Must Field Defenses. (2007, October). Space & Missile Defense, Retrieved June 23, 2011, from ProQuest Technology Journals</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">]</span>

__China will drop__ __its adherence to rules barring war in space… …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">that criticize any so- called weaponization of space, he stated.</span>

**And, even if they win no China threat, a failure to harden satellites breeds paranoia that causes a US first strike**
<span class="Underline">**Tellis, 7 –** a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (2007, Ashley, “Punching the U.S. Military’s “Soft Ribs”: China’s Antisatellite Weapon Test in Strategic Perspective”, [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/pb_51_tellis_final.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Second, </span><span class="Underline">the successful Chinese ASAT test ought to serve… …even if one discounts the complications of accidents and misperception. </span>


**And, it’s reverse causal – strengthening defensive deterrence capabilities is key to avoid nuclear miscalculation and war over Taiwan**
**Burke, 6** – Lt Col, USAF, command space professional with operational experience in missile operations, space surveillance, space control, missile warning, and command and control (Alan, “SPACE THREAT WARNING: FOUNDATION FOR SPACE SUPERIORITY, AVOIDING A SPACE PEARL HARBOR,” [[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=07acf878-3a5f-4a2c-8259-4a34c0717e9b]])

__The erosion of the US ability to execute the space threat… …likely interfere with US satellites without fear of retribution__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.57 </span>

**And, war over Taiwan goes global**
**Hunkovic,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">American Military University,</span> **09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, [[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]]</span>

__A war between China, Taiwan and the United States has… …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">will not be considered in this study.</span>

**And, prefer our evidence – in the context of a space attack Chinese miscalculation is uniquely likely**
**MacDonald, 11** - Senior Director, Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program, U.S. Institute of Peace (Bruce, CQ Congressional Testimony, “MILITARY AND CIVIL SPACE PROGRAMS IN CHINA”, 5/11, lexis)

__One characteristic of too many wars in the last century… …the potential for space instability seems high and likely to grow.__

**And, PLA doctrine proves China’s an objective threat**
**Thian-hok 04**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Li distinguished fellow of the International Assessment and Strategy Center in Washington, Feb 4 2004,“The threat in China's space race” http://www.wufi.org.tw/eng/loo07.htm)</span>

__China must develop economic wealth and military power… …improve the chances of success for this "rapid war, rapid resolution" strategy.__

**Plan:** The United States federal government should substantially increase its defensive counterspace capabilities beyond the Earth's mesosphere, including satellite redundancy, micro-satellite development and deployment, space situational awareness, and satellite hardening and mobility.

**Contention Three is I’m Faster than Dustin:**

**Attempts at space weaponization are inevitable and treaties fail – but there’s no impact and defensive space countermeasures solve**
**Schendzielos 8 –** USAF Major
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Kurt, “Protection in Space: A Self-Defense Acquisition Priority for US Satellites,” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA485553&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]], dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lastly, </span><span class="Underline">one</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> very popular </span><span class="Underline">argument against</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> developing </span><span class="Underline">space defenses… …potential adversary threat is</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> exactly </span><span class="Underline">the goal</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of this proposal.</span>

**And, plan also avoids the __perception__ of weaponization**
**Buck 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Integration Manager for the NSSO Communications Functional Integration Office (COMM-FIO), and augments COMM-FIO leadership of a 200-member enterprise team of elite DoD, Intelligence Community (IC), NASA, and space & cyber industry engineers, operators & stakeholders (February 17, 2010, Darren J., “SPACE 2035: TECHNOLOGY, TRANSPARENCY, AND TRUSTED IMMUNITY,” https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_1a3a5809-1e22-4f94-890f-cc231da5bd28/display.aspx?rs=enginespage)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Space Weapons: Perception and Provocation</span> __The term //space weaponization…// …political clout and cultural influence on the international stage.__

**Treaties fail – impossible to enforce and spurs space counterbalancing**
**Oberg 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – 22-year veteran of NASA mission control, writer and consultant in Houston (James, March 12, “The dozen space weapons myths”, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/826/1]])</span>

__9. The Outer Space Treaty (1967) prevented the development… …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">a “model” for broader space treaties to emulate.</span>

**<span style="color: black;">Scenario building is the best way to test truth claims and building an epistemic community – we agree fiat doesn’t exist but it is a necessary construct to guide all decisionmaking and is the __foundation__ for all education in debate</span>**
**Huntley et al 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – US Naval Postgraduate School (Wade L. Huntley, Joseph G. Bock (Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, Notre Dame) & Miranda Weingartner (Weingartner Consulting), “Planning the unplannable: Scenarios on the future of space,” </span>__Space Policy__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Volume 26, Issue 1, February 2010, Science Direct)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">The rate and uncertainty of change in both the technological and political… …</span>__<span style="color: black;"> the process helps clarify that reality</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**And, root causes of war are non-falsifiable – deterrence solves enough anyways**
<span class="Underline">**Moore 4** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Walter L. Brown Professor of Law at the University of Virginia School of Law (John Norton Moore</span><span class="Underline">**, “**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Solving the War Puzzle: beyond the democratic peace,” pg 41-43)</span>

If major<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> interstate </span>war is predominantly a product… …making the gamble not worth the risk.

<span class="Underline">**You should default to empirics – every major conflict in the 20th century occurred due to a lack of deterrence**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Moore 4**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Walter L. Brown Professor of Law at the University of Virginia School of Law (John Norton Moore, “Solving the War Puzzle: beyond the democratic peace,” pg 30-31)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As so broadly conceived, </span>there is strong evidence… …military achievability of aggression in many such settings.

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Realism is true and inevitable – attempting to reject it ensures a transition to chaos</span>**
**__Mearsheimer__** 200**__1__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[professor of political science at University of Chicago, //The Tragedy of Great Power Politics//, pg. 361]</span>

__The optimists' claim that security competition and war… …keeping the major states in each region at peace.__

**And, biology proves**
**Thayer 4**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Thayer has been a Fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University and has taught at Dartmouth College and the University of Minnesota [//Darwin and International Relations: On the Evolutionary Origins of War and Ethnic Conflict//, University of Kentucky Press, 2004, pg. 70-71]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Evolutionary theory offers two sufficient explanations for… …unlike the behavior one encounters within the family.</span>

**And, in the context of space it’s key to avoid great power war**
**Farnsworth 7** – Lt. Colonel USAF
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jeffrey A, “Space Power: A Strategic Assessment and Way Forward,” 3/29/07, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA469671) </span>

__Space capabilities will__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> probably </span>__provide the greatest… …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">is needed to better shape a favorable future.</span>

==Valley== 

Added this:

**And, PLA statements of peace don’t matter – they’re seeking military dominance – no cooperation in the status quo**
**IOL News, 9-19**-11 -- Independent Online News (New Zealand), "Beijing leaps into space exploration," [[http://www.iol.co.za/scitech/science/space/beijing-leaps-into-space-exploration-1.1140704]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Once Tiangong-1 enters its predefined orbit… …</span>__has genuine strategic reasons for doing so.__

==UMN== 

One round we changed the agent to the DoD

==Michigan== 

New plan text:

**Plan:** The United States federal government should substantially increase its defensive counterspace capabilities beyond the Earth’s mesosphere, including on-orbit satellite redundancy, micro-satellite deployment, space situational awareness, and satellite hardening and mobility.

New version of the China advantage:

**China is developing offensive capabilities in preparation for a coming attack on our space assets – treaties fail to constrain the PLA and will be used to curtail our access to space – high-ranking PLA __and__ CCP officials agree – cites multiple insider studies**
**Houpt 10/31 –** M.A. in Security Studies from Georgetown
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Danny, “A new policy typology to better understand the goals of China’s space program,” <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1958/1]]</span>, dml)</span>

__Little is known about the P__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">eople’s </span>__L__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">iberation </span>__A__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">rmy</span>__’s__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ... ...</span>__influence thinking on the space domain as a whole.__

**And, PLA statements of peace don’t matter – they’re seeking military dominance – no cooperation in the status quo**
**IOL News, 9-19**-11 -- Independent Online News (New Zealand), "Beijing leaps into space exploration," [[http://www.iol.co.za/scitech/science/space/beijing-leaps-into-space-exploration-1.1140704]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Once Tiangong-1 enters its predefined orbit… …</span> __genuine strategic reasons for doing so.__

**And, even if they win no China threat, a failure to harden satellites breeds paranoia that causes a US first strike that escalates**
<span class="Underline">**Tellis, 7 –** a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(2007, Ashley, “Punching the U.S. Military’s “Soft Ribs”: China’s Antisatellite Weapon Test in Strategic Perspective”, [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/pb_51_tellis_final.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Second, </span><span class="Underline">the successful Chinese ASAT test … … discounts the complications of accidents and misperception. </span>

**Extinction**
<span class="cite">Takai ‘9</span>, <span class="cardChar">Retired Colonel and Former Researcher in the military science faculty of the Staff College for Japan’s Ground Self Defense Force (“U.S.-China nuclear strikes would spell doomsday”, October 7, [[http://www.upiasia.com/Security/2009/10/07/us-china_nuclear_strikes_would_spell_doomsday/7213/]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">What would happen if China launched its … …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> worth heeding by nuclear hard-liners. </span>

**And, it’s reverse causal – strengthening defensive deterrence capabilities is key to avoid nuclear miscalculation and war over Taiwan**
**Burke, 6** – Lt Col, USAF
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Alan, “SPACE THREAT WARNING: FOUNDATION FOR SPACE SUPERIORITY, AVOIDING A SPACE PEARL HARBOR,” [[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=07acf878-3a5f-4a2c-8259-4a34c0717e9b]])</span>

__The erosion of the US ability to execute … …interfere with US satellites without fear of retribution__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.57 </span>

**And, war over Taiwan goes global**
**Hunkovic,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">American Military University,</span> **09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, [[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]]</span>

__A war between China, Taiwan and the United States … …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> other countries will not be considered in this study.</span>

**And, prefer our evidence – in the context of a space attack Chinese miscalculation is uniquely likely – the PLA is insulated from Chinese internal politics**
**MacDonald, 11** - Senior Director, Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program, U.S. Institute of Peace (Bruce, CQ Congressional Testimony, “MILITARY AND CIVIL SPACE PROGRAMS IN CHINA”, 5/11, lexis)

__One characteristic of too many wars … … instability seems high and likely to grow.__

**And, that uniquely guarantees an attack on Taiwan**
**Thian-hok 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Li distinguished fellow of the International Assessment and Strategy Center in Washington, Feb 4 2004,“The threat in China's space race” http://www.wufi.org.tw/eng/loo07.htm)</span>

__China must develop economic wealth and military power … …success for this "rapid war, rapid resolution" strategy.__

==Dowling== 

**New plan:** The United States federal government should substantially increase its development of defensive counterspace capabilities beyond the Earth’s mesosphere, including on-orbit satellite redundancy, micro-satellite deployment, space situational awareness, and satellite hardening and mobility.

**Additions to China:**

**And, they have the __intent__ to attack – perceived as key to space dominance**
<span class="Underline">**Day 11/14 –** space policy analyst and senior program officer with the Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board at the National Research Council, citing Kevin Pollpeter, </span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 11.5pt;">China Project Manager of the Center for Intelligence Research and Analysis of Defense Group Inc</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dwayne, “Staring into the Eyes of the Dragon,” <span style="color: blue; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1970/1]]</span>, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The first speaker was Kevin Pollpeter… … the same vulnerabilities as the Americans. </span>

**It also means cooperation fails**
<span class="Underline">**Day 11/14 –** space policy analyst and senior program officer with the Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board at the National Research Council, citing Brian Weeden, Technical Advisor for the Secure World Foundation </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dwayne, “Staring into the Eyes of the Dragon,” <span style="color: blue; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1970/1]]</span>, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Weeden also noted that </span>the Chinese <span class="Underline">… …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">obtain current satellite imagery of damaged areas. </span>

==Sections== 

Added to heg:

**Even if collapse is inevitable – accelerating decline crushes the transition to multipolarity – voting aff is key to peace**
Dale C **Walton ‘7**
[Lecturer in International Relations and Strategic Studies at the University of Reading in Reading, England, 07, “geopolitics and the great powers in the twenty-first century”, <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://books.google.com/books?id=AQLTD1R-47AC&printsec=frontcover&source=gbs_navlinks_s#v=onepage&q=&f=false|http://books.google.com/books?id=AQLTD1R-47AC&printsec=frontcover&source=gbs_navlinks_s#v=onepage&q=&f=false]]</span>]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although international political conditions will differ … …</span>__minimize the probability of a great power war.__

**And, maintaining hard power makes multipolarity effective**
**Kupchan 12** – Professor of International Affairs at Georgetown
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Charles, “Grand Strategy: The Four Pillars of the Future”, Democracy Journal Issue 23, Winter 2012, dml)</span>

__The U____nited States__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of course </span>__must guard against__ **__… …__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> human rights, universal education, and economic openness. </span>

==State== 

in hindsight, this is awkward


Added to preempts:

<span class="Underline">**No cooperation now – we just rejected the Code of Conduct**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Magnuson citing Tauscher 1/12 –** defense blogger for the National Defense Magazine, Ellen Tauscher is the undersecretary of state for arms control and international security</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stew, “U.S. Rejects Europe’s Proposed Space Code of Conduct”, <span style="color: blue; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/blog/Lists/Posts/Post.aspx?ID=637]]</span>, dml)</span>

The United States **does not intend** <span class="Underline">**… …** but **we’re not saying ‘yes.**</span>’”

==Emory== 

I was with Madeleine Hage at this tournament - we took out the preempts and moved the deterrence by denial arguments to a new solvency flow

Added to heg
<span class="Underline">**Disengagement independently increases the chance of global nuclear war – empirical data supports our claims**</span>
**Monteiro 12 –** Assistant Professor of Political Science at Yale
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nuno, “Unrest Assured: Why Unipolarity Is Not Peaceful”, International Security, Vol. 36, No. 3 (Winter 2011/12), pp. 9–40, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> In sum, </span>disengagement opens the <span class="Underline">… …</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> well as in Europe and the Middle East. </span>


Added to China

<span class="Underline">**New white paper proves nothing – China has an explicit military interest in space – the plan’s key to solve**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Cheng 1/18** – Research Fellow in Chinese Political and Security Affairs in the Asian Studies Center at The Heritage Foundation</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">(Dean, “Meeting the Chinese Space Challenge,” </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2012/01/us-needs-to-meet-chinas-space-challenge-of-the-next-5-years]]</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Several key characteristics of </span>China’s<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> … …</span>The U.S. should not ignore its implications.

<span class="Underline">**And, the probability of miscalculation is uniquely high – three reasons**</span>
<span class="Underline">**BBC 1/17 –** British Broadcasting Company</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“How China is advancing its military reach,” <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-asia-16588557]]</span>, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">While much attention has been paid to … … Beijing prepares for the fifth generation leadership handover this year. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Code of Conduct doesn’t solve** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Rajagopalan 1/4** – Senior Fellow at the Observer Research Foundation, New Delhi</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Rajeswari, “Asia and a Space Code,” <span style="color: blue; text-decoration: none;">[[http://the-diplomat.com/flashpoints-blog/2012/01/04/asia-and-a-space-code/]]</span>, dml)</span>
<span class="Underline">**… …**</span>will simply end up being a toothless treaty.

===Round 6=== 

New plan:
**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its development of defensive counterspace capabilities utilizing quantum dot technology beyond the Earth’s mesosphere, including on-orbit satellite redundancy, micro-satellite deployment, space situational awareness, and satellite hardening and mobility.**

New solvency card:

**Quantum dot technology solves all vulnerability concerns – it’s more efficient than anything in the status quo**
**Rani and Mahajan 1/23 –** guest contributors to Nanowerk, analyzing patent US 7916065 B1 "Countermeasure System and Method using Quantum Dots"
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Sophia and Dr Yashwant, “A satellite defense system based on quantum dot technology”, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.nanowerk.com/spotlight/spotid=24041.php]]</span>, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> (Nanowerk Spotlight) In January 2007, </span>__China successfully tested … … uses different sensors and warning systems.__


==Hoflo== 

also with Madeleine

===Round 4=== 

Took out heg and solvency, new advantage:

**Contention Two is Weapons:**

**Obama’s Code of Conduct will fail in the status quo – diplomacy is key**
**Listner 1/16** – attorney and policy analyst with a focus on issues relating to space law and security
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, “US rebuffs current draft of EU Code of Conduct: is there something waiting in the wings?”, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/2006/1]], dml)</span>

__If the US is indeed seeking to spearhead … … trust direct negotiations with, the US__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>

**The plan’s key to signify commitment to Obama’s NSP – solves cooperation and makes deterrence effective**
**Schulte 11 –** Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Space Policy
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Gregory, “A New National Security Strategy for Space”, High Frontier Vol 7 no 2, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">To achieve these objectives, the </span>__new National Security Space Strategy … …__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> decision-making of potential adversaries in crisis and war. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The NSP signals US intentions for cooperation – defensive measures generate support and verification for treaties like the Code of Conduct – makes the NSP successful and prevents further ASAT tests</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Lewis 11</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> –</span>** senior fellow and program director at the Center for Strategic and International Studies
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(James, “Engagement and Sustainability in the 2010 National Space Policy”, High Frontier Volume 7 Number 2) </span>


<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The idea that there are no agreements… … expenditures on space associated with the Cold War. </span>

**We’ll isolate four internal links into space weapons:**

**First is the NSP – we’re at the watershed moment – the status quo confuses allies and**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> straightjackets cooperative efforts – the plan’s key to NSP credibility</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Rendleman and Ryals 11</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> – second lieutenant through the Air Force ROTC AND </span>**BSEE, JD, and MA and a Force Space Command as a contractor in space control and as an instructor for the past five years at the Space Innovation and Development Center’s Advanced Space Operations School
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(James and Robert, “The New National Space Policy: More is Needed” February 2011, High Frontier Volume 7, No. 2)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Fans of the new policy may think that the number of … … and non-space capabilities to help perform the mission.…19 </span>

**That’s key to create a framework against weaponization**
**Huntley, 11** - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, [[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]])

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">As is well understood, the space policies of … … Many devils may lurk in these details. </span>

**Independently, improved cooperation’s key to make the code of conduct effective – creates trust and responsibility for space without constraining our capabilities**
**Space News 2/14 –** news service about space, derp
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“Editorial: Promoting Responsibility In Space”, [[http://www.spacenews.com/commentaries/120213-promoting-responsibility-space.html]], dml)</span>

__It is perfectly reasonable__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> for congressional skeptics </span>__… …most reliant on space assets.__

**Second is defenses – the plan’s key to lend effectiveness to treaties and destroys the impetus to weaponize**
**Schendzielos 8 –** USAF Major
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Kurt, “Protection in Space: A Self-Defense Acquisition Priority for US Satellites,” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA485553&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]], dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Lastly, </span><span class="Underline">one</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> very popular </span><span class="Underline">argument against</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> developing </span><span class="Underline">space defenses … … is</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> exactly </span><span class="Underline">the goal</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> of this proposal.</span>

**Plan specifically is key**
**Morgan 10 –** senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Forrest, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space: A Preliminary Assessment,” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]], dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Although satellites are inherently difficult to defend… …</span> __might bring more states into the conflict__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>

**Quantum dot technology solves all vulnerability concerns – it’s more efficient than anything in the status quo**
**Rani and Mahajan 1/23 –** guest contributors to Nanowerk, analyzing patent US 7916065 B1 "Countermeasure System and Method using Quantum Dots"
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Sophia and Dr Yashwant, “A satellite defense system based on quantum dot technology”, [[http://www.nanowerk.com/spotlight/spotid=24041.php|__http://www.nanowerk.com/spotlight/spotid=24041.php__]], dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> (Nanowerk Spotlight) In January 2007, </span>__China successfully tested … …uses different sensors and warning systems.__

**Third and fourth are spending and treaties – funding the plan trades off with weapons development and is key to treaty verification**
**Redifer, 11** – LtCol, USMC, Master of Science in Applied Physics and Master of Science in Space Systems Operations, Naval Postgraduate School
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stephen, “TAKING THE INITIATIVE – PROTECTING US INTERESTS IN SPACE,” https://www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=be97b3ea-7800-44ee-b6ff-76dcdb7c2960)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Second, </span>__the United States should make developing__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> … … unity of effort toward a common goal. </span>

**And, the plan makes treaties effective**
**Schendzielos 8 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">USAF Major</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Kurt, “Protection in Space: A Self-Defense Acquisition Priority for US Satellites,” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA485553&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]], dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Lastly, </span>__building an overwhelming defense may__ __… … prohibitions against ASATs and space weapons.__

**Next is the impact –**

**Cooperation is key to check an escalatory arms race**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens, 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, [[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]])</span>

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Perhaps of even greater concern is that … …</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">likely alternative would be unacceptable to all.</span>

**Sparks miscalculation, CBW use and nuclear war**
**Mitchell, et al 1** -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh
(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span>)

__A buildup of space weapons might begin with … …the most destructive military conflict ever seen.__

**Causes a cascading debris field – magnifies the impacts**
**Hitchens and Samson 4 –** Vice President of the Center for Defense Information AND research associate at the Center for Defense Information
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Theresa and Victoria, “Space-Based Interceptors: Still Not a Good Idea,” Georgetown Journal of International Affairs, Summer/Fall 2004, pg 21-29, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Snowball Effect. </span>__The mere act of weaponizing space … … would have a ripple effect on U.S. national security.__

**That causes miscalc and nuclear war with Russia – plan solves**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lewis 4</span> – postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Metods of Cooperative Study Program; worked in the office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy (Jeffrey, Center for Defense Information, “What if Space were Weaponized?” July 2004, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">This is the second of two scenarios that consider … …national nuclear forces to operate safely.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Early warning makes the impact exponentially more probable – it’s the only existential risk**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Starr 8 –** independent writer who has been published by the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists and the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology Center for Arms Control</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Steven, “Catastrophic Climatic Consequences of Nuclear Conflict,” [[http://inesap.org/node/11]], dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The failure of </span>the U.S. and Russia<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> … …now confronting humanity and life on Earth. </span>

=2AC - T= 

==Staffed== 

<span class="Underline">**We meet their Logsdon interpretation – “expanding human presence” doesn’t mean “staffed missions”**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Friedman 11/21** – former director of the Planetary Society</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Lou, “Mind expansion,” <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1973/1]]</span>, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> At the kickoff meeting of the 100YSS … …</span><span class="Underline"> best left at home</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (or at least in our solar system). </span>

**Development means bring to implementation – that’s US Code about NASA**
**US code ’10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(US Code 150, February 1, 2010, [[http://uscode.house.gov/download/pls/42C150.txt]])</span>

__The term "development" means the phase … …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">management control, for the life of the program;</span>

**In the context of the topic that means increasing NASA or DOD programs – provides a caselist**
**GAO 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – US Government Accountability Office (“United States Government Stewardship Information (Unaudited) for the Years Ended September 30, 2010, and 2009 Stewardship Investments” http://www.gao.gov/financial/fy2010/10stew.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With regard to development, the DOD and NASA had $65.3 billion … …made with the current suite of missions. </span>

=2AC - Heg= 

==Heg Good== 

**a decline in heg makes great power conflict exponentially more likely**
**Felzenberg and Gray 11 –** *Professorial Lecturer at The Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University, Presidential Historian and Adjunct Faculty Member at the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania AND **Student at the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University and the War Studies Department of King’s College, London**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Alvin and Alexander, “The New Isolationism,” http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/print/256150)</span>**

**Anything Reps. Ron Paul (R., Tex.) and Barney Frank… …<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">military presence on land, at sea, and in the air</span>.**

And, it’s sustainable – military primacy – economics are irrelevant
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Monteiro 11</span> - Nuno P., Assistant Professor of Political Science at Yale University (June 13, 2011, “BALANCING ACT WHY UNIPOLARITY MAY BE DURABLE,” http://www.nunomonteiro.org/wp-content/uploads/Nuno-Monteiro-Balancing-Act-20110613.pdf)**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Debate on unipolar durability has generated … …</span>** __at the expense of economic hegemony.__**
==AT: Cyberattacks== 

**No cyber-terror attack – laundry list**
**Knake, 10** – fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations [2/16, Robert, “Cyberterrorism Hype v. Fact”, [[http://www.cfr.org/terrorism-and-technology/cyberterrorism-hype-v-fact/p21434]], AL]

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Director of National Intelligence Dennis Blair caught the ... ...advanced cyberoffensive are declining each year. </span>

==Hardening Solves== 

**<span style="color: black;">Hardening solves – the technology is well established</span>**

**<span style="color: black;">Schendzielos 08 - major United States Air Force, Command and General Staff College</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> [ Kurt M. Schendzielos, 30-04-2008, Protection in Space: A Self-Defense Acquisition Priority for U.S. Satellites, http://www.stormingmedia.us/35/3555/A355584.html access date: July 13, 2011] </span>

<span style="color: black;">Satellite Hardening Considering that bodyguard satellites … …</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">whipple bumpers has been ongoing since the mid-1950s.138</span>

=2AC - China= 

==Framing== 

**Only evaluate PLA doctrine –** <span style="color: black;">CCP statements flawed</span>
**<span style="color: black;">Heritage 7. </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[Jon Kyl. Published on February 1, 2007. Delivered on January 29, 2007. China's Anti-Satellite Weapons and American National Security. The Heritage Foundation. [[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Lecture/Chinas-Anti-Satellite-Weapons-and-American-National-Security]]. Accessed June 21]</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Third, </span><span style="color: black;">arms control is not the path … …degrade its effectiveness as a deterrent.</span>

==AT: China War Good== 

**A US first strike decimates the environment --- cause extinction**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Takai ‘9</span>, Retired Colonel and Former Researcher in the military science faculty of the Staff College for Japan’s Ground Self Defense Force (“U.S.-China nuclear strikes would spell doomsday”, October 7, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.upiasia.com/Security/2009/10/07/us-china_nuclear_strikes_would_spell_doomsday/7213/]]</span>)
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">What would happen if China launched its 20 Dongfeng-5 … …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">advice is worth heeding by nuclear hard-liners. </span>




=2AC - Add-ons= 

==SSA - Solar Storms== 

**SSA solves solar storm preparation**
**Jones 2007** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(JAMES C. JONES, MAJOR, USAF, “Recommendations for Improved Monitoring of the Near-Earth Electromagnetic Space Environment”, https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_6188748c-187a-44f1-9e28-9dcc95c99dd5/display.aspx?rs=enginespage, Hemanth)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">THE FUTURE OF SPACE WEATHER MONITORING </span>__… …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> must be found so additional monitoring capability is gained.</span>

**Everything ever dies**
**Adams 9/14 –** founder of Natural News and the Consumer Wellness Center, the Health Ranger
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Mike, “Solar flare could unleash nuclear holocaust across planet Earth, forcing hundreds of nuclear power plants into total meltdowns,” [[http://www.naturalnews.com/033564_solar_flares_nuclear_power_plants.html]], dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(NaturalNews) Forget about the 2012 Mayan calendar, comet Elenin or the Rapture… …</span>**<span style="background-color: white; color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> nuclear facilities</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">go into a total meltdown</span>//<span style="background-color: white; color: black; font-size: 8pt;">simultaneously.</span>//


=2AC - Disad= 

==2AC - Impact Framing== 

**And, our impact outweighs – war with China over Taiwan is the __only__ scenario for great-power conflict and escalates to nuclear war – we’ll win probability, but evaluate magnitude first anyways – star this card**
**O’Hanlon** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">adjunct professor at John Hopkins and lecturer at Princeton and Bush, </span>**07** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Michael, “A war like no other: the truth about China's challenge to America”, p. google books] </span>

__War between China and Taiwan is a distinct possibility… …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> would sit out a China-Taiwan war.</span>

==<span style="text-decoration: none;">2AC - Spending</span>== 


**First – case comparatively outweighs**

**Schendzielos 8 –** USAF Major

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Kurt, “Protection in Space: A Self-Defense Acquisition Priority for US Satellites,” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA485553&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]], dml)</span>



__The U.S. should re-prioritize near-term__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (next ten years… …during the next ten to fifteen years.</span>



**We access a better internal to econ collapse – attacks on our assets would destroy the economy and our hegemony – only the plan solves**

**Schendzielos 8 –** USAF Major

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Kurt, “Protection in Space: A Self-Defense Acquisition Priority for US Satellites,” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA485553&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]], dml)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">China is only the latest country to field anti-satellite technology… …</span>__cripple the__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> American and possibly even </span>__world economy__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



**The US economy is resilient**

**Washington Times 2008**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - </span>chief political correspondent of The Washington Times

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Donald Lambro, 7/28/08, The Washington Times, "Always darkest before dawn", lexis)</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The doom-and-gloomers are still with us… …than ever on our economy's long-term prospects.</span>

==2AC - Supercommittee== 

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">No fiscal discipline in the status quo, there’s no support for super committee legislation, elections mean it won’t get pushed or it gets repealed, and even if they somehow overcome this, no impact to budget cuts for multiple reasons </span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">[on either heg or the economy] **– boom.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Thompson 10/15 – </span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">Chief Operating Officer of the non-profit Lexington Institute</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">(Loren, “Five Reasons The Congressional Super Committee Won’t Matter To Defense,”</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><span style="color: blue;">[[http://defense.aol.com/2011/10/15/five-reasons-the-congressional-super-committee-wont-matter/]]</span>, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">They're all wrong. Two years from now</span><span class="Underline">… …</span> **nobody in Washington supports them.**
==2AC - Politics== 

**No link –**

**a) Plan goes through the executive**
**Department of Defense, ’11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (United States Department of Defense, Accessed 27 January 2011, http://www.defense.gov/pubs/dod101/dod101.html#whatwedo)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Our Global Infrastructure The </span>__national security … …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">they manage ideas, money, people, and material. </span>

**b) Takes out the link**
**Fox, 08** [Popular Science, “<span style="color: black;">The Final Frontier : McCain and Obama Reach Toward the Stars</span>”, <span style="color: black;">http://www.popsci.com/scitech/article/2008-10/final-frontier-mccain-and-obama-reach-toward-stars</span>
__<span style="color: black;">Space</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, what President Kennedy called “the most hazardous … …</span>__<span style="color: black;">as the Chairman of the Board of NASA.</span>__

**<span style="color: black;">Winners win – empirics</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Green 2010</span>**<span style="color: black;"> - professor of political science at Hofstra University </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(David, “The Do-Nothing 44th President” <span style="color: #0658b5;">[[@http://www.opednews.com/articles/The-Do-Nothing-44th-Presid-by-David-Michael-Gree-100611-648.html]]</span>)</span>

__<span style="color: black;">The fundamental characteristic of the Obama presidency… …</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">cases mentioned at the top of this essay are paradigmatic.</span>

**Pol cap theory is false**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jacobs and King 10</span>__**, University of Minnesota, Nuffield College, (Lawrence and Desmond, “Varieties of Obamaism: Structure, Agency, and the Obama Presidency,” Perspectives on Politics (2010), 8: 793-802)

<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> But </span><span class="Underline">personality is not a solid foundation … … </span>Presidential sales pitches go only so far<span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>


==2AC - Weaponization== 

**Now, they say NSP determines weaponization – that’s problematic because the NSP announced the aff**
**NSP 10 –** Obama’s NSP
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Written by Robert Gates, Secretary of Defense, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/national_space_policy_6-28-10.pdf]]</span>, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The Secretary of Defense and the Director of National Intelligence… … and timely space access for national security purposes. </span>

**But, it’s not effective in the status quo – the plan changes political calculations and makes space peaceful**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Rendleman and Ryals 11</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> – second lieutenant through the Air Force ROTC AND </span>**BSEE, JD, and MA and a Force Space Command as a contractor in space control and as an instructor for the past five years at the Space Innovation and Development Center’s Advanced Space Operations School
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(James and Robert, “The New National Space Policy: More is Needed” February 2011, High Frontier Volume 7, No. 2)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Fans of the new policy may think that … … capabilities to help perform the mission.…19 </span>

==2AC - Taiwan Arms Sales Bad DA== 

<span class="Underline">**Arms sales solve any risk of war – that comparatively outweighs any costs in relations**</span>
**Bandow 11 –** Senior Fellow at the CATO Institute, still writing cards for last year
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Doug, “Squaring the US, China, Taiwan triangle,” [[http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/eo20110824db.html]], dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">TAIPEI — Nothing causes greater discord in relations … …</span>**__preserve stability and peace__** __across the Taiwan Strait__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

==2AC - Russian Relations Good== 

:D

**The Russians are coming – the Communists still control Russia and a massive network of spies that feed misinformation to the media – relations are impossible** 
**Nyquist 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – (J.R., former Russia analyst for the DOD and all-American superstar, 7/24, “Acknowledging the Deception,” [[http://www.financialsensearchive.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2009/0724.html]], dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">If it sounds like Soviet times, you are not mistaken… …</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">imitate and </span>__exploit for their own purposes.”__

**And, all indicators flow aff – __top Russian generals__ confirm that the Kremlin is on the offensive – only US primacy can contain them and prevent nuclear war**
**Nyquist 09 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(J.R., brilliant analyst of Russian foreign policy, 7/17, “Marina Kalashnikova’s Warning to the West,” accessed at [[http://www.financialsensearchive.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2009/0724.html%20on%209/21/10|http://www.financialsensearchive.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2009/0724.html on 9/21/10]], dml)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">In other words, the West has already been … …</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Putin was the master terrorist behind al Qaeda.</span>__

**And, choosing relations over primacy guarantees Russian first strike and bioweapons**
Joel **__<span style="background-color: lime;">Skousen</span>__**, Political scientist, editor-in-chief of the World Affairs Brief, “Canceled European missile Defense Signals New Disarmament Race to War,” World Affairs Brief, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">9-25</span>-200**__<span style="background-color: lime;">9</span>__**.

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The UK Guardian reported that, "Barack </span><span class="highlight2">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Obama has demanded </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">……</span>____<span style="background-color: lime; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">disarmament moves by the Obama administration so worrisome</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">. </span>__</span>

**Extinction**
**Bostrom 2** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Ph.D. and Professor at Oxford University (Nick, March, <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html|www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html]]</span>)</span>

<span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt;">A</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> much greater existential risk emerged with … …</span>__</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> not destroy</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">or thwart</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">humankind</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">’s potential permanently</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span>**

**Bioweapons cause extinction – outweighs nuclear war**
**Levy 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(6-8-07, Janet Ellen, The American Thinking, “The Threat of Bioweapons,” [[http://www.americanthinker.com/2007/06/the_threat_of_bioweapons.html]])</span>

__Biological weapons__ __are among the most dangerous … …__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> large quantities can be developed within days. </span>


=2AC - Counterplan= 

==Cheater Counterplans - Generic== 

**Perm do the CP –**
**A.** “**Resolved” doesn’t mean certain**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Merriam Webster ‘9</span> (http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/resolved)
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;"># Main Entry: 1re·solve # Pronunciation: \ri-</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">ˈ</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">zälv, -</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">ˈ</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">zo</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">̇</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">lv also -</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">ˈ</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">zäv or -</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">ˈ</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">zo</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">̇</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">v\# Function: verb # Inflected Form(s): </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">resolved</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">; re·</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">solv·ing 1 : to become separated into component parts; also : to become reduced by dissolving or analysis 2 : to form a resolution : determine 3 : </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">consult, deliberate</span>
**B. Neither does “should”**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Encarta</span> World English Dictionary <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2005</span>
(http://encarta.msn.com/encnet/features/dictionary/DictionaryResults.aspx?refid=1861735294)
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> expressing conditions or consequences: </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">used to express the conditionality of an occurrence and suggest it is not a given,</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">or to indicate the consequence of something that might happen ( used in conditional clauses ) </span>

**C. Doesn’t sever immediacy**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Online Plain Text English Dictionary ‘9</span> (http://www.onelook.com/?other=web1913&w=Resolve)
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Resolve</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">: “</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">To form a purpose; to make a decision; especially</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">to determine after reflection</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">; </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">as, to resolve on a better course of life.” </span>

==2AC XO== 

**Perm do CP –**
**A. President enacts military orders through the DoD – it’s part of the executive.**
**Department of Defense, ’11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (United States Department of Defense, Accessed 27 January 2011, http://www.defense.gov/pubs/dod101/dod101.html#whatwedo)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Our Global Infrastructure The </span>__national security … …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">manage ideas, money, people, and material. </span>

**B. DoD is normal means**
**Fernandez 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Lieutenant Colonel (Adolfo J., April, “MILITARY SPACE CONTROL: AN INTUITIVE ANALYSIS”, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA434364</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> WSX)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">U.S. Strategic Command (USSTRATCOM)</span>__USSTRATCOM is responsible … …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Command (NNSOC) and Space Air Forces (SPACEAF). </span>
==2AC - Treaties== 

===Generic=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Perm do the plan then the counterplan – resolves vulnerability, pushes China to the table, ensures enforcement </span>**
**Schendzielos 8 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">USAF Major</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Kurt, “Protection in Space: A Self-Defense Acquisition Priority for US Satellites,” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA485553&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]], dml)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lastly, </span>__building an overwhelming defense may__ __actually discourage … …effective and lasting prohibitions against ASATs and space weapons.__


===Code of Conduct=== 

**Code of Conduct fails – defensive measures key to prevent attack**
**Krepon, 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> co-founder of the Stimson Center, Carter representative to US Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, author/editor of 13 books and 350 articles (Michael J. Krepon, Presidential Inbox, 2009, “Space: A Code of Conduct,” www.stimson.org/images/uploads/research-pdfs/MKrepon_Final_Format.pdf)</span>
Diplomatic initiatives are only part of the answer … … **and can increase space assurance**.

**PLA tricks us – kills heg**
**Brown, 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - BA, Indiana University; MSc, S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies, Nanyang Technological University [Singapore] (Spring, Trevor, “Soft Power and Space Weaponization,” Air and Space Power Journal)</span>
__Perhaps there remains a belief in the US strategic community … …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">retain soft power while expanding hard power.</span>


=2AC - K= 

==Generics== 

===Huntley Ext=== 

**Here’s more evidence** – **policy debate is key to determine accurate responses to threats in space**
**Morgan 10 –** senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Forrest, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space: A Preliminary Assessment,” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]], dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On the other side of the cost-benefit calculus… …monograph </span>__and offer recommendations for its implementation__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===Discourse Frontline=== 

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Discursive focus ignores material conditions and structures – this turns the K – only a more pragmatic approach solves**</span>
**Rigakos and Law 9** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(George, Assistant Professor of Law at Carleton University, and Alexandra, Carleton University, “Risk, Realism and the Politics of Resistance”, Critical Sociology 35(1) 79-103, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">McCann and March (1996: 244) next set out the ‘justification … … the way ‘resistance’ is dealt with in a risk society.</span>

**And, if they win this you vote aff – our discourse of deterrence makes conflict __impossible__**
**Lupovici 8 –** Post-Doctoral Fellow at the Munk Centre for International Studies, University of Toronto
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Amir, “Why the Cold War Practices of Deterrence are Still Prevalent: Physical Security, Ontological Security and Strategic Discourse”, paper presented at the Canadian Political Science Association annual conference, Vancouver June 4-6, 2008, [[http://www.cpsa-acsp.ca/papers-2008/Lupovici.pdf]], dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, </span>__the influences of the internalized deterrence norm … …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">acquire weapons systems that accord to deterrence.</span>


===Nyquist Counter-K=== 

====2AC==== 

**Discourse of danger – speaking against America opens us up to attack from evil communist powers**
**Nyquist 11 –** former Russia analyst for the DOD and all-American superstar
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(J.R., “A Philosopher’s Warning,” [[http://www.financialsense.com/contributors/jr-nyquist/a-philosopher-warning]], dml) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is Carvalho’s view that </span>the “open society” concept<span class="Underline"> … …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Russia, China, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan.”</span>

**Reject them – their authors decry American imperialism in order to destroy all that is good – their argument justifies every atrocity in recent history**
**Nyquist 5 –** former Russia analyst for the DOD and all-American superstar
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(J.R., “Chavez, Castro, and Robertson,” [[http://www.financialsense.com/node/336]], dml)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; vertical-align: baseline;">ThePravdaheadline for August 23 read: "U.S. preacher … …nothing to men with these enormous pretensions...." </span>

====1AR==== 

**Flawed epistemology – their authors are only interested in indicting American imperialism – they ignore the violence their alt causes**
**Nyquist 8** – former Russia analyst for the DOD and all-American superstar
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(J.R., “Up to Old Tricks,” [[http://www.financialsense.com/node/483]], dml)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; vertical-align: baseline;">A friend from the Dark Continent recently sent me… …and even more than the KGB did during the Cold War.”</span>

==2AC - Heidegger== 

**Our ontology is good – deterrence as ontology __breaks__ from cycles of violence, solves ontological security, and recognizes the infinite alterity of other actors**
**Lupovici 8 –** Post-Doctoral Fellow at the Munk Centre for International Studies, University of Toronto
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Amir, “Why the Cold War Practices of Deterrence are Still Prevalent: Physical Security, Ontological Security and Strategic Discourse”, paper presented at the Canadian Political Science Association annual conference, Vancouver June 4-6, 2008, [[http://www.cpsa-acsp.ca/papers-2008/Lupovici.pdf]], dml)</span>

__Since deterrence can become part of the actors’ identity… …more stable expectations of avoiding violence.__

**And, this option is comparatively better than the alternative**
**Caygill 2 –** Professor of Cultural History at Goldsmiths College, University of London
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Howard, //Levinas and the Political// pg 112-115, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">After some discussion of Berkeley and Husserl… …</span><span class="Underline">the self and the other otherwise denied.</span>

**Even if they win ontology is inevitable – focus on it precludes possibilities to resistance against oppression**
**Kioupkiolis 11** – Lecturer in Political Organization at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Alexandros, “Keeping it open: Ontology, ethics, knowledge and radical democracy,” </span>Philosophy & Social Criticism<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> July 201 1</span>vol. 37<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> no. 6 691-708, dml)</span>

<span class="Underline">Ontology may be</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> pertinent and essentially </span><span class="Underline">unavoidable… …challenge and change without predefined bounds</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Calc thought is inevitable**
<span class="Underline">**Riis 11**</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">—Carlsberg Research Fellow and Assistant Professor of Philosophy and Science Studies at Roskilde University, Ph.D. from Albert-Ludwigs-Universität Freiburg (Søren, 8 February 2011, “Towards the origin of modern technology: reconfiguring Martin Heidegger’s thinking,” RBatra)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Moreover, Heidegger maintains: ‘‘Readiness-to-hand is the way … …</span><span class="Underline"> **we must revise our very human existence.**</span>

==1AR - Heidegger== 

**Technological enframing is the precondition to agency – yes it is calculative but that is inevitable and is __critical__ to Being in the world – this evidence is comparative**
**Introna 11 –** Professor of Organization, Technology and Ethics at Lancaster University
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Lucas, “The Enframing of Code: Agency, Originality and the Plagiarist,” Theory, Culture & Society November 2011 vol. 28 no. 6 113-141, dml)</span>
<span class="Underline">All encodings are fundamentally performative</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">… …in spite of the restrictive burden it places on us. </span>
==<span class="Underline">**2AC - Cap**</span>== 

Note: the first two cards were read in the 1ac instead of the realism stuff

**Capitalism is human nature**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hunter 11 – Professor of Humanities @ St. Petersburg</span>
Mark Hunter, Professor of Humanities @ St. Petersburg, “To Attack Capitalism Is To Attack Human Nature,” 6-21-2011, Real Clear Markets, http://www.realclearmarkets.com/articles/2011/06/21/to_attack_capitalism_is_to_attack_human_nature_99087.html
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Never letting a crisis go to waste has become … …</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">such </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">utopian pursuits have concluded in history </span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">- </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">hopeless</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">.</span>

**And, it’s inherently more ethical – creates opportunities – our evidence is backed up by empirics – the alt fails**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wilson 95 – Professor of Public Policy</span>
James, Professor of Public Policy @ Pepperdine, Capitalism and morality” Public Interest, No. 121, Fall

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">However one judges that debate… … they may not operate well enough.</span>

**<span style="color: black;">Perm solves – critique alone fails – integration of actual solutions key</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Dickens and Ormrod 7 -</span>**<span style="color: black;">*Visiting Professor of Sociology at the University of Essex AND **Lecturer in Sociology at the University of Brighton** </span>
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Peter and James, </span>//<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Cosmic Society: Towards a Sociology of the Universe</span>//<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">pg </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">190, dml)</span>**

Explanatory critique can only go so far… …**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">does not further empower the already powerful.</span>**

Capitalism __creates the conditions__ for reflexivity – no risk of runaway consumerism
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cudd 10 – Dean of Humanities and Professor of Philosophy @ KU</span>**
**Anne Cudd, “Capitalism for and Against: A Feminist Debate,” pg. 124**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Finally, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">capitalism promotes innovation, and as a path … …</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> the conditions for trenchant critiques of capitalist fetishes.</span>

Alternatives to Capitalism end in war and genocide
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rummel 4 – Professor of Political Science</span>**
**Rudolph Rummel, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Professor_emeritus|professor emeritus]]</span> of <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_science|political science]]</span> at the <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Hawaii|University of Hawaii]]</span>, The Killing Machine that is Marxism, Online**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Of all religions, secular and otherwise, that of Marxism … … more likely it is to kill its own citizens. </span>**

Empirical studies prove—global capitalism solves war**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gartzke 5 – Professor of Political Science</span>
Erik Gartzke, associate professor of political science at Columbia University and author of a study on economic freedom and peace contained in the 2005 Economic Freedom of the World Report, “Future Depends on Capitalizing on Capitalist Peace,” 10/18, Windsor Star, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=5133
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">With terrorism achieving "global reach" and conflict … … developed nations from this historic opportunity.</span>

==1AR - Cap== 

===AT: V2L=== 
**Always a value to life. Life should be first.**
Steven **Lee** is the H.L.A. Hart Visiting Research Fellow at the Center for Ethics and Philosophy of Law and University College for Michaelmas, as well as Visiting Research Fellow at the Changing Character of War Programme. He is a Professor in the Humanities and Professor of Philosophy at Hobart and William Smith Colleges, Reviewed work(s): Nuclear Deterrence, Morality and Realism. by John Finnis ; Joseph M. Boyle, Jr. ;
Germain Grisez ; Jefferson McMahan Source: Philosophy and Public Affairs, Vol. 19, No. 1 (Winter, **1990**), pp. 93-106 Published by: Blackwell Publishing Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/2265364
The claim that nuclear devastation and Soviet domination … …<span style="font-size: 12pt;">and the consequentialist comparison can be made.</span>

**Yes value to life. Save the most lives**
**Bernstein ‘2** (Richard J., Vera List Prof. Phil. – New School for Social Research, “Radical Evil: A Philosophical Interrogation”, p. 188-192)
__There is a basic value inherent in organic being, a basic affirmation… …__ among the objects of your will." (IR 11)

**Cap is key to value to life**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Cudd 10 – Dean of Humanities and Professor of Philosophy @ KU</span>
Anne Cudd, “Capitalism for and Against: A Feminist Debate,” pg. 49
The<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> average </span>quality of life<span class="Underline"> for humans, particularly foar women and children… …</span> the **quality of life has improved under capitalism**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">. </span>

==<span class="Underline">**2AC - Lacan**</span>== 

**Our constructivist approach to deterrence is comparatively better and provides perm solvency – the alt reinforces the enmity they criticize and fails to take into account key factors in IR that make conflict inevitable**
**Lupovici 8 –** Post-Doctoral Fellow at the Munk Centre for International Studies, University of Toronto
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Amir, “Why the Cold War Practices of Deterrence are Still Prevalent: Physical Security, Ontological Security and Strategic Discourse”, paper presented at the Canadian Political Science Association annual conference, Vancouver June 4-6, 2008, [[http://www.cpsa-acsp.ca/papers-2008/Lupovici.pdf]], dml) *WE DO NOT ENDORSE GENDERED LANGUAGE</span>

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Before I sketch out the mechanisms of the influence of … … draw the lines of deterrence rather than to appease.</span>**

And, you should reject their theory for ours on-face – we’re falsifiable and they aren’t
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thayer 4</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Bradley, Ph.D., associate professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies of Missouri State University, Fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, international and national security affairs senior analyst at National Institute for Public Policy, Darwin and International Relations, pg. 68]</span>**

**<span style="background-color: aqua;">Evolution provides a better ultimate causal foundation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … …</span> and no observation sentence has falsified it.**

Turn – self-fulfilling prophecy goes aff – reinforces the deterrence cycle and prevents violence
Lupovici 8 – **Post-Doctoral Fellow at the Munk Centre for International Studies, University of Toronto**
**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Amir, “Why the Cold War Practices of Deterrence are Still Prevalent: Physical Security, Ontological Security and Strategic Discourse”, paper presented at the Canadian Political Science Association annual conference, Vancouver June 4-6, 2008, [[http://www.cpsa-acsp.ca/papers-2008/Lupovici.pdf]], dml)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I argue that the norm that has been developed is that </span>__… …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and to demonstrate the imporance of such exploration.</span>**

Lacanian politics are premised upon a flawed methodology – it’s non-falsifiable pscyho-babble. Discard all evidence that relies on psychoanalytic theory to generate conclusions about politics.
**Andrew <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Robinson</span>, Ph.D. in Political Theory at the University of Nottingham, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2005</span> (“The Political Theory of Constitutive Lack: A Critique,” //Theory & Event//, Volume 8, Issue 1, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Project Muse)**
**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The theoretical underpinnings of political Lacanianism typically rely on … …euphoric investments generated through the repetition of the same.</span>**

Alt fails – 3 reasons **(Zizek-specific)**
Robinson 10 –** University of Nottingham
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Andrew, “Symptoms of a New Politics: Networks, Minoritarianism and the Social Symptom in Žižek, Deleuze and Guattari,” Deleuze Studies 4.2 (2010): 206–23, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hence, the concept is useful in making sense of contemporary conﬂict… …If it works, why not try a dose of it?’ (Žižek and Salecl 1996: 32).</span>


==<span class="Underline">**2AC - Gresham-Barlow D&G**</span>== 

**SECOND is turns the K – the process of critique is an attempt to know the world and map it out – removes the potential for mutation**
Zournazi & Massumi, ‘2
(PhD in cultural theory, philosophy, and politics & professor of communications/literature at the University of Montreal, “Navigating Movements,” //Hope: new philosophies for change//)
__Critical' practices aimed at increasing potentials … …__to say that it shouldn't be used.

**Next, perm – do the plan and affirm rhizomatic lines of flight – that’s** **key – the alt radically throws away State-based politics which always fails and can only stifle the chance for change to actually occur**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Deleuze and Guattari 80</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Gilles and Felix, philosophers and rhizomes, //A Thousand Plateaus// pg 160-161, dml)</span>

<span class="underline0">You have to keep enough of the organism … …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> unalterable and </span>__changing in form____, crossing thresholds__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">).</span>

**Next, I’ll do the impact debate here –**

**Death sucks – it kills the possibility of existing in life regardless of whether something happens after death**
**Paterson, 03**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Department of Philosophy, Providence College, Rhode Island (Craig, “A Life Not Worth</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Living?”, Studies in Christian Ethics, [[http://sce.sagepub.com]])</span>

Contrary to those accounts, I would argue … … **__and condition of all human possibility.__**

**Every life is an end in and of itself – All lives are infinitely valuable, the only ethical option is to maximize the number saved**
<span class="CiteChar">Cummisky 96</span> (David, professor of philosophy at Bates, “Kantian Consequentialism”, p. 131)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally, </span>__even if one grants that … …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">with dignity who are saved, the better.8</span>

**Extinction destroys all human aspiration – Claims to outweigh it destroy value to life**
<span class="CiteChar">Schell 82</span> (Jonathan, Visiting professor of liberal studies at Harvard University, “Fate of the Earth”)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For the generations that now have to decide … …</span>__future generations__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and let human life go on.</span>

**Always a value to life. Life should be first.**
Steven **Lee** is the H.L.A. Hart Visiting Research Fellow at the Center for Ethics and Philosophy of Law and University College for Michaelmas, as well as Visiting Research Fellow at the Changing Character of War Programme. He is a Professor in the Humanities and Professor of Philosophy at Hobart and William Smith Colleges, Reviewed work(s): Nuclear Deterrence, Morality and Realism. by John Finnis ; Joseph M. Boyle, Jr. ;
Germain Grisez ; Jefferson McMahan Source: Philosophy and Public Affairs, Vol. 19, No. 1 (Winter, **1990**), pp. 93-106 Published by: Blackwell Publishing Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/2265364
The claim that nuclear devastation and Soviet domination … …<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">the consequentialist comparison can be made.</span>

**Yes value to life. Save the most lives**
**Bernstein ‘2** (Richard J., Vera List Prof. Phil. – New School for Social Research, “Radical Evil: A Philosophical Interrogation”, p. 188-192)
__There is a basic value inherent in organic being… …__ among the objects of your will." (IR 11)

**Now I’ll do the alt debate –**

**Micropolitical action fails – reinforces oppression – only macropolitical focus solves**
**Rigakos and Law 9** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(George, Assistant Professor of Law at Carleton University, and Alexandra, Carleton University, “Risk, Realism and the Politics of Resistance”, Critical Sociology 35(1) 79-103, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">McCann and March (1996: 244) next set out the … …the way ‘resistance’ is dealt with in a risk society.</span>

**their type of revolution is committed precisely to stop the becoming-other of the disadvantaged – they can never understand the situation of the people they try to liberate – their author**
**Deleuze 93** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Gilles, Supreme Chancellor of the Galactic Republic and mother of three, “Toward Freedom,” The Deleuze Reader pg 255-56, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">All this constitutes what can be called … …</span>__<span style="background-color: aqua;"> of people</span>____, at every level, in every place.__

**Next is external offense –**

**is the science disad –**

**Deleuze’s alt is epistemologically bankrupt and ensures the continuation of material oppression – he also rejects science**
**Strathausen 10** **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Carsten Strathausen is Associate Professor of German and English at the University of Missouri. His first book was </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Look of Things: Poetry and Vision around 1900</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (University of North Carolina Press, 2003). Carsten is the editor of </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A Leftist Ontology</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (University of Minnesota Press, 2009), and the translator of Boris Groys' </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Under Suspicion: A Phenomenology of the Media</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (forthcoming 2011, Columbia University Press). He has also published numerous essays on culture, philosophy, and intellectual history and is currently completing a book project on </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Aesthetics of New Media</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Epistemological Reflections on Minor Points in Deleuze”, Theory and Event Volume 13, Issue 4, dml)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The same is true of </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">epistemology</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. It, too… …being.[[http://muse.jhu.edu.floyd.lib.umn.edu/journals/theory_and_event/v013/13.4.strathausen.html#f26|26]] </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">But he does not answer them.</span>

**That’s extinction**
**Coyne, 06**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – Author and Writer for the Times (Jerry A., “A plea for empiricism”, FOLLIES OF THE WISE, Dissenting essays, 405pp. Emeryville, CA: Shoemaker and Hoard, 1 59376 101 5)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Supernatural forces and events, essential aspects of … …</span>need to heed Crews’s plea for empiricism.

Next, rights Malthus:
fascism/fascist thought is crucial to check over-consumption
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">William </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ophuls</span>__,__ <span style="font-size: 5pt;">Professor of Political Science at Northwestern University and Former member of the U.S. Foreign Service. 19</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">92</span>**__.__** <span style="font-size: 5pt;">Ecology and the politics of scarcity revisited. </span>

In summary <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">scarcity</span> in general <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">erodes the ……</span> accepting the current trends toward technocracy.
Now is key- crunch is coming
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Paul </span>**__Brown__**, <span style="font-size: 5pt;">Phd, NOTES FROM A DYING PLANET</span>, 20**__06__**, <span style="font-size: 5pt;">p. 3-4</span>

Everyone I know is uneasy about this space ship … …<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> because </span>**__we would all die first__.** –

Impact is extinction via environmental destruction and nuke war
__Ehrlich and Ehrlich, 90__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">- Professor of Population Studies and Professor of Psychological Studies and Professor of Biological Sciences at Stanford University – Professor in the Department of Biological Sciences and the Center for Conservation of Biology at Stanford University -- 1990 (Paul and Anna Ehrlich “The Population Explosion” p. 171)</span>
Most of the world's other rich nations realize that <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">……</span> without thought for their common security.


And, no offense- collapse makes authoritarianism inevitable- transition now is key
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hardin</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> (Garrett, Ecologist, “the Ostrich Factor” June 7 <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.ecofuture.org/pop/revs/nf_ostrich_factor.html]]</span>) </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2000</span>

For emotional people, lay or lawyerish… …<span class="underline0"> improve the prospects of their children's future.</span>

==<span class="Underline">**2AC - Fuck K** </span>== 

<span class="Underline">**this happened**</span>

**You guessed wrong—fuck you.**
**1. Saying fuck only way to solve**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Fairman</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> 2k6</span>. (Chistopher Fairman, professor of law at OSU, national expert in civil procedure, legal ethics, and taboo language “Fuck,” public law and legal theory, March, Pg. 74)
Regardless of its source, when taboo becomes institutionalized ……Fuck must be set free.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2. Refraining only reinforces taboo which is why it persists originally</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fairman 2k6</span>. (Chistopher Fairman, professor of law at OSU, national expert in civil procedure, legal ethics, and taboo language “Fuck,” public law and legal theory, March, pg.)
Pg. 5 <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fuck is a taboo word</span>… …John Florio’s 1598 Italian-English dictionary.26
**3. Fuck inevitable**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fairman 2k6</span>. (Chistopher Fairman, professor of law at OSU, national expert in civil procedure, legal ethics, and taboo language “Fuck,” public law and legal theory, March, pg. 12)
Suffice it to say, fuck is everywhere… … The answer lies in taboo.