[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

===<span style="font-size: 120%;">**CAPITALISM AFF**</span>=== 

<span style="font-size: 130%;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The lack of animal rights is intricately tied with the corporate power structure – animal exploitation is tightly linked to global corporate governance.</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Boggs ’07 (Carl, Prof of Social Science @ National University, Adjunct Professor @ Antioch University, on the editorial board of numerous journals, recipient of the Charles McCoy Career Achievement Award from the American Political Science Association, //Corporate Power, Ecological Crisis, and Animal Rights//, Fast Capitalism 2.2, http://www.uta.edu/huma/agger/fastcapitalism/2_2/boggs.html, 2007, AC)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">The struggle for...the modern crisis.</span>

<span style="font-size: 130%;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The very logic of capitalism requires exploitation and destruction of the environment.</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Boggs 2</span>

Spurred by unfettered...toward population reduction.


<span style="font-size: 130%;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The exploitation of non-human animals is an inherent part of the corporate power structure – it’s the root cause of speciesism. Furthermore corporate power structures are the root cause of all other impacts – I control the internal links.</span>**</span>
Boggs 3

Such far-reaching critiques...fast food outlets.


<span style="font-size: 130%;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Capitalism requires the exploitation of animals – without animal rights and non-exploitation, it will continue to flourish.</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Best ’10 (Stephen, Ph.D, Associate Prof of Phil @ University of Texas, El Paso, Cofounder of the Institute for Critical Animal Studies, //Dr. Steven Best on “The Left, Capitalism, and Animal Rights,//” http://portland.indymedia.org/en/2010/08/401411.shtml, 2010, AC)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">SB: No, because people...greenhouse gas emissions.</span>


<span style="font-size: 130%;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The standard is a post fiat utility calculus. The only way to grant value to all beings is to take all interests and considerations into account, which means we look to utilitarianism. </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 120%;">Singer ’09 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">(Peter, Prof of Bioethics @ Princeton, Prof of Applied Philosophy and Public Ethics @ Univ of Melbourne, //The Groundwork of Utilitarian Morals: Reconsidering Hare’s Argument for Utilitarianism,// New York University Department of Philosophy, November 7, 2009.)</span>

Universalizability means that...anything about ideals."


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 130%;">It’s try or die right now – without a complete break with current, corporate based politics, the environment and the planet will die – even minimal gains are enough to begin to resist the corporate structure.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Boggs 4 </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">The global ecological...own bitter harvest.</span>




**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 130%;">The role of the ballot is to use the ballot as a tool to reject capitalism – you as a judge have an ethico-political obligation to reject capitalism and the suffering and oppression of fellow beings that it causes. You use the ballot as a tool to recognize the plight of those oppressed by the capitalist structure – that’s your first obligation.</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Zizek and Daly ‘04 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Slavoj, professor of philosophy at the Institute for Sociology, Ljubljana, and Glyn, Conversations with Zizek, pg 14-16)</span>

There is a further...consumerism and lifestyle.


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 130%;">Agribusiness and capitalism causes global warming and will destroy the environment – it’s happening right now.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">HSUS ’08 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Humane Society of the United States, //Factory Farming in America: The True Cost of Animal Agribusiness for Rural Communities, Public Health, Families, Farmers, the Environment, and Animals//, http://www.humanesociety.org/assets/pdfs/farm/hsus-factory-farming-in-america-the-true-cost-of-animal-agribusiness.pdf, 2008 [the last cited date in all citations], AC)</span>

Global warming and...greenhouse gas emissions.


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 130%;">Agribusiness and destruction of the environment causes resource wars – it’s the most likely internal link to extinction.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Klare ’06 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Michael, Ph.D, Professor of Peace and World Security Studies @ Hampshire Univ, //The Coming Resource Wars,// Alternet, [[http://www.alternet.org/story/33243/the_coming_resource_wars]], 2006, AC)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">It's official: the...global climate change.</span>


<span style="font-size: 130%;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The alt text is: embrace animal rights to prevent agribusiness from flourishing and to jam the corporate machine –this entails is a recognization of animal rights. This is not a retreat from politics – it doesn’t acknowledge the inviolability of animals at every single juncture, it just means we shouldn’t exploit, torture and kill them. And the alt solves – the capitalist machine is both dependent on our willingness to serve it and its exploitation of the natural environment. Animals rights and a refusal to go along with capitalism is the key to breaking it down. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 130%;">Boggs 5</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 130%;">An expanded moral...power, and profits.</span>
==Negative== 

===ANIMAL RIGHTS K=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 130%;">Any attempt to grant animals rights will only reinforce the oppressive aspect of humanity – rights discourse leaves the human-animal binary and traditional power structures in place, fails to question the historical hierarchies necessary in the first place, and does not address inequalities in other areas, like resource distribution.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Oliver ’08 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Kelly, W. Alton Jones Prof/Chair of Philosophy with appointments in African-American and Diaspora studies, Film Studies, and Women’s and Gender studies @ Vanderbuilt University, //What is Wrong With (Animal) Rights?//, J. Of Speculative Philosophy 22:3, 2008, Project Muse, AC)</span>

If we have...remain in place.


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 130%;">Rights as entitlements require calculation between human and animal rights and reinforce the binary of animal and human because they are contingent on the subject they are given to.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Oliver ’10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Kelly, W. Alton Jones Prof/Chair of Philosophy with appointments in African-American and Diaspora studies, Film Studies, and Women’s and Gender studies @ Vanderbuilt University,</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> Animal Ethics: Towards an Ethics of Responsivness</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">, Research in Phenomenology Vo. 40, 2010, 267-280, AC)</span>



In other words,...(like human rights) are based.


<span style="font-size: 130%;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The root cause of all violence against humans and animals is the man/animal binary – it justifies treating others as animals, not worthy of human respect. Furthermore, this binary must be resolved before anything else – unless we drastically change our relationship with animals, we will continue to exploit, oppress, and commit violence against others.</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Oliver ’10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Kelly, W. Alton Jones Prof/Chair of Philosophy with appointments in African-American and Diaspora studies, Film Studies, and Women’s and Gender studies @ Vanderbuilt University,</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> Animal Ethics: Towards an Ethics of Responsivness</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">, Research in Phenomenology Vo. 40, 2010, 267-280, AC)</span>

In the face...people like animals.


<span style="font-size: 130%;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The alternative is to embrace an ethic of responsiveness – this means that we acknowledge that we are dependent on animals for our human status, yet we should not exploit that status. </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Oliver ’10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Kelly, W. Alton Jones Prof/Chair of Philosophy with appointments in African-American and Diaspora studies, Film Studies, and Women’s and Gender studies @ Vanderbuilt University, //Animal Ethics: Towards an Ethics of Responsivness//, Research in Phenomenology Vo. 40, 2010, 267-280, AC)</span>

In this era...this collective planet.

<span style="font-size: 130%;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The alt solves – recognizing that both animals and humans can suffer and respond allows us to begin to break down the man/animal binary.</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Oliver ’08 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13.3333px;">(Kelly, W. Alton Jones Prof/Chair of Philosophy with appointments in African-American and Diaspora studies, Film Studies, and Women’s and Gender studies @ Vanderbuilt University, //What is Wrong With (Animal) Rights?//, J. Of Speculative Philosophy 22:3, 2008, Project Muse, AC)</span>



As MacKinnon's example...those conditions entail.

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]