[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 


Narratives of <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">extraterrestrials are more than mere science fiction – they are stories which found national identity and how society responds to otherness. Modern stories establish the sacred order as society’s fears of invasion and abduction translates into radical xenophobia.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Dean '97 [Jodi Dean, teaches political theory at Hobart and William Smith Colleges. "The Familiarity of Strangeness." Theory and Event, 1:2. 1997]</span>

<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Such narratives either deny or securitize the extraterrestrial – this is a dangerous form of anthropocentrism which sees the entire universe as something created to serve humans, inevitably leading to extinction from warfare and ecological destruction.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Zimmerman 02 [Michael E. Zimmerman. "Encountering Alien Otherness." The Concept of the Foreign, Ed. Rebecca Saunders. [[http://www.colorado.edu/philosophy/paper_zimmerman_Alien_Otherness.pdf]]]</span>


<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Holy communities are produced through an alienated theology which rejects pretensions toward certainty in our own narratives, leaving us open to the transformative impact of the experience of others. The aplogetic theology of sacred orders is a methodology of domination - it forcloses the possibility of truth in difference and condemns us to an apocalyptic stalemate moving ever closer to self-destruction.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Fasching '93 [Darrell J. Fasching, Professor of Religious Studies at the University of South Florida. The Ethical Challenge of Aushwitz and Hiroshima. 1993, pg 5-8]</span>


<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">The role of the ballot is that the judge should resolve questions of competing ethical frameworks. Vote aff to embrace a non-violent relationship with the alien other.</span>


<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Societies founded upon the sacred order inevitably engage in violent attempts to eradicate difference which will inevitably escalate to extinction. These sacred narratives must be interrrupted by ones founded on openness to the stranger and compassion towards alterity.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Fasching '93 [Darrell J. Fasching, Professor of Religious Studies at the University of South Florida. The Ethical Challenge of Aushwitz and Hiroshima. 1993, pg 287-290]</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">The Aff ruptures the dominant cosmology which places humans as the masters of the universe and allows for endless domination</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Zimmerman 02 [Michael E. Zimmerman. "Encountering Alien Otherness." The Concept of the Foreign, Ed. Rebecca Saunders. [[http://www.colorado.edu/philosophy/paper_zimmerman_Alien_Otherness.pdf]]]</span>


<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Utopian ethics are necessary to preserve human dignity and make incremental steps towards the creation of an ethical world. Otherwise, unjust means become ethical and inevitably lead to unjust ends</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Fasching '93 [Darrell J. Fasching, Professor of Religious Studies at the University of South Florida. The Ethical Challenge of Aushwitz and Hiroshima. 1993, pg 287-290]</span>


<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Divorcing governmental policies from ethics cedes political control to technicism. This magnifies doubling on a global scale and makes extinction desirable. </span>
<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Fasching '93 [Darrell J. Fasching, Professor of Religious Studies at the University of South Florida. The Ethical Challenge of Aushwitz and Hiroshima. 1993, pg 232-233]</span>


<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">This separation of personal ethics from public policy is the only way genocide becomes possible. </span>
<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Herbert 08 [Brent Herbert. "The Genocidal Mentality, Part 1: The 'free market' as genocidal ideology." [[http://www.awitness.org/journal/free_market_genocide.html]]]</span>


=Negative= 

==Exceptionalism K== 
This is the story of how the West was won...
The history of imperialism reveals an ongoing attempt to eliminate radical difference through a self-justifying narrative - delegitimizing modes of thinking that do not conform to the “end of history” discourse of the New World Order. This form of American exceptionalism cannot be separated from the imperial praxis of colonization and control.
<span class="cite">Spanos 2k8</span> [William Spanos, Distinguished Professor of English at Binghamton University. //American Exceptionalism in the Age of Globalization: The Specter of Vietnam.// 2008, pg 19-21]
<span style="text-decoration: none;">What should be remarkable…(onto)logic of liberal democracy.</span>

The failure to question western ontology ensures future hegemonic expansion. We will isolate several specific links. First, the extension of U.S. sovereignty into outer space enables a process of capitalist accumulation and is part of the ongoing reproduction of American exceptionalism.
Duvall and Havercroft 2k6 [Raymond Duvall, PhD. and Jonathan Havercroft, SDF Postdoctoral Research Fellow at the Centre of International Relations, University of British Columbia. “Taking Sovereignty Out of This World: Space Weapons and Empire of the Future.” October 2006. http://www.ligi.ubc.ca/sites/liu/files/Publications/ Havercroft_paper.pdf]
<span style="text-decoration: none;">The doctrine of space control…individuality, innovation, and exceptionalism</span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;">.</span>

Strategic Planning Link
Our society exists in preparation for war. The Aff’s discussion of space exploration and development is merely an extension of logistical planning that constitutes our imperial society.
Virilio and Lotringer 2k4 <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">[Paul Virilio and Sylvere Lotringer. //Pure War//. 2004, pg 91-93]</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Let's come back...center of trans-politics.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">China Threat Link</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Their description of China as a threat is a violent discursive construction of Otherness that justifies U.S. dominance and coercive management of global affairs - this makes any arms race more likely, turning case.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Pan 2k4 [Chengxin Pan, Department of Political Science at Australian National University. "The 'China Threat' in American Self-imaginagion: the Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics." //Alternatives//, June/July 2004]</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">I have argued above...might become possible.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Structural Impacts Link</span>
Images of catastrophe and destruction are deployed by the first world nations to feed off the suffering of the rest of the world. The 1AC’s efforts to solve these problems are coproductive with the disasters themselves, a constant cycle that ends in self-destruction.
Baudrillard '94 [Jean, "The Illusion of the End" p. 66-71]

Economy/Free Market Link
Free trade is meant to expand sovereign control over the rest of the world - it forces ideals of neoliberalism and privitization that draws violent distinctions between the rich and poor, creating those in the lower classes as disposable.
Giroux 2k6 [Henry Giroux, prof. @ McMaster University. "Dirty Democracy and State Terrorism: The Politics of the New Authoritarianism in the United States” Comparative Studies of South Asia, Africa and the Middle East 26.2 (2006) 163-177”]

Space Colonization Link
The drive towards space is just a replication capitalist coercion and control.
Tort 2k5 [Julien Tort. "Exploration and Exploitation: Lessons Learnt from the Renaissance for Space Conquest."
Working paper for the Ethical Working Group on Astrobiology and Planetary Protection of ESA (EWG) July 28, 2005. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;"> [[http://portal.unesco.org/shs/en/ev.php-URL_ID=6195&URL_DO=DO_TOPIC&URL_SECTION=-465.html]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Asteroids Link</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">You should be skeptical of the impact scenarios of the 1AC. All of their arguments and scientific predictions about mass extinction are constructed from Cold War security-driven ideologies. Such representations about the ever-present threat of extinction allows for the militarization of academic disciplines and everyday life. </span>
Davis 2k1] Doug Davis, Georgia Institute of Technology. “A Hundred Million Hydrogen Bombs: Total War in the Fossil Record.” Configurations 9:3, 2001.]

The Vietnam War proves the danger of this exceptionalist identity: America’s failed endeavor to assimilate a world that refused to be accommodated within a liberal-capitalist ideology resulted in genocidal violence. The 1AC reflects a similar drive toward metaphysical domination. The impact is a “forgetting of being:” the reduction of radical difference to standing, disposable reserve that will inevitably lead us to a point where American exceptionalism has the potential to destroy the planet.
Spanos 2k8 [William Spanos, Distinguished Professor of English at Binghamton University. //American Exceptionalism in the Age of Globalization: The Specter of Vietnam.// 2008, pg ix-x]
<span style="text-decoration: none;">In this book...very idea of America.</span>

Finally, our role of the ballot: the task of the intellectual is to resolve questions of competing ontological narratives. Vote negative to “rethink thinking,” to open ourselves to modes of thought that have been marginalized by the disciplinary logic of metaphysical imperialism.
Spanos 2k8 <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">[William Spanos, Distinguished Professor of English at Binghamton University. //American Exceptionalism in the Age of Globalization: The Specter of Vietnam.// 2008, pg 21-22]</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">We are thus compelled...final "anthropological" phase.</span>


==Capitalism Bad== 

We are living in the End Times! Population growth, resource consumption, carbon gas emissions, and mass extinctions all point to the fact that capitalism is rapidly approaching the zero-point, making its collapse imminent. The only question is whether we accept this inevitability or reaffirm capital's profit drive in the face of ecological catastrophe.
Zizek 10 [Slavoj Zizek. Living in the End Times. 2012, pg 327-329]

Space projects are motivated by the desire to incorporate the cosmos into capitalism's productive processes. Their project is a stop-gap solution for terrestrial problems that simply serves to reaffirm structures of class exploitation.
Dickens 10 [Peter Dickens, Professor of Sociology at the University of Brighton and Cambridge, UK. "The <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Humanization of the Cosmos – To What End?”, Monthly Review, 62(6), November, 6-6, [[http://monthlyreview.org/archives/2010/volume-62-issue-06-november-2010]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">The state's attempt to overcome the contradictions of capitalism by protecting patterns of economic growth results in new forms of imperial violence and planetary extinction. </span>
<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Foster 05 [John Bellamy Foster. “Naked Imperialism.” //Monthly Review// 57:4, September 2005.]</span>

==Death 1NC== 

<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">There's no impact to the 1AC. Death is not a biological end, but rather another point along a trajectory of infinite middles.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Cohen and Ramlow 06 [Jeffrey J. Cohen and Todd R. Ramlow. "</span>Pink Vectors of Deleuze: Queer Theory and Inhumanism.” Rhizomes, 11/12. Fall 2005/Spring 2006]
Deluze observed that...that line of flight.

Desire is not something that is produced through any kind of primal lack. It is immanently everywhere, constantly forming and reforming into new assemblages, or "desiring machines." This makes human life a highly overrated phenomenon.
<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Cohen and Ramlow 06 [Jeffrey J. Cohen and Todd R. Ramlow. "</span>Pink Vectors of Deleuze: Queer Theory and Inhumanism.” Rhizomes, 11/12. Fall 2005/Spring 2006]
<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Deleuze and Guattari wrote...barely seems possible</span>


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]