[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
=**<span style="font-size: 21px;">Contention 1: Significance</span>**= 

==**<span style="font-size: 19px;">Global Warming is real and happening now. </span>**== 
**Braganza 6/14/11** <span style="font-size: 11px;">(Karl, Manager, Climate Monitor at the Bureau of Meteorology in Australia, The Bureau presently operates under the authority of the Meteorology Act 1955, which requires it to report on the state of the atmosphere and oceans in support of Australia's social, economic, cultural and environmental goals. His salary is not funded from any external sources or dependent on specially funded government climate change projects. Karl Braganza does not consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organisation that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations “The greenhouse effect is real: here’s why</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">,” </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;">http://theconversation.edu.au/the-greenhouse-effect-is-real-heres-why-1515</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">, AM)</span>

==**<span style="font-size: 19px;">Warming threatens all of civilization</span>**== 

**<span style="font-size: 13px;">Mazo ‘10</span>**

<span style="font-size: 11px;">PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA. Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122</span>

=**<span style="font-size: 21px;">Contention 2: Inherency</span>**= 

==**<span style="color: black;">The U.S. is Not Pursuing SSP Now</span>**== 

<span style="color: black; font-size: 13px;">Peter J. **__Schubert, ’10__**, Ph.D., P.E. Packer Engineering, Inc., Winter 2010, (Online Journal of Space Communication, Issue No. 16: Solar Power SatellitesCosts, Organization, and Roadmap for SSP, <span style="color: black;">[[@http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/schubert.html]]</span>)</span>

=**<span style="font-size: 21px;">We continue to ignore these issues at our peril. Thus, the plan: “The United States federal government should substantially increase its development of space beyond the Earth’s mesosphere by launching four solar-powered satellites.”</span>**= 

=**<span style="font-size: 21px;">Contention 3: Solvency</span>**= 

==**The technology behind SSP would work – all that is necessary is funding**== 
**Betancourt 2010**
<span style="font-size: 9px;">[Kiantar, University of Maryland School of Law, “Space Based Solar Power: Worth the effort?”, [[http://spaceenergy.com/AnnouncementRetrieve.aspx?ID=56407]]]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span class="cite">NASA solves most quickly – no other actor has the resources and experience</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 13px;">Berger, 2007</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 9px;">[Brian Berger, Fox News, citing Lieutenant Colonel Paul Damphousse of the National Space Security Office and Charles Miller the Space Frontier Foundation Director, “Pentagon Report: Let’s Put Solar Power Collectors in Orbit,” October 15, 2007, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.foxnews.com/story/0,2933,301479,00.html]]</span>]</span></span>


=<span class="underline">**__Advantage 1: Global Warming__**</span>= 

==**SPS solves warming – no emissions**== 
**NSSO 2007**
<span style="font-size: 9px;">[National Security Space Office, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study”, [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf]]]</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Wars over energy are inevitable --- SSP’s key to solve</span>== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Don </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Flournoy 10</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, Professor of Telecommunications, Ohio University, Athens Ohio, Winter 2010, (The Office Journal of Space Communication, Issue </span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">SSP is key to avoid warming’s “tipping point” </span>== 
Dr. Feng Hsu 10, Sr. Vice President Systems Engineering & Risk Management Space Energy Group, Winter 2010, (Online Journal of Space Communication, Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap, [[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html]])

=**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 19px;">Advantage 2: Cheap Energy Key to Global Economy</span>__**= 

==**The lack of US commitment to Space Solar Power prevents us from addressing our energy needs**== 
**Snead 9** (Mike, Aerospace engineering @ AFIT, Lead structures engineer ASD, [[@http://spacefaringamerica.net/2009/08/10/26--getting-behind-space-solar-power.aspx.aspx]], DA 6/23/11, 8/10, OST)
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Peak Oil makes an energy crunch inevitable, absent SSP </span>== 

Darel Preble 10, Space Solar Power Institute, Winter 2010, (Online Journal of Space Communication, Issue No. 16: Solar Power Satellites, The Sunsat Act - Transforming our Energy, Economy and Environment, [[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/preble.html]])

=**__<span style="font-size: 21px;">Advantage 3: SSP Will Provide Boost to Military</span>__**= 
==SBSP is a critical consideration and tactical advantage for the Armed forces== 

**<span style="font-size: 13px;">Frank Morring, Jr., '07</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13px;">/Aerospace Daily & Defense Report. Oct 11, 2007 “NSSO Backs Space Solar Power” </span>
<span style="font-size: 13px;">http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_generic.jsp?channel=space&id=news/solar101107.xml&headline=NSSO%20Backs%20Space%20Solar%20Power</span>

=<span class="underline">**__<span style="font-size: 19px;">Advantage 4: Self-Realization</span>__**</span>= 

==**SPS can lead to greatest human potential**== 

Don **__Flournoy, ’10__**, Professor of Telecommunications, Ohio University, Athens Ohio, Winter 2010, (The Office Journal of Space Communication, Issue No. 16: Solar Power Satellites, SUNSATS: The Next Generation Of COMSATS, [[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/flournoy.html]])

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]