[[toc]]
=<span style="font-size: 1.6em;">Contact Info:</span>= 
Neg - Iqraz Nanji - <span style="background-color: initial;">[[mailto:iqraz.nanji@barstowschool.org|iqraz.nanji@barstowschool.org]]</span>
Aff - Mira Ali - <span style="background-color: initial;">[[mailto:namira.ali@barstowschool.org|namira.ali@barstowschool.org]]</span>
=Affirmative= 
=1AC= 
==Plan== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should give recognition, certification, and full legal support to extra-terrestrial property ownership claims by any private entity based on use and occupation on any celestial body beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.</span>**
==Advantage 1: Econ== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lack of property rights makes space privatization impossible – nobody will risk billions for uncertain profits – space law must be reconfigured</span>**
Ty **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Twibell</span>,** J.D. Candidate, 1998, University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1994, “Space Law: Legal Restraints on Commercialization and Development of Outer Space”, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589, pg. 610, published in **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1997</span>**, JPW
<span class="DebateUnderline">__Currently, most ventures ...__ __final product.__</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Conflicting interpretations of the OST have brought private space development to a halt – the aff fills a vacuum in current space legislation and causes massive commercial space development</span>**
Alan <span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Wasser** and</span> Douglas **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jobes</span>**, * Alan Wasser is the Chairman of The Space Settlement Institute and a former CEO of the National Space Society. He is a former member of the AIAA Space Colonization Technical Committee, former member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, and a former Senior Associate of the Space Studies Institute. His “Space Settlement Initiative” was featured in the 2005 book RETURN TO THE MOON (Apogee Books). Douglas Jobes is the President of The Space Settlement Institute and a promoter of space exploration and settlement. He has been published in The Space Review and in the American Astronautical Society’s (AAS) SPACE TIMES magazine. For more details, see [[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/]], Journal of Air Law and Commerce Volume 73 Winter **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008</span>** Number 1, pg. 47-52, [[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/jal73-1Wasser.pdf]], JPW
IV. RECOGNITION OF ...<span class="DebateUnderline"> __and civil law.__</span>

**Most accurate indicators say econ collapse is coming now – prefer our evidence, it’s most qualified and predictive**
**Sommer – 10/8** (Jeff Sommer, Business reporter; “An Ugly Forecast That’s Been Right Before”; October 8, 2011; [[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/10/09/your-money/a-recession-forecast-that-has-been-reliable-before.html?ref=business]]) CJC
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">LET’S face it: </span>...<span style="font-size: 8pt;">have now, he says.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Private space development is not inevitable – only by incentivizing progress through property rights can we unlock the limitless wealth of space</span>**
Ezra J. **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reinstein</span>,** Associate, Kirkland & Ellis, **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1999</span>**, 20 NW. J. INT'L L. & BUS. 59
__Space offers the ...____time to come.__

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">Plan causes an economic boom in the aerospace and tech sectors, creating new jobs and billions of dollars of investment</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">Jobes 5</span><span style="font-family: Arial;">(Douglas O., “Lunar Land Claims Recognition: Designing the Ultimate Incentive for Space Infrastructure Development,” //Space Times,// volume: 44, May/June, p. 10) </span>
And what would ... construction boom."

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space holds the key to the next industrial revolution—one asteroid is worth $1 trillion, helium-3 energy provides infinite energy, unique environment of space benefits the medicine and biotech industries </span>**
Ty <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Twibell</span>, J.D. Candidate, 1998, University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1994, “Space Law: Legal Restraints on Commercialization and Development of Outer Space”, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589, pg. 610, published in <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1997</span>, JPW
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"The Environment of space ... kind of change is needed. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Economic decline causes global war </span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Royal 10</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> – Director of CTR</span>
Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215
Less intuitive is how ... more attention.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Growth makes war impossible – solves the impact to your DAs</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Griswold 5</span>(Daniel- Director of Center for Trade @ Cato Institute, //Free Trade,// 12.29.5, http://www.freetrade.org/node/282)
Many causes lie behind ...with its own peace dividend<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Transition away from growth causes wars—no alternative</span>****
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gubrud 97 (</span>Mark Avrum. Center for superconductivity research. [[http://www.foresight.org/COnferences/MNT05/Papers/Gubrud/index.html]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With molecular ...</span>nationalistic imperialism.

==Advantage 2: OST== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Outer Space Treaty is on the cusp of failure. Ambiguities have made the treaty weak, and shifting international opinions on space property rights have made it unpopular. The outdated treaty makes private investment impossible and a mass exodus from the treaty likely.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Quinn 8 </span>(Adam G., J.D./M.B.A. Candidate, University of Minnesota Law School, “The New Age of Space Law: The Outer Space Treaty and the Weaponization of Space,”//Minnesota Journal of International Law,// Summer)
Because<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the ...</span>of space laws.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Commercial activity in space makes mass OST withdrawal inevitable in the status quo – countries will withdraw to avoid property rights questions</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dinkin 4 </span>(Sam, Ph.D. economist, July 12, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/179/1)
The Outer Space Treaty may ... up after all.

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">One withdrawal from the OST causes others to follow and kills development.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gabrynowicz 7</span> (Joanne Irene, Director, National Center for Remote Sensing, Air, and Space Law, October 22, http://rescommunis.wordpress.com/2007/10/22/the-outer-space-treaty-still-relevant-and-important-after-all-these-years/)
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Finally, the motive for the ...political will to do so.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Total OST withdrawal undermines the foundation of the entire space treaty regime – clarification over property rights is required to avoid legal instability.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gabrynowicz 5 </span>(Joanne Irene, Director, National Center for Remote Sensing, Air, and Space Law, Fall, http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/IntlSpaceTreatyGabryno.pdf)
As regards to property ...legal structure.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">OST consultation process is key to dissuading weaponizers and avoiding misunderstandings from escalating to conflict.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Marder 8</span> (Center for defense information, CDI Research Assistant, “CPR for the OST: How China’s Anti-Satellite Weapon Test Can Breathe New Life into Article IX of the Outer Space Treaty,” June 2008, http://www.cdi.org/pdfs/ChineseASATtest.pdf)
Finally, <span class="DebateUnderline">__the most ...____space is a present threat__</span>.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Weaponizing space prompts Russia and China to put their weapons on hair trigger alert – leads to high risk of nuclear terrorism, accidental war, and unauthorized launch.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lewis, 04</span>– Postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Security Program, funded by the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, at the Center for International and Security Studies at the University of Maryland School of Public Policy (CISSM), Jeffrey, July, 2004, “What if Space Were Weaponized?: Possible Consequences for Crisis Scenarios”, pg. 22-24, http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf, CDI)
<span class="DebateUnderline">__The Russians already ...__ __and China to do the opposite__</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Extinction</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bostrom 2</span> (Nick, Dir. Future of Humanity Institute and Prof. Philosophy – Oxford U., Journal of Evolution and Technology, “Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards”, 9, March, [[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]])
<span class="underline0">The first manmade ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the 21st century.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Now is key to fill the gaps in the space treaty with national laws like the plan – empirically solves in space.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gabrynowicz 5 </span>(Joanne Irene, Director, National Center for Remote Sensing, Air, and Space Law, Fall, http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/IntlSpaceTreatyGabryno.pdf)
The second option ...quits forfeits the game.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">I-Law precedent indicates the first country to interpret a treaty will set a pattern that other countries follow.</span>**
Alan <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wasser and</span> Douglas <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jobes</span>, * Alan Wasser is the Chairman of The Space Settlement Institute and a former CEO of the National Space Society. He is a former member of the AIAA Space Colonization Technical Committee, former member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, and a former Senior Associate of the Space Studies Institute. His “Space Settlement Initiative” was featured in the 2005 book RETURN TO THE MOON (Apogee Books). Douglas Jobes is the President of The Space Settlement Institute and a promoter of space exploration and settlement. He has been published in The Space Review and in the American Astronautical Society’s (AAS) SPACE TIMES magazine. For more details, see [[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/]], Journal of Air Law and Commerce Volume 73 Winter <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008</span> Number 1, pg. 47-52, [[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/jal73-1Wasser.pdf]], JPW
<span class="DebateUnderline">__Some experts argue ...____international standard__</span>. 93

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Aff solves – US unilateral action is best and complies with existing precedent.</span>**
Ty <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Twibell</span>, J.D. Candidate, 1998, University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Admin istration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1994, “Space Law: Legal Restraints on Commercialization and Development of Outer Space”, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589, pg. 610, published in <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1997</span>, JPW
<span class="DebateUnderline">__The problems with ...____international regime__</span>."

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The US’s position as a leader in space means that our national policies are the main influence on international legal frameworks.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Porras – 6</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ( Daniel A. Porras, J.D., Associate Officer International Institute for the Unification of Private Law, focused on International Land and Outer Space Law; “The "Common Heritage" of Outer Space: Equal Benefits For Most of Mankind”; California Western International Law Journal; 37 Cal. W. Int'l L.J. 143; Fall, 2006; Lexis) CJC</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Man has been exploring his...</span>__adopted or rejected__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The lack of an explicit ban on private property rights in the OST means that there’s no ban – other nations and legal scholars agree.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brittingham – Professor – 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Bryon C. Brittingham, J.D., Teacher of Business, Law, and English for a Specific Purpose (ESP) course in various countries to professionals at overseas universities; “Does the World Really Need New Space Law?”; OREGON REVIEW OF INTERNATIONAL LAW; Vol. 12, 31; 2010; <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.law.uoregon.edu/org/oril/docs/12-1/brittingham.pdf]]</span></span>) CJC
__Assuming that “the province ...____possibility of private claims__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 54</span>
=Negative= 
==Strats== 
===Shawnee Mission East=== 
Rd 1 - (Lunar Mining)
1NC - Property Rights CP, OST DA, Politics
2NR- Property Rights CP, OST DA

Rd 3 vs (idk)
2NR - spending da

Rd 5 vs (sps)
1NC - politics, LSP CP, GEO DA, T-Space
2NR - T-Space

Aff:
Rd 2: 2NR - T-development
Rd 4: 2NR - case defense?

===Park Hill=== 
Rd 2 - (asteroids)
1NC - Politics, Property Rights CP, T-Space, OST DA
2NC - Coercion turn on cp
2NR- Property Rights CP, Politics

Rd 4 - (lunar mining)
1NC - Politics, OST DA
2NR - Payroll Tax Cuts

Aff:
Rd 1: 2NR - Case Defense?
Rd 3 (read asteroids look at Barstow DW's wiki): 2NR - Russia DA

===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Harvard</span>=== 
Rd 1 - (spanish inclusion)
1NC - T-Space, Framework, Imperialism DA, Politics
2NR - T-Space, Framework

Rd 4 - (bacteria...mars col)
1NC - T-Space, Politics, Heidegger, Property Rights CP, OST DA
2NR - Property Rights CP, Politics

Rd 6 - (white supremacy bad)
1NC - Open Forum CP, Imperialism DA, Framework
2NR - Open Forum CP, Imperialism DA, Framework

Aff:
Rd 2: (bye)
Rd 3: 2NR - security k
Rd 5: 2NR - T-development
Doubles: 2NR - cap k
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]