=Affirmative= 
==CIA Counterfactual 1AC== 

**In the height of the Cold War-era fear of Communism and the nuclear panic being led by U.S. government officials, President Jimmy Carter and his National Security Council saw an opportunity to protect American freedom by opposing the Soviet Union through militant groups in Afghanistan.**

**The CIA led the crusade providing weapons and training to tribal groups fighting against the Afghan Communists.**

**Despite what the history books tell you, the Soviets did not strike first. The United States had three CIA divisions in Afghanistan before the surge took place. Instead the US intervened into an Afghan civil war in an attempt to lure the Soviet Union in and make them waste precious time and resources fighting to protect their Communist ally. The end result was the Carter Doctrine which created the urgency that became the War on Terror**
**Prados 2** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(John Prados, PhD in political science from Columbia University and senior analyst with the National Security Archive, “Notes on the CIA’s Secret War in Afghanistan, The Journal of American History, September 2002, JSTOR, [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/pdfplus/3092167.pdf?acceptTC=true]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">The CIA operation of the 1980s … have slowed down since September. </span>

**We are now dealing with the consequences of CIA intervention in Afghanistan during the 1979 civil war. The US chose to fund and train the most radical elements of the mujahideen movement because we perceived them as being better fighters and thus more useful for defeating the Soviets. Our support destabilized the region and allowed radicals to come to power**
**Simon and Carpenter 1** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Scott Simon, reporter for NPR, Ted Carpenter, fellow at the Cato institute, “Interview: Ted Carpenter explains how US involvement in Afghanistan in the 1980s has now backfired”, September 22, 2001, NPR Interview, EBSCOhost, [[http://web.ebscohost.com/ehost/detail?vid=3&hid=125&sid=df2e5bc4-5a8a-41c8-91b1-ffad45028c61%40sessionmgr111&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWhvc3QtbGl2ZQ%3d%3d#db=n5h&AN=6XN200109221207]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">SIMON: </span>__What exactly …**to come to power.**__

**Far from being freedom fighters, the mujahideen were the most radical fundamentalists. While receiving US support, they threw acid in the faces of women who did not wear veils in public. In fact, the same men considered to be heroes in the 70s have been known to commit a number of atrocities. We have created our own monsters – the Taliban, Al Qaeda, and bin Laden all came to power through the help of the CIA**
**Nanji 4** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Meena Nanji, writer for Sarai Reader and award winning documentary filmmaker specializing in Afghanistan, “Thoughts on Afghanistan in 5 Parts”, 2004, [[http://www.sarai.net/publications/readers/04-crisis-media/32meena.pdf]]) </span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">A History of Forgetting Example</span>__…and worst of all, Evil.__


**Thus Philip and I advocate the following counter-factual plan:**

**Plan: The National Security Council should remove the Central Intelligence Agency presence from Afghanistan.**

**The counter-factual is not a perfect advocacy. It is not a utopian solution to violence or covert operations. A counter-factual advocacy allows us to examine how discourses and policies created as a result of the CIA presence in Afghanistan influences military policy today and how Afghanistan and socio-cultural understandings of the mujahideen could be different.**

**The history of Afghanistan and the world did not have to be this way. The actions of the CIA gave rise to the most powerful terrorist organizations responsible for atrocities such as the attacks on 9/11. Considering a world in which the US did not assist the mujahideen undermines the ideology that it is permissible to use other lives for US geopolitical interests**
**Hartman 2** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Andrew Hartman, professor of history at Illinois State University, “'The Red Template': US Policy in Soviet-Occupied Afghanistan”, Third World Quarterly, Vol. 23, No. 3 (Jun., 2002), pp. 467-489, [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/pdfplus/3993537.pdf]]) </span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">US foreign policy demands …</span> __getting the Russians out.'__<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> 127</span>

==2AC Framework== 
**Counterfactuals are already imbedded in debate practices, even in the politics disad—no key analytical distinction in counterfactual about what might have been or what might be in the future. In fact, analytical debates about past events are key to avoid being locked into the terrible decisions of the past**
**Broda-Bahm ’94** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Kenneth T. Broda-Bahm is an assistant professor of communication at Southern Illinois University. “A Counterfactual Theory of Fiat,” //Contemporary Argumentation and Debate// 20) </span>

The applicability of counterfactual …. Making false assumptions

**Historical counterfactual game playing in debates is vital to evaluation in international policy making – we access the root of all your policy education claims**
**DesMequita ’96** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Bruce Bueno de Mesquita is a political scientist, professor at New York University, and senior fellow at the Hoover Institution. __Counterfactual thought experiments in world politics: logical, methodological, and psychological perspectives__, ed. Philip Tetlock, Aaron Belkin. Princeton University Press, 1996. THIS BOOK IS EDITED BY PHILLIP TETLOCK, THE AUTHOR OF HUGE NUMBERS OF NEG PREDICTIONS CARDS)</span>

Counterfactual reasoning, when … reality and beliefs about it.

**Counterfactuals are the logical and natural basis of fiat in debate arguments. Isolating by type creates false distinction in hypothetical analytical considerations. Far from being unconventional, our aff the logical basis of what we all already believe. Anything else is arbitrary**
**Broda-Bahm ’94** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Kenneth T. Broda-Bahm is an assistant professor of communication at Southern Illinois University. “A Counterfactual Theory of Fiat,” //Contemporary Argumentation and Debate// 20) </span>

In order to be … over the limits of fiat

**Counterfactual preserve negative ground—they have access to historical and empirical data on our counterfactual. Moreover, every single field which debate is meant to represent stands on counterfactual analysis. We cannot talk about policy, economics, or the law without counterfactual analysis**
**Scott ’95** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(David K. Scott is a Professor of Communication Studies at Northeastern State University. “Debating Historical Propositions,” [[http://www.eric.ed.gov/ERICWebPortal/detail?accno=ED383004]]) </span>
Based on the temporal … is not a matter of formal logic.