[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

=1AC - Valley= 
==INHERENCY== 
1. Lack of science education now / programs failing general low science scores and prioritizing of science education 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tucker 11</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> (Jill, Chronicle Staff Writer, “Children's low science proficiency worries leaders”, January 26, [[http://articles.sfgate.com/2011-01-26/news/27049676_1_science-education-science-initiative-science-test]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> Just </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1 out …</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> look up facts or formulas, he added.</span>

==ADVANTAGE ONE: AEROSPACE PROGRAMS== 
1. High retirement / low entry into aerospace now 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Delgado</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">20</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">, (Laura Delgado, Decisions on the Future Direction and Funding for NASA: What Will they Mean for the U.S. Aerospace Workforce and Industrial Base?, SpacePolicyOnline.com summary, December 10)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> In his opening statement, Ranking Member of the Space and Aeronautics Subcommittee, Representative Pete Olson (R-TX), said that </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">one of the issues … generation to the next.</span>




2. Primary/secondary education key to garnering interest in future aerospace programs 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Johnson et al 3(</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Randall, Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University; Joseph Pelton, George Washington University; Henry Hertzfeld, GW; Don Flournoy, Ohio University; and Hussein J. Hussein, Universities Space Research Association, NATIONAL WORKSHOP ON SPACE EDUCATION: WHITE PAPER REPORT, May 3, 2003)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> “Clearly, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">there is a major …science and technology</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

3. Aerospace key to unique US industry / economy 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Maser </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">20</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">11 </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">(Jim Maser, Chairman of the Corporate Membership Committee American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, House Hearing on A Review of NASA’s Exploration Program in Transition: Issues for Congress and Industry, March 30, 2011) </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">As a result,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> the health of the … success as a nation. </span>

4. Continued economic decline will result in global war. 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mead 9</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">(Walter Russell Mead, </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henry_A._Kissinger|Henry A. Kissinger]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> senior fellow for </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/U.S._foreign_policy|U.S. foreign policy]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> at the Council on Foreign Relations. The New Republic, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">So far, such half-hearted experiments not …</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">we may still have to fight.</span>

5. Aerospace leadership key to hegemony 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Walker et al, 02</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Calibri;"> - Chair of the Commission on the Futureof the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners (Robert, Final Report of the Commission on the Futureof the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners, November,</span>[[http://www.trade.gov/td/aerospace/aerospacecommission/AeroCommissionFinalReport.pdf| __http://www.trade.gov/td/aerospace/aerospacecommission/AeroCommissionFinalReport.pdf__]]<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Calibri;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Aerospace will be at the … towards rebuilding the industry.</span>

6. Preponderance of power increases successful mediation and decreases instability 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Joseph Nye Jr</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">., The Future of Power, 2011 (Professor at Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, former chairman of National Intelligence Council, former Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs, US representative to UN Advisory Committee on Disarmament Matters, chaired National Security Council Group on Nonproliferation of Nuclear Weapons, Public Affairs: New York, p.221)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Finally, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">as a preponderant power… reduces a source of instability</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

7. Balance of soft power and hard power required to combat terrorism 
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Joseph </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nye Jr</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">., The Future of Power, 20</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">11(</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Professor at Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, former chairman of National Intelligence Council, former Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs, US representative to UN Advisory Committee on Disarmament Matters, chaired National Security Council Group on Nonproliferation of Nuclear Weapons, Public Affairs: New York, p.224)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">In addition to differences among states… than decreased, terrorists’ success at recruitment.</span>

==ADVANTAGE TWO: SPACE LEADERSHIP== 
1. U.S. PRIMACY IN SPACE IS BEING THREATENED 
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Yasuhito </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fukushima</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">, National Institute for Defense Studies, January 20</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> [Space Policy, volume 27 pp. 3-6] </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">current US …great impact on related markets.</span>

2. Education programs are key to space leadership 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sadeh </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">20</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">08</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">(</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Eligar, Assistant Professor in Department of Space Studies @ UND, Space policy questions and decisions facing a new administration, The Space Review, June 9)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">An important element …in need of improvement.3. </span>

3. Space leadership key to hege 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stevens 7</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> (Robert J., Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Lockheed Martin Corporation, “The Next 50 Years of U.S. Space Leadership” 4/10/2007)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Finally, and to me…</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> all our global pursuits</span>

4. Space leadership prevents conflict and increases opportunity for international cooperation 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sadeh 2008</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">(Eligar, Assistant Professor in Department of Space Studies @ UND, Space policy questions and decisions facing a new administration, The Space Review, June 9)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The position of the U</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">… for international cooperation</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

5. Primacy fills in for powerless institutions—key to solve genocide and mass violence globally 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lieber </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">20</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">05</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> – PhD from Harvard, Professor of Government and International Affairs at Georgetown, former consultant to the State Department and for National Intelligence Estimates (Robert, “The American Era”, pages 51-52, WEA) </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The United States possesses …provides a more recent example</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

6. Makes extinction inevitable 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Kenneth J. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Campbell</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">, assistant professor of political science and international relations at the University of Delaware, 20</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">01</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">, Genocide and the Global Village, p. 15-16</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Regardless of where or on how small a …</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> integrity of the prevailing international order.</span>




==Plan== 
Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase space exploration by funding and implementing a K-12 space education program. 
==Solvency== 
1. Federal intervention key to education 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tosteson </span>19<span style="font-size: 12pt;">97</span>(Joshua L. Tosteson Writer for the Earth Institute and Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences Columbia University, The Scientific World View, Information Technology, and Science Education: Closing the Gap between Knowledge-Generation and Knowledge-Consumption, Journal of Science Education and Technology, Vol. 6, No. 4, pp. 273-284, http://www.jstor.org/stable/40186435)
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">In order to recommend appropriate organizational changes in the federal government, priorities for federal action must be established. The key elements of a reform strategy are outlined in Table III (Task Force on K-12 Science and Math Education, 1991). First, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the federal government should … could be helping public education.</span>




2. Now key time for reinvigoration of the space industry 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Maser </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">20</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">(Jim Maser, Chairman of the Corporate Membership Committee American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, House Hearing on A Review of NASA’s Exploration Program in Transition: Issues for Congress and Industry, March 30, 2011)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Designing, developing, testing and manufacturing …going to have a credible chance of bringing it to fruition.</span>
  
=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]