=Neg= 
== == 
==Strats== 
MICH RR
(if you need cards/cites hit me up [[mailto:bennettproxy7@gmail.com|bennettproxy7@gmail.com]] )

Round 1 vs Johns Creek JT (Gender)
1NC: Framework, T Substantial, XO, Payroll Tax Cuts DA, Agonism K, Case
2NC: XO, Agonism K
1NR: Politics
2NR: Agonism K


Round 3 vs Pace KS (SBSS)

1NC: China BMD CP, Psychoanalysis K, T-Humans, Payroll Tax Cuts DA, Case
2NC: T-Humans, Psychoanalysis K
1NR: Case
2NR: Psychoanalysis K


Round 6 vs Homewood Flossmore? GS (Dragnets)

1NC: T Substantial, Plank CP, Bomber DA, Payroll Tax Cuts DA, Case
2NC: Plank CP, Bomber DA
1NR: Case
2NR: Plank CP, Bomber DA, Case

MICH PROPER

Round 1 vs Seaholm (SPS)

1NC: XO, ASPEC, Payroll Tax Cuts DA, Case
2NC: ASPEC, Case
1NR: XO
2NR: ASPEC, XO

Round 3 vs GBS WS (Roids)

1NC: XO, Payroll Tax Cuts DA, Psychoanalysis, Case
2NC:Payroll Tax Cuts DA, Case
1NR: Case
2NR: Politics, Case



Round 6 vs UC Lab RH

1NC: XO, Taiwan Sales/Iran Pressure CP, China Currency DA, Case
2NC: XO
1NR: Payroll Tax Cuts DA
2NR: XO, Payroll Tax Cuts DA

Round 7 vs Iowa City West (SPS)

1NC: Multiplank CP, Payroll Tax Cuts DA, Weaponization, T-Humans, Case
2NC: Payroll Tax Cuts DA, Multiplank CP
1NR: Case
2NR: Payroll Tax Cuts DA, Multiplank CP

Doubles vs Edina YM (Hardening)

1NC: ASPEC, Multiplank CP, Payroll Tax Cuts DA, Bomber DA, Psychoanalysis, Case
2NC: ASPEC, Bomber DA, Multiplank CP
1NR: Case
2NR: Bomber DA, Multiplank CP

==Plank CP== 
The United States federal government should identify satellites as critical infrastructure. The United States Air Force will not fund or develop any new policy for FY2011. The United States federal government should
implement a national space deterrence strategy that explicitly condemns the use of force in space and declares that the United States will severely punish any attacks on its space system, and embrace diplomatic engagement and treaty negotiations for states that develop and test weapons for attacking satellites



**Solves the case – prevents a space attack from occuring**
**Morgan '10**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – defense policy researcher @ RAND, 27 years in the Air Force (Forrest E., 2010, "Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space," http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/monographs/2010/RAND_MG916.pdf, RG)</span>

__The U__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates </span>__can raise the thresholds of deterrence failure in crises__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and at some levels of limited war </span>__by implementing a coordinated national space deterrence strategy designed to operate on both sides of a potential adversary’s cost-beneit decision calculus__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> simultaneously. </span>__The__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> foundation and </span>__central pillar of such a strategy would be a national space policy that explicitly condemns the use of force in space and declares that the U__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates </span>__will severely punish any attacks on its space systems__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and those of friendly states in ways, times, and places of its choosing. Cognizant of the fundamental U.S. interest in space stability, </span>__such a policy would embrace diplomatic engagement, treaty negotiations, and other conidence-building measures__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, both for whatever stabilizing efects can be attained from such activities and because </span>__demonstrating leadership__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in these venues </span>__helps to characterize the U__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates </span>__as a responsible world actor__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> with the moral authority to use its power to protect the interests of all spacefaring nations. In these settings and others, </span>__all U.S. policies, statements, and actions should be carefully orchestrated to bolster already emerging international taboos on space warfare and enhance the credibility of U.S. threats to punish space aggressors in multiple dimensions__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">—in the terrestrial and informational domains as well as in space, </span>__through diplomatic and economic means, in addition to the use of force__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>__Such an approach would **raise the potential costs** in ways that **future opponents would have to factor into their decision calculations** in any crisis in which they are tempted to attack orbital assets.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (See pp. 37–44.) At the same time, </span>__the U__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates </span>__should__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> engage in a comprehensive and coordinated efort to </span>__persuade potential adversaries that the probability of obtaining sufficient benefit from attacking space assets would not be high__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> enough to make it worth sufering the inevitable costs of U.S. retribution. Part of such a strategy would entail perception management: the United States should, to the greatest extent possible, conceal vulnerabilities of its space systems and demonstrate the ability to operate efectively without space support. However, perception management can only go so far in the face of observable weaknesses. herefore, the strategy should also pursue multiple avenues to make vulnerable U.S. space systems more resilient and defendable, thereby demonstrating tangible capabilities to deny potential adversaries the beneits of attacking in space. (See pp. 44–45. Although satellites are inherently diicult to defend, there are a variety of options that the United States should explore for reducing the vulnerabilities of its space systems. Possibilities include making greater investments in passive defenses, exploring approaches to active defenses, dispersing capabilities across a larger number of orbital platforms, and developing terrestrial backups to space support. It may also be beneicial to disperse some U.S. national security payloads onto satellites owned by a range of other nations and business consortia friendly to the United States and also to engage in data-sharing arrangements with them. </span>__Such approaches__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> would create an international security space infrastructure that is more robust than the sum of its individual systems, </span>__raise escalation risks for anyone contemplating attacks__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> on that infrastructure, </span>__and strengthen international support for U.S. threats of punishment in response to attacks__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. (See pp. 45–48.)</span>

Classifying satellites as critical infrastructure solves disruption and attack
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">GAO 2</span> (United States General Accounting Office, August 2002, “Report to the Ranking Minority Member, Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, Committee on Governmental Affairs, U.S. Senate: Critical Infrastructure Protection: Commercial Satellite Security Should Be More Fully Addressed”, [[http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d02781.pdf]] | Suo)

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Techniques to protect satellite systems from unauthorized use and disruption include the use of robust hardware on satellites, physical security and logical access controls 2 at ground stations, and encryption of the signals for tracking and controlling the satellite and of the data being sent to and from satellites. </span>Commercial satellite service providers stated that they provide some<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">of these </span>security techniques<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">to meet most of their customers’ security requirements and that they base their decisions on business objectives. For example, commercial satellite providers stated that they use backup satellites and redundant satellite features to ensure availability. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">However, commercial satellite providers generally do not use the more stringent techniques used in national security satellites for protection against deliberate disruption and exploitation. </span>When using commercial satellites<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, federal agencies reduce risks by securing the data links and ground stations that send and receive data. However, </span>federal agencies do not control the security of the tracking <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and control links, satellites, or tracking and control ground stations</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, which are typically the responsibility of the satellite service provider. Further, although the federal government relies on commercial satellites, </span>federal customers make up only about 10 percent of the commercial satellite market <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and accordingly have had limited influence over security techniques</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> employed by commercial satellite service providers. To mitigate risk, some federal agencies also rely on redundant or backup capabilities, such as additional satellite services. </span>Aspects of satellite system security have been addressed in federal policy<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, but this policy is limited because it pertains only to satellite and supporting systems that are used for national security information, addresses only techniques associated with the links, and does not have an enforcement mechanism. </span>Without appropriate government-wide policy to address the security of all satellite components and of non–national-security information, federal agencies may not<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, for information with similar sensitivity and criticality, consistently </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">(1) </span>secure data links and communication ground stations or (2) use satellites that have certain security controls that enhance availability<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>Recent initiatives by the Executive Branch have acknowledged these policy limitations<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, but we are not aware of specific actions to address them. It </span>is important to our nation’s economy and security to protect against attacks on its <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">computer-dependent </span>critical infrastructures<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (such as telecommunications, energy, and transportation), </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">many of which are privately owned</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. In 1998, </span>Presidential Decision Directive 63 was issued to improve the federal approach to protecting our nation’s critical infrastructures by //establishing partnerships between private-sector entities and the federal government. However, the satellite industry has not been included as part of this national effort//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, and there are no plans to include it.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> In addition, the July 2002 national strategy for homeland security does not suggest that the satellite industry be included in the approach to protecting our critical infrastructures. 3 </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In light of the nation’s growing reliance on commercial satellites</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> to meet military, civil, and private-sector requirements, </span>//omitting satellites from our nation’s approach leaves a critical aspect of our nation’s infrastructures without focused attention.//<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Because of the importance of the satellite industry to our nation, we recommend that steps be taken to promote appropriate revisions to existing policy and the development of new policy regarding the security of satellite systems, to ensure that federal agencies appropriately address the use of commercial satellites, including the sensitivity of information, security techniques, and enforcement mechanisms. In addition, </span>//we are recommending that commercial satellites be identified as a critical infrastructure sector//<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(or as part of an already identified critical infrastructure sector) in the national CIP strategy, </span>to help ensure that these assets are protected from unauthorized access and disruption<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. </span>

==<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> Bombers DA</span>== 
Next gen bomber now but money’s tight
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Dimascio 11/2</span> (Jennifer staff writer aviation weekly. http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_channel.jsp?channel=defense&id=news/awx/2011/11/02/awx_11_02_2011_p0-389493.xml&headline=Air%20Force%20Looks%20to%20Contain%20Bomber%20Costs)

To save money in the near term<span class="UnderlineChar">, </span>the U.S. Air Force plans to phase in testing of its next-generation bomber’s nuclear capabilities.Air Force Chief of Staff Gen. Norton Schwartz told lawmakers Nov. 2 that <span class="UnderlineChar">the new bomber will be designed to perform both nuclear and conventional long-range strike missions.</span> But the bomber won’t be certified for the nuclear missions at the start. “The reason is that we’re trying to control cost<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">s</span>,” Schwartz said during a House Armed Services Committee hearing in Washington. “Part of that is controlling how elaborate your test process is.” Testing conventional capabilities is less costly, so the Air Force will start with those tests and the<span class="UnderlineChar">n</span>, as the current fleets of B-52 and B-2 bombers “begin to age out,” the new bomber will be certified for nuclear operations<span class="UnderlineChar">. The lengthy hearing at which Schwartz made the </span>comments was focused on the<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">potential effect of budget cuts</span>to the Pentagon should Congress fail to reach an agreement on reducing the deficit. <span class="UnderlineChar">According to current law, a failure to reach agreement would cause $1.2 trillion in automatic budget cut</span>s — $600 billion of them from the Pentagon budget. After months of talking about the disastrous fallout of steep defense cuts to the military, at least one <span class="UnderlineChar">member of Congress is becoming impatient to learn the details.</span> “What exactly is going to happen? This committee needs to know and I certainly need to know,” said Rep. John Garamendi (D-Calif.), noting that Congress has until Dec. 23 to pass a bill that will spell out how the government can squeeze another $1.2 trillion from the deficit. “<span class="UnderlineChar">I’m sure all of us would be happy to respond to tha</span>t,” Schwartz said. “The reality is we all operate under certain limitations in the executive branch. It can be frustrating, sir, but this is the way it is. It’s not real until it’s the president’s budget.” Garamendi pressed again. “I understand the generalities. ... Which aircraft? What people? What bases? What does that mean? This committee is looking at less than a month and a half where some decisions are going to be made by the U.S. Congress. ... Frankly at this point, we don’t have much information other than bad things will happen. It’s time for specifics. What exactly is going to be on the table?” Asking about specific programs did not produce definitive answers, either. For instance, Rep. Jim Langevin (D-R.I.) inquired about how the nation could best maintain a credible nuclear deterrent. And though Schwartz didn’t draw back the curtain on the details of the Pentagon’s ongoing comprehensive review of programs, he was advised to appeal to the lawmakers who handle spending on energy and water matters to pay for the renovation of the B61 nuclear bomb. “<span class="UnderlineChar">The reality is that weapon is the item that’s paired with our bomber. And it needs to be updated</span>,” Schwartz said, adding that its life-cycle improvement program needs support from the Energy and Water appropriations subcommittee that handles spending authority for the National Nuclear Security Administration. And Schwartz said that if there is a decision to stop production of Alenia’s C-27 Spartan — an aircraft that is being bought and flown by the Air Force on behalf of the Army — “it would be extremely painful for me personally.” Two years ago, Schwartz made a deal with Gen. George Casey, then-chief of staff of the Army, to purchase the cargo aircraft designed to take goods to austere fighting outposts and would not back out of the deal. “I’ve got personal skin in this game,” Schwartz said.

The plan costs hella airforce money
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Smith 10</span> (Marcia, Space Situation Awareness Up, Counterspace and Space Control Down in FY2011 DOD Budget Requesthttp://spacepolicyonline.com/pages/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=811:space-situation-awareness-up-counterspace-and-space-control-down-in-fy2011-dod-budget-request&catid=75:news&Itemid=68)

An analysis of the Department of Defense (DOD) FY2011 budget request by Victoria Samson of the Secure World Foundation and Samuel Black of the Stimson Center concludes that funding for space situation awareness would increase, while counterspace and space control programs would decrease, if Congress approves the request. "The Air Force budget requests for several programs dedicated to improving space situation awareness add up to almost $900 million, <span class="BoldUnderlineChar">an increase of roughly 70 percent </span>from the estimated FY 10 budget of $530 million. Meanwhile, budgets for Counterspace and Space Control programs are projected to fall by roughly 50 percent each between FY 2010 and FY 2015."
<span style="font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">New spending kills the bomber’s nuclear counterforce capabilities</span>
Defense Tech ‘11 <span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">(Defense Tech, a military.com sub-site edited by John Reed (masters in International Affairs), Christian Lowe (former senior writer for politico), Ward Carroll (contributing editor for Naval Aviation news) and other industry experts, “Can the Air Force Afford the New Bomber?” 7-18-2011, http://defensetech.org/2011/07/18/can-the-air-force-afford-the-new-bomber/)</span>
__If the Pentagon holds to its current plans to chop hundreds billions of dollars from defense spending over the next decade the U.S. Air Force may need to rethink it’s acquisition plans according to Todd Harrison defense budget specialist at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, an influential DC think tank. The Defense Department is looking to shave hundreds of billions of dollars from its budgets over the coming 10–12 years; this means that </span>__all branches of the military will see pain and the Pentagon will probably have to make some tough choices in what strategic areas it wants to invest in and where to cut funding__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, argues Harrison. These choices will likely mean that high-end weapons do well at the expense of things like MRAPs that are needed for COIN operations, argues Harrison. However, </span>__the Air Force will have too many major programs under production in the 2020s to avoid cuts to its high-end weapons buys. By the early 2020s the Air Force will still be buying plenty of F-35__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Lighning II Joint Strike </span>__Fighters and the__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> KC-46A </span>__tanker will also be rolling off the assembly lines__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>__These two expensive programs are to be joined by the services new bomber__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">; of which the Air Force plans on buying around 100. Here’s what Harrison said this morning on the subject at a press conference to discuss the Pentagon’s budget: If you look at the Air Force’s projection for aircraft procurements, you see several big programs that are all, in theory, going to be in full-rate production at the same time in the 2020s. The tanker will be in full-rate production, the bomber will be ramping up to full-rate production and the JSF will still be in full-rate production. I don’t see how the Air Force can handle, budget-wise, all of those programs being at full-rate production at the same time even at current projections — even if the budget’s not cut, even if it’s allowed to grow, I don’t see how they can handle all three of those programs at the same time. If we have substantial cuts in defense spending by 2020 then I think it is nearly impossible, unless we’re willing to make major sacrifices in other parts of the procurement budget. So, </span>__with the F-35 and KC-46 already on contract that leaves the bomber as the odd man out. Outgoing vice chairman of the joint chiefs of staff Gen.__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> James </span>__Cartwright is already pushing for a scaled down version of the__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> fancy but supposedly cost-effective </span>__bomber (if not scrapping it entirely)__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>__Who knows what the next crop of Pentagon leaders will think of the recently revived program as they make budget choices in the coming years__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>


That destroys nuclear deterrence
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Gunzinger ‘10</span> (Mark A. Gunzinger, Senior Fellow at CSBA, former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Forces Transformation and Resources, former Director for Defense Transformation, Force Planning and Resources on the National Security Council staff, a key player in every major defense review since the end of the Cold War, retired Air Force Colonel and Command Pilot, M.S. National Security Strategy, National War College, Master of Airpower Art and Science, School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, Master of Public Administration from Central Michigan University, and B.S. Chemistry, U.S. Air Force Academy, “Sustaining America’s Strategic Advantage in Long-Range Strike,” Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, 9-14-2010, p.76, http://www.csbaonline.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/09/2010.09.14-Sustaining-Americas-Strategic-Advantage-in-Long-Range-Strike.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Sustaining the air Leg of the nuclear triad </span>The Air Force needs<span class="UnderlineChar"> to have a plan for</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> a land-based strategic deterrent replacement and for </span><span class="UnderlineChar">sustainment of </span>the air leg of the nuclear deterrent force<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. —General Chilton, Commander, US Strategic Command 163 The 2010 Nuclear Posture Review (</span><span class="UnderlineChar">NPR) determined that DoD must maintain a nuclear </span>triad in order to sustain<span class="UnderlineChar"> the nation’s </span>strategic deterrence posture<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, provide extended deterrence to US allies and partners, and hedge against changes in the security environment or unforeseen technological failures of one or more triad legs. 164 Despite the NPR’s conclusion, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the nuclear triad is on a glide-slope toward a “dyad” of SLBMs and ICBMs. The Defense Department’s nuclear-capable bomber force program of record consists of twenty penetrating B-2s and seventy-six standoff B-52s. 165 When the B-2 loses its ability to penetrate, the air leg of the triad will be reduced to B-52s equipped with nuclear-tipped standoff ALCMs that are approaching the end of their service life and are unsuited for attacking relocatable targets such as road-mobile ICBM launchers of the type being fielded by China, Iran and Russia</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. 166 There are options that will permit DoD to sustain a nuclear-capable bomber force and hedge against uncertainty. First</span><span class="UnderlineChar">, </span>DoD should develop a new nuclearcapable cruise missile capable of surviving advanced air defenses<span class="UnderlineChar">. Unlike the ALCM, </span>the new missile should<span class="UnderlineChar"> be able to </span>carry conventional as well as nuclear warheads<span class="UnderlineChar"> and to be launched from a variety of Air Force and Navy aircraft. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">A smaller, more versatile cruise missile with a range of 500–600 nm that can be carried by fighter-sized aircraft as well as </span>bombers would<span class="UnderlineChar"> permit DoD to </span>take advantage of the economies of scale via a larger procuremen<span class="UnderlineChar">t and increase the overall size of the standoff missile magazine. Second, the Defense Department should design a new bomber to preserve this option for delivering nuclear weapons. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Under New START, the Air Force has the latitude to incorporate basic nuclear weapons requirements into a new bomber design without fully equipping, testing, certifying, and declaring it as nuclearcapable. </span>

Makes nuclear war inevitable
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Williams ‘10</span> (David E. Williams, Jr., Major, U.S. Air Force, career Security Forces Officer currently serving as the Chief of Nuclear Security Inspections, Defense Threat Reduction Agency, former Squadron Commander, Staff Officer, Operations Officer, Flight Commander, and Convoy Commander within the Air Force nuclear community, also a certified SWAT Team Leader, Trainer, Designated Marksman, and Crisis Negotiator, M.A. Security Studies, M.A. Counseling & Human Behavior, B.A. Psychology, “A Review of U.S. First-Strike Ambiguity and the Triad Nuclear Force,” Defense Threat Reduction University Journal, 1(2), October 2010, http://www.dtra.mil/dtru/documents/V1_2/US%20First%20Strike%20Ambiguity%20-%20Williams.pdf)

The Case for Continuity The case for the continuity of current U.S. nuclear policies and structure involves consideration of their benefits in terms of security, international prestige, domestic politics, and technology. 8 From a security perspective, nuclear weapons ensure security<span class="UnderlineChar"> because t</span>he potential usage of nuclear weapons during a conflict raises the cost of war to an unacceptable leve<span class="UnderlineChar">l</span>. 9 Scott Sagan notes that: Nuclear declaratory policy is meant to enhance deterrence of potential adversaries by providing a signal of the intentions, options and proclivities of the U.S. government in different crisis and war-time scenarios. 10 I would argue, however, that an ambiguous U.S. first use policy of nuclear weapons creates valuable uncertainty<span class="UnderlineChar"> on the part of potential adversaries. This uncertainty, coupled with U.S. nuclear and conventional superiority, makes overt state aggression against the U.S. or its’ allies a very uncertain and potentially disastrous proposition, thus not likely to happen. After all, </span>no state has started a war with the U.S. since it acquired nuclear weapons.No part of the U.S. nuclear triad can be eliminated without<span class="UnderlineChar"> creating </span>an adverse impact on deterrence.<span class="UnderlineChar"> This is the case because </span>each element of the triad fills a unique role<span class="UnderlineChar"> that makes U.S. nuclear forces lethal, survivable, and visible</span>. Submarines offer the greatest degree of survivability, but the lowest degree of accuracy and become vulnerable upon surfacing. <span class="UnderlineChar">Bombers are the most accurate and only recallable option, but they are vulnerable to defensive counter-air missions and groundbased anti-aircraft fire. ICBMs are the most reliable means of delivery and the only sovereignlaunched option, yet are all located at known, stationary sites that are easily targeted by enemy ICBM forces, special operations teams, or terrorist surrogates. One may not consider the visibility of nuclear forces to be desirable, but the visibility of bombers and ICBMs allows for clear signaling to potential adversaries about U.S. intentions during a crisis.</span> Take the Cuban Missile Crisis for example: President <span class="UnderlineChar">Kennedy used naval and air forces in order to signal his intent toward Premier Khrushchev. This signaling ensured there were no doubts about U.S. willingness to go to war</span> to prevent Soviet missiles from being placed in Cuba. Future conflicts may require signaling of a similar nature to prevent deadly exchanges. For example, <span class="UnderlineChar">if Kim Jong Il were notified that the U.S. was uploading nuclear-armed bombers in response to North Korean deployments of nuclear-armed missiles, he might reconsider his actions. From the perspective of international prestige, other powers are retaining and in some cases enhancing their nuclear capability, yet as Younger points out, the U.S. is not modernizing any aspect of its inventory. 11 Instead, the U.S. is relying on mathematical projections and estimations regarding the reliability of its systems and deploying them well beyond what most states would consider a reasonable service-life. </span>Further reductionsin<span class="UnderlineChar"> strategic </span>nuclear forces could be seen as<span class="UnderlineChar"> evidence of </span>retrenchment<span class="UnderlineChar"> on the part of the U.S. by ambitious rising or reemerging powers, thus </span>increasing the risk of war. The U.S. could be characterized as a declining power by rising powers who are seeking either initial or enhanced nuclear technology. Rising powers, after all, will work to realign the international balance of power in their favor: one way of doing so is through countering U.S. military capabilities. If the U.S. were to reduce its capability by eliminating portions of the triad, then it would essentially be making it easier for other powers to challenge the current U.S. position. Further, <span class="UnderlineChar">without the potential threat of a nuclear first strike, U</span>.S. allies might feel less secure about U.S. security commitments, <span class="UnderlineChar">especially in light of current troop commitments in Iraq and Afghanistan. Such insecurity has the potential to lead these allies to pursue nuclear capabilities of their own, as well as embolden hostile states to gamble on a lack of U.S. retaliation for WMD usage or conventional aggression. For example, when the U.S. considered reducing troop levels in South Korea, the government in Seoul signaled a potential shift in policy toward a nuclear capability to protect itself from possible North Korean aggression</span>. 12 This threat resulted in very quick U.S. reassurances about troop levels and its commitment to defending South Korea.
[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
=1AC Inherency= 

An up-front substantial funding of ORS is necessary for short-term solvency to avoid cost runoffs and delays – the current framework is insufficientContention one is inherency
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wilson and Haymond 10</span> (Burke, Colonel, commander, 45th Space Wing and director Eastern Range, Patrick AFB, Florida. He is responsible for the processing and launching of US government and commercial satellites from Cape Canaveral, Jeff, Colonel, vice commander of the Space Development and Test Wing, Kirtland AF, May 2010, “Operationalizing Small Space: Challenges of Moving from Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation to Operations, http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1. Recognize an ounce of prevention is better than a pound of cure. … and some RDT&E processes must be strengthened. May we have the wisdom to determine the right balance. </span>

=1AC Plan Text= 
Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase the development of Operationally Responsive Space, which entails a launch infrastructure that allows for launch on demand, small satellite development, rapid reconstitution, maneuverability, space situational awareness, and hardening of military satellites.

=1AC Econ= 
Contention two is the economy
High launch costs inhibit space development
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Coppersmith 10</span> – historian of technology at Texas A&M University (Jonathan, The Space Review, “Obama in space: bold but not bold enough,” 4/12, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1603/1

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lost in the attention given to ending shuttle flights this year, … </span>Making access to space affordable will create vast economic <span class="UnderlineChar">as well as scientific </span>opportunities.

Plan is vital to capitalizing the entire aerospace and commercial industrial base
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rendleman 10</span> - Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Given the importance of a responsive space infrastructure to space assurance, …Thus, a responsive infrastructure would also serve as a vital part of a space assurance strategy.</span>


The industry is key to the economy – provides 5% of total GDP, millions of jobs, and largest export sector
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AIA 9 </span>(Aerospace Industries Association of America, ??/??/09, “The Strength to Lift America”, [[http://www.aia-aerospace.org/assets/wp_strength_aug09.pdf]])

As the U.S. economy moves through uncertain times, <span class="UnderlineChar">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> percent required U.S. citizenship.6 </span>These jobs can’t be sent overseas.

Economic decline causes war
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harris and Burrows 9</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">PhD in European History @ Cambridge and Counselor of the US National Intelligence Council AND Member of the National Intelligence Council’s Long Range Analysis Unit (Mathew J. and Jennifer, “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” April, Washington Quarterly, [[http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf]], EMM)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Of course, the report encompasses more than … within and between states</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> in a</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> more </span><span class="UnderlineChar">dog-eat-dog world. </span>


Experts and history disprove your impact takeouts
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schrage ‘9</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael J. Green and Steven P., Michael J. Green is Senior Advisor and Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) and Associate Professor at Georgetown University. Steven P. Schrage is the CSIS Scholl Chair in International Business and a Former Senior Official with the US Trade Representative's Office, State Department and Ways & Means Committee, //It's not just the economy//, Available Online @ the Asian Times)</span>

Facing the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, <span class="UnderlineChar">…</span> security are intertwined in most of the critical challenges we face.


Diversionary conflict theory makes war stemming from economic collapse a reality
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedberg ‘9</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Aaron Friedberg and Gabriel Schoenfeld, Professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School, Visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute in Princeton, Senior editor of Commentary, //The Dangers of a Diminished America//, Accessed Online at the WSJ)</span>

The stabilizing effects of our presence in Asia, our continuing commitment to Europe… emergence as a world economic and geopolitical power.

Alternatively, the US would just withdraw from the international system during the collapse
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ferguson ‘9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Niall, Laurence A. Tisch Professor of History at Harvard University, Author of War of the World and The Ascent of Money, //Introducing the axis of upheaval//, The Times, Accessed Online @ The Times Online)</span>

The problem is that, <span class="UnderlineChar">as in the</span> 19<span class="UnderlineChar">30s</span>, most countries are<span class="UnderlineChar"> looking inward</span> … that combination is about the most lethal in geopolitics<span class="UnderlineChar">. We now have all three</span>. The age of upheaval starts here.

The combination of isolationism and diversion is the most deadly- leads to world war three
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ockham Research ‘8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Independent Equity Research Provider based in Atlanta Georgia, Economic Distress and Geopolitical Risks, November 18th, Accessed Online @ Seeking Alpha)</span>

The economic turmoil roiling world markets right now brings with it plenty of <span class="UnderlineChar">…</span> This enables them to project the anger of their citizenry away from the regime itself and onto another race, country, ideology, etc.


=1AC Deterrence= 
Contention three is deterrence
Current US satellite vulnerability undercuts deterrence and makes a space attack inevitable
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rendleman 10</span> (James, Air Force Colonel, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The 11 January 2007 test of a Chinese ground-based, direct-ascent anti-satellite (ASAT… </span><span class="UnderlineChar">nimble, and robust enough to counter new </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">21st Century</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> adversary attack capabilities.</span>

The PLA is gearing up for conflict in space – their doctrine proves
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wortzel 8</span> (Larry, Retired, Colonel, United States Army, “The Chinese People’s Liberation Army and Space Warfare,” Astropolitics, 6:112–137, Ebsco Political Science)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The PLA Considers Tools of Space Warfare </span>The PLA is exploring a <span class="UnderlineChar">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> space--and space-based logistical support--in any future conflict.</span>

Chinese governmental structure makes crisis escalation uniquely high—kills power projection
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MacDonald 11</span> (Bruce, Senior Director, Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program, U.S. Institute of Peace, CQ Congressional Testimony, “MILITARY AND CIVIL SPACE PROGRAMS IN CHINA”, 5/11, lexis)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">One characteristic of too many wars in the last century is that … for space instability seems high and likely to grow.</span>

Chinese counterspace and military strategy is focused on quick, pre-emptive strikes which increases the risk of conflict – statements prove
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Putman 9</span> (Christopher, Major, USAF, Master’s thesis, September 2009, “COUNTERING THE CHINESE THREAT TO LOW EARTH ORBIT SATELLITES: BUILDING A DEFENSIVE SPACE STRATEGY,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA510842&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While China does not publish an overarching stated grand strategy …, </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">and thus must build an effective defensive capability to deter and recover.</span>

That risks miscalc and nuclear escalation
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Burke 6</span> – Lt Col, USAF, command space professional with operational experience in missile operations, space surveillance, space control, missile warning, and command and control (Alan, “SPACE THREAT WARNING: FOUNDATION FOR SPACE SUPERIORITY, AVOIDING A SPACE PEARL HARBOR,” [[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=07acf878-3a5f-4a2c-8259-4a34c0717e9b]])

<span class="UnderlineChar">The erosion of the US ability to execute the … interfere with US satellites without fear of retribution.57 </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Global nuclear war</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hunkovic 9</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> – </span>American Military University [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, [[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]]



<span class="UnderlineChar">A </span>war between China, Taiwan and the United States has the potential to escalate <span class="UnderlineChar">…</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> whose actions will determine its eventual outcome, therefore, other countries will not be considered in this study.</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Independently, perceived vulnerability causes the US to preemptively strike china—that escalates</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tellis 7</span>(Ashley, Senior Associate @ Carnegie, Survival, Autumn, “China’s Military Space Strategy”, ingenta)



<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> Finally, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the </span>growing Chinese capability for space warfare implies that a future conflict in <span class="UnderlineChar">the … even without the added complications of accidents and further misperception</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">.96</span>

We’ll provide six interdependent ways to access deterrence and defensive capabilities

The first is credible deterrence – deterrence by denial solves and your MAD checks arguments don’t apply to space
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sejba 10</span> (Lt Col Timothy A., congressional budget liaison officer, budget and appropriations liaison directorate, deputy assistant secretary for budget, Secretary of the Air Force, Pentagon, Washington DC. In this position, he serves as the single liaison on all space, cyber and nuclear matters between the Air Force and Congressional members and staff, May 2010, “Deterrence for Space: Is Operationally Responsive Space Part of the Solution?,” http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The space domain, often referred to as “The High Frontier,” no longer … low cost launch and deployment of systems intended to augment existing systems for Tier 2.</span>

The second is space situational awareness which facilitates international cooperation and data sharing
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sejba 10</span> (Lt Col Timothy A., congressional budget liaison officer, budget and appropriations liaison directorate, deputy assistant secretary for budget, Secretary of the Air Force, Pentagon, Washington DC. In this position, he serves as the single liaison on all space, cyber and nuclear matters between the Air Force and Congressional members and staff, May 2010, “Deterrence for Space: Is Operationally Responsive Space Part of the Solution?,” http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In today’s security environment, we rely upon coalition support for military actions around the world. … </span> flexibility in accessing additional SSA capability within minutes, resulting in <span class="UnderlineChar">a </span>true <span class="UnderlineChar">on-orbit </span>ORS Tier 1 capability<span class="UnderlineChar">.</span>

The third is rapid augmentation of non-orbit intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance – that decreases launch costs and facilitates redundancy
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sejba 10</span> (Lt Col Timothy A., congressional budget liaison officer, budget and appropriations liaison directorate, deputy assistant secretary for budget, Secretary of the Air Force, Pentagon, Washington DC. In this position, he serves as the single liaison on all space, cyber and nuclear matters between the Air Force and Congressional members and staff, May 2010, “Deterrence for Space: Is Operationally Responsive Space Part of the Solution?,” http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Rapid Augmentation of On-Orbit Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ORS Tier 2 … with active and passive defenses offering deterrence value as well. 20</span>

The fourth is redundancy and spreading mission focus between multiple satellites – that lessens the impact of singular missiles and dissuades countries from attacking
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan 10</span> (Forrest E., Senior Political Scientist at the RAND Corporation, 2010, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space,” http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2010/RAND_MG916.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Even </span><span class="UnderlineChar">a multifaceted, punishment-based deterrence strategy may not be sufficiently potent or … avenues for denying the benefits of an attack on U.S. space assets.</span>

The fifth is hardening – that deters adversaries and prevents attacks even if deterrence fails
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Armstrong 10</span>—Major, IDE Student (Mekesha, March, “Strategic Implications of Satellite Constellation Size and Mission Set”, http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=11&ved=0CBgQFjAAOAo&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.afresearch.org%2Fskins%2Frims%2Fq_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153%2Fq_act_downloadpaper%2Fq_obj_c2f524ef-9deb-491f-8abf-0ce381d9dc5d%2Fdisplay.aspx%3Frs%3Denginespage&ei=OMQ1TvX1K4nRsgb9t9G5Ag&usg=AFQjCNF1MqKRwuTrfUoH3sEur02-NNNYVw, ZBurdette)

The US’s increasing economic and military reliance on space creates <span class="UnderlineChar">a </span>vulnerability <span class="UnderlineChar">that is an</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … provide much better processing power than the much older, yet space-qualified, products. 34</span>

Sixth, ORS revolutionizes intelligence, surveillance and recoinassance
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pendleton 10</span> (Lt Col Ryan R. USAF, chief, Operationally Responsive Space Integration Branch, ORS Division, Requirements Directorate, Air Force Space Command, May 2010, “You Say You Want a Revolution: Will ORS Spark Innovation in DoD Overhead ISR,” http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Background The possible transition of TacSat-3 to operations will illustrate this point. … </span> do so we may very well succeed in jumpstarting the ORS revolution in space<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">.</span>

Without improved ISR China cyberattacks
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">BBC 11</span> (Viewpoint: A new Sino-US high-tech arms race? http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/mobile/world-asia-pacific-12154991)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Despite recent headlines reporting the appearance of a Chinese stealth fighter prototype, of </span><span class="UnderlineChar">… </span>and the United States do not want a confrontation; this would <span class="UnderlineChar">likely </span>be a disaster of global proportions<span class="UnderlineChar">. </span>

<span class="CiteChar">That destroys the nuclear taboo and causes extinction- all your disad impacts are belong to us</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cimbala 99</span> (Stephen Cimbala, professor of political science at the Pennsylvania State University Delaware County Campus, Summer 1999, Armed Forces & Society: An Interdisciplinary Journal)


The nuclear shadow over the information age remains significant<span class="UnderlineChar">. The essence of </span>… between infowarriors a<span class="UnderlineChar">nd deterrers </span>could have unfortunate byproducts<span class="UnderlineChar">.</span>


The plan represents a shift in strategic mentality from offensive to defensive – stop perception of militarization.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Buck 10 -</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Integration Manager for the NSSO Communications Functional Integration Office (COMM-FIO), and augments COMM-FIO leadership of a 200-member enterprise team of elite DoD, Intelligence Community (IC), NASA, and space & cyber industry engineers, operators & stakeholders (February 17, 2010, Darren J., “SPACE 2035: TECHNOLOGY, TRANSPARENCY, AND TRUSTED IMMUNITY,” https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_1a3a5809-1e22-4f94-890f-cc231da5bd28/display.aspx?rs=enginespage)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Space Weapons: Perception and Provocation</span> The term space weaponization defies precise definition<span class="UnderlineChar">; …</span> its political clout and cultural influence on the international stage.

=Addons= 
=Cyberattacks= 

ORS revolutionizes intelligence, surveillance and recoinassance
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pendleton 10</span> (Lt Col Ryan R. USAF, chief, Operationally Responsive Space Integration Branch, ORS Division, Requirements Directorate, Air Force Space Command, May 2010, “You Say You Want a Revolution: Will ORS Spark Innovation in DoD Overhead ISR,” http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-101019-072.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Background The possible transition of TacSat-3 to operations will illustrate this point. 5 In November 2008, at the request of the commander of US Strategic Command (USSTRATCOM), a joint team lead by Air Force Space Command began formal planning for the possible transition of TacSat-3 to become a space-based tactical surveillance and reconnaissance system in direct support of combatant commands (COCOM). The team has evaluated the satellite, created the appropriate follow-on architecture with associated cost estimates, and identified a source for funding beginning in May 2010. Feedback on the performance of this system has been favorable and the team is planning for a final transition decision. If this option is pursued the handover would occur at the end of the Air Force Research Laboratory testing phase scheduled through 19 May 2010. </span>TacSat-3 could <span style="font-size: 8pt;">thus </span>become the first<span style="font-size: 8pt;">USSTRATCOM- and US Air Force-owned </span>satellite dedicated to <span class="UnderlineChar">delivering tactical </span>i<span class="UnderlineChar">ntelligence, </span>s<span class="UnderlineChar">urveillance, and </span>r<span class="UnderlineChar">econnaissance</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (ISR) </span><span class="UnderlineChar">in direct support of the geographic COCOMs</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 6 As such, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the systems and supporting architectures would be separate and distinct from the systems owned and operated by the National Reconnaissance Office and other national-level agenci</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">es. Architectural </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Pathfinder The planning for TacSat-3 </span>follow-on operations has served as a pathfinder for setting<span class="UnderlineChar">-up the tasking and dissemination </span>architectural elements for ORS-1 and similar ORS systems <span class="UnderlineChar">that may come</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The challenging question is—will the mechanisms put into place be streamlined and support the tactical warfighter in a way consistent with the greatest potential of emerging technology; or will the architectures become mired in bureaucracy to the point that most of the advantages are lost? </span>The most expedient <span class="UnderlineChar">and effective </span>way to operationalize <span class="UnderlineChar">a</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> USSTRATCOM-owned </span>space-based ISR <span class="UnderlineChar">asset would be to extend the airborne model to include the necessary players</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Since airborne ISR uses the most tactically-focused ISR architecture we currently own this would ensure the most tactical support possible at present. Figure 1 shows a simplified architecture for airborne ISR. In this case the systems are ‘organic’ assets for the COCOM (or at least the theater) and follow a tasking process that ensures the asset is used primarily for the tactical warfighter. A deconfliction step with national systems is accomplished at the theater Joint Intelligence Operations Center (or in some cases at the joint force combatant commander for ISR in DC). In this architecture all authorities are in place for efficient command and control and deconfliction and optimization between other airborne ISR assets and national systems. Even though tradeoffs often occur between taskings during this coordination step, the COCOM always retains primacy for use of the ISR assets. Figure 2 illustrates how a USSTRATCOM-operated spacebased ISR system could function similarly to airborne ISR. If the intent is to use the satellite to the maximum extent as a tactical asset supporting the COCOMs one need only replace the combined air operations centers (CAOCs), joint intelligence operations center, and operational squadrons with more CAOCs (representing multiple COCOMs because a satellite overflies them all), Joint Functional Component Command (JFCC) ISR, and the JFCC Space/14 th Air Force operational squadrons. In doing so the satellite appears to the COCOMs as an organic asset for the time it is over their area or responsibility, JFCC ISR still performs the deconfliction role with national systems, and JFCC Space operates the satellite via the assigned operational squadrons. In the figure 2 architecture JFCC Space holds collection operations management authority and JFCC ISR holds collection requirements management authority (unless otherwise delegated by JFCC Space). 7 It is important to note the relationship between these two authorities. The joint force commander collection manager prioritizes collection requirements and recommends the appropriate asset to be assigned to collect against a particular target. The collection manager, in coordination with the operations directorate, forwards collection requirements to the component commander exercising operational and tactical control over the theater reconnaissance and surveillance assets. A mission tasking order is then sent to the unit responsible for the accomplishment of the collection operations. This unit makes the final choice of specific platforms, equipment, and personnel based on such operational considerations such as maintenance schedules, training, and experience. The effective conduct of these two roles will become increasingly important as additional space-based ISR assets are assigned to JFCC Space. A problem with the above architectural suggestion is that it is currently notional—all the affected agencies have yet to agree. The issue so far is not disagreement between the national agencies and the Air Force regarding who should “own” the satellite. The current problem is that for more than a year</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> we have been reviewing all the possible incarnations of the command and control and system elements for this architecture and this is putting the successful employment of these systems at risk. Making bold decisions now and moving out with purpose is what is required</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. A clear choice here with a comprehensive DoD endorsement would be a first step toward the realization of the full potential of operationally responsive space ideas. “Hyper-Tactical” Operations The preceding paragraphs refer to architecture and command and control possibilities for the “routine mode” for satellites which can fully support strategic, operational, or tactical needs. However, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">TacSat-3 was designed with an additional capability which could be referred to as a “hyper-tactical” mode, that is the ability to re-task, process data on-board, and downlink a product to users all in one overhead pass.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Figure 3 shows a high-level view of how that capability functions</span><span class="UnderlineChar">. This type of capability in a constellation, or multiple constellations, of satellites would constitute an even greater revolutionary leap in tactical support from space-based ISR than previously discussed</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In this case, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">satellites would essentially be used as airborne ISR assets that simply “fly highe</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">r</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">.” If </span>one wanted to increase the focus on support to the tactical warfighter<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">, fully </span>implementing a<span class="BoldUnderlineChar"> “</span>hyper-tactical<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">” </span>mode on<span class="BoldUnderlineChar"> small responsive space </span>satellites could be an appealing approach <span class="BoldUnderlineChar">for future systems</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. It remains to be seen, however, if warfighter needs, technical capabilities, and funding all point toward the maturation of this capability. Conclusion </span><span class="UnderlineChar">The DoD is in the beginning stages of a revolution in technology that could exceed the impact of the birth of airpower.</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">Effectively applied </span>responsive space concepts<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—</span>in the form of numerous small spacecraft <span class="BoldUnderlineChar">which rapidly incorporate emerging technology and are tied into responsive architectures</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—</span>would deliver assured capabilities <span class="BoldUnderlineChar">for combatant commanders </span>and improved strategic deterrence <span class="BoldUnderlineChar">for the nation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. However, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">bold and decisive steps must be taken soon.</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">A first step in the right direction would be to seize the opportunity to </span>revolutionize the way space-based ISR supports warfighters<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Our activities with respect to space-based ISR should be pursued with the same vigor with which the Air Force has recently focused on increasing airborne ISR. We must act quickly, we must hold the line with respect to the simplicity of the </span><span class="UnderlineChar">systems, we must ensure rapid and direct support to tactical warfighters, and we must fully leverage the technology available</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">. If </span>we do so we may very well succeed in jumpstarting the ORS revolution in space<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">.</span>

Without improved ISR China cyberattacks
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">BBC 11</span> (Viewpoint: A new Sino-US high-tech arms race? http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/mobile/world-asia-pacific-12154991)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Despite recent headlines reporting the appearance of a Chinese stealth fighter prototype, of </span><span class="UnderlineChar">more concern to US military planners is </span>the enabling technology that will produce the bite to China's <span class="UnderlineChar">military </span>bark<span class="UnderlineChar">. This </span>angst is focused on China's <span class="UnderlineChar">decade-long </span>programme of military "informationisation" designed to leap-frog over US capabilities<span style="font-size: 8pt;">in the Pacific region. The PLA is rapidly developing </span><span class="UnderlineChar">asymmetric warfare techniques against US</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">command, control, communications, computers, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance infrastructure, known as "</span>C4ISR<span class="UnderlineChar">" in military parlance</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. For China, with its inferior conventional military capabilities, the key to gaining the upper hand in a conflict with the US is to gain dominance of the space theatre and </span><span class="UnderlineChar">to </span>damage its digital nerve system<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. China views space as a corner-stone of its future prosperity: a mandate from heaven for China's growth and military strength. For this reason, China is working hard to counter the Pentagon's monopoly in space and to build its own space-based deterrent. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">The </span>PLA's doctrine of "pressure point warfare", a multi-layered approa<span class="UnderlineChar">ch using space, cyberspace and information operations alongside conventional capabilities </span>is designed to cripple an adversary <span class="UnderlineChar">in one swift strike</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. This fast paced and high-tech military modernisation has led to the emergence of weapons systems and technology, which in certain theatres has closed the military capability gap with the US considerably. </span>These include directed energy, jamming and cyber attack technologies<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, designed to paralyse the US military machine</span><span class="UnderlineChar">. The PLA has recently developed and successfully tested advanced anti-satellite (ASAT) weapons systems, demonstrating it can destroy or manoeuvre close to enemy satellites in space</span><span class="UnderlineBold">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ASAT weapons are part of a new genre of "assassin's mace" or surprise weapons aimed at the Pentagon's Achilles Heel in space and cyberspace. All of these capabilities require state of the art signals processing and communications systems, technology which China has been developing indigenously to create its own command and control architecture. </span>**Carrier fears**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> One of the most pressing concerns for the United States navy is the prospect of US aircraft carriers and other vessels being denied access to theatres of operation in the event that the US were dragged into a conflict over Taiwan or in support of its other Pacific allies. Coined by Pentagon planners as China's "A2/AD" (Anti Access/Area Denial) strategy, the PLA would attempt to prevent US aircraft carriers from deploying to theatre, targeted by Chinese torpedoes, Cruise Missiles and Anti Ship Ballistic Missiles (ASBMs). PLA tacticians know that a </span><span class="UnderlineChar">successful strike against a moving US aircraft carrier requires advanced space-based targeting assets and an ability to penetrate the US ballistic missile defence umbrella</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. They also know that their land-based missiles are vulnerable to attack from the US. One solution is to develop a submarine-launched ballistic missile (SLBM) capability, something which is also causing for concern for US defence secretary Robert Gates. The PLA's latest weapons systems serve as an opportunity to showcase China's considerable achievements and provide an anchor for the legitimacy of the Chinese Communist Party. What the PLA is prepared to reveal in public is also directed at the domestic audience as much as abroad - hence the roll-out of the J-20 stealth fighter prototype and the likely launch of an aircraft carrier within a year or two. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">C</span>hina<span class="UnderlineChar">, Taiwan </span>and the United States do not want a confrontation; this would <span class="UnderlineChar">likely </span>be a disaster of global proportions<span class="UnderlineChar">. </span>

<span class="CiteChar">That destroys the nuclear taboo and causes extinction- all your disad impacts are belong to us</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cimbala 99</span> (Stephen Cimbala, professor of political science at the Pennsylvania State University Delaware County Campus, Summer 1999, Armed Forces & Society: An Interdisciplinary Journal)


The nuclear shadow over the information age remains significant<span class="UnderlineChar">. The essence of </span>information warfare is <span class="UnderlineChar">in subtlety and deception: </span>the manipulation of uncertainty<span class="UnderlineChar">. </span>The essence of nuclear deterrence lies in the<span class="UnderlineChar"> credible and certain </span>threat of retaliation <span class="UnderlineChar">backed by an information environment accepted and trusted by both sides in a partly competitive, partly conflictual relationship. </span>Nuclear assets may themselves become the targets of cyberwarriors. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Triumphalism about the RMA in high technology </span><span class="UnderlineChar">conventional weapons overlooks asymmetrical strategies that might appeal to U.S. opponents. </span>Among these might be<span class="UnderlineChar"> the reciprocal </span>use of information warfare to deny U.S. access <span class="UnderlineChar">in time of need to a timely nuclear response or to a credible nuclear threat. But </span>even more problematic is the potential collision course between <span class="UnderlineChar">intentional information warfare and unintended </span>side effects when cyberwar is waged against a nuclear armed state<span class="UnderlineChar">, especially one with a non-Western culture. Neither the status of nuclear forces in the new world order, nor all of the military implications of the information revolution, are apparent now</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. There are reasons to suppose that the strategies and technologies of information warfare will develop along one track, whereas efforts to control nuclear weapons spread and to establish the safety and security of existing nuclear arsenals will involve a different community of specialists and attentive publics. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Nevertheless, there are sufficient grounds to be concerned that </span>a too successful menu of information strategies may contribute to a failure of nuclear deterrence <span class="UnderlineChar">in the form of accidental/inadvertent war or escalation. Unplanned </span>interactions between infowarriors a<span class="UnderlineChar">nd deterrers </span>could have unfortunate byproducts<span class="UnderlineChar">.</span>
=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]