[[toc]]
=Info= 
Aff Cites (Cristobal - The Most Interesting Man in Debate): [[mailto:cristobal.abel.mancillas@gmail.com|cristobal.abel.mancillas@gmail.com]]
Neg Cites (Keenan - The Red Baron): [[mailto:keenanharris@gmail.com|keenanharris@gmail.com]]

We will post Neg and 2AC args on request, feel free to email us to get the cite to any arg that you want.



=Affirmative= 
==1AC - Harker - JWST== 
Plan: The United States federal government should fully fund and launch the James Webb Space Telescope.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 1: Inherency – </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">JWST will be cut in the status quo – delay causes tech failure, launch date set back and kills focus</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Clark 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Stephen, writer @ spaceflight now, 7/14/11, http://www.spaceflightnow.com/news/n1107/14jwst/index.html) JPG</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">One week after a ...gain anything by doing it."</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Funding is the only barrier – the tech and hardware are there</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Borowitz 11</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> (Mariel John, research analyst @ space foundation, July 2011, PhD candidate @ university of Maryland, http://www.spacefoundation.org/docs/James_Webb_Space_Telescope_-_A_Worthy_Investment.pdf) JPG</span>
Technical performance<span class="underline"> in developing ...</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> secrets of the universe.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 2: Science Leadership</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Recent studies prove China will quickly become the science leader absent US investments in major projects</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shelton and Foland 10</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> (R.D. Felton – president at World Tech Evaluation Center (WTEC), and P. Foland – researcher @ WTEC, 2/24/10, http://www.usinnovation.org/files/RaceforInnovationRSheltonWTEC.pdf) JPG</span>
A <span class="underline">simple </span>summary of ... greater benefit to mankind.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US is struggling to attract top students – cancellation Webb decks US space science leadership</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Overbye 11</span> (Dennis, writer @ NYT, 7/7/11, http://www.nytimes.com/2011/07/07/science/07webb.html?_r=1) JPG
Astronomers reacted with immediate ... <span class="underline">in full living color.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">There are no technical hurdles to Webb – funding is key to international science leadership and cooperation – also stimulates public interest</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Discover 11</span> (7/7/11, http://blogs.discovermagazine.com/cosmicvariance/2011/07/07/james-webb-space-telescope/) JPG
JWST is a 6.5 meter IR-optimized ...<span class="underline"> scientific leadership in major projects.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Astronomy leadership is key to STEM education</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Blandford et. al 10</span> – a Pehong and Adele Chen Professor of Physics and director of the Kavli Institute for Astrophysics and Cosmology at Stanford University [Roger D. Blandford, Chair, Committee for a Decadal Survey of Astronomy and Astrophysics National Research Council, //New Worlds, New Horizons in Astronomy and Astrophysics//, 2010, ISBN: 9780309158008, pg. 103-5]
Astronomy offers a high return ...<span class="underline"> involvement over the coming decade</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">STEM is key to the US economy and competitiveness</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Augustine 7</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> (Norman, retired CEO of Lockheed Martin, serves on Pres’s Council of Advisors on Science and Tech, 3/13/7, http://commdocs.house.gov/committees/science/hsy33801x.000/hsy33801x_0f.htm) JPG</span>
The United States<span class="underline"> takes deserved ... </span>nations whose economies are growing.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Economic Collapse risk global nuclear wars</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harris and Burrows 09</span> PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) & member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit
Mathew, and Jennifer “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf
Of course, the report encompasses ...<span class="underline"> and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space leadership and STEM are key to hegemony</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bell 11</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> (Larry, prof @ Houston U, director of Sasakawa Intl Center for Space Architectre and grad program, 7/12/11, http://blogs.forbes.com/larrybell/2011/07/12/does-the-united-states-still-care-about-space-leadership/) JPG</span>
So <span class="underline">what have we ...</span> of people we are.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The telescope is 75 percent complete and only needs funding – webb is key to maintain space and science leadership against rising competitors</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gough 11</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> (Myles, writer @ Cosmos Science Magazine, 7/21/11, http://www.cosmosmagazine.com/features/online/4541/will-cost-kill-hubble%E2%80%99s-successor?page=0%2C0) JPG</span>
"Such a proposal threatens ... must see the mission through."

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">JWST is key to perception of US space and science leadership</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Illingworth 11</span> (Garth, PhD in astronomy & astrophysics @ Australia National U, Professor of Astronomy and Astrophysics Astronomer, UC Observatories/Lick Observatory,1/21/11, www.stsci.edu/jwst/community-advice/JSTAC_Holdren_JWST.pdf) JPG
The<span class="underline"> James </span>Webb<span class="underline"> Space Telescope</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ... the perspective of the JSTAC.</span>

Science leadership is critical to science diplomacy which solves wars, the economy, and the environment
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dr. Federoff 8</span> <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Nina, Sec of State, http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-110hhrg41470/html/CHRG-110hhrg41470.htm)</span>
Chairman Baird, Ranking Member Ehlers, ...<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> advance U.S. interests in foreign policy.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Science leadership solves every impact – also key to soft power</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Coletta 9</span> (Damon, PhD in Poli Sci @ Duke, Masters in Public Policy @ Harvard, Assoc Prof of Geopolitics & National Security Policy @ US Air Force Academy, September 2009, http://www.usafa.edu/df/inss/Research%20Papers/2009/09%20Coletta%20Science%20and%20InfluenceINSS(FINAL).pdf.) JPG
<span style="font-family: Times;">Less appreciated is how </span>scientific ...<span class="underline"> U.S. leadership among nations.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Faliure to maintain Science leadership creates a cascade effect – Turns the internal link to every disad</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">PSA 10</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> (Partnership for a Secure America, bipartisan group of scientists, politicians, and public policy experts, 2/19/10, http://www.psaonline.org/article.php?id=620) JPG</span>
<span class="underline">The United States is ... use of a core strength of this country - Science Diplomacy.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Soft power solves extinction – also key to heg</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nye 8</span> – distinguished service professor and former dean of Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government, PhD in Political Science from Harvard [March 7, 2008, Joseph S. Nye Jr., “Security and Smart Power,” http://abs.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/51/9/1351]
Etzioni is correct that ... spent a few more pages developing one for Iran.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Soft power has been empirically used as a method of stabilization.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nye 4</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">(Joseph, former Asst Sec of Defense and Dean of JFK School of govt @ Harvard, May/June 2004,</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/59888/joseph-s-nye-jr/the-decline-of-americas-soft-power) JPG</span>
<span class="underline">Skeptics of soft ... along with hard power.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Soft power and tech leadership are the biggest internal to heg in the information age</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nye 4</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> (Joseph, former Asst Sec of Defense and Dean of JFK School of govt @ Harvard, 8/2/4, http://hbswk.hbs.edu/archive/4290.html) JPG</span>
The conditions for<span class="underline"> projecting ... be to</span> followers of those <span class="underline">leaders who ignore or devalue the significance of soft power.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Heg de-escalates conflicts and prevents great power wars</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thayer 6</span> (Bradley A. Thayer, November/December, 2006 “In Defense of Primacy,” NATIONAL INTEREST Issue 86)
THROUGHOUT HISTORY, peace and stability ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> States humanitarian missions are the equivalent of a blitzkrieg.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Collapse causes multiple nuclear wars</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Arbatov 7</span> (Alexei, corresponding member of the Russian Academy of Sciences, member of the Editorial Board of Russia in Global Affairs, “Is a New Cold War Imminent,” ... in one or several major capitals of the world.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 3: Astrophysics</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Webb is key to astrophysics and locating exoplanets – other telescopes don’t have the tech – NASA reforms solve any inefficiency</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mountain 11</span> (Matt, Director of the Space Telescope Science Institute & Prof of Physics @ Johns Hopkins and Oxford, Space Times Vol. 50 Issue 3, May/June 2011, https://blogs.stsci.edu/newsletter/2011/02/07/the-james-webb-space-telescope%E2%80%94it%E2%80%99s-complicated-but-so-is-leadership/) JPG
The recent release of ... generation. If not us, then who?

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Other telescope don’t have technological capabilities as JWST.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pachal 11</span> (Peter, writer @ PCMag, 7/8/11, http://www.pcmag.com/article2/0,2817,2388293,00.asp) JPG
With the <span class="underline">Webb </span>in jeopardy, its ... <span style="font-size: 8pt;">going on of the flight unit."</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">JWST is critical to astrophysics</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Illingworth 11</span> (Garth, PhD in astronomy & astrophysics @ Australia National U, Professor of Astronomy and Astrophysics Astronomer, UC Observatories/Lick Observatory, 7/21/11, http://science.nasa.gov/media/medialibrary/2011/07/22/7_21_2011-Illingworth_JWST-Comments_for_APS.pdf.) JPG
I think its most effective to ...<span class="underline"> whether it does not.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Astronomy and astrophysics solves warming</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Blandford et. al. 10</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– a Pehong and Adele Chen Professor of Physics and director of the Kavli Institute for Astrophysics and Cosmology at Stanford University [Roger D. Blandford, Chair, Committee for a Decadal Survey of Astronomy and Astrophysics National Research Council, New Worlds, New Horizons in Astronomy and Astrophysics, 2010, ISBN: 9780309158008, pg. 114-5]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Astronomy Addresses the ...</span><span class="underline"> interest in astronomy</span>.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Warming is real & anthropogenic – causes extinction and outweighs every impact</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Deibel 7</span> (Terry L, Professor of IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)
Finally, <span class="underline">there is </span>one <span class="underline">major </span>existential ...<span class="underline"> existence of </span>life on this planet.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Webb is the only option for discovering HABITABLE exoplanets – causes future exploration</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Spotts 11</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> (Pete, staff writer @ Christian Science Monitor, 6/17/11, http://www.csmonitor.com/Science/2011/0617/Space-exploration-Will-budget-cuts-stall-search-for-other-Earths) JPG</span>
Never has the young field <span class="underline">of "</span>exoplanet" research ... to one of the designs for the TPF.

And that sparks a new era of space colonization.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harrold, 08</span> – staff writer for the Gazette [July 18, 2008, Max Harrold, The Gazette, “Earth's twin coming into view; Scientists believe habitable planet will be spotted soon,” Lexis]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With less fanfare than H.G. Wells's science ...</span><span class="underline"> has said it's okay to look."</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space colonization is the ONLY way to save the human race from extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fox News 10</span> [Fox News, “Abandon Earth or Face Extinction, Stephen Hawking Warns – Again”, http://www.foxnews.com/scitech/2010/08/09/abandon-earth-face-extinction-warns-stephen-hawking/, 6/9/10]
It's time to abandon Earth<span class="underline">, warned ... </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">days I’m not so cautious.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space colonization solves extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Matheny 7</span> [Jason G. Matheny, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” December 7, 2007, Risk Analysis: Volume 27, Issue 5, pages 1335–1344, http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1539-6924.2007.00960.x/full, DA 7/16/11]//RS

As for astronomical risks, to escape<span class="underline"> ...</span> setback compared to extinction.

==1AC - USC - JWST== 
Contention 1: Inherency
The Senate funded Webb, but the House will kill it
King 11/2 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ledyard, writing for Florida Today, “senate offers nasa more than house,” http://www.floridatoday.com/article/20111102/NEWS02/311020008/Senate-offers-NASA-more-than-House)JFS</span>
The Senate<span class="underline"> voted</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Tuesday </span>to ...<span class="underline"> for NASA </span>is not<span class="underline"> expected to be </span>easy<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

AND, Bill puts an 8 billion cap
Leone 11/1 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dan, staff writer for Space News, “nasa acknowledges jwst replan will deplay science missions,” http://www.spacenews.com/civil/110211-nasa-acknowledges-jwst-replan-will-delay-science-missions.html)JFS</span>
<span class="underline">The </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Senate Appropriations </span><span class="underline">subcommittee ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> measure that freezes funding at 2011 levels. </span>

AND, It will need $10 billion
Kaplan 10/17 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, aerospace consultant, former program executive of JWST, former head of astrophysics @ NASA, the space review, “linking JWST and human spaceflight,” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1951/1)JFS</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But what do we do now? As it stands now, </span>...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> explore. This latter choice I find deeply troubling.</span>
THUS THE PLAN: The United States federal government should fully fund and launch the James Webb Space Telescope, including funding for a telerobotic repair system.

NEXT, Contention 2: Solvency –

Current JWST plan can’t solve – Doesn’t include a telerobotic arm – 3 scenarios for telescope failure prevent effectiveness – no solvency without a telerobotic repair system.
Postman et al 10 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Marc, M. Stiaveli, J. Tumlinson, H. Ferguson, M. Mountain, J. Grunsfeld, R. Brown, Space Telescope Science Institute, L.L. Whitecomb, G. Hager, A. Okamura, P. Kazanzides, N. Cowan, R. Kumar, I. Iordachita, R. Taylor, G. Chirikjian, Laboratory for Computational Science and Robotics @ Johns Hopkins, J. Green, Jet Propulsion Laboratory, “Feasibility of using Human Spaceflight or Robotic Missions For Servicing Existing or Future Spacecraft,” http://www.stsci.edu/institute/atlast/documents/ServicingRFI_stsci_jhu_jpl_final.pdf)JFS</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The most exciting frontiers in space astronomy ... arrays, cryo-coolers, guidance sensors, computers and memory modules.</span>

AND, A telerobotic repair system attached to JWST for repairs solves tech failures.
Kaplan 10/17 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, aerospace consultant, former program executive of JWST, former head of astrophysics @ NASA, the space review, “linking JWST and human spaceflight,” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1951/1)JFS</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If we </span>look<span class="underline"> back </span>at<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the enormously successful ...</span><span class="underline"> in instrument technology</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, as has been the case with HST.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NEXT, Contention 3: Science Leadership</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Initially note, the US will lose space science leadership to China in the status quo without US action.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shelton and Foland 10</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">(R.D. Felton – president at World Tech Evaluation Center (WTEC), and P. Foland – researcher @ WTEC, 2/24/10, http://www.usinnovation.org/files/RaceforInnovationRSheltonWTEC.pdf) JPG</span>
A <span class="underline">simple </span>summary <span style="font-size: 8pt;">of the current status of the ... investments – for even greater benefit to mankind.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Two internal links – </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">First is STEM Education – </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US is losing top STEM students – Webb key to reclaim them</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Overbye 11</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dennis, writer @ NYT, 7/7/11, http://www.nytimes.com/2011/07/07/science/07webb.html?_r=1) JPG</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Astronomers reacted with immediate ...</span><span class="underline"> telescope</span>, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">he said, </span>“<span class="underline">would bring it home in full living color.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND, Webb key to attract STEM students who would otherwise aid Chinese takeover – Kills Astronomy Leadership</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bullock 9/6</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(James, physics and astronomy prof @ UC Irvine, & director @ So Cal Center for Galaxy Evolution, 2011, http://articles.latimes.com/2011/sep/06/opinion/la-oe-bullock-hubble-telescope-20110906) JPG</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Walk through the halls of </span><span class="underline">UC Irvine's ...</span> funding for astronomy is rising <span class="underline">steadily</span>.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND, Science leadership in Astronomy uniquely key to STEM education</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Blandford et. al 10</span> – a Pehong and Adele Chen Professor of Physics and director of the Kavli Institute for Astrophysics and Cosmology at Stanford University [Roger D. Blandford, Chair, Committee for a Decadal Survey of Astronomy and Astrophysics National Research Council, //New Worlds, New Horizons in Astronomy and Astrophysics//, 2010, ISBN: 9780309158008, pg. 103-5]
Astronomy offers a <span class="underline">high </span>return on ...<span class="underline"> opportunities for public involvement over the coming decade</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND, STEM industry key to science leadership</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Paarlberg 4</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robert, Professor of Political Science at Wellesley College, “Knowledge as Power: Science, Military Dominance, and U.S. Security,” International Security - Volume 29, Number 1, Summer 2004, pp. 122-151)</span>
U.S. science<span class="underline"> has found a way to overcome</span> ... undermine U.S. science hegemony<span class="underline"> overall.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Second Internal Link is Perception – </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan is key to the __perception__ of space leadership – Tech exists – Funding is key to effectiveness.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Illingworth 11</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Garth, PhD in astronomy & astrophysics @ Australia National U, Professor of Astronomy and Astrophysics Astronomer, UC Observatories/Lick Observatory,1/21/11, www.stsci.edu/jwst/community-advice/JSTAC_Holdren_JWST.pdf) JPG</span>
The<span class="underline"> James </span>Webb<span class="underline"> Space Telescope</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">is a ... on the importance of the JWST science mission from the perspective of the JSTAC</span>.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Three impact scenarios– </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">First is Diplomacy – </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Science leadership key to science diplomacy – Solves wars, stabilizes the economy, and precludes environmental action – Collapse ensures chaos.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dr. Federoff 8</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nina, Sec of State, http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-110hhrg41470/html/CHRG-110hhrg41470.htm</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chairman Baird, Ranking Member Ehlers, and distinguished members of the Subcommittee, thank you for this opportunity to discuss science diplomacy at the U.S. Department of State</span>. The U.S. is ...<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> allies, to advance U.S. interests in foreign policy.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Second impact is Soft Power – </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Science leadership key to soft power – Solves every impact – Prerequisite to hegemony.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Coletta 9</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Damon, PhD in Poli Sci @ Duke, Masters in Public Policy @ Harvard, Assoc Prof of Geopolitics & National Security Policy @ US Air Force Academy, September 2009, http://www.usafa.edu/df/inss/Research%20Papers/2009/09%20Coletta%20Science%20and%20InfluenceINSS(FINAL).pdf.) JPG </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Less appreciated is how </span>scientific progress<span class="underline"> facilitates ... to U.S. leadership among nations.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Third impact is Heg – </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Science leadership key to heg – maintains material gap between competitors – Collapse of Science Leadership kills heg.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Paarlberg 4</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robert, Professor of Political Science at Wellesley College, “Knowledge as Power: Science, Military Dominance, and U.S. Security,” International Security - Volume 29, Number 1, Summer 2004, pp. 122-151)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Can</span> the United States <span style="font-size: 8pt;">maintain its </span><span class="underline">global </span>lead in ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> scientific as well as the industrial lead.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND, Heg key to global stability and to access every impact – No alternatives</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thayer 6</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Associate Professor of Defense and Strategic Study @ Missouri State University, Former Research Fellow @ International Security Program @ Harvard Belfer Center of Science and International Affairs (Bradley, “In Defense of Primacy,” The National Interest, November/December)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A grand strategy based on American ... proponents of American primacy due to the economic prosperity it provides. </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND, Heg collapse causes multiple nuclear wars</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Arbatov 7</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Alexei, corresponding member of the Russian Academy of Sciences, member of the Editorial Board of Russia in Global Affairs, “Is a New Cold War Imminent,” Russia in Global Affairs, No. 2, July-September 2007, http://eng.globalaffairs.ru/numbers/20/1130.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, the low probability of a new Cold ...</span><span class="underline"> in one or several major capitals of the world.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND, Hegemony inevitable – only a matter of how it’s deployed</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tellis 9</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ashley, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, GLOBAL ASIA Vol.4, No. 1, 2009, http://globalasia.org/pdf/issue9/Ashley_J._Tellis.pdf) JPG</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This </span>hegemony is by no means fated ... foundations<span class="underline">of its power, and securing international support</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">for its policies.</span>

NEXT, Contention 4: Telerobotics

Initially note, telerobots in James Webb spill over to broader use in the future
Postman et al 10 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Marc, M. Stiaveli, J. Tumlinson, H. Ferguson, M. Mountain, J. Grunsfeld, R. Brown, Space Telescope Science Institute, L.L. Whitecomb, G. Hager, A. Okamura, P. Kazanzides, N. Cowan, R. Kumar, I. Iordachita, R. Taylor, G. Chirikjian, Laboratory for Computational Science and Robotics @ Johns Hopkins, J. Green, Jet Propulsion Laboratory, “Feasibility of using Human Spaceflight or Robotic Missions For Servicing Existing or Future Spacecraft,” http://www.stsci.edu/institute/atlast/documents/ServicingRFI_stsci_jhu_jpl_final.pdf)JFS</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In this response to the RFI, we provide views ... characterizing exoplanets in the search for life.</span>

<span class="cite">AND,</span>Telerobotic tests demonstrate feasible solutions to space debris – that spills over to global solvency
Akin & Sullivan 5 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(David, Department of Aerospace Engineering, Space Systems Lab, U of Maryland, Brook, Doctor of Philosophy, “Technical and Economic Feasibility of Telerobotic On-Orbit Satellite Servicing,” http://drum.lib.umd.edu/bitstream/1903/2330/1/umi-umd-2164.pdf)JFS</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">How then to break the tie between Retirement ... market segment reachable with current technologies.</span>

<span class="cite">AND,</span>We’re at the brink for space debris – Scientific consensus – Plan is key.
Amos 9/1 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jonathan, science correspondent, BBC News, “space junk at tipping point, says report,” http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-us-canada-14757926)JFS</span>
Scientists <span style="font-size: 8pt;">in the US </span>have warned<span class="underline"> Nasa ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> what we had done in the last 25 years," said Donald Kessler, who led the research.</span>

AND, Widespread telerobotic cleanup induced by JWST solves existing debris and prevents future issues.
Machida 5 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Kazuo, Dept. of Aeronautics and Astronautics, U of Tokyo, “Robotization and Artificial Intelligence Toward Realization of a Space Environment Preservation System,” http://www.rcast.u-tokyo.ac.jp/en/research/profiles/007/pdf/001.pdf)JFS</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">You joined RCAST in 2002. Is your current mission ... on a person engaging in extravehicular activity.</span>

AND, Telerobots are the only tech that can remove debris from orbit
Akin & Sullivan 5 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(David, Department of Aerospace Engineering, Space Systems Lab, U of Maryland, Brook, Doctor of Philosophy, “Technical and Economic Feasibility of Telerobotic On-Orbit Satellite Servicing,” http://drum.lib.umd.edu/bitstream/1903/2330/1/umi-umd-2164.pdf)JFS</span>
The <span style="font-size: 8pt;">simplest </span>missions <span style="font-size: 8pt;">are the Deployment ... access the fuel port and to transfer fuel.</span>

AND, Space debris destroys Russian satellites – causes accidental war
Lewis 4 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jeffrey, office of defense for policy, center for defence info, postdoctoral fellow in advanced methods of cooperative study program, “what if space were weaponized?”, http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf)JFS</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is the second of two scenarios that consider ...</span><span class="underline"> nuclear forces to operate safely</span>.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND, Russian war is the only risk for extinction from nuclear war.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bostrom 2</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nick, Dir. Future of Humanity Institute and Prof. Philosophy – Oxford U., Journal of Evolution and Technology, “Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards”, 9, March, http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html)</span>
<span class="underline">The first</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> manmade </span><span class="underline">existential risk was the</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ... existential risks that we will encounter in the 21st century.</span>

AND, Telerobotics unused in space – Tech exists – Best operational version of robots for the job.
Shademan et al 8 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Azad, phd in computer science @ U of Alberta, alejandro hernandez-herdocia, masters student @ u of alberta, david lovi, neil birkbeck, phd in computer science @ U of Rochester, university of alberta publication, “mobile manipulation and telerobotics for space exploration,” http://webdocs.cs.ualberta.ca/~vis/robotics/spacerob.htm)JFS</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Current </span>robots<span style="font-size: 8pt;">neither have humans’ sophisticated ...</span><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;"> for the Phoenix program, they added.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NEXT, Contention 5: Warming – </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Initially note, Warming is anthropogenic and outweighs every impact – Causes systemic death and biodiversity collapse – Scientific consensus says it outweighs nuclear extinction scenarios.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Deibel 7</span> (Terry L, Professor of IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)
Finally, <span class="underline">there is </span>one <span class="underline">major </span>existential threatto ... <span class="underline">the continued existence of </span>life on this planet.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NASA astrophysics gets cut in the status quo – JWST is critical to maintain it</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Illingworth 11</span> (Garth, PhD in astronomy & astrophysics @ Australia National U, Professor of Astronomy and Astrophysics Astronomer, UC Observatories/Lick Observatory, 7/21/11, http://science.nasa.gov/media/medialibrary/2011/07/22/7_21_2011-Illingworth_JWST-Comments_for_APS.pdf.) JPG
I think its most effective to fight one battle ...<span class="underline"> launch or whether it does not.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND, Webb is key to astrophysics – Other telescopes don’t have the tech – NASA reforms solve any inefficiency</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mountain 11</span> (Matt, Director of the Space Telescope Science Institute & Prof of Physics @ Johns Hopkins and Oxford, Space Times Vol. 50 Issue 3, May/June 2011, https://blogs.stsci.edu/newsletter/2011/02/07/the-james-webb-space-telescope%E2%80%94it%E2%80%99s-complicated-but-so-is-leadership/) JPG
The recent release of NASA’s Independent ... //Hubble//” to the next generation. If not us, then who?

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND, astrophysics research is the only solvency for warming – Provides knowledge needed for tech.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Blandford et. al. 10</span> – a Pehong and Adele Chen Professor of Physics and director of the Kavli Institute for Astrophysics and Cosmology at Stanford University [Roger D. Blandford, Chair, Committee for a Decadal Survey of Astronomy and Astrophysics National Research Council, New Worlds, New Horizons in Astronomy and Astrophysics, 2010, ISBN: 9780309158008, pg. 114-5]
Astronomy Addresses the Challenges of the 21st ...<span class="underline"> they have created have led to great interest in astronomy</span>.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND, overcoming data shortfalls is key to government response – Only way to solve warming.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lewis 10</span> (James Andrew, Dir. and Sen. Fellow of Tech @ CSIS, PhD @ Chicago U, 6/9/10, http://csis.org/publication/climate-change-and-earth-observation-executive-summary) JPG
<span class="underline">There is unequivocal evidence</span>, despite careless ... many levels of society.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND, we solve globally – Other countries will model US response to climate change</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brown 11</span> (Donald, Assoc Prof of Environmental Ethics, Science, and Law @ Penn state, 2/28/11, http://rockblogs.psu.edu/climate/2011/02/the-world-waits-in-vain-for-us-ethical-climate-change-leadership.html) JPG
Although some progress was made on a ...<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> States is ignoring its global obligations.</span>

==2AC Blocks - JWST== 

===Lowell Cite Request - Kleckner=== 

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Obama isnt spending capital on SKFTA</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kleckner 9/14</span> (Dean, writer @ Washington Times, http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/sep/14/obama-deliberately-kills-jobs/) JPG
In his jobs speech last ... done “right away.”

==1AC - GoldenD - EOS== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should fund and launch a substantial amount of Earth observation satellites beyond the Earth’s mesosphere. </span>**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Contention 1 is Warming</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Initially note – Warming is real & anthropogenic – causes extinction and systemic deaths – We control probability and magnitude</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> Deibel 7</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Terry L, Professor of IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Finally, </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">there is one </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">major existential threat</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">to ... </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">to </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">the continued existence of life on this planet.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, Carbon cycle feedback loops mean we control timeframe</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Von Diemling et al 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> (T. Schneider von Deimling, Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, M. Meinshausen, Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, A. Levermann, Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research and Potsdam University Physics Department, V. Huber, Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, K. Frieler, Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, D. M. Lawrence, Climate and Global Dynamics Division, National Center for Atmospheric Research and V. Brovkin, Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, Max Planck Institute for Meteorology, published May 12, 2011, “Estimating the permafrost-carbon feedback on global warming,” Biogeosciences Discuss., 8, 4727–4761, 2011)JFS</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The climate response to</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> anthropogenic ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;"> permafrost feedback refer to (Schewe et al., 2011).</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, warming comparatively outweighs all other impacts </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Doebbler 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Curtis, international human rights lawyer, two threats to our existence, ahram weekly, july 2011)JFS</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Climate change is</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> widely acknowledged to ... developing countries. They continue in this vein.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, prefer our authors – They’re more qualified</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Ashley 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Stephan, Professor of Cognitive Studies at the University of Western Australia, and Michael, Professor of Astrophysics at the University of New South Wales, “The false, the confused and the mendacious: how the media gets it wrong on climate change</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">,” http://theconversation.edu.au/the-false-the-confused-and-the-mendacious-how-the-media-gets-it-wrong-on-climate-change-1558)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Certainty in science If you ask a scientist whether ... has tragically and thoroughly failed the Australian public.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, plan solves warming – 2 internal links – </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">FIRST is Data – Earth observation satellites close climate data gaps – Influences policy to cap emissions – US action is key</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Lewis et al. 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf)JFS</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Satellites</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> provide globally consistent observations</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> and ... match. The </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">monitoring</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> needed for a serious effort requires observations that can only be done from space</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, no way to solve warming without closing data gaps.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Gifford 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">- Robert Gifford, Professor of psychology at University of Victoria, May – June 2011, “The dragons of inaction: Psychological Barriers That Limit Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation,” American Psychologist Vol. 66, No. 4, 290–302 DOI: 10.1037/a0023566</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Experimental research on resource dilemmas ... inaction on the part of the public. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, Plan is the only way to ensure international preventative measures and cooperation – There’s no hope of solvency otherwise.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Lewis et al. 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">There has been speculation for more than a ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;"> is incorporated into public policymaking.4 </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, SECOND internal link is leadership – </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Initially note – US lead Earth Observation Systems will collapse in status quo – no funding</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Chameides 9 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Bill, duke’s Nicholas school of the environment and member of the national academy of sciences, “are we flying blind?” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/bill-chameides/are-we-flying-blind_b_178205.html)JFS</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Without</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> a significant infusion of ...</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> upon others for critical climate data?</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">And, that decks US environmental leadership – Plan’s key to prevent collapse.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Sabathier & Faith 7</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">- Vincent Sabatheir, senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program. From 2004 to 2009, he was senior fellow and director for space initiatives at CSIS. He is also senior adviser to the SAFRAN group and consults internationally on aerospace and telecommunications; Ryan Faith, associate for the Center for Strategic and International Studies, 31 July 2007, “Minding the Gaps: Keeping Exploration Alive,” Online: http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/070731_space_commentary.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Finally, the third challenge relates to the ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> longer term, our leadership role is at great risk.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, US environmental leadership is the only way to solve warming globally.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Ivanova & Esty 8 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Asst. Prof of Govt and Enviro Policy @ College of William of Mary and Director of Global Environmental Governance Project @ Yale, and Prof of Enviro Law @ Yale, “Reclaiming US Leadership in Global Environmental Governance”, http://mxivan.people.wm.edu/Ivanova&Esty-SAIS%20Review-2008.pdf)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">In this article, we address these core questions. We ... organizations—even those related to protecting the planet </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Contention 2 is Food</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Initially note – Massive food crises coming now – they can be solved, but nothing is being done to do so</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Bittman 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Mark, writer for the new york times, cites Julian Cribb, director of australia’s national science agency, fellow of the Australian academy of technological sciences and engineering, has published more than 8000 scientific studies, “seeing a time (soon) when we’ll all be dieting,” http://www.nytimes.com/2010/08/25/books/25book.html?pagewanted=print)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Today we have another worry: roughly the same ... </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">gains in food production and sustainability</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">on a par with those of the Green Revolution.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, plan solves food crises – 3 internal links – </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">FIRST is food prices – Earth-observation is key to reliable crop estimates – Only way to keep future food prices stable</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Rocchio 7 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Laura, nasa scientist, “landsat – protecting the price of bread,” http://landsat.gsfc.nasa.gov/news/news-archive/soc_0010.html)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Year-to-year we expect the price of bread to ... ago that initially led FAS to use Landsat data.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, fluctuating food prices triggers massive global food shortages – outweighs on timeframe and magnitude</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Cribb 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Julian, director of australia’s national science agency, fellow of the Australian academy of technological sciences and engineering, has published more than 8000 scientific studies, “the coming famine: the global food crisis and what we can do to avoid it,” google books)JFS <we do not endorse gendered language> <note: FAO = food and agriculture organization></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">With eloquent symbolism, this Petronian banquet ... which we have forgotten to renew.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, Second internal link is precision farming – </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Current farming methods are unsustainable – Satellite imagery is key to forecasting, soil mapping, and wasteland management – the plan is key to land efficiency and food production</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Singh et al 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Pradeep, Feroz Ahmed Parry, Kouser Parveen, Sumati Narayan, Asima Amin, Ahsis Vaidya, Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology of Kashmir, International Journal of Current Research, Vol. 3, Issue 4, april 2011, “precision farming and its role in vegetable production,” http://www.journalcra.com/sites/default/files/Download_331.pdf)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Remote sensors are generally categorized as aerial or </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">satellite ...</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> increasing the food production</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, the plan is key to precision farming – that’s the only way to keep food production sustainable.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Singh et al 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Pradeep, Feroz Ahmed Parry, Kouser Parveen, Sumati Narayan, Asima Amin, Ahsis Vaidya, Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology of Kashmir, International Journal of Current Research, Vol. 3, Issue 4, april 2011, “precision farming and its role in vegetable production,” http://www.journalcra.com/sites/default/files/Download_331.pdf)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Agriculture is the backbone of our country ... benefit to the farmers and to society.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, we solve the __only__ internal link to precision farming – EOS is the only way to have sustainable agriculture</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Cookson 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Clive, jan 26, writer for financial times, specialist in business and food sustainability, http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/ad6e3492-0a00-11df-8b23-00144feabdc0.html#axzz1j1tAYTI1)JFS</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> technological battle to raise agricultural ...</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> the cost of a fully equipped new tractor.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, Sustainable ag solves extinction – also checks all food shortages</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Kahn 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Linda, june, bulletin of the atomic scientists, linda is a research @ princeton’s program on science and global security, http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/columnists/laura-h-kahn/the-uncertainty-surrounding-sustainable-agriculture)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">So, though all of our planet's problems may have started ... us: Will we be able to feed billions andpreserve the natural world?</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, sustainable ag makes nuclear war survivable</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Kearny 87 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Cresson, oak ridge national laboratory, us department of energy, Oregon institute of science and medicine, “nuclear war survival skills,” http://www.nukepills.com/docs/nuclear_war_survival_skills.pdf)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Even if all food-producing animals were ... areas </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">should receive basic</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">unprocessed </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">foods</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, third internal link is US agricultural leadership – US governmental action now is key to solve failure of the American ag industry.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">WFP 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> (World Food Prize,“Chicago Council Wins Grant to Expand Global Agricultural Development Initiative,” Dec 23, 2010, pg. http://www.worldfoodprize.org/index.cfm?nodeID=24667&action=display&newsID=11003)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">A number of policy developments indicate ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> toward supporting agriculture</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> as a poverty alleviation tool.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, US ag industry failure triggers mass death</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Sircus 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Mark, director of agriculture news, “agricultural apocalypse 2010,” http://agriculture.imva.info/food-prices/agricultural-apocalypse-2010)JFS</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The world faces “mass starvation” following</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">North </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 20px;">**__...__**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> listen to what else the USDA is saying.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Contention 3 is No War</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">No great power wars </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Mandelbaum 99</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">- Professor of American Foreign Policy at Johns Hopkins University (Michael, Christian A. Herter Professor of American Foreign Policy, The Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University; Director, Project on East-West Relations, Council on Foreign Relations “Is Major War Obsolete?”)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Why is this so? Most simply, the costs have risen and </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">the benefits ...</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> pawn is now just a pawn, not a sentry standing guard against an attack on a king.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, No nuclear escalation </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Robinson 1 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[C. Paul, President and Director, Sandia National Laboratories, PhD Physics @ FSU, Chair of the Policy Committee of the Strategic Advisory Group for the Commander, US Strategic Command, 3-22, “Pursuing a New Nuclear Weapons Policy for the 21st Century,” http://www.sandia.gov/media/whitepaper/2001-04-Robinson.htm]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Let me then state my most important conclusion directly: I ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> stable and peaceful world</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, Nuclear war doesn’t cause extinction.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Nyquist 99 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[J.R., “Is Nuclear War Survivable?” May 20, WorldNetDaily.com, http://www.antipas.org/protected_files/news/world/nuclear_war.html]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">As I write about Russia's nuclear war preparations, I get some ... </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">weapons would produce few</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> (if any) </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">fallout casualties</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
AND, no accidents – Expertise, history, deterrence and uncertainty ensure safe handling of nuclear weapons.
Waltz 95 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kenneth N. Waltz (inventor of structural realism, father of deterrence, professor of political science @ Columbia) 1995 "Peace, Stability and Nuclear Weapons" [[http://www.ciaonet.org/wps/wak01/]]</span>
<span class="highlight2">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9.5pt;">Large numbers of weapons increase the...</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9.5pt;"> is too dangerous to bear.</span>__</span>

==1AC - Stanford/Berkeley - EOS== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Dat Yung Plan: The United States federal government should fund and launch a substantial amount of Earth observation satellites beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.</span>**</span></span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Contention 1 is Warming</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Initially note – Warming is real & anthropogenic – causes extinction and systemic deaths – We control probability and magnitude</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> Deibel 7</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Terry L, Professor of IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Finally, </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">there is one </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">major existential threat</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">to ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> continued existence of life on this planet.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, Carbon cycle feedback loops mean we control timeframe</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Von Diemling et al 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> (T. Schneider von Deimling, Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, M. Meinshausen, Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, A. Levermann, Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research and Potsdam University Physics Department, V. Huber, Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, K. Frieler, Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, D. M. Lawrence, Climate and Global Dynamics Division, National Center for Atmospheric Research and V. Brovkin, Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, Max Planck Institute for Meteorology, published May 12, 2011, “Estimating the permafrost-carbon feedback on global warming,” Biogeosciences Discuss., 8, 4727–4761, 2011)JFS</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The climate response to</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> anthropogenic ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;"> feedback refer to (Schewe et al., 2011).</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, warming comparatively outweighs all other impacts </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Doebbler 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Curtis, international human rights lawyer, two threats to our existence, ahram weekly, july 2011)JFS</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Climate change is</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> widely acknowledged ... developing countries. They continue in this vein.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, prefer our authors – They’re more qualified</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Ashley 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Stephan, Professor of Cognitive Studies at the University of Western Australia, and Michael, Professor of Astrophysics at the University of New South Wales, “The false, the confused and the mendacious: how the media gets it wrong on climate change</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">,” http://theconversation.edu.au/the-false-the-confused-and-the-mendacious-how-the-media-gets-it-wrong-on-climate-change-1558)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Certainty in science If you ask a scientist ... Australian media has tragically and thoroughly failed the Australian public.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, plan solves warming – 2 internal links – </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">FIRST is Data – Earth observation satellites close climate data gaps – Influences policy to cap emissions – US action is key</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Lewis et al. 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf)JFS</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Satellites</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> provide globally consistent observations</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> and the ... match. The </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">monitoring</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> needed for a serious effort requires observations that can only be done from space</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, no way to solve warming without closing data gaps.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Gifford 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">- Robert Gifford, Professor of psychology at University of Victoria, May – June 2011, “The dragons of inaction: Psychological Barriers That Limit Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation,” American Psychologist Vol. 66, No. 4, 290–302 DOI: 10.1037/a0023566</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Experimental research on resource dilemmas demonstrates ... on the part of the public. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, Plan is the only way to ensure international preventative measures and cooperation – There’s no hope of solvency otherwise.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Lewis et al. 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">There has been speculation for more than a century ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;"> incorporated into public policymaking.4 </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, SECOND internal link is leadership – </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Initially note – US lead Earth Observation Systems will collapse in status quo – no funding</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Chameides 9 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Bill, duke’s Nicholas school of the environment and member of the national academy of sciences, “are we flying blind?” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/bill-chameides/are-we-flying-blind_b_178205.html)JFS</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Without</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> a significant infusion ...</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> others for critical climate data?</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">And, that decks US environmental leadership – Plan’s key to prevent collapse.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Sabathier & Faith 7</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">- Vincent Sabatheir, senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program. From 2004 to 2009, he was senior fellow and director for space initiatives at CSIS. He is also senior adviser to the SAFRAN group and consults internationally on aerospace and telecommunications; Ryan Faith, associate for the Center for Strategic and International Studies, 31 July 2007, “Minding the Gaps: Keeping Exploration Alive,” Online: http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/070731_space_commentary.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Finally, the third challenge relates to the collection of ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> leadership role is at great risk.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, US environmental leadership is the only way to solve warming globally.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Ivanova & Esty 8 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Asst. Prof of Govt and Enviro Policy @ College of William of Mary and Director of Global Environmental Governance Project @ Yale, and Prof of Enviro Law @ Yale, “Reclaiming US Leadership in ... related to protecting the planet</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Contention 2 is Food</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Initially note – Massive food crises coming now – they can be solved, but nothing is being done to do so</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Bittman 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Mark, writer for the new york times, cites Julian Cribb, director of australia’s national science agency, fellow of the Australian academy of technological sciences and engineering, has published more than 8000 scientific studies, “seeing a time (soon) when we’ll all be dieting,” http://www.nytimes.com/2010/08/25/books/25book.html?pagewanted=print)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Today we have another worry: roughly the same number of ... </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">gains in food production and sustainability</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">on a par with those of the Green Revolution.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, plan solves food crises – 3 internal links – </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">FIRST is food prices – Earth-observation is key to reliable crop estimates – Only way to keep future food prices stable</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Rocchio 7 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Laura, nasa scientist, “landsat – protecting the price of bread,” http://landsat.gsfc.nasa.gov/news/news-archive/soc_0010.html)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Year-to-year we expect the price of bread to remain relatively stable, but </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">rarely ...</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> ago that initially led FAS to use Landsat data.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, fluctuating food prices triggers massive global food shortages – outweighs on timeframe and magnitude</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Cribb 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Julian, director of australia’s national science agency, fellow of the Australian academy of technological sciences and engineering, has published more than 8000 scientific studies, “the coming famine: the global food crisis and what we can do to avoid it,” google books)JFS <we do not endorse gendered language> <note: FAO = food and agriculture organization></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">With eloquent symbolism, this Petronian banquet made clear ... which the urbanized world of today seems largely oblivious and which we have forgotten to renew.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, Second internal link is precision farming – </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Current farming methods are unsustainable – Satellite imagery is key to forecasting, soil mapping, and wasteland management – the plan is key to land efficiency and food production</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Singh et al 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Pradeep, Feroz Ahmed Parry, Kouser Parveen, Sumati Narayan, Asima Amin, Ahsis Vaidya, Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology of Kashmir, International Journal of Current Research, Vol. 3, Issue 4, april 2011, “precision farming and its role in vegetable production,” http://www.journalcra.com/sites/default/files/Download_331.pdf)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Remote sensors are generally categorized as aerial or </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">satellite ...</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> the food production</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, the plan is key to precision farming – that’s the only way to keep food production sustainable.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Singh et al 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Pradeep, Feroz Ahmed Parry, Kouser Parveen, Sumati Narayan, Asima Amin, Ahsis Vaidya, Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology of Kashmir, International Journal of Current Research, Vol. 3, Issue 4, april 2011, “precision farming and its role in vegetable production,” http://www.journalcra.com/sites/default/files/Download_331.pdf)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Agriculture is the backbone of our country and economy, ... a desirable benefit to the farmers and to society.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, we solve the __only__ internal link to precision farming – EOS is the only way to have sustainable agriculture</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Cookson 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Clive, jan 26, writer for financial times, specialist in business and food sustainability, http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/ad6e3492-0a00-11df-8b23-00144feabdc0.html#axzz1j1tAYTI1)JFS</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> technological battle to raise agricultural ...</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> cost of a fully equipped new tractor.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, Sustainable ag solves extinction – also checks all food shortages</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Kahn 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Linda, june, bulletin of the atomic scientists, linda is a research @ princeton’s program on science and global security, http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/columnists/laura-h-kahn/the-uncertainty-surrounding-sustainable-agriculture)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">So, though all of our planet's problems may have ... awaits us: Will we be able to feed billions andpreserve the natural world?</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, sustainable ag makes nuclear war survivable</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Kearny 87 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Cresson, oak ridge national laboratory, us department of energy, Oregon institute of science and medicine, “nuclear war survival skills,” http://www.nukepills.com/docs/nuclear_war_survival_skills.pdf)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Even if all food-producing animals were lost, most ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> basic</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">unprocessed </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">foods</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, third internal link is US agricultural leadership – US governmental action now is key to solve failure of the American ag industry.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">WFP 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> (World Food Prize,“Chicago Council Wins Grant to Expand Global Agricultural Development Initiative,” Dec 23, 2010, pg. http://www.worldfoodprize.org/index.cfm?nodeID=24667&action=display&newsID=11003)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">A number of policy developments indicate ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> toward supporting agriculture</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> as a poverty alleviation tool.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, US ag industry failure triggers mass death</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Sircus 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Mark, director of agriculture news, “agricultural apocalypse 2010,” http://agriculture.imva.info/food-prices/agricultural-apocalypse-2010)JFS</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The world faces “mass starvation” following</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">North </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">America’s ...</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> listen to what else the USDA is saying.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Contention 3 is No War</span>**

Great power wars are over – war is unpopular, nuclear weapons deter and economic interdependence
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fettweis 6</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> (Chris, Profess at the National Security Decision Making Department at US Naval War College) 2006 'A Revolution in International Relation Theory: Or, What If Mueller Is Right?,' International Studies Review</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Most IR scholarship carries on as if such an ... believe that it could not.</span>

AND, no accidents – Expertise, history, deterrence and uncertainty ensure safe handling of nuclear weapons.
Waltz 95 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kenneth N. Waltz (inventor of structural realism, father of deterrence, professor of political science @ Columbia) 1995 "Peace, Stability and Nuclear Weapons" [[http://www.ciaonet.org/wps/wak01/]]</span>
<span class="highlight2">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9.5pt;">Large numbers of weapons increase the ...</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9.5pt;"> is too dangerous to bear.</span>__</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">No great power wars </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Mandelbaum 99</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">- Professor of American Foreign Policy at Johns Hopkins University (Michael, Christian A. Herter Professor of American Foreign Policy, The Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University; Director, Project on East-West Relations, Council on Foreign Relations “Is Major War Obsolete?”)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Why is this so? Most simply, the costs have risen and </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">the benefits ...</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> standing guard against an attack on a king.”</span>

AND, No great power wars – diplomacy and nuclear weapons
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">David </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bosco 6</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> (Senior Editor at Foreign Policy Magazine) July 23 2006 'Could This Be the Start of World War III?,' http://www.latimes.com/news/opinion/sunday/commentary/la-op-bosco23jul23,0,6188365.story?coll=la-sunday-commentary</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">There is another factor working in favor ... out developing crises.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, No nuclear escalation </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Robinson 1 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[C. Paul, President and Director, Sandia National Laboratories, PhD Physics @ FSU, Chair of the Policy Committee of the Strategic Advisory Group for the Commander, US Strategic Command, 3-22, “Pursuing a New Nuclear Weapons Policy for the 21st Century,” http://www.sandia.gov/media/whitepaper/2001-04-Robinson.htm]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Let me then state my most important conclusion ... help shape and </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">maintain a stable and peaceful world</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">AND, Nuclear war doesn’t cause extinction.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Nyquist 99 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[J.R., “Is Nuclear War Survivable?” May 20, WorldNetDaily.com, http://www.antipas.org/protected_files/news/world/nuclear_war.html]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">As I write about Russia's nuclear war preparations, I get ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> produce few</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> (if any) </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">fallout casualties</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>





=Negative= 
==T== 
===Sage Ridge Cite Request - T Sustantial Cards v. Damien MM=== 
1. A military satellite costs 390 million
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">GlobalCom nodate</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Satilite provider company (“The Cost of Building and Launching a Satellite,” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.globalcomsatphone.com/hughesnet/satellite/costs.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) 9/25/11 K. harris</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Satellites are not ...</span><span class="underline"> missile-warning device</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

2. Parasitic satellites are .1% of current costs
Ho 1 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Cheng, Hong Kong, space daily news, “china eyes anti-satellite system,” http://www.spacedaily.com/news/china-01c.html)JFS</span>
The cost of building a ... satellites" will be lowered further.

===Edina Cite Request - T Human=== 
====1NC==== 
Exploration requires human presence
Logsdon 9 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John, prof of poli sci @ GW, former director of space policy institutite, “fifty years of human spaceflight – why is there still a controversy?,” http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20100025875_2010028362.pdf)JFS</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Many believe that the only sustainable ... of the several “secondary objectives.</span>”

So does development
Livingston 7 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(david, prof of business @ golden gate university, cites Eric Westling co-author of space elevator, http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298)JFS [This evidence has been gender-edited and we do not endorse gendered language]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Eric Westling is a science writer, pundit ... commercial </span>projects<span class="underline">in space</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

====1NR - Limits==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">military development – the aff allows weapons and military tech affs – those explode the topic and are not clearly defined – 15 more affs become possible</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Everett 7 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Terry, strategic studies quarterly, vol 1, no. 1, “arguing for a comprehensive space protection strategy,” pdf)JFS</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The policy debate centers primarily ... and, surely, the Chinese ASAT test.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">they allow sending probes into space – there are 9 __categories__ of space probes alone</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thinkquest 10 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(educational library, “space travel guide,” http://library.thinkquest.org/03oct/02144/text/mars/probes.htm)JFS</span>
**__Probes can be classified ...__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in penetrator space crafts). </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">they allow 90 more affs</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kazan 9 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Casey and Rebecca Sato, The Daily Galaxy, http://www.dailygalaxy.com/my_weblog/2009/06/robotic-missions-are-much-cheaper-and-may-provide-more-scientific--information-but-they-dont-catch-the-public-imagination-in.html)JFS </span>
**__NASA currently operates ...__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> their own robotic craft.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">they allow satellites – we have over 6000 of those – encompassing many different types</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Naik 11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ahbjit, buzzle magazine, http://www.buzzle.com/articles/how-many-satellites-are-in-space.html)JFS</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The United States Space Surveillance ...</span> **__launched into space__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> since 1957.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We allow 5 categories of affs – repairs, science missions, mining, colonization, and shuttle affs</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Vernikos 8 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Joan, member of the space studies board and former director of NASA’s life sciences division, http://www.freakonomics.com/2008/01/11/is-space-exploration-worth-the-cost-a-freakonomics-quorum/)JFS [this evidence has been gender-modified] [we do not endorse gendered language]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Without risking human lives, robotic ... ahead with substantial investments that challenge U.S. leadership in space.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Limits outweighs – keeping debate narrow allows for negatives to prepare against the aff – new advantages and kritik affs means that the aff will always have flexibility – preserving some amount of predictable research burden for negs is key to fairness – their interp kills clash and predictable debates</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Limits key to education – breadth is better for high school students</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Arrington 9 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">­</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Rebecca, UVAToday, “Study Finds That Students Benefit From Depth, Rather Than Breadth, in High School Science Courses, http://www.virginia.edu/uvatoday/newsRelease.php?id=7912)JFS</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A recent study reports that </span>**__high school students ...__** **__much__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as those in courses that touched on every major topic.</span>

====1NR - Interpretation==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">here’s comparative evidence – there’s a difference between the aff and topical action</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wright 6 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(member of teachers in space, and the space frontier foundation, former nasa scientist, http://www.spacepolitics.com/2006/06/28/a-move-against-mars-mission-funding/)JFS</span>
**__Unmanned missions are ...__** **__attempt to co-opt the language__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


====1NR - AT: Substantially Checks==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Substantial” is flexible </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mellinkoff 92</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(David, Law Professor UCLA, 1992 (__Mellinkoff’s Dictionary of American Legal Usage__, p. 626).</span>
**__Substantial is as flexible ...__** **__flexibility. A place for discretion__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In the context of space, substantial can be as low as 11%</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AIP 4 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(American institute of physics, http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=14604, 9/24/2004, Accessed 6/20/2011, OST)</span>
**__Under the__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> omnibus </span>**__bill funding ...__** **__grows by 11.1 percent__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">substantially is meaningless</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Black’s Law Dictionary 1991 </span>**(p. 1024)
**__Substantially__** **__- means__** **__... material qualification__**.

==CPs== 
===Baek Cite Request - XO CP=== 
====1NC==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1. Executive orders have jurisdiction over United States Space policy</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cooper 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - J.D. Candidate 2009, University of California, Hastings College of the Law, B.A. Rhetoric and Political Science, University of California, Berkeley (Nikhil D., Spring, “NOTE: CIRCUMVENTING NON-APPROPRIATION: LAW AND DEVELOPMENT OF UNITED STATES SPACE COMMERCE,” UC-Hastings College of the Law Hastings Constitutional Law Quarterly, 36 Hastings Const. L.Q. 457, p.ln) 6/22/11 K. Harris</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At the time of this writing it is...</span><span class="underline"> space capabilities hostile to U.S. national interests. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1308783242969&returnToKey=20_T12217888340&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.392644.0460825822#n159|n159]]</span>

2. Executive Orders don’t sap political capital
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Marshall and Pacelle 5</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Assistant Professor of Political Science at Miami University – Professor and the Chair of Political Science at Georgia Southern University (Bryan W. and Richard L. Jr., American Politics Research, Revisiting the Two Presidencies: The Strategic Use of Executive Order, p.ln) 6/24/11 K. Harris</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There are two important theoretical explanations in t... positively related to executive orders. </span>

====2NC - XO Doensn't Link To PTX==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Executive orders don’t sap political capital – Congress is unwilling to oppose them.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Criddle 10</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Assistant Professor, Syracuse University College of Law. J.D., Yale Law School (Evan J., February, “Article: Fiduciary Administration: Rethinking Popular Representation in Agency Rulemaking,” 88 Tex. L. Rev. 441, p.ln) 6/23/11 K. Harris</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Sadly, the </span><span class="underline">prospects of</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">immediate ...</span><span class="underline"> procedure</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, judicial review, or government transparency.</span>

Executive Orders avoid the link to politics – President doesn’t get involved
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cooper</span>, 200<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2</span> [Phillip J., Professor of Liberal Arts in the Department of Political Science at the University of Vermont, By Order of the President: The Use and Abuse of Executive Direct Action, p. 45]
Like foreign affairs issues, labor ...<span class="Underline0"> really committing to any particular position</span>

**Presidents typically issue executive orders smoothly without media and public interference**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Warber</span> (Assistant Professor; Ph.D., Texas A&M) <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2006</span> **(**Adam L., //Executive Orders and the Modern Presidency: Legislation from the Oval Office,// pg. pg. 15)
**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A further advantage of</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> the efficiency of ... **__the media.__** </span>

====2NC - AT: Funding==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Executive orders can allocate extra funding to NASA</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gabrynowicz 10</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Space Law, professor of Space Law and Remote Sensing, Director of the National Center for Remote Sensing, Air, and Space Law at the University of Mississippi School of Law, recipient of the 2001 Women in Aerospace Outstanding International Award, Director of the International Institute of Space Law, member of the American Bar Association Forum on Air and Space Law (Joanne Irene, 7/21, “ARTICLE: One Half Century and Counting: The Evolution of U.S. National Space Law and Three Long-Term Emerging Issues,” President and Fellows of Harvard College Harvard Law & Policy Review, p.ln) 6/22/11 K. Harris</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The characteristics of this ... Defense (</span><span class="underline">DoD) to NASA</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1308783239597&returnToKey=20_T12217888323&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.84089.61168327411#n18|n18]]</span>
Congress won’t restrict presidential funding – Vietnam proves
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fisher 97</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Senior Specialist in Separation of Powers (Louis, Spring, “Presidential Independence and the Power of the Purse,” U.C. Davis Journal of International Law & Policy, 3 U.C. Davis J. Int'l L. & Pol'y 107, p.ln) 6/25/11 K. Harris</span>
<span class="Underline0">Congress succeeded in invoking i...</span> that lack congressional and public support.

====2NC - AT: Rollback==== 
The President can take action without the interference of Congress and the Courts, due to things such as deference and an assumed policy-making position
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mayer 1- </span>Professor of Political Science at UW-Madison (Kenneth R., With the Stroke of a Pen: Executive Orders and Presidential Powers, pg. 11) 6/25/11 K. Harris
In making this argument about the ... __judicial deference to executive action than of assertiveness.__ 55
The Executive can unilaterally make policy and the Courts and Congress will defer
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Moe and Howell 99</span>** – Professor of Political Science at Stanford University – Political Science Graduate Student (Terry and William, December, “Unilateral Action and Presidential Power: A Theory,” Presidential Studies Quarterly, Vol. 29, No. 4, p.ln) 6/25/11 K. Harris
Shorn of its details, the argument w...<span class="Underline"> to be sympathetic</span>.

====2NC - AT: SOP DA==== 
Fear of abuse of executive orders is exaggerated and no risk of an imperial president – it’s not politically strategic
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mayer 1- </span>Professor of Political Science at UW-Madison (Kenneth R., With the Stroke of a Pen: Executive Orders and Presidential Powers, pg. 11) 6/25/11 K. Harris
Congressional Republicans strenuously o...<span class="Underline"> surrounds them as well.</span>
The greatest danger is not the President, but a tyrannical Congress – only the CP prevents tyranny
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rostow 89</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- law professor, Yale (Eugen, AMERICAN JOURNAL OF INTERNATIONAL LAW, p. 744) 6/25/11 K. Harris</span>
Madison warned that the greatest ... sphere of activity, and drawing all <span class="Underline">**power into its impetuous vortex**."</span>

===Chandler Cite Request - Internet CP=== 
====1NC==== 
Text: The United States federal government should provide internet access for everyone worldwide.

1. Counterplan solves the whole aff – the internet creates an entire society of bodies without organs and escapes the demands of the socius
Batelle 7 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John, “deleuze and the internet,” Australian humanities review, issue 43)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There can be no doubt that </span><span class="underline">the Internet ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> apprehend it </span><span class="underline">at this level</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

2. AND, The internet is a pure rhizome – cyberspace is free of hierarchies
Hamman 96 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robin, MA in Sociology, U of Essex, “using the internet as an example of deleuze and guatarri’s rhizome,” online)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today there are over 45,000 networks and ...</span><span class="underline"> to this principle of the rhizome</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

3. AND, the amorphous connections within the internet create Deleuzian lines of flight through breaking down infinite systems of organization.
Shafer 11 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jason, ba in English @ UCLA, MA in English @ u of Colorado, phd candidate, overall cool dude, owns a website called jasonshafer.net, “lines of flight: deleuze and the social web,” online)JFS&K.Harris</span>
<span class="underline">Initially the internet was designed</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">as a way t... metastasizing, changing and reacting.</span>

===Chandler Cite Request - Cadmium PIC=== 
====1NC==== 
Text: The United States federal government should [plan]. The United States federal government should use crystalline silicon photovoltaic panels on the satellites.

Normal means solar panels use cadmium tellurium panels – counterplan uses silicon
Meehan 11 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Chris, Apri 14, Staff Writer, Clean Energy Authority, “Cadmium in PV poses some health risks when not properly handled”, http://www.cleanenergyauthority.com/solar-energy-news/cadmium-risk-in-photovoltaic-panels-041411/)JFS</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While everyone looks to </span><span class="underline">solar power</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">as a ... Coalition’s “Solar Scorecard 2011.”</span>

Net benefit is China
Increased cadmium would come from China
GM 10 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Globalization Monitor, People Before Profit, website about chinese abuse of the environment, http://www.globalmon.org.hk/en/01news/021gp-battries-cadmium/03other-battery-poisoning/cadmium/)JFS</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In 2004 China produced half of the ... cadmium batteries.[5]</span>
Cadmium mining causes widespread pollution of Chinese water and soil
Limei et al 8 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Zhai, Liao Xiaoyong, Chen Tongbin, Yan Xiulan, Xie Hua, Wu Bin, Wang Lixia, Center for Environmental Remediation, Institute of Geographic Sciences and Natural Resources Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Journal of Environmental Sciences, Vol 20)JFS [Cd = cadmium]</span>
<span class="underline">The overall pattern of elevated Cd ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> sources of Cd in the agricultural soil.</span>

These environmental crises ensure CCP collapse
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ogden 8</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Peter, Senior Policy Analyst for National Security and International Policy at the Center for American Progress, “Warming Ties: Climate Change Challenges Cannot Be Met Without Sino-U.S. Cooperation,” ...</span>scarce resources with established residents in other regions.

CCP collapse ensures nuclear war and Asian instability – outweighs on probability
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Yee and Storey 2</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Hebert, Professor of Politics and International Relations at the Hong Kong Baptist University, and Ian, Lecturer in Defense Studies at Deakin University, "The China Threat: Perceptions, Myths, and Reality." Google Books. AD 6/28/11) AV</span>
<span class="underline">The fourth factor</span> contributing to the perception of a ... to its neighbors and the world<span class="underline">.</span>

===Bakersfield Cite Request - Orson Scott Card PIC=== 
====1NC==== 
**We advocate storytelling as a means of exposing otherization in astronomical discourse. We advocate this space as a method for actualizing an ethical relationship to the other.**

**The Counterplan competes we do not use the storytelling of Card. His paradigm and understanding of the world is flawed he is homophobic**.

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Card is homophobic and he otherizes homosexuality a retelling of his story turns their case</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Jenson 08 (Miachel, Writer and editor for altereton, </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.afterelton.com/people/2008/7/orsonscottcard]]</span>) CM </span>

**__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt;">According to science fiction author ...</span>__**<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt;"> doesn’t even seem to think of us as human.</span>

**Enders game is full of anti homosexual themes. The very fundamental roots of the story is exclusionary**
**Cambell 08** “<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial;">Kill the Bugger: Ender's Game and the Question of Heteronormativity” JSTOR</span>

====2NC - Impact==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">We must examine</span>****<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;"> anti homosexual</span>****<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;"> assumptions that preserve heteronormat</span>****<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">ivity </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">Griffin, 2009</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">(Penny, Senior Lecturer in International Relations at UNSW, PhD at University of Bristol, researches IR, global governance, feminism and gender studies, “The Spaces Between Us”, found in “Securing Outer Space” by Natalie Bormann and Michael Sheehan, p. 70, Print)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial;">As Elias argues, ‘the global ..., privatization, deregulation and flexibilization.</span>

====2NC - Counter-Advocacy==== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">There are alt ways to deconstruct otherness- 19484 does this as well it analyzes the constructions of war and how the state itself can change a human being</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Orwell 49</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;"> (George, writer of 1984, </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">an English author and journalist and awesome writer, “1984”) CM</span>
“Nor was it satisfactory solution... producing anything that need be consumed.

<span style="line-height: 24px;">**Orwell Continues...**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Orwell 49</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;"> (George, writer of 1984, </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">an English author and journalist and awesome writer, “1984”) CM</span>
Since about that time, **__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">war had ...</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;"> with him was impossible</span>__**. (1.3.16)

====2NC - Framing==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13.5pt;">George Orwell, "Politics and the English Language," 1946</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13.5pt;">Most people who bother ... habitually written.</span>


===Chandler Cite Request - FW PIC=== 
====1NC==== 
**1. CP Text:** <Their Plan Text> **without endorsing the affirmative’s exclusionary framework interpretation.**

**Subpoint A: Framework**

**1. Counter Interpretation: All frameworks of argumentation should be allowed in policy debate.**

**A. Their framework interpretation is elitist – Their conception of politics is founded on violent exclusion – its precisely the parts of the left they exclude that are the most important – Subordination of other frameworks leads to violence.**
<span class="underline0">**Butler 98**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature at UC Berkeley (Judith, Yale Law Review, ed. Parkter and Sedgwick) K. Harris</span>

<span class="Underline">What the</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> resurgent </span><span class="Underline">orthodoxy</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> may ...</span> coming from outside itself<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. (37-8)</span>

**B. Their FW produces WORSE policy making- it creates insular scholarship and epistemic closure.**
**Jones 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Lee Jones is lecturer in International Relations at Queen Mary, University of London, BA Honors Univ of Warwick, MA in IR St Anthony’s, PhD IR Nuffield , Journal of Critical Globalization Studies Issue 1 2009</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Having conceded where </span><span class="Underline">Nye</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> has a ...</span><span class="Underline"> for Security Assistance, Science, and Technology.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (p. 127-30)</span>



==DAs== 
===Baek Cite Request - US-Russia Relations DA=== 
====1NC==== 
1. US-Russian relations are high
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Burns 2/10/11</span> (William J Burns is a Under Secretary for Political Affairs, Moscow, Russia [[http://www.state.gov/p/us/rm/2011/156449.htm]], TDA)
I am very pleased to be back ... be accomplished in 2011 and beyond<span class="underline">.</span>

<span class="Underline0">2. Space underlies ALL other aspects of cooperation – the plan crushes relations </span>
<span class="Underline0">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Logsdon and Millar 01</span>**[February 2001, John, Director of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington, and James, emeritus professor of economics and international affairs at George Washington University, “U.S. -Russian Cooperation in Human Space Flight Assessing the Impacts”, Space Policy Institute and Institute for European, Russian and Eurasian Studies Elliott School of International Affairs The George Washington ...</span> under Russian state control.

3. Relations solve miscalc and nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Gottemoeller 8</span> (Rose Gottemoeller was appointed Director of carnegie moscow center in January 2006. formerly, Gottemoeller was a senior associate at the carnegie endowment, where she held a joint appointment with the Russian and eurasian Program and the Global Policy Program. a specialist on defense and nuclear issues in Russia and the other former soviet states, Gottemoeller’s research at the endowment focused on issues of nuclear security and stability, nonproliferation, and arms control, the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace is a private, nonprofit organization dedicated to advancing cooperation between nations and promoting active international engagement by the United States, “Russia-US Security Relations after Georgia” available at [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/russia_us_security_relations_after_georgia.pdf]])
No holds barred, no rules—<span class="underline">the United States and Russia may be heading to a confrontation more unpredictable and dangerous</span> than any we have seen since the Cuban missile ...<span class="underline"> had developed, it could now be a lifeline. </span>

====2NC - Brink==== 
**NASA decline has forced us to depend on Russia – causes a new “spirit of cooperation”—plan’s unilateral action would reverse this**
**O’Flynn 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – (3/24/10, Kevin O’Flynn, special to Russia Now, “Russia makes space for U.S.,” [[http://rbth.ru/articles/2010/03/24/240310_space.html]] DH) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On April 2, </span>__new Soyuz crew members, ...__**__one-upmanship as well as scientific endeavor.__**

<span class="Underline">**Space underlies ALL other aspects of cooperation – the plan crushes relations**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Logsdon and Millar 01**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – (February 2001, John, Director of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington, and James, emeritus professor of economics and international affairs at George Washington University, “U.S. -Russian Cooperation in Human Space Flight Assessing the Impacts”, Space Policy Institute and Institute for European, Russian and Eurasian Studies Elliott School of International Affairs The George Washington University, [[http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/usrussia.pdf]] DH) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yet, to one participant, "If nothing else,</span>good ... them a psychological fig leaf.<span class="Underline">"</span>

====2NC - Link==== 
=====Cooperation===== 
**US reliance on Russian launch capability spills over to cooperation in space exploration.**
**Ardayeva 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – (1/27/11, Anya, FSN (the world's leading independent broadcast news agency) Lead Moscow Correspondent and her TV and Radio reports are seen and heard worldwide , “Russia, US Set to Forge New Era in Space,” [[http://www.voanews.com/english/news/usa/Russia-US-Set-to-Forge-New-Era-in-Space-114740769.html]] DH) </span>

__The $100-billion International ...__ __in the exploration of space.__

===Bingham Cite Request - Keystone XL Politics Scenario (Golden Desert)=== 
====1NC==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1. Obama blocks Senate Republicans’ expedition of the Keystone XL pipeline won’t pass for now but the pipeline’s passage is still up in the air.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nauman 1/31</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Native Sun News Health & Environment Editor (Talli, 12, “Tribal leaders cheer Obama rejection of XL Pipeline,” Native American Times, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nativetimes.com/news/environment/6752-tribal-leaders-cheer-obama-rejection-of-xl-pipeline]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) 1/31/12 K. Harris</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “As the State Department made ... inherently a very destructive thing.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">3. Obama blocks Keystone XL now – His political capital is key.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NPR 1/18</span> (12, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.npr.org/blogs/itsallpolitics/2012/01/18/145410841/keystone-dead-pipeline-lives-on-as-election-year-issue|Keystone: Dead Pipeline Lives On As Election-Year Issue]]</span>, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.npr.org/blogs/itsallpolitics/2012/01/18/145410841/keystone-dead-pipeline-lives-on-as-election-year-issue]]</span>) 1/31/12 K. harris
<span class="underline">Now that</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">President </span><span class="underline">Obama</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> has </span><span class="underline">made ... every response to Obama's decision</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">4. Keystone XL causes warming – Pushes us over the tipping point.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brecher and Smith 6/30</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Historian and author – Writer for the Santa Fe Reporter (Jeremy and Brenden L., 11, “Why Unions Should Reconsider Support for Tar Sands Oil Pipeline,” AlterNet, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.alternet.org/story/151472/why_unions_should_reconsider_support_for_tar_sands_oil_pipeline/?page=entire]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) 7/14/11 K. Harris</span>
<span class="underline">The </span>Keystone XL<span class="underline"> pipeline is a key ... chromium, mercury, arsenic, selenium, and benzene</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">5. Warming causes extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tickell 8</span> (Oliver, Environmental Researcher, The Guardian, August 11, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange, JMB, accessed 6-23-11)
We need to get prepared for four ... towards a similar hothouse Earth.

====2NC - AT: Thumper==== 
<span class="cite">Initially note, Keystone XL is at the top of the docket – Republicans will take any opportunity to get it approved.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">PBS 1/19</span> (12, “Rejected Keystone XL Pipeline Project at Top of Congress' Agenda,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.pbs.org/newshour/rundown/2012/01/rejected-keystone-xl-pipeline-project-at-the-top-of-congress-agenda.html]]</span>) 2/1/12 K. Harris
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While in session, House Democrats ... attach the pipeline language to." </span>


==Ks== 
===Baek Cite Request - Heidegger K=== 
====1NC Shell==== 
1. <Link>

2.Malevolent being ontologically devastates society – This kills value to life and impact turns case – This devastation is preferable to the solace of annihilation.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mitchell 5</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– PhD of Philosophy at Emory University (Andrew J., “Heidegger and Terrorism,” Research in Phenomonology, Vol. 35 pg. 181, 38 pgs) 6/27/11 K. Harris</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">This same reasoning explains why the ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> what terrorizes. Terror is the threat of being</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

3. Our alternative isn’t a fatalistic rejection of technology—rather rejection is a form of releasement that reorients our relationship towards technological modes of thought
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Botha 02</span> (Catherine, Dept. of Philosophy @ Univ. of Pretoria, “Heidegger, Technology and Ecology,” South African Journal of Philosophy, Vol 22, Issue 2, p. ebscohost)
Homelessness is the mood ... this technological servitude.

====Links==== 
=====Tech Innovation===== 
The affirmatives attempt to further technology ignores the dangers of technological development.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Housman and Flynn 11</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> [Benjamin H. Housman and Thomas R. Flynn “Cooling Down Global Warming: Revisiting Sartre and Heidegger on this Modern Day Challenge” The ‘Step Back’ as a ‘Step Towards’ Confronting Global April 14, 2011 MV]</span>
__Our relation to technology ...__ __‘no’ to technology__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>


=====Space Tech===== 
The affirmatives attempt to explore/develop space denies Earthbound ontology, destroying our ability to connect with our ‘world’
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Turnbull 6</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Neil, “The Ontological Consequences of Copernicus: Global Being in the Planetary World”, </span>//<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Theory, Culture & Society </span>//<span style="font-size: 6pt;">2006 (SAGE, London, Thousand Oaks and New Delhi), Vol. 23(1): 125–139, Project Muse MV)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">What Nietzsche is suggesting here is that ... purely technological relationships – becomes the anthropocentric measure of all things).</span>

===Bellarmine Cite Request - Gramsky K=== 
====1NC Shell==== 
The emptiness of space has become a place for the United States to project cultural hegemony – the affirmative furthers this process of ideological dominance
Weeks 7 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Edythe, PhD @ Northern Arizona U, Advised by Geeta Chowdry, Applying International Relations Theory to the Current Politics of Outer Space Development, dissertation at UMich)</span>
Space<span class="underline"> commercialization </span>has<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> become generally ...</span> ideology<span class="underline"> within </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">other states and within U.S. </span><span class="underline">society</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

The result is endless insecurity and violence – turns case
Conteh-Morgan 11 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Earl, The International Journal of Peace Studies, Vol 7, No. 2, http://www.gmu.edu/programs/icar/ijps/vol7_2/Contech-Morgan.htm)JFS</span>
<span class="underline">The end of </span>the 20th Century <span style="font-size: 8pt;">and the transition ...</span><span class="underline"> postmodern global conditions.</span>

Cultural hegemony is based on the consent of the masses – disruption of current ideologies solves
Zompetti 97 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Joseph, asst prof of communications @ ISU, Western Journal of Communications, vol. 61, pp. 66-86)JFS</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As a critic,</span> **__the organic intellectual's ...__** **__educators we have a responsibility to continue this pursuit__**.

====2NC Overview Card==== 
The current ideological hegemony recreates the holocaust, kills value to life, and makes case impacts inevitable
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kovel 2 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Joel, Professor of Social Studies at Bard , “The Enemy of Nature,” p140-141)</span>
<span class="underline">The precondition of an ecologically rational ...</span> carried out so impersonally.

====Links==== 
=====Cause and Effect===== 
The notion that politics is a mere system of cause and effect props up ideological hegemony
Hall 85 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stuart, president of British Sociological Association, prof emeritus, “Gramsci’s Relevance for the Study of Race and Ethnicity:, online)JFS</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The next move in </span><span class="underline">the analysis is to distinguish ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> positivistic certainty is critical.</span>

=====Economy===== 
Their obsession with economic crisis leaves ideological superstructural hegemony untouched
Hall 85 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stuart, president of British Sociological Association, prof emeritus, “Gramsci’s Relevance for the Study of Race and Ethnicity:, online)JFS</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I begin with the issue which, in some ways, for the chronological ... </span><span class="underline">irreversible “passage” between structure and superstructure. </span>

=====Environment Impactz===== 
Changing single issues within environmental policy ensures overall ideological hegemony
Kebede 5 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Alemseghed, California State University Bakersfield, Sociological Inquiry, Vol. 75, No. 1, February 2005, 81–108, Grassroots Environment Organizations in the United States: A Gramscian Analysis)JFS </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is with good reason then that the discursive ...</span> within<span class="underline"> the span of prevailing </span>hegemony<span class="underline">. </span>

Solutions to environmental issues further ideological corporate hegemony
Levy & Egan 3 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(David L., U of Massachusetts, Boston, Daniel, University of Massachusetts, Lowell, Journal of Management Studies, 40:4, June)JFS</span>
<span class="underline">Despite </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the resurgence of </span><span class="underline">concerns about </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the ... the Bush administration in November 2000.</span>

=====Hegemony===== 
The hegemony advantage is a link – overt force is a mask for cultural hegemony and imperialism
Iseri 7 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Emre, PhD Candidate for Politics, IR, and the Environment @ Keele U, Neo-Gramscian Analysis of US Hegemony Today, http://www.in-spire.org/archive/Previous/ei02062007_Neo-Gramscian_US_Hegemony.pdf)JFS</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In his essay, “Gramsci, Hegemony and International ...</span> the framework of a debate<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”9 </span>

=====Objectivity===== 
The claim that we can objectively know facts about human nature or the way the world works props up ideological hegemony
Hall 85 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stuart, president of British Sociological Association, prof emeritus, “Gramsci’s Relevance for the Study of Race and Ethnicity:, online)JFS</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This comes through even more clearly in “The Problems ... of marxist scholarship cannot be properly defined. </span>

=====Solvency===== 
Hegemony works precisely because people think it is a solution to the same problems it creates – they merely give legitimacy to a broken system
Litowitz 2k <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Douglas, prof of law at Florida Coastal School of Law, Brigham Young Univ LR, l/n)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hegemonyas described above is one aspect of control, t...</span> **__and naturalized there is simply no need for external coercion__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

====Framework==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Debate should be a site where the negative can win by disproving the ideological justifications behind plan action. Culture is the key issue.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Martin-Barbero 87</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jesús – prof of communication at University del Valle, Cali, Columbia, //Communication, Culture and Hegemony: From the Media to Mediations//, p. 74)</span>
**__Perhaps the single most important ...__** **__the terms of conflict__**.

Ideological hegemony within their framework constructs the realm of the possible by using intellectuals to define the terms of discussion – we must challenge this as counter-hegemonic organic intellectuals
Bradanini 8 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Davide, PhD student at IMT, B.A. in International Relations, M.A. in International and Diplomatic Studies from U of Bologna, M.A. in European Political and Administrative Studies at College of Europe in Bruges, Bruges Political Research Papers, No. 10, “The Rise of the Competitiveness Discourse—A Neo-Gramscian Analysis”, Google)JFS</span>
<span class="underline">Hegemony</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">is a central concept of neo-Gramscian thought. It </span><span class="underline">is ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> referred to above as </span>the realm of the possible<span class="underline">).</span>

====2NC Blocks==== 
=====AT: Perm===== 
Perm links more – the aff creates a belief that the current hegemony is benign – solidifies it
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zompetti 97</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Joseph – asst prof of communication at Illinois State Univ, Western Journal of Communication, vol. 61, pp. 66-86.)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For Gramsci, the superstructure achieves ...</span> dream" can be obtained even by disadvantaged people<span class="underline">.</span>

Perm is reformism – strengthens ideological hegemony
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sassoon 82</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Anne Showstack Sassoon – prof of politics at univ of Kingston, Approaches to Gramsci, ed by Sassoon, p. 129-130)JFS</span>
The failure of the proletariat to ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the mass of the population over politics.</span>

Ideological hegemony turns the perm – overt force is a mask for cultural hegemony and imperialism
Iseri 7 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Emre, PhD Candidate for Politics, IR, and the Environment @ Keele U, Neo-Gramscian Analysis of US Hegemony Today, http://www.in-spire.org/archive/Previous/ei02062007_Neo-Gramscian_US_Hegemony.pdf)JFS</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In his essay, “Gramsci, Hegemony and ...</span> framework of a debate<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”9 </span>

=====AT: State Good===== 
The alt allows for new conceptions of the state that fight ideological hegemony
Hall 85 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stuart, president of British Sociological Association, prof emeritus, “Gramsci’s Relevance for the Study of Race and Ethnicity:, online)JFS</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In this context, Gramsci’s “East”/’West” ...</span><span class="underline"> itself is</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">little short of </span><span class="underline">electrifying</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

Their state claims are neoliberal institutionalism – free market ideology can only be resisted from outside the state
Weeks 7 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Edythe, PhD @ Northern Arizona U, Advised by Geeta Chowdry, Applying International Relations Theory to the Current Politics of Outer Space Development, dissertation at UMich)JFS</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Neoliberal institutionalists focus on how and ...</span> market ideology<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is dominant in today's global society, or the role of private capital.</span>

=====AT: Cede the Political===== 
The alt allows for new conceptions of the state that fight ideological hegemony
Hall 85 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stuart, president of British Sociological Association, prof emeritus, “Gramsci’s Relevance for the Study of Race and Ethnicity:, online)JFS</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In this context, Gramsci’s “East”/’West” distinction ...</span><span class="underline"> of politics itself is</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">little short of </span><span class="underline">electrifying</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
=====AT: Hegemony Inevitable===== 
The current ideological hegemony is not inevitable – it is actively sustained through popular consent which the alternative can disrupt
Hall 85 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stuart, president of British Sociological Association, prof emeritus, “Gramsci’s Relevance for the Study of Race and Ethnicity:, online)JFS</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Three points about this formulation should be ... to, loosely and inaccurately, as </span><span class="underline">the “ruling class.’</span>

That’s a link – saying the current hegemony is natural and inevitable is a tactic to maintain it
Litowitz 2k <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Douglas, prof of law at Florida Coastal School of Law, Brigham Young Univ LR, l/n)JFS</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">In the strategy of naturalism, ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">, religious, commercial, and artistic. </span>

=====AT: Realism===== 
Realism uses state-centricity to obscure the role that culture and ideology play in the space age
Weeks 7 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Edythe, PhD @ Northern Arizona U, Advised by Geeta Chowdry, Applying International Relations Theory to the Current Politics of Outer Space Development, dissertation at UMich)JFS</span>
<span class="underline">Generally, </span>for realists<span class="underline"> and neorealists, </span>relations ...<span class="underline"> strategies</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> apparent </span><span class="underline">in the Post Cold War era.</span>

==Case Negs== 
===Meadows Cite Request - Damien MM - PACs=== 
====Solvency==== 
**1. Covert seizure of space won’t eliminate any benefits of having them – by definition they can’t deter – That means they can’t access the internal link to any of their advantages.**
**Smith, 11** – USAF Colonel, Director of the Air Force Space and Cyber Center at Air University. He served in the Pentagon’s National Security Space Office as the Chief of the Future Concepts shop (M.V., Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]])
Acquiring weapons is ... what is meant.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2. PACS kills symmetrical balance of power – makes space war inevitable</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Page 6</span> (Joseph, Assistant flight commander and ICBM combat crew commander (Squadron Command Post) at the 741st Missile Squadron, 91st Space Wing, Minor AFB, North Dakota, “Stealing Zeus's Thunder” Air & Space Power Journal Summer 2006 pg. pdf)
Although the few SC PACS ... control must begin here.

3. China already developed parasitic satellites – takes out both advantages
Ho 1 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Cheng, Hong Kong, space daily news, “china eyes anti-satellite system,” http://www.spacedaily.com/news/china-01c.html)JFS</span>
China is quietly developing an ... normal operation of the host satellites.

4. No solvency – we’ll lose communication with our parasitic satellites
Moreira et al 2 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(alberto, konstantinous, Papathanassiou, Gerhard Krieger, german aerospace center workers, http://www.ursi.org/Proceedings/ProcGA02/papers/p1262.pdf)JFS</span>
In [5] and [7] the interferometric ...<span class="underline"> and/or operation using long baselines</span> [5].

====Heg==== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Space war isn’t inevitable – aff causes space race</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Globus 7</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> (Al, Chair of NSS’s Space Settlement Advocacy Committee, October 2007, http://alglobus.net/politics/SpaceRealists.html) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">In "War and Peace in ... idea to you? </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">166 nations are against weaponization – plan reverses the trend</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Rozoff 9</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> (Rick, writer @ Global Research, 6/19/9, http://usa.mediamonitors.net/content/view/full/63616) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">A Russian analytical news site ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> resolution was the United States...."</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> [35]</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Space weapons aren’t key to protect space assets – no other actor can touch em</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Hitchens 2</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> (Theresa, writer @ Center for Defence, 4/18/2, http://www.globalissues.org/article/69/militarization-and-weaponization-of-outer-space) JPG</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Vulnerabilities do not ...</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> adversaries is thin.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Space power creates a self-fulfilling prophecy and kills soft power</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Power 1</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> (Jonathon, analyst @ Transnational Foundation for Peace and Future Research, 5/9/1, http://www.globalissues.org/article/69/militarization-and-weaponization-of-outer-space#ChinaandSpace) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">How will the rest of the ... plan, </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">into a state of antipathy towards America.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Soft power solves extinction – also key to heg</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Nye 8</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> – distinguished service professor and former dean of Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government, PhD in Political Science from Harvard [March 7, 2008, Joseph S. Nye Jr., “Security and Smart Power,” http://abs.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/51/9/1351]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Etzioni is correct that </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">a ...</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> one for Iran.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Turns Case</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Hitchens 2</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> (Theresa, writer @ Center for Defence, 4/18/2, http://www.globalissues.org/article/69/militarization-and-weaponization-of-outer-space) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Unlike in Star Trek, </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">the “final f...</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> US space policy.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">US weaponization not inevitable – too expensive</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Wilkerson 8</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(Don, – Lt. Col., published by US Army War College, “Space Power Theory: Controlling the Medium Without Weapons in Space.” U.S. Army War College, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA482300) CM </span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">It is difficult to support ...</span>__** to defend space assets.

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Weaponization is not inevitable – empirics, public sentiment, and leaders prove</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Krepon et al, 11</span>** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, also Theresa Hitchens, Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and Michael Katz-Hyman, Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Security and South Asia Projects (Michael, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">) CM</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">These dilemmas</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> are widely, but ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> to close.</span>__**

====China==== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">China’s undecided between civilian and military capabilities in space – respond to the US</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Levine 9</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> (Adam, writer @ CNN, 11/18/9, http://articles.cnn.com/2009-11-18/tech/china.space_1_china-views-chinese-officials-xinhua?_s=PM:TECH) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">The United States is still ahead in space ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> superior military power."</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">US space weapons pushes China over the brink – causes them to pursue space weapons</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> Shah 7</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> (Anup, writer @ Global Issues, 1/21/7, http://www.globalissues.org/article/69/militarization-and-weaponization-of-outer-space#globalissues-org) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">As noted further below, </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">China is </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">likely ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> already started it</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">and that unfortunately China decide to join in.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Civilian still has control over space</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Smith 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> (Marcia, writer @ Space Policy Online, 8/29/11, http://spacepolicyonline.com/pages/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1818:dod-a-tad-softer-on-chinas-military-space-program&catid=75:news&Itemid=68) JPG</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">U.S. Department of ... President Hu </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Jintao swiftly contradicted him</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">."</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">No escalation – MAD – long time frame until China can touch US space assets</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Shah 7</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> (Anup, writer @ Global Issues, 1/21/7, http://www.globalissues.org/article/69/militarization-and-weaponization-of-outer-space#globalissues-org) JPG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Furthermore, </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">any talk of an immediate ...</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> Cold War as Maryann Keady notes.</span>

===James Logan Cite Request - SSP=== 
====1NC - Solvency==== 
No timeframe – takes decades to implement
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jones 10</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Royce, investor in space related activities, Winter, Online Journal of Space Communication, Issue 16, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/jones.html, accessed: June 25, JT)</span>
<span class="underline">Thirty six thousand ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> proven to work.</span>
SPS fails – no technology
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mankins 8</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John, pres of Artemis Innovation Management Solutions, adAstra, Spring, pg. 20, http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf, accessed: 25 June 2011, JT)</span>
<span class="underline">A handful of the ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ambient temperatures. </span>

Over 99% of the power is lost in transmission
Evans 9 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Paul, staff writer @ Gizmo Mag, “Solar power beamed from space within a decade?”, http://www.gizmag.com/solar-power-space-satellite/11064)</span>
The concept of Space-Based ... 1% of the power transmitted being received <span style="font-size: 8pt;">on the other island.</span>

====2NC - Solvency==== 
SPS won’t be ready for 40 years
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Day 8</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dwayne, space historian and policy analyst@Space Studies Board, The Space Review, June 9, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1147/1]]</span>, accessed: 25 June 2011, JT)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The NSSO study ... ignored the message and fallen in love with the messenger.</span>

The tech is not feasible and a long way off
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Foust 7</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(James, editor of Space Review, The Space Review, August 13, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/931/1]]</span>, accessed: 25 June 2011, JT)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Smith made it clear, though, ... carved in Jell-O.”</span>

Multiple technological issues make SPS not feasible
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mankins 8</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John, pres of Artemis Innovation Management Solutions, adAstra, Spring, pg. 20, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf]]</span>, accessed: 25 June 2011, JT)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If collecting solar power ... affect Earth’s atmosphere. </span>

High probability of launch failures
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Collins & Matsuoko 4 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Patrick and Hideo, co-founder of Space Future Consulting and Prof Teikyo Heisei University, Int. Conf. on Solar Power From Space, Dec, http://articles.adsabs.harvard.edu//full/2004ESASP.567..213M/0000213.000.html accessed 6-26-11, CH)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Work by the engineers designing ...</span><span class="underline"> for funding as such.</span>

==Rounds== 
===Harker=== 
====Round 1 - St Vincent De Paul VE==== 

Aff: The United States federal government should construct a Space Elevator.

1NC: T-Beyond, ASPEC, SKFTA, XO, US-Russian Relations DA, Heidegger, Case
2NC: T, ASPEC, SKFTA, XO, US-Russian Relations DA, Case
1NR: SKFTA
2NR: T (Shadow Extension), ASPEC, SKFTA, XO

====Round 3 - St Vincent De Paul SF==== 

Aff: The United States federal government should substantially increase its exploration of space beyond the earth's mesosphere by launching the cosmic egg vessel into the cosmos. (DNG)

1NC: Framework, Internet Counterplan, Launches DA, Case
2NC: Internet CP, Launches, Case
1NR: Framework
2NR: Framework

====Round 5 - James Logan XT==== 

Aff: The United States federal government should develop and deploy space based solar power.

1NC: ASPEC, XO, SKFTA, Defacit Spending CP, ITAR CP, Heidegger, Case
2NC: ASPEC, XO, Def Spend CP, ITAR, Part of Case
1NR: Part of Case, SKFTA
2NR: Def Spend CP, ITAR CP, SKFTA, Case

====Finals - Damien MM==== 

Aff: The United States federal government should develop and deploy microsatellites tasked with inspection, surveillance, maintenance, and propulsion capabilities as well as the deployment of a Parasitic Attitude Control System.

1NC: T-Beyond, T-Substantial, Multiplank CP, GBLs CP, Ozone DA, Case
2NC: Multiplank CP, Ozone DA, Case
1NR: T-Substantial
2NR: Ozone DA, Case

Multiplank CP Text:The United States federal government should offer a Code of Conduct to all space-faring nations that prohibits harmful interference against artificial space objects and reduces practices that contribute to the weaponization of space, including but not limited to a Parasitic Attitude Control System. The United States federal government should create enforcement mechanisms and transparency and verification measures for every country that agrees to the Code of Conduct. The United States federal government should not first strike or use nuclear weapons against The People’s Republic of China. The United States federal government should publicize its decision to do so. The United States federal government should provide a declaration that the US will guarantee the continued flow of information to any country whose satellite is destroyed by an anti-satellite weapon.

===USC=== 

====Round 1 - Highland BA==== 

Aff: The United States federal government should develop and demonstrate space-based solar power technology beyond the Earth’s Mesosphere for worldwide distribution.

1NC: FW PIC, Cadmium PIC, ASPEC, XO, China Bashing, TIts, Gramsky K, Case
2NC: Gramsky K, Case
1NR: China Bashing
2NR: Gramsky K

====Round 3 - Westho==== 

"Aff": Should the United States federal government explore and/or develop space beyond the Earth's Mesosphere? (Heidegger)

1NC: FW, Gramsky K, Case
2NC: Gramsky K, Case
1NR: FW
2NR: Gramsky K

====Round 4 - Menlo Atherton RR==== 

Aff: <span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The United States federal government should develop, and fully fund a demonstration of, space-based solar power.</span>

1NC: ASPEC, XO, Gramsky K, China Bashing, Cadmium PIC, Case
2NC: Gramsky K, Case
1NR: China Bashing
2NR: China Bashing, Case


===NCFL Quals @ C.K. McClatchy=== 
====Round 1 - James Logan ??==== 

Aff: The United States federal government should develop and deploy space based solar power.

1NC: T-Human, ASPEC, XO, Payroll Tax, Debris, COC, Cadmium PIC
2NC: XO, Case
1NR: Debris, Payroll Tax
2NR: Payroll Tax, Case


====Round 4 - Nevada Union CL==== 

Aff: The United States federal government should develop and deploy the Deep Space Climate Observatory.

1NC: ASPEC, XO, Payroll Tax, T-Human, Gramsky
2NC: Gramsky
1NR: T-Human
2NR: T-Human

===Golden Desert=== 
====Round 1 - East BB==== 

Aff: The US Federal Government should <span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">deploy a constellation of kinetic energy ballistic missile interceptors in space above the mesosphere.</span>

1NC: ASPEC, XO, Payroll Tax, T-Human, Plan Flaw, NGSO DA, Gramsky, Strat CP, Case
2NC: XO, Payroll Tax, Plan Flaw, Gramsky, Heg Adv
1NR: T-Human, NGSO DA, Strat CP, China Adv
2NR: Plan Flaw, T-Human

Plan Flaw: US Federal Government =/= United States federal government

====Round 3 - Westminister SL==== 

Aff: The United States federal government should substantially increase its efforts to monitor asteroids.

1NC: ASPEC, XO, Payroll Tax, T-Human, T-Beyond, Gramsky, Deflection Bad DA, Case
2NC: XO, Gramsky
1NR: Payroll Tax
2NR: Gramsky

====Round 6 - Bingham HG==== 

Aff: The United States federal government should <span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">deploy a global space based ballistic missile defense program including, but not limited to, Brilliant Pebbles and space-based lasers.</span>

1NC: Gramsky, XO, Keystone XL, ASPEC, Case
2NC: XO, Keystone XL
1NR: Case
2NR: XO, Keystone XL, Case

===Stanford=== 
====Round 1 - Ashland FK==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px;">Aff: The United States federal government should equip its satellites with stuffed Whipple shields.</span>

1NC: Gramsky, XO, PTC, T-Human, ASPEC, Case
2NC: Gramsky, Case
1NR: T-Human
2NR: Gramsky

====Round 3 - Lowell HM==== 

Aff: **<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The United States federal government should substantially increase development and deployment of launch on demand small satellite constellation systems consistent with an Operationally Responsive Space strategy.</span>**

1NC: Vagueness, PTC, Australia CP, T, XSS-11 PIC, Debris DA, Case
2NC: PTC, Australia CP, Case
1NR: T-Human
2NR: T-Human

====Round 6 - St Vincent De Paul AM==== 

"Aff": We advocate storytelling as a means of exposing otherization in astronomical discourse. Specifically, we advocate re-reading Orson Scott Card’s Ender trilogy in this space as a method for actualizing an ethical relationship to the other.


1NC: Framework, Orson Scott Card PIC, Schmitt K, Case
2NC: Framework
1NR: Orson Scott Card PIC
2NR: Orson Scott Card PIC

====Quarters - Loyola FM==== 

Aff: **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The United States federal government should deploy solar power satellites in 3 hour Sub-Molniya Orbits and utilize Fresnal lenses to concentrate solar energy for a High Concentration Photovoltaic power system.</span>**

1NC: T-Human, Radio Astronomy DA, Stratosphere CP, Cadmium PIC, Jackson-Vanik, Case Turns
2NC: Stratosphere CP, Case Turns, Radio Astronomy DA
1NR: T-Human
2NR: Case Turns, Stratosphere CP

===Berkeley=== 
====Round 1 - Salpoint HL==== 

Aff: The United States federal government should <span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">deploy a global space based ballistic missile defense program including, but not limited to, Brilliant Pebbles and space-based lasers.</span>

1NC: T-Human, Radio Astronomy DA, Stratosphere CP, Long Range Bomber DA, Foucalt K, Case
2NC: Radio Astronomy, Stratosphere CP, Case
1NR: T-Human
2NR: T-Human

====Round 4 - CPS AP==== 

Aff: The United States federal government should develop and deploy the Deep Space Climate Observatory.

1NC: T-Subs, T-Human, Power Plants CP, Foucalt K, Case (Dedev)
2NC: CP, Dedev, Case
1NR: T-Human
2NR: CP, Dedev, Case

====Round 5 - East OW==== 

Aff: The United States federal government should <span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">deploy a global space based ballistic missile defense program including, but not limited to, Brilliant Pebbles and space-based lasers.</span>

1NC: T-Human, Jackson-Vancik, XO CP, Radio Astronomy DA, Stratosphere CP, Case
2NC: Radio Astronomy DA, Stratosphere CP, Case
1NR: T-Human
2NR: T-Human

====Trips - Rosemount BS==== 

Aff: SSA

1NC: T-Human, Radio Astronomy DA, Long Range Bomber DA, Lazers CP, Gramsky K, Case
2NC: Radio Astronomy, Case
1NR: T-Human
2NR: Radio Astronomy, Case

===CA State=== 
====Round 2 - Damien ??==== 

Aff: PACs

1NC: Coop w/ China Adv CP, XSS-11 DA, T-Substantial, Radio Astronomy DA, Case
2NC: CP, Case
1NR: XSS-11 DA
2NR: XSS-11, CP

====Doubles - Bellarmine ??==== 

Aff: ORS

1NC: XSS-11 DA, Radio DA, LRB DA, EDDEs/GBLs CP, Case
2NC: XSS-11 DA, LRB DA
2NC: CP, Case
2NR: LRB, CP




[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]