[[toc]]
=***Neg Cites (Requested Only)***= 
=<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">ITAR/OTECH</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">1NC</span>== 
//These are the cards I read on this counterplan at Greenhill – I think I extended it at Wake; but don’t know quite which cards I read. If you’d like the cites to those, too, let me know and I will look again.//


Text: The President of the United States should restructure the export control process as per the NRC’s Beyond Fortress America Report, in such a way that it affirms a strong presumption for openness. The United States Federal Government should incentivize the development and use of Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion Technology in the United States.

Implementing Beyond Fortress America solves the economic, science and technology enterprises, and national security – we should do it as soon as possible.
Abbey and Lane 09 (United States Space Policy: Challenges and Opportunities Gone Astray. George Abbey and Neal Lane – The Baker Institute. [[http://bakerinstitute.org/publications/SPACE-pub-AbbeyLaneUSPolicyGoneAstray-072809.pdf]]. George Abbey is Baker Botts Senior Fellow in Space Policy at the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy at Rice University. He directs the Space Policy Program. He was Director of the Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas. He holds the NASA Distinguished Service and the Outstanding Leadership and Exceptional Service Medals. He also served as a member of the Operations Team awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom for their role in the Apollo 13 mission. Neal Lane is the Malcolm Gillis University Professor at Rice University. He holds appointments as Senior Fellow of the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy. He served as Assistant to the President for Science and Technology and Director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policyand as Director of the National Science Foundation (NSF) and of the National Science Board. He is a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and serves as a member of the Academy’s Council. )

The First Barrier: The Impact of Export Controls on Space Commerce Implement the recommendations of the NRC’s January 2009 report, Beyond ‘Fortress America.’ Beyond ‘Fortress America’ presents a clear case for changing the present export control rules. The report calls on the new administration to revise export control policies promptly, by issuing an executive order that affirms “a strong presumption for openness.” The report’s twenty pages of recommendations should be implemented at the earliest possible date if the United States is to overcome this barrier to realizing the great potential of its present and planned activities in space, as well as strengthen the nation’s university research activities and the nation’s aerospace industry. At a hearing of the Committee on Science and Technology of the U.S. House of Representatives on February 25, 2009, the witnesses and members discussed the findings and recommendations of Beyond ‘Fortress America,’ which states, “As currently structured, many of these controls undermine our national and homeland security and stifle American engagement in the global 42. National Research Council, Beyond ‘Fortress America.’ 43. Obama, “Remarks by the President.” 28 UNITED STATES SPACE POLICY economy, and in science and technology.”44 During the hearing, Committee Chairman Bart Gordon noted: Our nation’s export controls were supposed to help strengthen our national security, by protecting America’s sensitive technologies from falling into the wrong hands. However, in recent years there has been a growing chorus of concern that the current system of export controls is undermining our nation’s competitiveness in the global economy, undermining our science and technology enterprise, and weakening our national security—not strengthening it.45

<span style="text-decoration: none;">The counterplan solves oil dependency and warming</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Galbraith, 09 (4/12/09, Kate, The New York Times, “Generating Energy from the Deep”, </span>[[http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/30/business/energy-environment/30thermal.html]])
[[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/business/companies/lockheed_martin_corporation/index.html?inline=nyt-org|LOCKHEED MARTIN]] is best known for building stealth fighters, satellites and other military equipment. But since late 2006 the company has taken on a different kind of enterprise — generating renewable power from the ocean. The technology is still being developed in the laboratory, but if it succeeds on a large scale, it could eventually become an important tool in the nation’s battle against [[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/science/topics/globalwarming/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier|global warming]] and dependency on foreign oil. Lockheed and a few other companies are pursuing ocean thermal energy conversion, which uses the difference in temperature between the ocean’s warm surface and its chilly depths to generate electricity. Experts say that the balmy waters off Hawaii and Puerto Rico, as well as near United States military bases on islands like Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean or Guam in the Pacific, would be good sites for developing this type of energy. Hawaii and many other islands rely on imported oil to generate most of their electricity, which is expensive, and last year’s spikes in oil prices have reinvigorated their search for homegrown alternatives. “The vagaries of petroleum impact Hawaii far more than any other state,” said Theodore Peck, an energy administrator in the state’s department of business, economic development and tourism. Generating energy from the ocean’s temperature variations, he added, is “a natural for Hawaii.” The Navy is also interested in the technology and in the next few months plans to award a contract to explore it, according to Whit DeLoach, a spokesman for the Naval Facilities Engineering Command. As of last year, he said, the Navy had spent slightly more than $1 million to research the technology for Diego Garcia. In the approach that Lockheed is pursuing (with another company, Makai Ocean Engineering), the water on the ocean’s surface is used to heat a pressurized liquid, usually ammonia, which boils at a temperature slightly below that of warm seawater. That liquid becomes gas, which powers a turbine generator. Cold water is then pumped from the ocean’s depths through a giant pipe to condense the gas back into a liquid, and the cycle is repeated. An important advantage of this method of producing energy is that it could run all the time, unlike solar plants, which cannot work at night, or [[http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/w/wind_power/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier|wind turbines]], which stop in calm conditions.


=<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">China</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">1NC China CP</span>== 
The People’s Republic of China should establish lunar property rights for helium-3 mining.

It solves – even NASA admits China has better moon tech then we do
O’Neil, Discovery News Space Science Producer, 8
(Ian, Discovery News, “Griffen: China Could Beat US in Moon Race”, January 15, http://www.universetoday.com/15559/griffin-china-could-beat-us-in-moon-race/, accessed 6/30/11, CW, NOTE: Michael Griffen: Physicist, aerospace engineer, and former NASA administrator)

More bad news for NASA: even their administrator thinks China could beat the US to the Moon. Speaking with the BBC today, Michael Griffin shared his views about the Chinese space aspirations, pointing out that the super-state could, if they wanted to, send a manned mission to the lunar surface within a decade. NASA’s return mission to the Moon is planned to launch, at the earliest, in 2020, so this news is bound to knock the wind out of the US space agency’s hopes to continue where it left off in 1972… In the last five years, China has been teetering on the edge of a full-manned space program. In 2003, the nation became only the third country to put a national into space (following the Russia and the USA), blasting Yang Liwei into orbit for 21 hours on the Shenzhou 5 spacecraft. Shenzhou 6 was launched with two astronauts (or “taikonauts”) on board, spending five days orbiting the Earth in 2005. This year, shortly after the Beijing Olympics in October, China is sending another manned mission into orbit, only this time it is hoped a spacewalk will be possible. With this rapid succession of successful manned launches, it comes as no surprise that attention is swinging away from NASA and to China for the next big step into space. The last time man set foot on the Moon was in 1972 when Eugene Andrew Cernan, last man on the Moon, boarded the Apollo 17 lunar module. That was 36 years ago and space flight has changed significantly since then, now NASA has more competition, as highlighted by Griffin during a visit to London: “Certainly it is possible that if China wants to put people on the Moon, and if it wishes to do so before the United States, it certainly can. As a matter of technical capability, it absolutely can.” – Dr Michael Griffin As to whether it actually matters whether China are the next to land on the Moon is open to interpretation. After all, the first nation to set foot on Earth’s natural satellite was the USA, so is a return trip a big psychological “victory” for China? “I’m not a psychologist, so I can’t say if it matters or not. That would just be an opinion and I don’t want to air an opinion in an area that I’m not qualified to discuss,” Griffin added. Recently, there has been increased cooperation between the US and China when sharing science and information. “We do have some early co-operative initiatives that we are trying to put in place with China, mostly centred around scientific enterprises. I think that’s a great place to start,” he said. Although many will view an early Chinese lunar mission as a NASA failure, both nations appear to be trying to forge close relationships that could possibly lead to joint space missions in the future. After all, even at the peak of the Cold War, the US and Russia began working on a common goal.
==<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">1NC CCP NB</span>== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Chinese space leadership is key to CCP stability – plan causes nationalist up-rise </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Johnson-Freese 4</span> (Dr. Joan Johnson-Freese Chair, Department of National Security Studies, Naval War College “Space Wei Qi: The Launch of Shenzhou V” [[http://www.usnwc.edu/getattachment/ba695c64-2c13-4913-a6f5-9ebcec9aa311/Space-Wei-Qi--The-Launch-of-Shenzhou-V---Johnson-F]] ///)//
//<span style="text-decoration: none;">China faces</span>// <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Herculean</span> //<span style="text-decoration: none;">challenges on a daily basis keeping its population employed</span>, fed, <span style="text-decoration: none;">housed, and</span> subsequently// <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">stable</span>//. 8 Why, then, would its leaders spend severely limited government resources on a manned space program? There are many reasons, in addition to which Chinese program supporters had the benefit of being able to learn from the American and Russian experiences. <span style="text-decoration: none;">China has read the playbooks from both countries on how to maximize program benefits</span> and strategic opportunities. Additionally, in terms of the technology used, <span style="text-decoration: none;">China did not reinvent the wheel but instead chose to build on proven Russian designs</span>. Project 921, as this, the second Chinese attempt at a manned space program, is called, was initiated and championed by former Chinese president, and still head of the military, Jiang Zemin. 9 It was undertaken in 1992 because the time was ripe: <span style="text-decoration: none;">China was on an economic upswing and more technologically adept than during its first attempt in the 1970s;</span> 10 <span style="text-decoration: none;">China desired advanced space technology for both domestic telecommunications and the military; and the program created a positive focal point for national pride to counter negative</span> 1989// <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Tiananmen Square images</span>//. China has not, however, sent a man into space because Jiang Zemin is a space visionary, yearning to explore the heavens as an expression of humankind’s essential nature. Jiang is a pragmatist, a skilled politician and a technocrat who ascended to power by maneuvering his way through the Byzantine maze of China’s power structure. His support for the manned program—publicly evidenced by his visit to Johnson Space Center in October 2002, his presence at the March 2003 launch of the Shenzhou III unmanned precursor, and ultimately more importantly, through sustained government funding—has been a calculated risk. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Domestic pride and international prestige,</span> economic development (including skilled jobs and expanded science and engineering educational programs), <span style="text-decoration: none;">and dual-use technology development are all proven reasons for pursuing manned space programs</span>. Jiang understood that if space successes are spectacular, so too are space failures. Not only were national goals on the line but his own position relative to his successor as president, Hu Jintao. Failure would be devastating. As it turned out, success may have had personal implications as well—one of the few surprises of the carefully choreographed launch was the absence of Jiang Zemin. Although he had been scheduled to speak to the taikonaut during the launch and offer congratulations afterward, he was conspicuously missing from the launch site and media events. While a disaster would have certainly reflected poorly on Jiang, apparently being poised to accept credit, even by inference, presented issues as well for him. It was Hu Jintao at the launch site who spoke to Yang before the launch, Hu on the phone during the flight, and Hu there to proclaim the mission a complete success afterward. Twice on CCTV (China Central Television) news on the evening of the flight Hu spoke, saying that he was representing Jiang. People’s Daily reported that “in a phone call to [General] Li Jinai, chief commander of China’s space program, Jiang said, ‘I am very happy and excited to hear that our country’s first manned space flight has turned out to be a complete success.’” 11 CCTV also showed footage of the Chinese defense minister, General Cao Gangchuan, talking to Yang in orbit. Cao too said he was representing Jiang. But it was clearly Hu that dominated the news that Wednesday night, with CCTV airing long portions of his two speeches on the space launch. 12 Jiang’s absence at the pre- and postlaunch events possibly indicated ambiguity about how the <span style="text-decoration: none;">Chinese leadership wants the launch perceived</span>. Since Jiang’s sole remaining formal post is that of chairman of the Communist Central Military Commission, a visible role for him might have sent too loud a message about military involvement. Although the Chinese want the United States to view the Chinese military capabilities with respect, they do not want it to view this launch as a threat that requires a response. But since both People’s Liberation Army (PLA) Generals Cao and Li were in attendance, perhaps Jiang’s absence primarily indicates Jiang’s further distancing from power, pari passu with Hu’s rise. 13 <span style="text-decoration: none;">The 1957</span>// <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">launch of Sputnik was a huge psychological boost</span> //<span style="text-decoration: none;">for both the Soviet people and the Soviet government</span> during the Cold War, and conversely a huge blow to both the people and the government of the United States. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Pride</span>,// <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">and a consequent “rallying-around</span>//” in the Soviet Union <span style="text-decoration: none;">after Sputnik</span> (as experienced as well in the United States after the Apollo moon landing), also <span style="text-decoration: none;">translated into credibility and </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">hence governmental legitimacy</span>//.// <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Credibility and legitimacy are important considerations in Beijing</span>//. <span style="text-decoration: none;">One Chinese official stated of the Shenzhou V launch, “This is not America where money comes from the taxpayers. This is money of the Communist Party—they would do with it what they decide</span>. It is great they are investing in something that makes us proud.” 14 Beijing’s interest in manned spaceflight for reasons of domestic pride and international prestige parallels its interest in bringing the Olympics to Beijing in 2008. Indeed, Yang carried an Olympic flag with him into orbit, unfurling it ceremoniously upon his return. 15 Six centuries ago a Ming dynasty inventor, Wan Hu, is said to have strapped rockets onto his chair and ordered his assistants to light them. When the smoke cleared, Hu and the chair were, not surprisingly, gone. Yang Liwei has now joined Wan Hu as a space hero. <span style="text-decoration: none;">A statue of Yang is already planned in his home province, Liaoning, a rust-belt region ripe for the revitalization Yang is intended to inspire</span>. The Shenzhou V capsule will be displayed at the Millennium Monument in Beijing, where crowds estimated in the thousands celebrated at the time of the launch. Most celebrations appeared largely choreographed, as opposed to the many celebrations that spontaneously erupted when Beijing was named the 2008 Olympic host city. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The space mission was both an event meant to be filmed and shown to the world, and one directed by and supported from the top levels of government</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">Having planned celebrations</span> at the Millennium Monument// <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">rather than in Tiananmen Square</span>// also <span style="text-decoration: none;">deflected comparisons with or reference to other times in Tiananmen that were neither celebratory nor reflective of national pride and unity</span>. The diminutive (and now promoted) Colonel Yang’s biography reads like “the right stuff”—thirty-eight, college-educated, fighter pilot, selfless wife, adoring son. He is described as having been a bright youth and a bit of a mischief maker. In postlaunch interviews he is personable, connecting well with average people. His political credentials must also be assumed impeccable, as he is both the new poster boy for the Chinese leadership and the role model for China’s youth.

Nuclear war.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Yee 2</span> — Professor of Politics and International Relations at the Hong Kong Baptist University and Storey, Lecturer in Defence Studies at Deakin University, (Herbert Yee, Professor of Politics and International Relations at the Hong Kong Baptist University and Ian Storey, Lecturer in Defence Studies at Deakin University, 2002, “The China Threat: Perceptions, Myths and Reality,” p5)
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The fourth factor contributing to the perception of a China threat is the fear of political and economic collapse in the PRC, resulting in territorial fragmentation, civil war and waves of refugees pouring into neighbouring countries. Naturally, any or all of these scenarios would have a profoundly negative impact on regional stability. Today the Chinese leadership faces a raft of internal problems, including the increasing political demands of its citizens, a growing population, a shortage of natural resources and a deterioration in the natural environment caused by rapid industrialisation and pollution. These problems are putting a strain on the central government's ability to govern effectively. Political disintegration or a Chinese civil war might result in millions of Chinese refugees seeking asylum in neighbouring countries. Such an unprecedented exodus of refugees from a collapsed PRC would no doubt put a severe strain on the limited resources of China's neighbours. A fragmented China could also result in another nightmare scenario - nuclear weapons falling into the hands of irresponsible local provincial leaders or warlords.2 From this perspective, a disintegrating China would also pose a threat to its neighbours and the world.</span>

==<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">2NC CCP Cards</span>== 
===Impact=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Loss of CCP support causes lashout at Taiwan. </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Szonyi 2k</span> (Michael Szonyi is a professor of History at the University of Toronto and a recognized international authority on Asia, “Commentary No. 79: Canadian Security Intelligence Service Publication” [[http://www.csis.gc.ca/pblctns/cmmntr/cm79-eng.asp]] ///)//
//The political implications of the problems anticipated for the next stage of reform are significant. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The most important political support of the CCP has always been farmers and industrial worker</span>s, precisely the two groups which stand to lose the most. Under Deng Xiaoping's leadership, the CCP abandoned collectivism and egalitarianism as the basis of regime legitimacy, substituting rapid economic development and rising income for all. But the former is proving difficult to sustain, and in any case it is no longer obvious that it leads to the latter. The regime's greatest fear must be the bottom-up challenge of endemic and accelerating pattern of urban and rural mass protest. Over 100 000 mass demonstrations were reported to the government in 1999; the real number is surely many times higher. Various types of grievances send people to the streets in China today. In the cities, the most important include the closure of bankrupt state-owned enterprises and resulting layoffs; unpaid wages, privatization of housing which involves eviction from public housing and levels of compensation inadequate for purchase of a private home, and other erosions of social welfare. In May, students at Beijing University, long a touchstone for the national sentiments, demonstrated against the unsafe campus environment after the rape and murder of a fellow student. In rural areas, people demonstrate and riot against excessive taxation, government failures to pay for procured products, land disputes, corruption and embezzlement by local officials, and manipulation of village elections. Rural and urban residents protesting against government closures of investment funds for illegal activity have been particularly outspoken because they believed that the state actively promoted and guaranteed the investment funds. Over one hundred mass demonstrations related to investment funds are said to have occurred in the upper Yangtze city of Chongqing alone. Three aspects of the demonstrations are noteworthy. First, they are occurring throughout China, in both rich and poor areas, because <span style="text-decoration: none;">there are dissatisfied people everywhere.</span> In a single week of January 2000, <span style="text-decoration: none;">there were reports of anti-government protests in Guangdong's Zhongshan county</span>, close to Hong Kong and one of China's richest counties, and in impoverished Shanxi in the north.(10) Second, the scale of the protests is large and growing. In the northern province of Liaoning, over twenty thousand miners demonstrated in February 2000 against inadequate payoffs when their bankrupt mine shut down. In May, five thousand steelworkers demonstrated, also in Liaoning. Media reports suggest the People's Liberation Army is increasingly being called upon to restore order.// <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Rural protests are also growing in scale.</span> //In January 1999, over five thousand villagers near the Hunan capital of Changsha were dispersed by police after gathering to demonstrate against taxes and corruption.(11) Third, despite their size and intensity, <span style="text-decoration: none;">the demonstrations are narrowly focused on specific economic grievances, and there is no coordination or organization linking separate protests</span>. Thus, popular expressions of dissatisfaction will probably not become regime-threatening in the period 2001-2006. <span style="text-decoration: none;">They would become much more worrying if their demands broadened to include political change</span>, if a coordinating organization emerged, <span style="text-decoration: none;">or if they become serious enough that the leadership feels compelled to distract popular feeling</span>// <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">by manipulating nationalism</span>//, perhaps// <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">through aggressive action against Taiwan</span>//, discussed below.//

//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lashout would mean nuclear chemical and bio war—causes extinction. </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Renxing 5</span> (San Renxing staff writer for epoch times, “The CCP’s Last-ditch Gamble: Biological and Nuclear War” [[http://en.epochtimes.com/news/5-8-5/30975.html]]// /)
Since the Party’s life is “above all else<span style="text-decoration: none;">,” it would not be surprising if the CCP resorts to the use of biological</span>, chemical, //<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">and nuclear weapons in its attempt to extend its life</span>//. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The CCP</span>, which disregards human life<span style="text-decoration: none;">, would not hesitate to kill</span> two hundred million <span style="text-decoration: none;">Americans</span>, along with seven or eight hundred million Chinese, to achieve its ends. These speeches let the public see the CCP for what it really is. With evil filling its every cell <span style="text-decoration: none;">the CCP intends to wage </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">a war against humankind</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;"> in its desperate attempt to cling to life</span>. That is the main theme of the speeches. This theme is murderous and utterly evil. In China we have seen beggars who coerced people to give them money by threatening to stab themselves with knives or pierce their throats with long nails. But <span style="text-decoration: none;">we have never, until now, seen such a gangster who would use biological</span>, //<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">chemical, and nuclear weapons to threaten the world</span>//, //<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">that they will die together with him.</span>// This bloody confession has confirmed the CCP’s nature: That of a monstrous murderer who has killed 80 million Chinese people and who now plans to hold one billion people hostage and gamble with their lives.

<span class="bylines">And, that comparatively outweighs your impacts </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">OCHS 2</span><span class="bylines"> — </span>Richard, member of the Baltimore Emergency Response Network and founding chairman of the Students for a Democratic Society in 1964 at the University of Maryland in College Park, BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY, 6/9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html
Of all the weapons of mass destruction, the genetically engineered biological weapons, many without a known cure or vaccine, are an extreme danger to the continued survival of life on earth. Any perceived military value or deterrence pales in comparison to the great risk these weapons pose just sitting in vials in laboratories. While a "nuclear winter," resulting from a massive exchange of nuclear weapons, could also kill off most of life on earth and severely compromise the health of future generations, they are easier to control. Biological weapons, on the other hand, can get out of control very easily, as the recent anthrax attacks has demonstrated. There is no way to guarantee the security of these doomsday weapons because very tiny amounts can be stolen or accidentally released and then grow or be grown to horrendous proportions. The Black Death of the Middle Ages would be small in comparison to the potential damage bioweapons could cause.

===Russia Impact=== 
Collapse of the Chinese government causes border conflict with Russia
Lo and Rothman 06 [Bobo Lo and Andy Rothman, May 2006, Asian Geopolitics, special report http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_7057/is_2_9/ai_n28498825/pg_17/]
The second scenario for strategic conflict is predicated on a general collapse of law and order in China. With no effective central authority to contain the anarchy, millions of Chinese could cross the border into the Russian Far East. This would lead to tensions and clashes, at first sporadic and random, but subsequently escalating into interstate conflict.

US resource mining would collapse China’s economy.
Newitz 10 (Annalee Newitz, American journalist who covers the cultural impact of science and technology, PhD in English and American Studies from UC Berkeley, 2/19/10, “Will Asteroid Mining Destroy The Chinese Economy?”, [[http://io9.com/5475304/will-asteroid-mining-destroy-the-chinese-economy]])
Instead of sending people to the Moon, the US space program is sending robots to the Asteroid Belt. When these robots discover metals in the Belt, how will it affect the economy of Earth? Discovery's Robert Lamb reports on a lecture given by Vatican astronomer Guy J. Consolmagno, which was in part about the ethics of asteroid mining. Lamb writes: Can you put a price tag on an asteroid? Sure you can. We know of roughly 750 S-class asteroids with a diameter of at least 1 kilometer. Many of these pass as near to the Earth as our own moon — close enough to reach via spacecraft. As a typical asteroid is 10 percent metal, Brother Consolmango estimates that such an asteroid would contain 1 billion metric tons of iron. That's as much as we mine out of the globe every year, a supply worth trillions and trillions of dollars. Subtract the tens of billions it would cost to exploit such a rock, and you still have a serious profit on your hands. But is this ethical? Brother Consolmango asked us to ponder whether such an asteroid harvest would drastically disrupt the economies of resource-exporting nations. What would happen to most of Africa? What would it do to the cost of iron ore? And what about refining and manufacturing? If we spend the money to harvest iron in space, why not outsource the other related processes as well? Imagine a future in which solar-powered robots toil in lunar or orbital factories. "On the one hand, it's great," Brother Consolmango said. "You've now taken all of this dirty industry off the surface of the Earth. On the other hand, you've put a whole lot of people out of work. If you've got a robot doing the mining, why not another robot doing the manufacturing? And now you've just put all of China out of work. What are the ethical implications of this kind of major shift?

Chinese economic decline causes great power war
Kane 01 [Thomas Kane, PhD in Security Studies from the University of Hull & Lawrence Serewicz, Autumn, http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/Parameters/01autumn/Kane.htm]
Despite China's problems with its food supply, the Chinese do not appear to be in danger of widespread starvation. Nevertheless, one cannot rule out the prospect entirely, especially if the earth's climate actually is getting warmer. The consequences of general famine in a country with over a billion people clearly would be catastrophic. The effects of oil shortages and industrial stagnation would be less lurid, but economic collapse would endanger China's political stability whether that collapse came with a bang or a whimper. PRC society has become dangerously fractured. As the coastal cities grow richer and more cosmopolitan while the rural inland provinces grow poorer, the political interests of the two regions become ever less compatible. Increasing the prospects for division yet further, Deng Xiaoping's administrative reforms have strengthened regional potentates at the expense of central authority. As Kent Calder observes, In part, this change [erosion of power at the center] is a conscious devolution, initiated by Deng Xiaoping in 1991 to outflank conservative opponents of economic reforms in Beijing nomenclature. But devolution has fed on itself, spurred by the natural desire of local authorities in the affluent and increasingly powerful coastal provinces to appropriate more and more of the fruits of growth to themselves alone.[ 49] Other social and economic developments deepen the rifts in Chinese society. The one-child policy, for instance, is disrupting traditional family life, with unknowable consequences for Chinese mores and social cohesion.[ 50] As families resort to abortion or infanticide to ensure that their one child is a son, the population may come to include an unprecedented preponderance of young, single men. If common gender prejudices have any basis in fact, these males are unlikely to be a source of social stability. Under these circumstances, China is vulnerable to unrest of many kinds. Unemployment or severe hardship, not to mention actual starvation, could easily trigger popular uprisings. Provincial leaders might be tempted to secede, perhaps openly or perhaps by quietly ceasing to obey Beijing's directives. China's leaders, in turn, might adopt drastic measures to forestall such developments. If faced with internal strife, supporters of China's existing regime may return to a more overt form of communist dictatorship. The PRC has, after all, oscillated between experimentation and orthodoxy continually throughout its existence. Spectacular examples include Mao's Hundred Flowers campaign and the return to conventional Marxism-Leninism after the leftist experiments of the Cultural Revolution, but the process continued throughout the 1980s, when the Chinese referred to it as the "fang-shou cycle." (Fang means to loosen one's grip; shou means to tighten it.)[ 51] If order broke down, the Chinese would not be the only people to suffer. Civil unrest in the PRC would disrupt trade relationships, send refugees flowing across borders, and force outside powers to consider intervention. If different countries chose to intervene on different sides, China's struggle could lead to major war. In a less apocalyptic but still grim scenario, China's government might try to ward off its demise by attacking adjacent countries.
===Brink=== 
The CCP is on the brink.
WSJ 11 (“The Chinese Awakening.” [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052702303936704576394911086791704.html]]. June 21st 2011)

The Chinese Communist Party is 90 years old on July 1, and by way of celebration propaganda chief Li Changchun has ordered the official media to step up "patriotic education." Tickets to see the latest star-studded Party epic, "Beginning of the Great Revival," are being distributed to the masses. Much of this hoopla doesn't register in the public consciousness, or is derided when it does. Yet for six decades the Party has succeeded in enforcing its world view by repetition and, more critically, preventing anyone from presenting alternative values. That may be changing. Indications are emerging that dissenting voices are gaining traction in the public square. For instance, ordinary Chinese are running for election in local legislative bodies that are usually rubber-stamp bodies filled with reliable worthies chosen by the Party. View Full Image 1chinawake STR/AFP/Getty Images Migrant workers rioted in Xintang, Guangdong province, earlier this month. 1chinawake 1chinawake A similar trend briefly emerged in the early 2000s, but the authorities were largely able to intimidate or co-opt the challengers. This time crude measures are only encouraging more candidates to emerge. As in the Middle East, young, white-collar urbanites angry about corruption, inflation and poor governance are less cowed by threats. Another difference is that the candidates are gaining such a large following that detaining them risks causing a wider societal backlash. The rise of social media is a contributing factor. When the major Web portals sprang to prominence a decade ago, authorities hired tens of thousands of censors and commenters to control the debate, with some success. Now microblogging sites such as Sina Weibo are further speeding up communication, allowing celebrity "thought leaders" to broadcast their ideas to tens of millions before the censors can respond. As of March last year, Sina's service had only five million users. In the first quarter of 2011, the number passed 140 million and is still climbing. The government has blocked Western sites such as Facebook and Twitter, and the Chinese equivalents maintain in-house censorship operations that obey government orders on what must be taken down. But the instantaneous nature of microblogging combined with user ingenuity in substituting alternative words for blocked phrases makes it more difficult to control. One of the first independent candidates was Liu Ping, a laid-off worker who announced her candidacy in April. Jiangxi province officials harassed her and refused to allow her to run. That inspired others around the country, including a popular blogger with three million Weibo followers, to throw their hats into the ring. Officially, anyone who has not been convicted of a serious crime can run for the local People's Congresses. Coercion has always worked in the past to deter outsiders from participating. But the new breed of candidates is setting out to expose the contrast between the letter of the law and the Party's tools of control, so coercion plays into their hands. The big question is whether dissent will turn into unrest. A spate of recent violent incidents has revealed that Chinese society is not as stable as the government claims. But a better indication of how the political ground is shifting is the way that the Party and business elites are hedging their bets. While hot money continues to flow into China in anticipation that the yuan will rise in value, the rich in China are moving some of their money out. A recent survey by Bain consulting and China Merchants Bank found that investment abroad has doubled annually since 2008. And 27% of individuals with more than $15 million in assets had already acquired a foreign passport, while another 47% were considering obtaining one. The growing ferment is a reminder that the Communist Party's founding in 1921 followed the May Fourth movement two years earlier, which mobilized the country's youth to fight for democracy. That movement's ideals continue to resurface despite the Party's claim that its version of "people's democracy" superceded them. The Party still has the power to put down incidents of unrest, but the Chinese people are stirring against the injustices of dictatorship.

===Space Link=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Space is the key internal link to CCP stability.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dellios 5</span> (Rosita Dellios is Associate Professor of International Relations at Bond University and a China defence specialist. “China's space program: A strategic and political analysis” [[http://epublications.bond.edu.au/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1093&context=cm&sei-redir=1#search=%22China%20Space%20program%20economy%20budget%20Soviets%22|http://epublications.bond.edu.au/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1093&context=cm&sei-redir=1#search=%22China%20Space%20program%20economy%20budget%20Soviets%22]] ///)//
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">If the Chinese Communist Party is to retain its legitimacy </span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">at a time of increasing irrelevance of Communist ideology,</span> then a// <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">grand project like the space program may indeed be a unifying cause, a</span> //<span style="text-decoration: none;">source of pride as to what China can do</span>. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The CCP also needs the public acclaim that comes from such a prestige project as space exploration to offset a measure of public dissatisfaction with</span> official <span style="text-decoration: none;">corruption and</span> social <span style="text-decoration: none;">injustice</span>. In 2004, according <span style="text-decoration: none;">to government records, there were 74,000 protests in China, involving some three million people</span>.(22)// <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The space program helps improve the party's image. </span>//Yet China has been criticized for spending an estimated 19 billion yuan or US$2.4 billion, though the PRC figure is half this,(23) on the Shenzhou-6 launch when such funds could have been better used to help the poor.(24) This is especially so in view of another event in October 2005 - the meeting of the CCP's Central Committee which decided to enhance efforts in adjusting income distribution and alleviating the widening wealth gap. One response by the Chinese to the criticism of privileging the glories of space over grim realities on the ground is that such criticisms are ill-informed. Space officials have defended their work by noting that their space program is used for "sustainable human development" in various sectors from improved food production to telecommunications;(25) while spending on the Shenzhou6 mission was dwarfed by the 190 billion yuan (US$23.5 billion) spent on pollution control in 2004. (26) In the end, <span style="text-decoration: none;">assessments need to be made within the wider framework of China's code of 'comprehensive national strength</span>'. This concept, to which discussion will return, alludes to coordinative efforts between space and terrestrial concerns, as well as between defence and the civilian economy generally.

Resources—China views space access as being monopolized by the US, plan furthers that
Listner 11 (Michael Listner, legal and policy analyst with a focus on issues relating to space law and policy, writes a regular column on space law and policy at Examiner.com, received his JD in 2001 from Regent University of School of Law in Virginia Beach, VA and was admitted to the New Hampshire Bar in 2003, 4/25/11, “An exercise in the Art of War: China’s National Defense white paper, outer space, and the PPWT,” The Space Review, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1828/1]])

United States space policy has evolved to recognize the dependence on its outer space systems and their inherent vulnerability. On October 6, 2006, the Bush Administration released the unclassified, public version of the National Space Policy.8 Among the principles enunciated, the National Space Policy states that: The United States considers space capabilities — including the ground and space segments and supporting links — vital to its national interests. Consistent with this policy, the United States will: preserve its rights, capabilities, and freedom of action in space; dissuade or deter others from either impeding those rights or developing capabilities intended to do so; take those actions necessary to protect its space capabilities; respond to interference; and deny, if necessary, adversaries the use of space capabilities hostile to U.S. national interests; This stance was considered provocative by many and drew the ire of political commentators and scholars alike. In particular, a scholar in US-China relations suggested that the National Space Policy articulated the goal of the United States to gain a monopoly in outer space to the exclusion of others, and that China might develop anti-satellite and space weapons to defend against that goal.9

All space development is perceived as a threat by China because they view space capabilities as a zero sum game that is critical to their national security.
Johnson-Freese 06 ([[http://www.wsichina.org/space/attach/CS2_4.pdf]]. “Strategic Communication with China: What Message about Space?” China Security. Vol. 1, No. 2 (2006). Dr. Joan Johnson-Freese has been a member of the faculty of the Naval War College since 2002. Previously, she was on the faculty at the Asia Pacific Center for Security Studies in Honolulu, HI; the Air War College in Montgomery, AL; and Director of the Center for Space Policy & Law at the University of Central Florida.)

Attitudes and behavior through communications strategies. Militarily, the world understands that it is futile to take on the United States force-on-force. That makes asymmetrical responses both logical and attractive. While it does not currently appear to be the case, China could seek an asymmetrical advantage in space as well, since parity is technically and economically out of the question for some time, and perhaps not even needed to be a space power.34 Currently, however, Beijing does not have a coherent military space architecture, but rather it appears to be actively pursuing a wide-range of capabilities. China watched the United States establish space dominance in the first Gulf War, Kosovo, Afghanistan and Operation Iraqi Freedom. It realized how far behind it was. “We are so dominant in space that I pity a country that would come up against us,” said Maj. Gen. Franklin Blaisdell, director of space operations for the Air Force, eight days before Operation Iraqi Freedom began.35 Nevertheless – or perhaps at least partly pushed by that pronouncement – China clearly feels compelled to develop military space capabilities. Two critical events occurred in 2001 that the Chinese interpreted as sending clear messages to them. First, as noted earlier, the United States issued the Space Commission report. The part of the report that caught the attention of the Chinese was the statement that space would inevitably become a battleground, therefore the United States would be remiss not to prepare,36 with the unspoken assumption being that preparation meant the development of space weapons. Second, the United States held its first-ever space war game, called Schriever I.37 In that well-publicized war game, U.S. forces were pitted against an opponent threatening a small island neighbor, one about the size and location of Taiwan. It didn’t take the Chinese long to conclude that they in turn would be remiss not to prepare for the inevitability of U.S. development of space weapons, as China might well be the target of those weapons. From the Chinese perspective, officials have concluded that if the United States would be remiss to not prepare for the inevitable weaponization of space and against a space Pearl Harbor, they would be remiss not to prepare for the execution of the U.S. Counterspace Operations doctrine as part of a unilaterally developed and supported preemptive action. Is that the response that the United States has been seeking? Both China and the United States see space assets as so valuable to their national security equations that any gain made by one country in advancing its capabilities is viewed as not just threatening but as a loss by the other. China is interested in developing military space capabilities as part of its military modernization effort, as are most countries in the world. It is further interested in development of space capabilities as part of globalization efforts and to send a techno-nationalist message regionally and globally. But China is also responding to the message it hears from the United States.

=Interference DA= 
==1NC== 

SPS interferes with military satellites
Laracy et al 7 (Joseph R. Laracy, Damien Bador, Danielle Adams- Graduate students at MIT, Annalisa Weigel- Assistant Professor at MIT, 2007, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics,” Solar Power Satellites: Historical Perspectives with a Look to the Future,” p. 11)
A major concern about the SPS design was its potential for interference with other electronic systems. As mentioned in the CDEP Final Program review, “Electromagnetic systems likely to experience SPS interference would include military systems, public communications, radar, aircraft communications, public utility and transportation system communications, other satellites, and radio and optical astronomy.”31 Such a long and varied list clearly puts this issue into the realm of a serious social problem. In particular, military systems close to the transmitter or receiver would be threatened. Also, radio and optical astronomy would be very difficult with an SPS system in place. For radio astronomy, Earth based systems close to receiving antenna sites would be affected by interference. Meanwhile, optical astronomy would be limited because the SPS would create light pollution.32

Interference with early warning causes Russian first strike
Arbatove 11 (Alexei Arbatove, Head of the Center for International Security at the Russian Academy of Science’s Institute for World Economy and International Relations, 2011, Toward a Theory of Spacepower Chapter 23, “Russian Perspectives on Space power,” http://www.ndu.edu/press/space-Ch23.html)
However, Russia's dependence on missile early warning satellites is truly decisive. Due to financial problems and mistaken decisions on a strategic modernization program in 2000–2001, Russian strategic forces are becoming more vulnerable. Russia's ever smaller number of submarines and bombers is not survivable in bases and on airfields. Its mobile missile force is shrinking because many more obsolete SS–25 ICBMs are withdrawn than new SS–27s are deployed. Its silo-based ICBMs (including new SS–27s) and fewer mobile SS–27s in shelters increasingly depend on launch-on-warning (LOW) to maintain deterrent capability. On top of all this, out of eight big missile early-warning radars, five are deployed outside of Russian territory (in Belarus, Ukraine, Azerbaijan, and Kazakhstan) and cannot be relied upon in time of a hypothetical crisis involving a strategic nuclear threat. Russian official and unofficial attempts from 2001 to 2005 to come to an agreement with the United States to cut strategic forces to lower than 1,700 to 2,200 warhead levels (Moscow 2002 Strategic Offensive Reduction Treaty) to reduce U.S. counterforce capability, or to jointly lower the readiness for launch status of strategic forces (for the same purpose), proved to be futile. Hence, Russia has a heavy and growing reliance on the LOW concept and early warning satellites. The fact that this system does not have a much higher priority in Russia's space and defense program reflects Moscow's relaxed attitude toward the probability of a confrontation with the United States and its allies and a huge lack of coordination in Moscow's strategic forces, programs, posture, and support systems. Nonetheless, it is not an acceptable justification: strategic posture is such an important element of national security that internal contradictions are not to be looked at with complacency. Development and deployment of space weapons, particularly those of antisatellite class, would greatly exacerbate this instability against the background of the U.S., Russian, and potentially Chinese strategic postures. All in all, it may be stated flatly that Russia has great interests and ambitions in outer space, both civilian and military, but those interests are confined to unarmed craft. This position stems from both Russia's overwhelming dependence on international cooperation in outer space and the severe shortage of funding for defense in general and military space programs in particular. Hence, Russia has an extremely negative view of development and deployment of space weapons of any kind (deployed in space or designed for attacking space objects). In contrast to the USSR, which was the first nation to deploy operational ballistic missile defense (BMD) and antisatellite (ASAT) systems in the 1970s, Russia has neither the resources nor the perceived strategic requirements for pursuing space weapons. Russia would see any such development and deployment as a major provocation and a threat to its security and national interests. Moreover, Russia's future attitude toward other states and their treatment as partners or opponents will be heavily affected by their posture with respect to space weapons. In this sense, new U.S. Air Force space doctrine and various Pentagon statements on the subject are universally seen in Russia with great concern and hostility. Only some major provocation might change Russia's policy on the issue. One is a potential U.S. deployment of space-based ASAT systems, threatening Russian early-warning satellites (which are deployed not only at geosynchronous orbits but also partly at Molniya-type highly elliptical orbits and pass at low altitude over the south polar zone). As a system for retaliation or for a direct attack on U.S. space-based ASAT craft, Russia might contemplate reviving its direct ascent ASAT systems or resuming its land-based laser program with inherent antisatellite potential. Another trigger may be a massive U.S. deployment of space-based BMD intercept or support systems, which would threaten Russia's strategic nuclear deterrent capability. Undoubtedly, Moscow's first choice in both cases would be an asymmetric response: enhancing satellite survivability, reducing reliance on LOW, or developing BMD penetration systems. However, if that would not be enough or turn out to be too expensive, Russia may eventually go for space weapons of its own. ASAT Systems Apart from routine commercial competition and disputes around places in geostationary orbit and radio communication frequencies, the real conflicts in space may stem from attacks on or interference with another state's spacecraft. In many cases, some violation of the standard operation of an individual space system may result in almost-total failure of the normal functioning of military, commercial, and other systems and structures. The hypothetical deployment of the means of destruction or interference of various physical natures, threatening spacecraft operations (foremost, that of early warning satellites) may in a crisis situation lead to a high level of strategic instability, encouraging reliance on a preemptive nuclear strike. At the same time, a significant escalation in the number of some types of reconnaissance satellites could undercut the survivability of certain strategic forces (primarily ground-mobile missiles and missile submarines at sea) and devalue their deterrent capability, thus putting a premium on a first disarming strike or launch-on-warning—thus also leading to dangerous strategic destabilization. Both such satellites and orbital antisatellite systems provide a high incentive for the development of antisatellite weapons of various basing modes. Such is one of the most significant facets of the dialectics of strategic space systems interaction.

We’ll win probability and timeframe, but evaluate magnitude first. U.S. Russia war is the only existential risk in the round.
Bostrom 2 (Nick Bostrum, professor of philosophy at Oxford University, March 2002, Journal of Evolution and Technology, “Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards,” http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html)
A much greater existential risk emerged with the build-up of nuclear arsenals in the US and the USSR. An all-out nuclear war was a possibility with both a substantial probability and with consequences that might have been persistent enough to qualify as global and terminal. There was a real worry among those best acquainted with the information available at the time that a nuclear Armageddon would occur and that it might annihilate our species or permanently destroy human civilization.[4] Russia and the US retain large nuclear arsenals that could be used in a future confrontation, either accidentally or deliberately. There is also a risk that other states may one day build up large nuclear arsenals. Note however that a smaller nuclear exchange, between India and Pakistan for instance, is not an existential risk, since it would not destroy or thwart humankind’s potential permanently. Such a war might however be a local terminal risk for the cities most likely to be targeted. Unfortunately, we shall see that nuclear Armageddon and comet or asteroid strikes are mere preludes to the existential risks that we will encounter in the 21st century.


==2NC Stuff== 
===2NC Links=== 

SPS interferes with satellites
Jones 10 (Royce Jones- space tech entrepreneur, Winter, <http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/jones.html>)
The problem with GEO SPS is the 36,000 kilometer distance. This distance from Earth requires large microwave transmitters and large ground receivers. The great distance also results in very high launch costs due to the transmitter size and mass and the very real prospect of interference with the large number of communication satellites located there. As noted in Figure 4, the reason that the solar power satellite must be so large at GEO has to do with the physics of power beaming. The smaller the transmitter array, the larger is the angle of divergence of the transmitted beam. A highly divergent beam will spread out over a wide land area, and may be too weak to activate the rectenna. In order to obtain a sufficiently concentrated beam, more power must be collected and fed into a large transmitter array.

<span class="Underline">Microwave beams are electromagnetic weapons and can destroy power systems</span>
<span class="Underline">Pop, 2k – PhD Student, University of Glasgow Law School (Virgiliu, “SECURITY IMPLICATIONS OF NON-TERRESTRIAL RESOURCE EXPLOITATION”, http://www.geocities.com/virgiliu_pop/publications/security.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">High power microwaves (HPM) are a new means of warfare. The use of microwaves as the means of transmission of energy between the SPS and the ground based collecting rectenna may qualify them as electromagnetic weapons. The most widely acknowledgedeffect of HPM is “disruption of electronic systems”, able to “reset computers, cause complete loss of stored data and/or cause microprocessors to switch operating modes”7. This would “produce substantial paralysis in any target system, thus providing a decisive advantage in the conduct of Electronic Combat,Offensive Counter Air and Strategic Air Attack”8. In the same time, a HPM attackdirected at an aircraft “could corrupt the plane’s control and navigation systems enough to cause a crash”9. </span>
<span class="Underline">Although of a non-lethal nature10, the effects of electromagnetic weapons are significant,ranging from “nuisance to catastrophic”11. This led experts to consider them as “Weapon[s] of Electrical Mass Destruction”12. Indeed, thereliance of today’s society on electronic andcomputer systems makes it extremely fragile; aHPM attack would have far more catastrophiceffects than the Millennium Bug13. </span>

<span class="Underline">SSP can be used to jam enemy communications and light up battlefields</span>
<span class="Underline">Pop, 2k – PhD Student, University of Glasgow Law School (Virgiliu, “SECURITY IMPLICATIONS OF NON-TERRESTRIAL RESOURCE EXPLOITATION”, http://www.geocities.com/virgiliu_pop/publications/security.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">The SPS potential of jamming of enemy radio communications is considered to be “significant”34 and one of “the most logical offensive uses of SPS”35. Orbital solar mirrors could be used to intimidate the enemy and to illuminate the battlefields during an attack. Given their dimensions, SPS can serve as a “space launching pad”36 and repair facilities37. The SPS “would be able to transmit power to remote military operations anywhere needed on earth”38. </span>

===DA Turns Econ=== 

<span class="Underline">Space assets are vital to the economy</span>
<span class="Underline">Sterner, 10 - fellow at the George C. Marshall Institute. He was a senior professional staff member on the House Armed Services and Science Committees and served in the Office of the Secretary of Defense and as NASA's associate deputy administrator of policy and planning (Eric, World Politics Review, “Tending the Forge of American Space Power,” 6/15, http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/5793/tending-the-forge-of-american-space-power</span>

<span class="Underline">Ironically, even as space has moved away from the center of American culture, it has become ever more integrated with the international system. Global space spending in 2009 reached approximately $262 billion, or 7 percent more than in 2008, despite the global recession. The largest share of that spending, at nearly $91 billion, was for commercial satellite services (communications, remote sensing, satellite positioning), followed by commercial infrastructure (at $84 billion), and spending by the United States government (at $64 billion). Direct spending, however, does not tell the whole story. Space systems lie at the heart of the global infrastructure for moving information, whether that data is collected from remote-sensing systems (such as weather satellites) and high-resolution remote-sensing systems (think Google Earth), or transmitted over communications satellites. Global Positioning System (GPS) satellites transmit precise timing signals, which are used to locate one's position on Earth, aid navigation, and time global financial transactions. A range of spacecraft are studying the planet and its functions, peering into deep space at the origins of the universe, and visiting other planets. Space systems and their applications contribute to efforts and advances in agriculture, development, resource allocation, disaster relief, education, and medicine. Even cable television programming is distributed by satellite. </span>
<span class="Underline">Increasingly, if one digs deeply enough into any economic activity in the 21st century, a space element will be involved. And as the world's most developed space power, the United States has led the way in integrating space into its economic foundations.</span>
===DA Turns Heg=== 


<span class="Underline">Loss of space assets will annihilate US hegemony</span>
<span class="Underline">Marshall, 8 - NASA Ames Research Center (Will, Astropolitics, 6:154–199, “REDUCING THE VULNERABILITY OF SPACE ASSETS: A MULTITIERED MICROSATELLITE CONSTELLATION ARCHITECTURE,” Ebsco Political Science)</span>
<span class="Underline">Space assets are one of the most critical ‘‘Achilles’ heels’’ of the current military capability of the United States (U.S.). This is for two reasons: (1) the U.S. military space systems—in particular reconnaissance, navigation, signals intelligence, early warning, and communications systems—are critical to modern military warfare and intelligence; and (2) space systems are inherently vulnerable to attack. This combination is understood at the highest levels and was espoused in the ‘‘Rumsfeld Space Commission’’ with talk of a ‘‘Space Pearl Harbor.’’1 Whether one agrees with the tone, this is a genuine security problem for the U.S. in need of a near-term solution. While there have been numerous papers, and much media and academic attention, in the space security discussion focused on promoting or criticizing space-based weapons,2 there have been far fewer papers and studies offering constructive ways forward that deal with these genuine security concerns in a broader sense.3 The central motivation for this paper is to put forward one key element—the satellite architecture—in an effort to reduce the vulnerability of U.S. space assets. It is hoped that this idea, together with others like it, should stimulate and contribute to a debate on more constructive ways forward for how to achieve space security in the post-Cold war world. Importance of Space Assets For better or worse, it is clear that the U.S. military is to some significant extent dependent on its key satellites, which number about 86–105 operational satellites at present. These satellites constitute a significant part of the eyes, ears, and central nervous system of the modern military.4 A practical example that helps to illustrate this is the case of the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq in 2003. First, the decision to go was based in part on satellite imagery and signals intelligence from satellites; whether or not it was interpreted or used correctly is a separate issue. Second, the planning and operation were facilitated by satellite imagery. Third, many planes, ships, tanks, and units’ positions were known through Global Positioning System (GPS) satellites, and even most munitions were guided by GPS. Fourth, the operation was commanded from the U.S. in large part through the use of communications satellites. Perhaps more importantly than any of the functions in the Iraq example, early warning (EW) satellites are the U.S.’s and Russia’s first warning of nuclear missile attack. As Gray classified, space assets have moved from being ‘‘useful and important’’ to an ‘‘indispensable adjunct’’ in the military over the last decade.5 Space assets are definitely used a great deal by the U.S. military, but that does not mean necessarily as strong a dependence as Gray implies. The loss of U.S. space assets could range in its effect anywhere from a loss to the U.S. military in practical operations, to being catastrophic to U.S. security. The former would entail a reduction in operational effectiveness or speed, but fundamentally supposes that back-up systems and/or redundancy allow a near continuation of military capability. The latter scenario would entail an effective disablement of the U.S. military capability from normal operations. In reality, the significance lies between these boundaries, but this is a topic that could benefit from further research.</span>

===DA Turns Terror=== 

<span class="Underline">Eavesdropping satellites solves terrorism </span>
<span class="Underline">Couvault 9 (Craig, Aviation Week & Space Technology magazine writer, specialization in Chinese Space Development, Apollo, Skylab, Shuttle and ISS, national security space programs from the White House, “Newly Launched Spy Satellite Critical for Monitoring Terrorists” 1/18/2009, http://www.space.com/6332-newly-launched-spy-satellite-critical-monitoring-terrorists.htmlDA: 5/13/11) </span>
<span class="Underline">The new National Reconnaissance Office (NRO) payload on the Delta 4-Heavy is a 5-to-6 ton eavesdropping spacecraft with a high tech deployable antenna as wide as 350 feet. The spacecraft is to enhance the capability for the U.S. to listen in on communications in hostile governments like Iran and terrorist organizations like Al Qaeda. The NROL-26 mission has worried NRO officials and other intelligence professionals because of concerns about flying the critical satellite on the new Delta 4-Heavy. The heavy-lift rocket lifted off late Saturday at 9:47 p.m. EST (0247 Jan. 18 GMT) from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station in Florida. If the mission was to fail, it would spark another crisis in the U. S. intelligence community, already burdened with growing tasks from an increasingly dangerous world. The satellite is likely an "Advanced Mentor" design, according to GlobalSecurity.Org, a military think tank. Earlier versions were designated Orion. Due to satellite development delays and a 1998 Titan launch failure involving an earlier "Mercury" eavesdropper design, the U.S. has fallen as much as one or two spacecraft behind its original 10-year schedule to launch such giant eavesdroppers. These spacecraft provide the kind of information the White House, State Dept. and Pentagon need to make military and national foreign policy decisions. It is also likely a "broad spectrum" satellite that can update key frequency information on hostile radars and other detection systems that could threaten U.S. forces. The three earlier Mentor spacecraft introduced a very large 'wrap-rib' deployable antenna design spanning up to 350 feet, says GlobalSecurity.Org. The National Security Agency will be the prime distributor of the spacecraft's data, sending information from the satellite to the other 15 agencies and organizations that now make up the intelligence community. It has been five years since a large geosynchronous orbit eavesdropping satellite has been launched from Cape Canaveral. That earlier satellite, believed to have been a less capable version of the Mentor, was lofted on board a Titan-Centaur booster in September 2003. Over the last two-and-a-half years, however, two different eavesdropping satellites have been launched on smaller Delta 4-Medium and Atlas 5 rockets from Vandenberg Air Force Base, Calif. These spacecraft, with smaller antennas, are in highly elliptical orbits of roughly 700 x 23,500 miles. Instead of remaining parked over one location above the equator, these Vandenberg-launched satellites travel up and down over the northern hemisphere. They can listen into radio communications from different locations or radio waves monitored from different angles, compared with geosynchronous orbit satellites. The data from these different eavesdroppers is then combined and assessed with other sources of information including that obtained by aircraft such as advanced versions of the U-2.</span>

===DA Turns SPS=== 

<span class="Underline">SSP will be destroyed in a space war</span>
<span class="Underline">Pop, 2k – PhD Student, University of Glasgow Law School (Virgiliu, “SECURITY IMPLICATIONS OF NON-TERRESTRIAL RESOURCE EXPLOITATION”, http://www.geocities.com/virgiliu_pop/publications/security.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">2.5. Self Defence of SPS At the opposite end of the security concerns related to the use of SPS lies their safety; while a “non-owner state” is concerned with the military potential of a SPS, an “owner state” would see a SPS as “a target for any space-capable nation with intentions hostile to the interests of that state”39. </span>
<span class="Underline">The use of a geosynchronous orbit makes the SPS “a “sitting duck” for anti-satellite weapons”, given “the absolute predictability of these orbits”40. Its vulnerability is of high importance, “especially since it could be supplying a large portion of a nation’s electricity”41. Security issues are raised also by the ground-based rectenna that “would be as vulnerable to terrorist or quasi-military action as other large industrial complexes or power plants”42. </span>

=Heidegger= 
==1NC Heidegger== 
<span class="Underline">The affirmatives attempt to radically further technology ignores the dangers of technological development and buys into Astrofuturism. </span>
<span class="Underline">Housman and Flynn 11 [Benjamin H. Housman and Thomas R. Flynn “Cooling Down Global Warming: Revisiting Sartre and Heidegger on this Modern Day Challenge” The ‘Step Back’ as a ‘Step Towards’ Confronting Global April 14, 2011 MV]</span>

<span class="Underline">Our relation to technology has fundamentally changed over the past few centuries. Devices such as cell phones, laptops, engines, and televisions all play major roles in our daily lives, to such a degree that it would be difficult to imagine our world without them. The preponderance of these technological devices dominates our lives so extensively that many believe we have become dependent on them, ignoring what it means to be human and reducing our lives to mere cogs in a larger technological machine. This situation poses a serious threat both to our essence as humans and to our surrounding natural environment. Indeed, since the time of the Industrial Revolution, our environment has been exposed to rapidly increasing levels of greenhouse gases that present grave dangers to our glaciers, the survival of many species, agricultural productivity, and our environment as a whole. We are living during a crucial historical period that will define the way we inhabit this earth and our future survival. </span>
<span class="Underline">It is with this backdrop in mind that we turn to the late work of the renowned German philosopher Martin Heidegger. Heidegger’s philosophical pursuits following World War II marked a shift in his thinking as he moved toward understanding technology and its position within society and the history of man as a whole. Yet, even as Heidegger adjusted the focus of his philosophical lens to technology, the question concerning Being and the essence of man continued to penetrate his work. What, then, was Heidegger’s philosophy of technology and how can it shed light on the threat global warming imposes on our environment? After analyzing many of the main ideas from Heidegger’s later work on technology, this chapter will demonstrate that Heidegger’s philosophy of technology and the danger he calls attention to must be taken seriously if we wish to preserve our natural environment and humanity. An appreciation for the gravity of this landscape that Heidegger presents will hopefully inspire many to act—and it is in this commitment to what Heidegger calls “meditative thinking” [bessinnliches Denken], our essential activity that has been overlooked in the surrounding technological world, that we will make great strides towards caring for our environment. The spirit of Heidegger’s work calls for us to regain our essence as thought-worthy beings, and forces us to consider how we can live in a technological world while also preserving our environment—how we can say both ‘yes’ and ‘no’ to technology. </span>

<span class="Underline">Their notion that technology can solve all problems is utopian; this will fail and cause backlash </span>
<span class="Underline">Owen and Ridley, 2k (David Owen is Reader in Political Philosophy and Deputy Director of the Centre for Post-Analytic Philosophy at the University of Southampton. He is the author of numerous books and articles in social and political philosophy with a focus on Nietzsche. Aaron Ridley is a professor of Philosophy at the School of Humanities at the University of Southampton. He has also written multiple books about Nietzschean ethics. Why Nietzsche still? page 149-54)</span>
<span class="Underline">The threat here is obvious: What is to be feared, what has a more calamitous effect than any other calamity, is that man should inspire not profound fear but profound nausea; also not great fear but great pity. Suppose these two were one day to unite, they would inevitably beget one of the uncanniest monsters: the "last will" of man, his will to nothingness, nihilism. And a great deal points to this union. (GM III:I4) So suicidal nihilism beckons. The one response to the situation that is absolutely ruled out is the one that has so far proved most successful at addressing problems of this sort, namely, adoption of the ascetic ideal, because the present crisis is caused by the self-destruction of that ideal. But Nietzsche argues that two plausible responses to the crisis are nonetheless possible for modern man. Both of these involve the construction of immanent ideals or goals: one response is represented by the type the Last Man, the other by the type the Ubermensch. The first response recognizes the reality of suffering and our (post-ascetic) inability to accord transcendental significance to it and concludes that the latter provides an overwhelming reason for abolishing the former to whatever extent is possible. This has the effect of elevating the abolition of suffering into a quasi-transcendental goal and brings with it a new table of virtues, on which prudence figures largest. In other words, this response takes the form of a rapport a soi characterized by a style of calculative rationality directed toward the avoidance of suffering at any cost, for example, of utilititarianism and any other account of human subjectivity that accords preeminence to maximizing preference satisfaction. In Thus Spoke Zarathustra Nietzsche portrays this type as follows: "What is love? What is creation? What is longing? What is a star?" thus asks the Last Man and blinks. The earth has become small, and upon it hops the Last Man, who makes everything small. His race is as inexterminable as the flea; the Last Man lives longest. "We have discovered happiness," say the Last Men and blink. They have left the places where living was hard: for one needs warmth. One still loves one's neighbor and rubs oneself against him: for one needs warmth. Sickness and mistrust count as sins with them: one should go about warily. He is a fool who still stumbles over stones or over men! A little poison now and then: that produces pleasant dreams. And a lot of poison at last, for a pleasant death. They still work, for work is entertainment. But they take care the entertainment does not exhaust them. Nobody grows rich or poor any more: both are too much of a burden. Who still wants to rule? Who obey? Both are too much of a burden. No herdsman and one herd. Everyone wants the same thing, everyone is the same: whoever thinks otherwise goes voluntarily into the madhouse "Formerly all the world was mad," say the most acute of them and blink. They are clever and know everything that has ever happened: so there is no end to their mockery. They still quarrel, but they soon make up-otherwise indigestion would result. They have their little pleasure for the day and their little pleasure for the night: but they respect health. "We have discovered happiness," say the Last Men and blink. (Z: I "Prologue" 5) Nietzsche'shostility to this first form of response is evident. His general objection to the Last Man is that the Last Man's ideal, like the ascetic ideal, is committed to the denial of chance and necessity as integral features of human existence. Whereas the ascetic ideal denies chance and necessity per se so that, while suffering remains real, what is objectionable about it is abolished, the Last Man's ideal is expressed as the practical imperative to abolish suffering, and hence, a fortiori, what is objectionable about it – that is, our exposure to chance and necessity. This general objection has two specific dimensions. The first is that the Last Man's ideal is unrealizable, insofar as human existence involves ineliminable sources of suffering-not least our consciousness that we come into being by chance and cease to be by necessity. Thus the Last Man's ideal is predicated on a neglect of truthfulness. The second dimension of Nietzsche's objection is that pursuit of the Last Man's ideal impoverishes and arbitrarily restricts our understanding of what we can be and, in doing so, forecloses our future possibilities of becoming otherwise than we are. Thus the Last Man's ideal entails an atrophying of the capacities (for self-overcoming, etc.) bequeathed by the ascetic ideal. Nietzsche brings these two dimensions together in Beyond Good and Evil: "You want, if possible – and there is no more insane 'if possible' – to abolish suffering. ... Well-being as you understand it – that is no goal, that seems to us an end, a state that soon makes man ridiculous and contemptible – that makes his destruction desirable" (BGE 225).</span>
<span class="Underline">The second response to the nihilistic threat posed by the selfdestruction of the ascetic ideal is definitive of the Ubermensch type. This responserecognizes both the reality and the ineliminability of suffering and concludes that an affirmation of chance and necessity must therefore be built into the very conception of what it is for something to function as a (postascetic) ideal. So this response, insofar as it cultivates an affirmation of chance and necessity (i.e., amor fati), overcomes the (ascetic) hatred of or (modern) dissatisfaction with this-worldly existence. Yet the success of this overcoming is conditional on the exercise and development of the very capacities and disposition that are the bequest of the ascetic ideal. The disposition to truthfulness is a condition of recognizing the ineliminability of chance and necessity. But actually to recognize, let alone affirm, this awful fact about human existence requires the exercise of the capacities for self-surveillance (so that one can monitor oneself for the symptoms of self-deception in the face of this fact), self-discipline (so that one can resist the understandable temptation to deceive oneself about this fact), and self-overcoming (so that one can develop, in the face of this temptation, one's capacities for self-surveillance and self-discipline). Thus the ascetic ideal provides the tools required to overcome the crisis precipitated by its own self-destruction. In other words, the Ubermensch's ideal simply is the exercise and cultivation of the capacities and the disposition required to affirm the fact that chance and necessity are ineliminable. And because chance and necessity are ineliminable, and therefore require perpetually to be affirmed anew, such exercise and cultivation must itself be perpetual, a process without the slightest prospect of an end. The contrast with the Last Man's ideal is stark. Whereas the latter offers a feeling of power to its devotees by positing as realizable the unrealizable ideal of no more suffering-that is, of a fixed, final, completed state of being – the Ubermensch’s ideal offers a feeling of power predicated only on the continual overcoming of the desire for any such state. What the Last Man longs for, in other words., the Ubermensch distinguishes himself by unendingly and truthfully refusing to want. It is of the first importance that the Ubermensch's ideal should represent a process as inherently valuable, rather than a product (such as the Last Man's completed state of life without suffering). There are two reasons for thinking this important. The first is the one mentioned above given that chance and necessity are ineliminable features of living a life, a life oriented to the affirmation of this fact must recognize the ineliminably processual character of such an affirmation, and hence the ineliminably processual character of an ideal that serves rather than denies "the most fundamental prerequisites of life" (GM III:28). The other reason is that this ideal exhibits the form of practical reasoning that Nietzsche's genealogy itself deploys. By contrast with, say, Kant's conception of practical reasoning, which centers on an opposition between the real and the ideal (between the heteronomous and the autonomous), and denies "the most fundamental prerequisites of life," Nietzsche's conception involves a continual process of movement from the attained to the attainable; and it is precisely this that the rapport a soi constitutive of the Ubermensch exhibits. Thus, while Kant offers a juridical conception of practical reasoning structured in terms of the idea of law, Nietzsche offers a medical or therapeutic conception articulated through the idea of the type or exemplar. Which is to say, Nietzsche's genealogical investigation (at its best, i.e., its most self-consistent) exemplifies precisely that commitment to the affirmation of life which it recommends, that is, to an Ubermenschlich rapport a soi. Process, not product; Dionysus, not Apollo. </span>

<span class="Underline">Such forms of technological thought only create the conditions that are the pre-requisite for nuclear wars—the consequences of such thought are more devastating than extinction</span>
<span class="Underline">Caputo 93—professor of Humanities at Syracuse, founder of weak theology, MA from Villanova, PhD from Bryn Mawr in Philosophy (John Caputo, Demythologizing Heidegger, 1993 p. 136-141, [Miller])</span>

<span class="Underline">In his essay "The Thing" Heidegger remarks upon the prospect of a nuclear conflagration which could extinguish all human life: Man stares at what the explosion of the atom bomb could bring with it. He does not see that what has long since taken place and has already happened expels from itself as its last emission the atom bomb and its explosion—not to mention the single nuclear bomb, whose triggering, thought through to its utmost poten¬tial, might be enough to snuff out all life on earth. (VA, 165/PLT, 166). In a parallel passage, he remarks: ... [Man finds himself in a perilous situation. Why? Just because a third world war might break out unexpectedly and bring about the complete annihilation of humanity and the destruction of the earth? No. In this dawning atomic age a far greater danger threatens—precisely when the danger of a third world war has been removed. A strange assertion! Strange indeed, but only as long as we do not meditate. (G, 27/DT, 56). The thinker is menaced by a more radical threat, is endangered by a more radical explosiveness, let us say by a more essential bomb, capable of an emission (hinauswerfen) of such primordiality that the explosion (Explosion) of the atom bomb would be but its last ejection. Indeed, the point is even stronger: even a nuclear bomb, or a wholesale exchange of nuclear bombs between nuclear megapowers, which would put an end to "all life on earth," which would annihilate every living being, human and nonhuman, is a deriva¬tive threat compared to this more primordial destructiveness. There is a pros¬pect that is more dangerous and uncanny—unheimhcher—than the mere fact that everything could be blown apart (Auseinanderplatzen von allem). There is something that would bring about more homelessness, more not-being¬at-home (un-Heimlich) than the destruction of cities and towns and of their inhabitants. What is truly unsettling, dis-placing (ent-setzen), the thing that is really terrifying (das Entsetzende), is not the prospect of the destruction of human life on the planet, of annihilating its places and its settlers. Further¬more, this truly terrifying thing has already happened and has actually been around for quite some time. This more essential explosive has already been set off; things have already been destroyed, even though the nuclear holocaust has not yet happened. What then is the truly terrifying? The terrifying is that which sets everything that is outside (heraussitzl) of its own essence (Wesen)'. What is this dis-placing [Entsetzendel? It shows itself and conceals itself in the way in which everything presences (anwest), namely, in the fact that despite all conquest of distances the nearness of things remains absent. (VA, 165/P1.T, 166) The truly terrifying explosion, the more essential destruction is that which dis-places a thing front its Wesen, its essential nature, its ownmost coming to presence. The essential destruction occurs in the Being of a thing, not in its entitative actuality; it is a disaster that befalls Being, not beings. The destruc¬tiveness of this more essential destruction is aimed not directly at man but at "things" (Dirge), in the distinctively Heideggerian sense. The Wesen of things is their nearness, and it is nearness which has been decimated by technological proximity and speed. Things have ceased to have true nearness and farness, have sunk into the indifference of that which, being a great distance away, can be brought close in the flash of a technological instant. Thereby, things have ceased to be things, have sunk into indifferent nothingness. Something profoundly disruptive has occurred on the level of the Being of things that has already destroyed them, already cast them out of (herauswerfen¬) their Being. Beings have been brought close to Us technologically; enor¬mous distances are spanned in seconds. Satellite technology can make events occurring on the other side of the globe present in a flash; supersonic jets cross the great oceans in a few hours. Yet, far from bringing things "near," this massive technological removal of distance has actually abolished nearness, for nearness is precisely what withdraws in the midst of such technological frenzy. Nearness is the nearing of earth and heavens, mortals and gods, in the handmade jug, or the old bridge at Heidelberg, and it can be experienced only in the quiet meditativeness which renounces haste. Thus the real destruction of the thing, the one that abolishes its most essen¬tial Being and Wesen, occurs when the scientific determination of things pre¬vails and compels our assent. The thingliness of the jug is to serve as the place which gathers together the fruit of earth and sun in mortal offering to the gods above. But all that is destroyed when pouring this libation becomes instead the displacement of air by a liquid; at that moment science has suc¬ceeded in reducing the jug-thing to a non-entity (Nichtige). Science, or rather the dominion of scientific representation, the rule of science over what comes to presence, what is called the Wesen, which is at work in science and technol¬ogy, that is the truly explosive-destructive thing, the more essential dis-placing. The gathering of earth and sky, mortals and gods, that holds sway in the thing—for "gathering" is what the Old High German thing means—is scat¬tered to the four winds, and that more essential annihilation occurs even if the bomb never goes off: Science's knowledge, which is compelling within its own sphere, the sphere of objects, already had annihilated things long before the atom bomb exploded. The bomb's explosion is only the grossest of all gross confirmations of the long-since accomplished annihilation of the thing. (VA, 168/PLT, 170J When things have been annihilated in their thingness, the mushroom clouds of the bomb cannot be far behind. So whether or not the bomb goes off is not essential, does not penetrate to the essence of what comes to presence in the present age of technological proximities and reduced distances. What is essential is the loss of genuine nearness, authentic and true nearness, following which the actual physical annihilation of planetary life would be a "gross" confirmation, an unrefined, external, physical destruction that would be but a follow-up, another afterthought, a less subtle counterpart to a more inward, profound, essential, authentic, ontological destruction.</span>

<span class="Underline">We must rethink the urge to shape the world and provide quick solutions in order to allow the world to show itself on its own terms.</span>
<span class="Underline">McWhorter 92 (Ladelle, Asst Prof of Philosophy @ Northeast Missouri State Univ., Heidegger and the Earth, p. 2)</span>

<span class="Underline">Some might find this unnecessarily harsh. We academicians may wish to contest the accusation. Surely, in the universities of all places, thinking is going on. But Heidegger had no respect for that or any other kind of complacency. The thinking he saw as essential is no more likely, perhaps unfortunately, to be found in universities or among philosophers than anywhere else. For the thinking he saw as essential is not the simple amassing and digesting of facts or even the mastering of complex relationships or the producing of ever more powerful and inclusive theories. The thinking Heidegger saw as essential, the thinking his works call us to, is not a thinking that seeks to master anything, not a thinking that results from a drive to grasp and know and shape the world; it is a thinking that disciplines itself to allow the world - the earth, things - to show themselves on their own terms. Heidegger called this kind of thinking `reflection'. In 1936 he wrote, "Reflection is the courage to make the truth of our own presuppositions and the realm of our own goals into the things that most deserve to be called in question."' Reflection is thinking that never rests complacently in the conclusions reached yesterday; it is thinking that continues to think, that never stops with a satisfied smile and announces: We can cease; we have the right answer now. On the contrary, it is thinking that loves its own life, its own occurring, that does not quickly put a stop to itself, as thinking intent on a quick solution always tries to do. </span>

==2NC Heidegger (Hoflo)== 
===Overview=== 

<span class="Underline">The aff’s use of calculative thought ignores that technology’s role in creating global warming -- only releasement solves.</span>
<span class="Underline">Housman and Flynn 11 [Benjamin H. Housman and Thomas R. Flynn “Cooling Down Global Warming: Revisiting Sartre and Heidegger on this Modern Day Challenge” The ‘Step Back’ as a ‘Step Towards’ Confronting Global April 14, 2011 MV]</span>

<span class="Underline">Heidegger directly speaks to this notion of a ‘step back’ in many of his works, but particularly in his 1957 essay entitled “The Onto-Theo-Logical Constitution of Metaphysics”. He says, “The step back points to the realm which until now has been skipped over, and from which the essence of truth becomes first of all worthy of thought” (1969 [1957], 49). Stepping back out of positionality, out of solely calculative thinking, out of the plans and schedules of our daily lives, provides an entirely new perspective on how we relate to the world, on how we live in this world, that will enable us to see certain aspects of our world in an altogether new dimension. This step back allows us to pull out of the systematically rigid, planned, and positioned world that consumes us. Through this step back and meditative thinking, we can begin to live resonantly through releasement, escaping the shackles of technology that currently overpower and define our being.</span>
<span class="Underline">Even if we learn to have this comportment towards things engendered through releasement and become capable of living with technology rather than as slaves to it, will this be sufficient; will global warming cease being a danger? Many people would argue that technology must be reformed and transformed altogether, for even if we learn to live with technology, the levels of greenhouse gases emitted by the technological devices we use on a daily basis is simply unsustainable. As mentioned earlier, though, Heidegger accepts the technological direction of history and realizes that we cannot simply eliminate technological devices from our daily lives; we cannot instantaneously revert to a pre- Industrial, agrarian society. However, failure to revive our meditative thinking means that calculative thinking would continue to dominate the way we think, thereby only exacerbating the levels of consumption, utility, application, and positionality that define the modern technological world. Failure to ‘step back’ and a persistence of calculative thinking would only keep us on the same path; global warming would only increase and we would stand little hope of preserving our environment. </span>
<span class="Underline">Releasement, while it represents a non-willing, does not mean that the will ceases to exist altogether. While one can be open to the mystery of the world, one can also live his or her life but take that which presences and ascribe meaning to it through a meditative thinking. This means that in letting being be, the true essence of being breathes freely and reveals itself. In the context of the modern technological world, we release ourselves to the world by letting the technical devices and phenomena—cell phones, automobiles, power plants, the motorized food industry etc.—enter our lives so that we can understand exactly how they fit into our world. Through such an understanding, we may begin to see those technical devices and phenomena from a new perspective, one that may inspire us to modify them in such a way that we can more essentially guard being. Indeed, global warming fundamentally threatens being; if our roles as shepherds of being means protecting being from that which threatens it, then we must address this culture of modernity overrun by calculative thinking and rooted in global warming. Releasement towards things enables us to live with technology because it enlightens us on the very dangers inherent in modern technology but separate from its essence. </span>
<span class="Underline">Heidegger does not intend to suggest that we can provide a quick and easy solution to global warming merely through changing the way we think. He recognizes the scope and force of technology, and feels this danger in all its power. However, adjusting the way we live our lives represents a necessary step towards preventing global warming from destroying our earth. We cannot solve this problem through continually applying metaphysical methods involving calculations, statistics, and numbers to the objectified and alienated environment around us. Such thinking still resides in the calculative and positioned culture of modernity that prevents us from coexisting meditatively with nature. </span>
<span class="Underline">This ‘step towards’ hampering global warming and ‘step back’ to the realm of meditative thinking that has been skipped over will lead to careful activity in the spirit of guarding being and our nature. Heidegger says in his Letter on Humanism, “Thinking comes to an end when it slips out of its element…Said plainly, thinking is the thinking of Being” (1993 [1947], 220). He proceeds to say at the end of his letter, “Thus thinking is a deed. But a deed that also surpasses all praxis. Thinking towers above action and production, not through the grandeur of its achievement and not as a consequence of its effect, but through the humbleness of its inconsequential accomplishment” (262). Thus, thinking is an action, the highest action, insofar as it is a thinking of Being, which has been forgotten in our current age. But this thinking of Being does not mean that ‘deeds’ or everyday praxis cease to exist or cease to have any significance in our daily lives. Rather, deeds are now enriched due to the deed, thinking, which allows one to access Being. Deeds undertake a more careful role in our lives and have more meaning behind them since they have been thought in relation to Being. </span>
<span class="Underline">Does this mean that through meditative thinking we will all arrive at the same solution, the same relation to being and adopt universal deeds that everyone supports? Presumably not. Some people may be inspired to become hermits and radically limit or virtually eliminate the role of technology in their lives altogether; others may adopt certain habits that they believe frees them from technology’s authority; and others may devote themselves to developing new technical devices that do not deplete so many resources and do not distance us from Being. However one changes his or her deeds, what remains consistent is that the person has now adopted an ethic of care, has now freed himself from technology’s dominion, has recognized the danger in positionality and the largely calculative culture of modernity, and has transformed his or her activity so that it resides closer to the human’s essential nature. This way of being grants us the opportunity to save our environment, if and only if the distress is felt widely and profoundly, and may be what Heidegger had in mind when he called for us to say ‘yes and no’ to technology.</span>

<span class="Underline">Economic calculations are the root of imperialist nationalism – that causes eternal war.</span>
<span class="Underline">Mooers 6 – Chair of the Department of Politics and School of Public Administration at Ryerson University</span>
<span class="Underline">(Colin, “The New Imperialists”,2006, pg 5-6)</span>

<span class="Underline">The current round of imperialism, therefore, has as its goal the export and entrenchment of capitalist social-property relations throughout the world; it is about the universalization of capitalism. And just as in earlier phases of capitalism, state military power has been central to the imposition of this new stage of primitive accumulation and enclosure. However, if state military power is still essential for the imposition of capitalism in some parts of the world, and if its spectacular display remains vital to U.S. global hegemony, there is an important sense in which the dynamics of imperialism have changed markedly. Unlike its earlier forms, imperialism today no longer relies on direct colonization. Nor does military rivalry between states over resources and territory exist on the scale that it did in the time of Lenin and Bukharin. But if imperialism is no longer defined by formal empire and military competition, how have militarism and capitalist imperatives become so closely linked in the new imperialism? The simple answer is that in a world comprised of limited territorial states and the global reach of capital, the use of overwhelming military might becomes the only way of policing capitalist interests. When terrorist violence beyond the state is thrown into the mix, the problem becomes even more intractable. For these reasons, a more or less permanent state of warfare – war without end – has become definitive of twenty-first-century capitalism: “Boundless domination of a global economy, and of the multiple states that administer it, requires military action without end, in purpose or time.” 12 If a state of permanent war has become the “new normal” of our time, it is clear why the discourse of empire has become so vital to those who defend this new order of things: the domestication of war and imperial conquest has become an urgent ideological imperative.</span>

<span class="Underline">Acting as if our military can guarantee world peace is inherently colonialist and ensures domination. </span>
<span class="Underline">Spanos 8 [William V. Spanos, 2008, “American Exceptionalism in the Age of Globalization”, Chapter 1 Pages 19-22, MV]</span>

<span class="Underline">Given the glaring visibility of Fukuyama’s invisibilizing of the Vietnam War—a process further abetted by Richard Haass's, and, as l will show later, Samuel P. Huntington's and the numerous Straussian neoconservatives' "realisitic" representation of the post-9/11 world—it is surprising, in other words, that these oppositional discourses should have been blind to his arrogant (or incredibly naive) re-visionary/recuperative strategy, to the fact that this end-of-history discourse of what, since then, has come to be called "the American Century"</span><span class="Underline"> relies on a now anachronistic ontological justification. I mean a rationale that reverts to the very episteme</span>—<span class="Underline">the ground of legitimacy</span>—<span class="Underline">that the singular event of the Vietnam War and the "theory" it precipitated had decisively delegitimized by revealing the truth discourse of liberal capitalist democracy to be a social construction—that of the "Anglo-Protestant core culture," as Huntington will put it after 9/11-infused by a totalizing will to power that is characterized by its suppression or accommodation, the colonization, as it were, of the entire relay of Others composing the continuum of being to its polyvalent Identity. To put that which these oppositional discourses overlook succinctly, Fukuyama's representation of the end of the Cold War or, to emphasize that it is the hegemonization of this end-of-history discourse with which l am concerned, the mediatization of his representation, is informed by a metaphysical ontology that willfully subdues actual history, its differential dynamics, to its secularized transcendental Logos. In short, the calculative/instrumentalist thinking it privileges as the agency of truth is essentially imperial. It is not so much liberal capitalism's practical colonization of the planet as such that this end-of-history discourse is celebrating. After all, Fukuyama, Haass, and the culture they and their neoconservative col- leagues represent acknowledge the possibility of future setbacks and dis- appointments in this geopolitical "American" project. lt is, rather, its planetary colonization of thinking in its technological/instrumentalist mode, though the two are not mutually exclusive, indeed, are indissolubly related. The fundamental ideological purpose of this discourse is to delegitimize every other form of thinking than that dialectical/instrumental reasoning that, according to the Kojevian/Hegelian perspective informing it, History's Aufhebung has precipitated as the planetary absolute-the Pax Metaphysica, as it were.</span>
<span class="Underline">This total "victory” of a historically "perfected" calculative metaphysics means, of course, the decisive preclusion as a viable option of the kind of ontological political thinking precipitated as an imperative by the recognition of the Vietnam War as a radical contradiction in the discursive practices of liberal capitalist democracy, the kind of differential thinking, that is, that haunts the legitimacy of the latter's "benign" global narrative. The massive post-Cold War representation of every manifestation of such thinking first as "politically correct." a "new McCarthyism of the Left,” by the "victors" has contributed significantly to the demise of the little authority it originally achieved, indeed, as I will show, to their demonization after 9/11 as complicitous with, if not acts of, terrorism as such. It thus bears emphatic witness to the success of the dominant culture's recuperative project of delegitimizing-which is to say, of colonizing-a thinking that would think the spectral difference that cannot finally be contained by the imperial (onto)logic of liberal democracy.</span>

<span class="Underline">The concept of "solar energy" is purely reductionist—the light of the sun becomes merely kilowatt hours, units of measurement</span>
<span class="Underline">Padrutt 92 (Hanspeter, Member of Daseinsanalystiches Institut, Heidegger and the Earth, p. 26)</span>

<span class="Underline">A few years after the Americans landed on the moon, the Club of Rome published those famous computer predictions, entitled "The Limits of Growth," which showed that, if things continue the way they have gone on "spaceship earth," soon it could not go on. Better founded and more oppressing still was the study commissioned by President Jimmy Carter, which appeared in 1980 with the title Global 2000 Study. Both studies are honest appraisals and cautious predictions, which can shake up humankind. However, since they take for granted the basis of "world-models" or "spaceship earth," they can also solidify the opinion that the world is a machine. Spaceship earth and the world model correspond to a worldview of objectifying subjectivism and are snares along the way of descent from the throne of master and owner of nature. Actually the question emerges whether the objectifying reductionism of natural science - which can be detected in many notions of the ecological movement - should not also become questionable for this movement. As sensible and correct as the demand to save energy is, still the concept of energy remains reductionist and ambiguous, because it reduces the light and warmth of the sun, the waterfall in the mountain stream, the roaring of the wind, the burning of wood, and the power of the horse, reduces this whole world to kilowatt hours. Is it not noteworthy that the concept of energy comes from the way language got used in the eighteenth century and, in the historical unfolding of being in this language, is connected with Aristotelian energeia, the work-character of beings? Just as problematic as natural science's reduction of all beings in the concept of energy is, so too is the economic reduction of all beings to a monetary value problematic. Certainly the proposals for economic decentralization and for the development of a softer technology made by the British economist E. F. Schumacher (author of Small is Beautiful) are as relevant today as ever. Certainly the provocative theses of an Ivan Illich are in many ways very pertinent. And probably an ecological economy will develop presumably in the direction of James Robertson's "alternatives worth living." But one cannot overlook the fact that an ecological accounting still reduces things to a monetary value and that many concepts of these authors are characterized by the economy of objectifying subjectivism, by a worldview of the retailers - as, for example, the concept of a "qualitative growth."</span>



===2NC Framework=== 


<span class="Underline">1. It’s a prior question.</span>
<span class="Underline">Dillon 99 [Michael Dillon; Professor of Politics at University of Lancaster; Moral Spaces: Rethinking Ethics and World Politics; 97-99; MV]</span>

<span class="Underline">As Heidegger—himself an especially revealing figure of the deep and mutual implication of the philosophical and the political—never tired of pointing out, the relevance of ontology to all other kinds of thinking is fundamental and inescapable. For one cannot say anything about any-thing that is, without always already having made assumptions about the is as such. Any mode of thought, in short, always already carries ontology sequestered within it. What this ontological turn does to other-regional-modes of thought is to challenge the ontology within which they operate. The implications of that review reverberate through-out the entire mode of thought, demanding a reappraisal as fundamental as the reappraisal ontology has demanded of philosophy. With ontology at issue, the entire foundations or underpinnings of any mode of thought are rendered problematic. This applies as much to any modem discipline of thought as it does to the question of modernity as such, with the exception, it seems, of science, which, having long ago given up the ontological questioning of when it called itself natural philosophy, appears now, in its industrialized and corporatized form, to be invulnerable to ontological perturbation. With its foundations at issue, the very authority of a mode of thought and the ways in which it characterizes the critical issues of freedom and judgment (of what kind of universe human beings inhabit, how they inhabit it, and what counts as reliable knowledge for them in it) is also put in question. The very ways in which Nietzsche, Heidegger, and other continental philosophers challenged Western ontology, simultaneously, therefore reposed the fundamental and inescapable difficulty, or aparia, for human being of decision and judgment. In other words, whatever ontology you subscribe to, knowingly or unknowingly, as a human being you still have to act. Whether or not you know or acknowledge it, the ontology you subscribe to will construe the problem of action for you in one way rather than another. You may think ontology is some arcane question of philosophy, but Nietzsche and Heidegger showed that it intimately shapes not only a way of thinking, but a way of being, a form of life. Decision, a fortiori political decision, in short, is no mere technique. It is instead a way of being that bears an understanding of Being, and of the fundaments of the human way of being within it. This applies, indeed applies most, to those mock- innocent political slaves who claim only to be technocrats of decision making. While certain continental thinkers like Blumenberg and Lowith, for example, were prompted to interrogate or challenge the modem's claim to being distinctively "modern,” and others such as Adorno questioned its enlightened credentials, philosophers like Derrida and Levinas pursued the metaphysical implications (or rather the implications for meta- physics) of the thinking initiated by Kierkegaard, as well as by Nietzsche and Heidegger. The violence of metaphysics, together with another way of thinking about the question of the ethical, emerged as the defining theme of their work! Others, notably Foucault, Deleuze, Lyotard, Baudrillard, and Bataille turned the thinking of Nietzsche and Heidegger into a novel kind of social and political critique of both the regimes and the effects of power that have come to distinguish late modem times; they concentrated, in detail, upon how the violence identified by these other thinkers manifested itself not only in the mundane practices of modem life, but also in those areas that claimed to be most free of it, especially the freedom and security of the subject as well as its allied will to truth and knowledge. Questioning the appeal to the secure self- grounding common to both its epistemic structures and its political imagination, and in the course of reinterrogating both the political character of the modern and the modern character of the political, this problematization of modernity has begun to prompt an ontopolitically driven reappraisal of modern political thought. This means that the ontological constitution of politics itself- its legislating categories of time, space, understanding, and action, and of what it is to be-prompted by the politics of the specific (ontological) constitutional order of political modernity, has begun to come under sustained scrutiny.</span>

<span class="Underline">2. Turns their war impacts:</span>
<span class="Underline">Zimmerman 94 (Michael, Professor + Chair of Philosophy @ Tulane, Contesting Earth’s Future, p. 119)</span>

<span class="Underline">Heidegger asserted that human self-assertion, combined with the eclipse of being, threatens the relation between being and human Dasein.53 Loss of this relation would be even more dangerous than a nuclear war that might "bring about the complete annihilation of humanity and the destruction of the earth."54 This controversial claim is comparable to the Christian teaching that it is better to forfeit the world than to lose one's soul by losing one's relation to God. Heidegger apparently thought along these lines: it is possible that after a nuclear war, life might once again emerge, but it is far less likely that there will ever again occur an ontological clearing through which such life could manifest itself. Further, since modernity's onedimensional disclosure of entities virtually denies them any "being" at all, the loss of humanity's openness for being is already occurring.55 Modernity's background mood is horror in the face of nihilism, which is consistent with the aim of providing material "happiness" for everyone by reducing nature to pure energy.56 The unleashing of vast quantities of energy in nuclear war would be equivalent to modernity's slow-motion destruction of nature: unbounded destruction would equal limitless consumption. If humanity avoided nuclear war only to survive as contented clever animals, Heidegger believed we would exist in a state of ontological damnation: hell on earth, masquerading as material paradise. Deep ecologists might agree that a world of material human comfort purchased at the price of everything wild would not be a world worth living in, for in killing wild nature, people would be as good as dead. But most of them could not agree that the loss of humanity's relation to being would be worse than nuclear omnicide, for it is wrong to suppose that the lives of millions of extinct and unknown species are somehow lessened because they were never "disclosed" by humanity.</span>


<span class="Underline">3. It’s comparatively a better approach than science. </span>
<span class="Underline">Elden 2 [Stuart Elden, Philosophy Professor, Durham University, “Mapping the Present: Hedegger and the Project of a Spatial History.” 2002, pg. 9 MV]</span>

<span class="Underline">Husserlian phenomenology was basically ahistorical, 3 perhaps because of Husserl’s background in mathematics and logic. For Heidegger however, as Krell has argued, the history of philosophy was an ‘essential counterweight to phenomenology’: whereas Husserl had once remarked that he had ‘forgotten about history’, Heidegger never did. 4 In Being and Time Heidegger makes some comments indicating the importance of the historical project, though, as shall be seen, his later work suggests that here he did not go far enough. The basic issues at stake can be seen if the distinction Heidegger makes between ontic and ontological knowledge is examined. Ontic knowledge is knowledge pertaining to the distinctive nature of beings as such, it is the knowledge of the sciences, whereas ontological knowledge is the basis on which any such theory (of ontic knowledge) could be constructed, the a priori conditions for the possibility of such sciences. Heidegger’s own exercise of fundamental ontology deals with the conditions of possibility not just of the ontic sciences, but also of the ontologies that precede and found them. This is the question of being (GA2, 11; see GA26, 195– 202). 5 A glimpse of the possibility this insight allows is found in Heidegger’s discussion of Newton: To say that before Newton his laws were neither true nor false, cannot signify that before him there were no such beings as have been uncovered and pointed out by those laws. Through Newton the laws became true; and with them, beings became accessible in themselves to Dasein. Once beings have been uncovered, they show themselves precisely as beings which beforehand already were. Such uncovering is the kind of being which belongs to ‘truth’. That there are ‘eternal truths’ will not be adequately proved until someone has succeeded in demonstrating that Dasein has been and will be for all eternity. As long as such a proof is still outstanding, this principle remains a fanciful contention which does not gain in legitimacy from having philosophers commonly ‘believe’ it. Because the kind of being that is essential to truth is of the character of Dasein, all truth is relative to Dasein’s being (GA2, 227). 6 From this, it is clear that Dasein and truth are fundamentally linked, that truth is context dependent. This does not mean that truth is only what an individual thinks, but that truth only has a context dependent on the existence of Dasein (GA3, 281– 2). Any eternal truths must rest on an eternal immutability to Dasein. It clearly follows from this that if being changes, or is historicized, so too is truth. It has been remarked by some critics that Heidegger does indeed, in Being and Time, suggest such an immutability to Dasein, examining it and its structures as if they were true eternally. Such critics sometimes point to a shift in the later Heidegger towards an understanding of historical nature of being, through a historical sense of Dasein, which would, following the quotation and explication here, lead to a historicizing of truth. 7 The ontic/ontological difference – especially when historicized – is one that Foucault would go on to elaborate and use in the distinction between connaissance and savoir in The Archaeology of Knowledge, where he examined what he called the ‘historical a priori’. 8 </span>

===2NC Permutation=== 
<span class="Underline">The perm still does the aff – means every link a reason to vote down the permutation.</span>

<span class="Underline">The debate is about what happens in this room – fiat is illusory, so vote only based on ontological justification.</span>
<span class="Underline">Turanli 2k3 [aydan, “nietzsche and the later wittgenstein”, journal of nietzsche studies, issue 26, p. 61-2, muse]</span>

<span class="Underline">The craving for absolutely general specifications results in doing metaphysics. Unlike Wittgenstein, Nietzsche provides an account of how this craving arises. The creation of the two worlds such as apparent and real world, conditioned and unconditioned world, being and becoming is the creation of the ressentiment of metaphysicians. Nietzsche says, “to imagine another, more valuable world is an expression of hatred for a world that makes one suffer: the ressentiment of metaphysicians against actuality is here creative” (WP III 579). Escaping from this world because there is grief in it results in asceticism. Paying respect to the ascetic ideal is longing for the world that is pure and denaturalized. Craving for frictionless surfaces, for a transcendental, pure, true, ideal, perfect world, is the result of the ressentiment of metaphysicans who suffer in this world. Metaphysicians do not affirm this world as it is, and this paves the way for many explanatory theories in philosophy. In criticizing a philosopher who pays homage to the ascetic ideal, Nietzsche says, “he wants to escape from torture” (GM III 6). The traditional philosopher or the ascetic priest continues to repeat, “‘My kingdom is not of this world’” (GM III 10). This is a longing for another world in which one does not suffer. It is to escape from this world; to create another illusory, fictitious, false world. This longing for “the truth” of a world in which one does not suffer is the desire for a world of constancy. It is supposed that contradiction, change, and deception are the causes of suffering; in other words, the senses deceive; it is from the senses that all misfortunes come; reason corrects the errors; therefore reason is the road to the constant. In sum, this world is an error; the world as it ought to be exists. This will to truth, this quest for another world, this desire for the world as it ought to be, is the result of unproductive thinking. It is unproductive because it is the result of avoiding the creation of the world as it ought to be. According to Nietzsche, the will to truth is “the impotence of the will to create” (WP III 585). Metaphysicians end up with the creation of the “true” world in contrast to the actual, changeable, deceptive, self-contradictory world. They try to discover the true, transcendental world that is already there rather than creating a world for themselves. For Nietzsche, on the other hand, the transcendental world is the “denaturalized world” (WP III 586). The way out of the circle created by the ressentiment of metaphysicians is the will to life rather than the will to truth. The will to truth can be overcome only through a Dionysian relationship to existence. This is the way to a new philosophy, which in Wittgenstein’s terms aims “to show the fly the way out of the fly-bottle” (PI §309). </span>

<span class="Underline">THE PERMUTATION ADVANCES FOUR DEVASTATING VIEWS:</span>
<span class="Underline">First is realism:</span>
<span class="Underline">Burke 7—Associate Professor of Politics and International Relations in the University of New South Wales (Anthony, Theory & Event, Volume 10, Issue 2, 2007, “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason,” Project MUSE, RBatra)</span>
<span class="Underline">his essay develops a theory about the causes of war -- and thus aims to generate lines of action and critique for peace -- that cuts beneath analyses based either on a given sequence of events, threats, insecurities and political manipulation, or the play of institutional, economic or political interests (the 'military-industrial complex'). Such factors are important to be sure, and should not be discounted, but they flow over a deeper bedrock of modern reason that has not only come to form a powerful structure of common sense but the apparently solid ground of the real itself. In this light, the two 'existential' and 'rationalist' discourses of war-making and justification mobilised in the Lebanon war are more than merely arguments, rhetorics or even discourses. Certainly they mobilise forms of knowledge and power together; providing political leaderships, media, citizens, bureaucracies and military forces with organising systems of belief, action, analysis and rationale. But they run deeper than that. They are truth-systems of the most powerful and fundamental kind that we have in modernity: ontologies, statements about truth and being which claim a rarefied privilege to state what is and how it must be maintained as it is. I am thinking of ontology in both its senses: ontology as both a statement about the nature and ideality of being (in this case political being, that of the nation-state), and as a statement of epistemological truth and certainty, of methods and processes of arriving at certainty (in this case, the development and application of strategic knowledge for the use of armed force, and the creation and maintenance of geopolitical order, security and national survival). These derive from the classical idea of ontology as a speculative or positivistic inquiry into the fundamental nature of truth, of being, or of some phenomenon; the desire for a solid metaphysical account of things inaugurated by Aristotle, an account of 'being qua being and its essential attributes'.17 In contrast, drawing on Foucauldian theorising about truth and power, I see ontology as a particularly powerful claim to truth itself: a claim to the status of an underlying systemic foundation for truth, identity, existence and action; one that is not essential or timeless, but is thoroughly historical and contingent, that is deployed and mobilised in a fraught and conflictual socio-political context of some kind. In short, ontology is the 'politics of truth'18 in its most sweeping and powerful form. I see such a drive for ontological certainty and completion as particularly problematic for a number of reasons. Firstly, when it takes the form of the existential and rationalist ontologies of war, it amounts to a hard and exclusivist claim: a drive for ideational hegemony and closure that limits debate and questioning, that confines it within the boundaries of a particular, closed system of logic, one that is grounded in the truth of being, in the truth of truth as such. The second is its intimate relation with violence: the dual ontologies represent a simultaneously social and conceptual structure that generates violence. Here we are witness to an epistemology of violence (strategy) joined to an ontology of violence (the national security state). When we consider their relation to war, the two ontologies are especially dangerous because each alone (and doubly in combination) tends both to quicken the resort to war and to lead to its escalation either in scale and duration, or in unintended effects. In such a context violence is not so much a tool that can be picked up and used on occasion, at limited cost and with limited impact -- it permeates being. This essay describes firstly the ontology of the national security state (by way of the political philosophy of Thomas Hobbes, Carl Schmitt and G. W. F. Hegel) and secondly the rationalist ontology of strategy (by way of the geopolitical thought of Henry Kissinger), showing how they crystallise into a mutually reinforcing system of support and justification, especially in the thought of Clausewitz. This creates both a profound ethical and pragmatic problem. The ethical problem arises because of their militaristic force -- they embody and reinforce a norm of war -- and because they enact what Martin Heidegger calls an 'enframing' image of technology and being in which humans are merely utilitarian instruments for use, control and destruction, and force -- in the words of one famous Cold War strategist -- can be thought of as a 'power to hurt'.19 The pragmatic problem arises because force so often produces neither the linear system of effects imagined in strategic theory nor anything we could meaningfully call security, but rather turns in upon itself in a nihilistic spiral of pain and destruction.</span>

<span class="Underline">Second is the state:</span>
<span class="Underline">BILLINGS 2007 (Linda, PhD, Research Associate at SETI Institute, Societal Impact of Space Flight, p. 493-495)</span>

<span class="Underline">The frontier metaphor, the ideology of progress and the belief in American exceptionalism have been prevalent in government space policy rhetoric as well as the rhetoric of advocacy groups. The National Commission on Space, appointed by President Reagan to develop long-term goals for U.S. civilian space exploration, entitled its final report "Pioneering the Space Frontier" and described in it "a pioneering mission for 21st-century America: to lead the exploration and development of the space frontier." Humankind is "destined to expand to other worlds," the commission said in its report, and "our purpose" is to establish "free societies on new wo rids ."To ward achieving those goals,"we must stimulate individual initiative and free enterprise in space."45 The rhetoric of American exceptionalism remained apparent in space policy documents of the George H.W. Bush administration: "America s space program is what civilization needs ... America, with its tremendous resources, is uniquely qualified for leadership in space ... our success will be guaranteed by the American spirit—that same spirit that tamed the North American continent and built enduring democracy:"The "prime objective" of the U.S. space program is "to open the space frontier""' NASA declared in its 90-day study of this Space Exploration Initiative, "The imperative to explore" is embedded in our history . .. traditions, and national character," and space is "the frontier" to be explored.47 "Space is the new frontier," said another space study group of that time, where the United States will find "a future ot peace, strength, and prosperity""1* In keeping with rhetorical tradition, the Clinton administration declared. "Space exploration has become an integral part of our national character, capturing the spirit of optimism and adventure that lias defined this country from its beginnings ----Its lineage is part of an ancient heritage of the human race ... deep in the human psyche and perhaps in our genes."4'' In the George W. Bush administration. White House Office of Science and Technology' Policy Director John Marburger has said the point of the presidents so-called vision for space exploration "is to begin preparing now for a future in which the material trapped in the Sun's vicinity is available for incorporation into our way of life."-"1 NASA Administrator Michael Griffin has said that the aim of space exploration is"to make the expansion and development of the space frontier an integral part of what it is that human societies do."^' Griffin has said that when human civilization reaches the point where more people are living ofFEarth than on it,"we want their culture to be Western." He has asserted that Western civilization is "the best we've seen so far in human history" and that the values space-faring people should take with them into space should be Western values.'*-"We want to be the worlds preeminent space-faring nation for all future time," he said on another occasion, "second to none."" Griffin has said that space exploration has something to do with "core beliefs" about what societies and civilizations should be doing "on the frontiers of their time ... North Americans are the way we are because of the challenges of the frontier ... i believe that Western thought, civilization, and ideals represent a superior set of values," better than those of civilizations that came before.These values are "irretrievably linked to" expansion, he has said, and now this expansion will continue into the human frontier of space.*4 Most recently. Griffin has said: It is in the nature of humans to find, to define, to explore and to push back the frontier. And in our time, the frontier is space and will be for a very long time ... .The nations that are preeminent in their time are those nations that dominate the frontiers of their time.The failed societies are the ones that pull back from the frontier. 1 want our society, America, [W]cstern society, to be preeminent in the world of the future and I want us not to be a failed society. And the way to do that, universally so, is to push the frontier.1*</span>


<span class="Underline">Third is militarism:</span>
<span class="Underline">Wilcox* and Hassler **8 - * is a professor of government at Georgetown University** is a professor of English at Kent State University </span>
<span class="Underline">(“New boundaries in political science fiction”,2008, pg118-119)</span>

<span class="Underline">The military- industrial establishments of corporate capitalism, primarily in the United States, which produce “life-killing commodities” as the most profitable part of global trade (see McMurtry 1989), are not only the strongest factor of organized international violence, but also possibly the strongest factor enforcing a world cultural revolution for the total colonization of human life- worlds and ecosystems by commodity economy. As the great U.S. maverick Veblen found more than a century ago: “The direct cultural value of a warlike business policy is unequivocal. It makes for a conservative animus on the part of the populace. During wartime, and within military organization at all times, civil rights are in abeyance….[T]he members of the community [will]…learn to think in warlike terms of rank, authority ,and subordination, and to grow progressively more patient of encroachment on their civil rights… Warfare,with the stress on subordination and mastery and the insistence on gradations of dignity and honor… has always proved effective school in barbarian methods of thoughts” (1904, 391-93). The strictly political fallout of militarization is, so far as I can see, only beginning to be properly assessed (but see,beside the classic C.Wright Mills’s The Power Elite, Burk 1998, Busch 1995, Caplow and Vennesson 2000, Van Creveld 2002, Dal Lago 2003,Herberg-Rothe 2003, Joxe 1991, Klare 2001, Lyon 2001). To maintain its power and profits, the never-ending warfare needs, first, constantly to stress dangerous enemies, with or without a real basis. Second, it needs to efface the divide between peace and war, as well as between external and internal enemies. With the excuse of security , democracy can be suspended at will for all but a minority of the privileged, and citizen armies are jettisoned in favor of professional soldiers and mercenaries (and since the differene between them is supposed to be the presence of a permanent loyalty, and line too has grown ever thinner). If war is a police action, then it does not need democratic debate and approval. A first approximation to the phenomenon of militarism may be discussions by Giddens, Manns, and others reviewed by Jabri (1996, 99-103), from which the following conclusions may be drawn (1) militarist practices (and their legitimation) conceal social contradictions through emphasis on conformity across the social divide; (2) militarism means a proclivity of the rulers to propound military solutions to issues that could be solved by other means, and to organize acceptance of such solutions by lower ranks; (3) in consequence, militarism leads to a sharp rise of intolerance toward dissent and to manipulation of all information channels to preclude other solutions.</span>


<span class="Underline">FOURTH IS CORRUPTION OF THE ALT:</span>
<span class="Underline">Botha 02 (Catherine, Dept. of Philosophy @ Univ. of Pretoria, “Heidegger, Technology and Ecology,” South African Journal of Philosophy, Vol 22, Issue 2, p. ebscohost)</span>

<span class="Underline">We can say both “yes” and “no” to technology by having an attitude of releasement toward things. In other words, although it is crucial to perceive the danger of our technological constructions lest they dominate us, it is unnecessary to reject them completely. The alternative to be coming slaves of our own machines is not simply to become their masters. The goal is to integrate technology within a bounded worldly dwelling no longer ordered by possessive mastery. The attitude required to free ourselves from possessive mastery and achieve an appropriate relation to technology is one of awaiting and receiving, openness and releasement. Releasement towards things and openness to the mystery grant us the possibility of dwelling in the world in a different way: a way where the mood of homelessness has been displaced. Until this occurs, our attempts to control the products of technology will only sustain our subordination to it. The irony is that the “freedom” that has been nurtured for two and a half millennia in the West has encouraged this technological servitude.</span>


===2NC Alternative=== 

<span class="Underline">Critical interrogation of technological thought opens space for new ways of thinking that permit us to reposition our relation to technology and the physical world</span>
<span class="Underline">Housman and Flynn 11 [Benjamin H. Housman and Thomas R. Flynn “Cooling Down Global Warming: Revisiting Sartre and Heidegger on this Modern Day Challenge” The ‘Step Back’ as a ‘Step Towards’ Confronting Global April 14, 2011 MV]</span>

<span class="Underline">His final lecture, “The Turn”, gathers all of his thought from the three previous lectures and provides insight into exactly what Heidegger believes can be done to address the danger. While his tone earlier may have been perceived as pessimistic or despairing, Heidegger begins his fourth lecture by stressing that we are not powerless against technology and that positionality changes. In order for positionality to change—in order for us to regain our role as shepherds of Being, guarding the thing as thing—the human must “find its way back into the breadth of its essential space” (1951, 4-3). What does this mean, though; where and what is this essential space? According to Heidegger, the human’s essential space resides in its belonging to being, and the essence of being is thinking, or thought-worthiness. It is here where I believe the Bremen lectures reaches its climax, for after arriving at the essence of the human, he then asks, “What are we to do?” His response: [W]e first and only consider this: How must we think, for thinking is the authentic action [Handeln], where action means: to give a hand [an die Hand gehen] to the essence of being in order to prepare for it that site in which it brings itself and its essence to speech. (1951, 4-4) 33 Thinking is what must be done, for thinking allows us to dwell near things, reminds us that we must guard the thing as thing, and allows for us to let being be. Such thinking means we relate to the world in a new way, no longer as slaves to technology through positionality, dependent on it for our application and consumption, but rather incorporating the authentic action of thinking into the technological world. The turn that Heidegger refers to, then, represents a turn to thinking and a “turning about” of positionality, or in other words, a shift in how we dwell in such a positioned world.</span>

===AT: Calc Thought Good=== 

<span class="Underline">Scientific knowledge is neither empirical nor objective but rather relies upon the same subjective knowledge that it claims to reject – their claims are state-constructed manifestations of popular narratives which makes them tautological</span>
<span class="Underline">Jerkins, humanities professor, 9—Professor of Humanities at Florida State University (Jae, Winter 2009, “Heidegger’s Bridge: The Social and Phenomenological Construction of Mars,” Florida Philosophical Review, Volume IX, Issue 2, RBatra)</span>

<span class="Underline">The tenuous relationship between the empirical and the fictive lends science the availability to use other forms of knowledge, like narrative knowledge, to legitimate its activities. This narrative knowledge is often the kind of knowledge that scientists are believed to shun—ostensibly, scientists don’t tell stories, they present facts. Thus, empirical knowledge is the proclaimed mandate of the scientist. Yet it is often a narrative, and not empirical knowledge, that is used to advocate and legitimate the activities of the scientific community and the authoritative presence of their government structures.</span>
<span class="Underline">Today, scientists studying Mars use the tools of the narrative of colonialism—with the enthusiasm of nationalism, the promises of corporate success, and the desire to dominate new frontiers—all to legitimate the project of going to Mars. When one legitimates an activity, they are promoting said activity as authorized, validated, or normative.33 Both scientific and governmental discourses are legitimated by narrative, and yet scientific discourse tends to push narrative aside as an inferior method of conveying knowledge.</span>
<span class="Underline">There also exists a vague correlation between legitimation and truth. Jean-François Lyotard explains, “The language game of science desires its statements to be true but does not have the resources to legitimate their truth on its own.”34 The state tends to render science “understandable” by relating “scientific knowledge to ‘popular’ knowledge,” doing so by “spend[ing] large amounts of money to enable science to pass itself off as an epic.”35 Scientific documentaries like MARS: Dead or Alive are saturated with narratives, from the anthropomorphic rovers to the “hostile” land, because “scientific knowledge cannot know and make known that it is the true knowledge without resorting to the other, narrative, kind of knowledge, which from its point of view is no knowledge at all.”36</span>
<span class="Underline">This paradoxical viewpoint of scientific narratives threatens to render scientific accounts of Mars unchallengeable. Scientists attempt to explain what Mars is like, but then use colonialist narratives, modernist narratives, and Hegelian narratives of progress to induce the public into funding scientific projects. Thus, it becomes cumbersome to engage in dialogue concerning the legitimacy of Martian endeavors when scientists utilize narrative to legitimate what they do, while dismissing narrative as non-science. Instead, the scientific discourse of Mars should be seen for what it is—a changing, subjective, and complex exchange of the narrative and the empirical, influenced by historical context, bureaucratic powers, and the technological drive toward efficiency.</span>
<span class="Underline">Martian Phenomenology</span>
<span class="Underline">Thus, the meaning of Mars comes to us, not empirically from a telescope, but first and foremost hermeneutically through its discourse. This interpretive process means that there is no absolutely objective knowledge—only the changing interpretation of phenomena. Geneticist Richard Lewontin maintains that</span>
<span class="Underline">Even agreed–on, widely practiced methodologies are culturally and historically situated...scientific truth-claims have complex internal structures and complicated networks of external affiliations that cannot be explained solely by reference to internal standards of legitimation.37</span>


===AT: Fascism Turn=== 

<span class="Underline">Heidegger's critique of technology deploys an antinaturalistic conception of humankind—means it wont cause fascism</span>
<span class="Underline">Zimmerman 03 (Michael, Professor of Philosophy at Tulane University, Eco-phenomenology : back to the earth itself, p. 84-5)</span>

<span class="Underline">Elsewhere, Heidegger wrote: "The earth can show itself only as an object of assault.... Nature appears everywhere ... as the object of technology."37 Today, all things are "challenged forth" to be interchangeable raw material. The technological understanding of being involves a disastrous combination of subjective idealism and naive realism. On the one hand, modern humankind reduces everything to the status of an object for the cognizing subject. Swallowing everything up, the modern subject interprets all things in accordance with their value for promoting the subject's drive for power and security. Eventually, in the fulfillment of the technological age, even the subject-object distinction is overcome insofar as everything is transformed into interchangeable raw material.38 On the other hand, having forgotten its essential openness for the being of beings, modern humankind adheres to a naive realism, according to which humans are merely one species among others.39 Heidegger's antinaturalistic conception of humankind had the virtue of allowing him to distinguish his thought from the racism of National Socialism, even though he supported this movement in hopes that it would save the West from nihilism. For some environmentalists, however, Heidegger's refusal to conceive of humankind as simply another species imbedded in the organic "web of life" puts him in the camp of anthropocentric humanism, which conceives of nature primarily instrumentally.40</span>


<span class="Underline">We internal-link turn this argument—modern metaphysics renders everything “makeable” – resulting in total warfare and fascism</span>
<span class="Underline">Dallmayr, philosophy and political science professor, 4—professor of philosophy and political science at Notre Dame University (Fred, Constellations, Vol. 11 No. 1, 2004, “The Underside of Modernity: Adorno, Heidegger and Dussel,” http://www.afyl.org/dallmayr.pdf, RBatra)</span>

<span class="Underline">The relation between Adorno and Heidegger is complex and hard to disentangle; probably for this very reason it is infrequently discussed in the literature.10 Some of the differences between the two thinkers are relatively easy to pinpoint, having to do mainly with their respective life stories and intellectual backgrounds. As indicated, Adorno’s life story was relatively turbulent, leading him from Weimar Germany into the New World (New York and California) and finally back to Frankfurt after the war. By comparison, Heidegger’s personal life was relatively sheltered, being spent for the most part in and around Freiburg and the Black Forest region. In terms of intellectual background, Adorno drew his inspiration chiefly from Left Hegelianism and aspects of humanist Marxism; by contrast, Heidegger’s intellectual pedigree is of longue durée, stretching from the Pre-Socratics via Aristotle to Husserlian phenomenology and hermeneutics. The most obvious difference, of course—and the one most widely debated—has to do with their respective response to 1933 and its aftermath. Yet, it is precisely in this regard that initial impressions and popular assessments may be thoroughly misleading and hence in need of revision. During recent years, several writings have become available which Heidegger wrote in the decade following 1933, that is, during the apogee of the Nazi regime. Far from showing a continued attachment to this regime, these writings on the contrary reveal Heidegger’s steady estrangement—or what one may call his “inner emigration”—from the hegemonic powers of his time. With growing intensity, his opposition is directed at the totalizing or totalitarian features of the regime, features which in no small part derive from modernity’s infatuation with “making” and domineering fabrication—what Heidegger calls “Machenschaft.”</span>
<span class="Underline">The texts from the Nazi period which recently became available are mainly three: Beiträge zur Philosophie (Contributions to Philosophy) of 1936; Besinnung (Meditative Thinking) of 1938-1939; and Die Geschichte des Seyns (The History of Being) of 1939-1940. Taken together, the texts give evidence of a profound intellectual drama that Heidegger underwent during this period—a drama that is customarily described as his “Kehre” or “turning” (labels which should not be taken as synonyms for a reversal or simple “turning away,” but rather as signposts of a deepening and more intensive “turning toward” primary philosophical concerns). Of the three texts, the first is the most voluminous and also the dramatically most ambitious, setting forth an entire, detailed trajectory of intellectual and existential transformation and reorientation. This trajectory basically leads from the condition of modernity anchored in knowledge/power and the domineering designs of the cogito in the direction of a freer and more generously open mode of co-being among humans and between humans and the world (guided by “letting-be”). The text is challenging and provocative not only philosophically, but also on a more mundane, political level. Taking direct aim at National Socialism and its motto of “total mobilization,” Heidegger comments that such a “total (or totalizing) worldview” must “close itself off against the probing of its own ground and the premises of its actions,” and it must do so because otherwise “total ideology would put itself into question.” It is in connection with this critique that the term “Machenschaft” surfaces prominently—and with starkly pejorative connotations. The rise of worldviews to predominance, Heidegger notes, is a result of modern metaphysics, and in that context “worldview basically means Machenschaft,” that is, a mode of contrived “machination” where creative praxis is replaced by organized “business” (Betrieb) and managerial control.11</span>
<span class="Underline">Elaborating on this point, the text links the term with the modern prevalence of “making (Machen, poiesis, techne),” a making seen not solely as a form of human conduct, but as a distinct type of ontological disclosure. In modernity, Heidegger points out, Machenschaft is promoted by the sway of science and technology that renders everything “makeable” (machbar). Under these auspices, the instrumental cause-effect nexus becomes all-dominant, though in varying guises: “Both the mechanistic and the biologistic worldviews are only consequences of the underlying machenschaftlich interpretation of being.” Preceded by biblical accounts of creation (construed as fabrication), the modern rise of Machenschaft was decisively inaugurated by the Cartesian cogito, especially by Descartes’ equation of ens creatum with ens certum (fixed, determined being). Subsequently, this approach was further solidified by the advances of mathematical physics and technology (Technik), a process leading to the progressive technical-calculating management of the world and its resources. Against this background, Heidegger asks “What is Machenschaft?” and responds: “It is the system of complete explanatory calculability whereby every being is streamlined and uniformly equated with every other being—and thereby alienated, and more than alienated, from itself” (or its own distinctive potential). As he further elaborates, calculability and anonymous sameness are curiously allied in Machenschaft with something seemingly very different: namely, subjective feeling or emotion (Erlebnis). But the contrast is only apparent because anonymity and subjectivism are only two sides of the same coin: the cognitive and the emotive sides of the ego. Both reveal the subject’s incapacity for self-transformation and its “oblivion of being.”12</span>
<span class="Underline">Jointly with the critique of Machenschaft, Beiträge also offers intriguing reflections on the meaning of “power,” “violence,” and related terms. Departing from an earlier ambivalent usage, the text stipulates a series of definitions with clearly demarcated contours. Closely associated with Machenschaft are the two terms “power” (Macht) and “violence” (Gewalt). In Heidegger’s formulation, violence (Gewalt) signifies the willful but impotent attempt to change things or conditions without deeper insight or ontological attunement: “Wherever change is sought by ‘ontic’ means alone (Seiendes durch Seiendes), violence is needed.” Power (Macht) stands purely in the service of willful machination and signifies “the ability to secure the control of possibilities of violence.” In sharp contrast to these terms, Beiträge mentions “authoritative rule” (Herrschaft) as a mode of ontological potency or capability deriving its authority from its liberating openness to “being.” “Herrschaft,” Heidegger writes, “is the need of freedom for freedom” and happens only “in the realm of freedom”; its greatness consists in the fact “that it has no need of power or violence and yet is more potent (wirksamer) than they.” Such liberating and non-manipulative Herrschaft is impossible under the reign of modern worldviews, especially totalizing worldview-ideologies, which have no room for human freedom and level everything into the uniform system of Machenschaft. Under the auspices of this system, human beings individually and people at large are reduced to mere resources of power, and the only issue is the preservation and enhancement of their utility. The only way for Dasein and people to live genuinely and freely, Beiträge insists, is through an act of self-transcendence or self-transformation (ek-stasis) that is simultaneously an act of self-finding, highlighted by the term “Ereignis.” For Ereignis means basically the chiasm or entwinement between humans and the openness of “being” (or the divine), a differentiated and needful encounter which opens up the prospect of the arrival of “the godhead of the other God” (die Gottheit des anderen Gottes).13</span>
<span class="Underline">The critique of totalizing and domineering Machenschaft was further sharpened in the book titled Besinnung. As in the case of Beiträge, the text can be read both on a recessed, philosophical and a more mundane, political level—although the two levels are closely interlaced. Philosophically, Besinnung urges a more reflective re-thinking of human being-in-the-world, a re-thinking opening human hearts and minds again to the “call of being” (which guides them into a more careful and caring mode of living). As before, Heidegger dwells on the meaning of Machenschaft and its relation to Macht and Gewalt. “Machenschaft,” he reiterates, “means the all-pervasive and totalizing ‘makeability’ of everything” and the general routine acceptance of this process in such a way that “the unconditional calculability of everything is assured.” In pursuing its leveling and domineering path, Machenschaft employs violence (Gewalt) and the latter is stabilized through the “secure possession of power (Macht)” aiming at universal or total subjugation. In modernity, the text continues, the aims of Machenschaft are promoted and abetted by technology (Technik) which reduces human beings to mere empirical resources whose value is assessed purely in terms of utility or productivity. It is in this context that Heidegger launches an attack on the Führer himself who, in address to the Reichstag in 1939 had made this statement: “There is no stance or attitude (Haltung) which would not receive its ultimate justification from its utility for the totality (of the nation).” Reacting angrily to this statement, Heidegger raises a number of acerbic questions, such as the following: What is the “totality” that is postulated here? What is the “utility” of an attitude or outlook, and by what standard is it to be judged? Does the entire statement not signify “the denial of the basic questionability (Fraglichkeit) of human Dasein with regard to its hidden relation to being” (and its care)?14</span>
<span class="Underline">Moving beyond the critique of Machenschaft, Besinnung offers glimpses of a radically “other” possibility: namely, the reflective recovery of the question of and care for being, a care completely immune to managerial manipulation. As before, Heidegger distinguishes between power and violence, on the one hand, and genuine “authority” (Herrschaft), on the other. “Apart from exuding intrinsic dignity or worth,” he writes, “Herrschaft means the free potency or capacity for an original respect for being” (rather than merely empirical things). To characterize this dignity, Besinnung introduces a new vocabulary, by presenting being (Seyn) as a basically “power-free domain (das Machtlose) beyond power and non-power or impotence (jenseits von Macht und Unmacht).” As Heidegger emphasizes, “power-free” does not mean powerless or impotent, because the latter remains fixated on power, now experienced as a lack. From an everyday “realist” angle, being’s realm may appear powerless or impotent; but this is only a semblance or illusion resulting from its reticent inobstrusiveness. Due to its reticence, being’s realm can never be dragged into human machinations, into the struggles between the powerful and the powerless (as long as the latter merely seek power); but precisely in this manner it reveals its Herrschaft, a reign that “cannot be matched by any power or superpower because they necessarily ignore the nature of the basically power-free possibility.” To be sure, access to this reign is difficult and radically obstructed by the Machenschaft of our age. Yet, an important pathway through and beyond these obstructions is offered by meditative thinking (Besinnung) which opens a glimpse into the “time-space-play” (Zeit-Spiel-Raum) of being as Ereignis, that is, into the interplay and differential entwinement of being and beings, of humans, nature, and the divine.15</span>
<span class="Underline">Themes and insights of this kind are carried forward in Die Geschichte des Seyns, a series of texts dating from the onset of World War II. Politically, the texts are still more nonconformist and rebellious than preceding writings—an aspect largely attributable to their grim context. Central to the volume is again the critique of Machenschaft defined as a made of being that “pushes everything into the mold of ‘makeability’.” As before, Machenschaft is intimately linked with the glorification of power (Macht), and the latter is anchored ultimately in “will” to power and in “unconditional subjectivity” (a chief trait of modern metaphysics). To effectuate its rule, power relies on violence (Gewalt) as its chief instrument. When violence or brutality becomes predominant, matters are starkly simplified: everything is geared toward the “unconditional annihilation (Vernichtung) of opposing forces by unconditional means.” The unleashing of brutal violence carries in its train the “devastation” (Verwüstung) of everything with the result that a “desert” (Wüste) spreads where nothing can grow any longer—especially not thoughtfulness and care for being. A particularly vivid and harrowing sign of this devastation is the or limitless wars (grenzenlose Kriege) furthering the empowerment of power.” Unsurprisingly, such wars ultimately take the form of “world wars” in the service of a globally unleashed Machenschaft.16</span>
<span class="Underline">As an antidote or counterpoise to these trends, the texts refer again to the possibility of “authoritative rule” (Herrschaft). However, in view of its lingering proximity to power, the term now appears sufficiently suspect to Heidegger that he is willing to drop it (in favor of an unmitigated “power-free” realm). The sharpened denunciation or distantiation from Macht is paralleled by an intensification of political polemics. Die Geschichte des Seyns openly ridicules fascist leaders for their self-glorification as “mighty rulers” (Machthaber) whose great achievement resides in their “seizure of power” (Machtergreifung hankering for warfare—a warfare that, due to the totalizing ambitions of Machenschaft, now turns into “total war” (totaler Krieg). Given the steadily widening range of modern technology and weaponry, Heidegger adds somberly, the relentless struggle for power and more power necessarily leads to “unbounded). Leaders, Heidegger states, are never “possessors of power” (Machthaber) but rather puppets in the grip of Macht and Machenschaft; they cannot “seize” or “possess” power because they are “possessed by it” (in the manner of an obsession)66. The texts also critique National Socialism directly by debunking its chosen terminology. Drawing on his argument that modernity is marked by “unconditional subjectivity,” Heidegger comments that “the consequence of this subjectivity is the ‘nationalism’ of nations and the ‘socialism’ of the people (Volk).” Proceeding even more boldly, the texts raise the issue of political and moral responsibility. Despite the fact that power cannot be “possessed” but operates obsessively, the book does not hesitate to link power and violence with “criminality” (Verbrechen). Given the unleashing of Machenschaft and unconditional global warfare, Heidegger asserts, our age also produces “the great criminals” (die grossen Verbrecher)—criminals whose misdeeds far exceed ordinary human guilt and who, in fact, can be described as “global master criminals” (planetarische Hauptverbrecher). As he adds: “There is no punishment which would be sufficiently great to punish these criminals.”17 </span>

<span class="Underline">Heidegger’s Nazism does not implicate his philosophy</span>
<span class="Underline">Malpas 6—Professor of Philosophy at the University of Tasmania (Jeff, © 2006, MIT Press, Heidegger’s Topology, p. 20-21, RBatra)</span>

<span class="Underline">It is notable that neither Harvey nor Massey, nor even Leach, pays much detailed attention to Heidegger's texts as such. 54 Indeed, one of the intriguing features of these comments is that they seem to be directed at a Heideggerian position-one that gives explicit emphasis to ideas of place and also "dwelling"- that only becomes evident in Heidegger's thinking in the period after 1935, and most clearly not until after 1947. Thus the addresses from the early 1930s in which Heidegger seems to align himself with elements or Nazi ideology combine the vocabulary of Being and Time with ideas and images also present in Nazi rhetoric, including notions of "Volk" and of "Biul'uncl Boden," but they do not deploy any developed notions of place or dwelling as such (and the distinction is an important one, both within Heidegger's own thinking and within thought, politics, and culture more generally). Talk of "Blut and Boden" seems to feature in Heidegger's vocabulary in only a few places,>•' and although the notion of" Volk'' does have a greater persistence and signitkance,'6 it too is almost entirely absent from Heidegger's postwar thought. Significantly, it is in his engagement with Holderlin, immediately after his resignation of the rectorate, in 1934- 1935, that ideas of place and dwelling begin to emerge more explicitly (though still in a relatively undeveloped form) as a focus for Heidegger's thinking. Moreover, the influence of Heidegger on contemporary thinking about place does not stem from the work or the 1920s and early 1930s, but rather from that of the middle to late 1930s and, especially, of the period from 1945 onwards, particularly essays such as "Building Dwelling Thinking."" In this respect, the strategy that appears in Harvey, Massey, and Leach seems to be one that attempts to discredit ideas explicit in the later thinking largely on the basis of the political engagement apparently present in the earlier.58</span>
<span class="Underline">If there is an argument that seems to underpin the criticisms of Harvey, Massey, and Leach, among others, it would seem to be that notions of place and dwelling are politically reactionary because they are somehow intrinsically exclusionary. Yet there seems very little in the way of any general argument that is advanced to support this claim. Certainly an exclusionary politics presupposes the idea of that from which "others" are excluded, but this does not establish that place is an intrinsically exclusionary or reactionary idea, only that it may be employed to reactionary or exclusionary ends-and this would seem to be true of just about any important concept one may care to name. Yet although there is certainly much with which one could take issue in the passages from which I have quoted above, both in terms of their reading of Heidegger and of the "politics" of place,'• my aim in quo ting from these writers is not to initiate a sustained critique of their work as such, so much as simply to demonstrate the way in which, particularly in relation to Heidegger's thought, place has indeed emerged as politically problematic. Heidegger's entanglement with Nazism has thus provided a powerful base, irrespective of the actual strength of the arguments advanced,60 from which to inveigh against place-oriented modes of thinking.•• Yet having established that place does present a prima facie "problem" in this respect, it is worth attending, in more general terms, to the connections that might be at issue here, as well as to the possible connections that might exist, both in Heidegger and more broadly, between ideas of place and reactionary, perhaps even totalitarian, forms of politics. </span>

===AT: Heidegger’s Alt Doesn’t Solve=== 

<span class="Underline">Only by denying the right of technological thought to dominate can we reorient our relationship with technology and being—Japan is our historical proof</span>
<span class="Underline">Dreyfus 93 (Hubert, Prof of Philosophy @ Cal-Berkeley, The Cambridge Companion to Heidegger, p. 307)</span>

<span class="Underline">Heidegger, however, sees that "it would be foolish to attack technology blindly. It would be shortsighted to condemn it as the work of the devil. We depend on technical devices; they even challenge us to ever greater advances" (DT 53, G 24~. Instead, Heidegger suggests that there is a way we can keep our technological devices and yet remain true to ourselves as receivers of clearings: "We can affirm the unavoidable use of technical devices, and also deny them the right to dominate us, and so to warp, confuse, and lay waste our nature" (DT 54; G 24-25). To understand how this might be possible, we need an illustration of Heidegger's important distinction between technology and the technological understanding of being. Again we can turn to Japan. In contemporary Japan traditional, nontechnological practices still exist alongside the most advanced high-tech production and consumption. The television set and the household gods share the same shelf - the Styrofoam cup coexists with the porcelain teacup. We thus see that the Japanese, at least, can enjoy technology without taking over the technological understanding of being.</span>

===AT: Hegemony = DA=== 

<span class="Underline">Anti-democratic questioning sustains democracy</span>
<span class="Underline">Lewis 7—Philosophy, University of Sussex (Michael, 2007, IJŽS Vol 1.4 Žižek and Heidegger, “Reply to Žižek,” http://zizekstudies.org/index.php/ijzs/article/view/89/150, RBatra)</span>

<span class="Underline">Lacan’s theory is a provocation of democracy: anti-democratic, but in a way that supplements democracy in what we can infer is a Derridean sense. The provocative opposition is necessary to the very maintenance of democracy as such. Without an anti-democratic goad democracy hardens into totalitarian rule. It can present itself to itself and understand itself only by reflecting itself in its opposite, an opposite whose existence it must allow in order to be democratic. This is akin to the first option, except this deconstruction does not propose itself at a politics but rather as a critic of politics itself, a critic of ideology, the illusion of the natural permanence of the ruling order. This is the traditional Platonic model of the philosopher as opposed to the rabble of democracy, Socrates as the gadfly to Athenian democracy.</span>
<span class="Underline">On this view, theory remains impotent and presents an ideal which cannot be realised politically and ultimately bolsters democracy itself. “a democracy needs a permanent influx of anti-democratic self-questioning in order to remain a living democracy” (6). Thus the anti-democratic necessity is ‘grounded’ (8) in the need for more democracy, which is to say that the place of power be open to ever renewed usurpation and hence criticism of its current occupant. In this perspective of the relation between theory and practice, theory deconstructs the appearance of stable meaning, which is to say the apparent completeness of any symbolic system, lacking any inconsistency or emptiness, while politics pragmatically reasserts such significance. However, Žižek indicates that today this relationship has been reversed to the extent that it is politics as ‘ideological supplement’ to capitalism that threatens meaning.</span>
=Science Good DA (Vs. K Aff)= 
==1NC== 


Their criticism of western learning empowers anti-science forces whose arguments are based on gross misunderstandings of scientific concepts
Gross and Levitt, 1994 (Paul R. University Professor of Life Sciences and director of the Center for Advanced Studies at the University of Virginia, and Norman, Professor of mathematics at Rutgers, “The natural sciences: Trouble Ahead? Yes,” Academic Questions, Vol. 7, Issue 2, Spring)
Not long ago, the term "epistemology" denoted a recondite area of professional philosophy, absorbing to its academic votaries (as are herpetology, Urdu poetry, and the history of the English wool-trade to theirs) but not especially tempting to outsiders. Nowadays the average campus seems to house enough self-described "epistemologists" to fill the football stadium. Epistemology is one of the buzzwords of choice wherever postmodern literary critics, radical-feminist theorists, eco-radicals, experts in "cultural studies," and certain kinds of social scientists gather. The word inhabits, monthly, the interiors of dozens of crisply new books and essays, and not a few title pages. All this would be unobjectionable, if somewhat hard to account for, if it reflected a competent new enthusiasm for some of the deepest questions of the Western philosophical tradition. As things stand, however, in current usage "epistemology" is often a euphemism for political cheerleading. What the would-be epistemologist seems to be saying, in conformity with the perspectivist outlook that defines postmodernism, is "My way of knowing is just as good as yours! Even better! So there!" Thus there is supposed to be a woman's way of knowing, a gay man's way of knowing, and a way of knowing suitable to the black man in search of his African roots. For all we can tell, there may be a special way of knowing appropriate to one-eyed lesbian dwarfs.[ 10] On the surface this is risible, but something quite sobering lurks beneath; the real point seems to be that no one in any "disempowered" group needs to take the word of "Western" learning on any subject whatsoever. The epistemologist of the oppressed frankly looks forward to the day when feminists (of a certain ideological stripe), or, as the case may be, homosexuals, blacks, or Chicanos, will get to re-invent history, sociology, economics--and nuclear physics--in conformity with their own interests and their own presumed positions in the narrative field. Since all discourse, as Foucault is thought by the credulous to have proved, is a regime of power, why not fight for discursive practices, in all areas, that reflect the political interests of the group with which one identifies? So, indeed, are the oppressed solemnly advised by a phalanx of much-honored academics.[ 11] Of course, the epistemology of science itself must be brought into this game. If the vaunted objectivity of Western science can be deconstructed out of existence then, presumably, anything else in the way of knowledge will be easy pickings. However, most of the arguments that claim to have pulled off this difficult trick are ludicrously wanting. One has the sense, when reading them, that one is reading someone who has read someone who has read someone who has read Thomas Kuhn. Somewhere back there, Kuhn (or maybe Feyerabend or maybe even Lakatos) is said to have demonstrated the relative and contingent nature of all scientific knowledge, and this is supposed to settle things.[ 12] The real tragedy is that someone has read Thomas Kuhn, but without being aware of how much intellectual equipment is necessary to understand--and evaluate--his work of some thirty years ago. At minimum, we should say, one must have a grasp of the detailed intellectual steps that distinguished Kepler from Copernicus, Newton from Kepler, Einstein from Newton. In short, one has to know a bit of mathematical physics--the thing itself, not a paraphrase. In most cases, however, postmodern epistemologists have not taken the least trouble to learn physics in this sense, and they bristle at the idea that it is necessary. After all, the point of the game is to show that physics, as now constituted, is a discourse of the hegemonic regime--precisely what one is trying to overthrow. The principal anti-scientific voices of postmodern academe are not necessarily household names, but within the narrow ambit of the higher-education community they are, relatively speaking, celebrities. If there may be said to be an academic fast track, they are on it. These are not people who labor in the outer darkness of community colleges, without tenure and with a five-course teaching load. Moreover they are well distributed across a number of nominally distinct fields. Alongside philosophers like Sandra Harding, who announces, modestly, that the reliability of science is now to be reckoned by the proportion of women, non-white, and gay scientists,[ 13] we find literary scholars such as N. Katherine Hayles, who sees the development of fluid dynamics as a manifestation of white male anxiety about the threatening female Other.[ 14] Litcrit likewise gives us Berkeley's Avital Ronell, who prates of medical science "dominated by a logic of invasion and intervention," while assuring us that research "bound by the laws of causality" will never get us anywhere in dealing with AIDS.[ 15] Immanuel Wallerstein, a prominent developmental sociologist, tells us, on the authority of his hopelessly shallow understanding of chaos theory, that physics is in virtual collapse and now comes hat in hand to the social sciences, begging for lessons in methodology.[ 16] Meanwhile, Andrew Ross, widely respected as expert in the critical analysis of contemporary culture, having boasted of his total lack of scientific education,[ 17] convicts biomedicine of fascist tendencies for practicing genetics and molecular biology.[ 18] Afrocentrist Molefi Asante drops names like Foucault, Feyerabend, and the (by his would-be admirers!) much maligned Thomas Kuhn in order to sweep aside any possibility of criticism grounded in logic and objective evidence, while simultaneously clearing the track for diatribes against Western learning and for rhapsodies in praise of the scientific knowledge and wisdom of fictitious black Egyptians.[ 19]

The skepticism that they empower spills over into climate skepticism
Demeritt, 1
David Demeritt, Department of Geography King’s College London, 6/1/2001, Blackwell Publishers, InformaWorld “The Construction of Global Warming and the Politics of Science,” Annals of the Association of American Geographers, 91(2), 2001, p. 307–337

Unfortunately, public representations of science seldom acknowledge the irreducibly social dimension of scientific knowledge and practice. As a result, disclosure of the social relations through which scientific knowledge is constructed and conceived has become grounds for discrediting both that knowledge and any public policy decisions based upon it. This political strategy of social construction as refutation has been pursued by the socalled climate skeptics and other opponents of the Kyoto Protocol. It is premised upon an idealized vision of scientific truth as the God’s-eye view from nowhere. Rather than accepting this premise and being forced to deny that scientific knowledge is socially situated and contingent, the proper response to it is to develop a more reflexive understanding of science as a situated and ongoing social practice, as the basis for a more balanced assessment of its knowledge. A richer appreciation for the social processes of scientific knowledge construction is as important for scientists themselves as it is for wider public credibility of their knowledge. In the particular case of climate change, heavy reliance upon diverse, highly specialized, and multidisciplinary bodies of scientific knowledge highlights the problem of trust in knowledge and the expert systems that produce it. As phenomena, the global climate and anthropogenic changes to it would be difficult even to conceive of without sophisticated computer simulations of the global climate system. Although satellite monitoring systems as well as instrumental records and paleoclimatic evidence have also been important, particularly in the identification of historic changes in the climate to date, it is these powerful computer models that have been decisive in identifying the problem of future anthropogenic climate change and making it real for policy makers and the public. 2 Ordinary senses struggle in the face of phenomena so extensive in space and time and incalculable in their potential impacts. For the social theorist Ulrich Beck (1992), this dependence upon science to make tangible otherwise invisible environmental risks is characteristic of what he calls the modern risk society.

Extinction
Powell 2000
By Corey S. Powell "20 Ways the World Could End Swept away" DISCOVER Vol. 21 No. 10 (October 2000) http://www.ldolphin.org/twentyways.html
The Earth is getting warmer, and scientists mostly agree that humans bear some blame. It's easy to see how global warming could flood cities and ruin harvests. More recently, researchers like Paul Epstein of Harvard Medical School have raised the alarm that a balmier planet could also assist the spread of infectious disease by providing a more suitable climate for parasites and spreading the range of tropical pathogens (see #8). That could include crop diseases which, combined with substantial climate shifts, might cause famine. Effects could be even more dramatic. At present, atmospheric gases trap enough heat close to the surface to keep things comfortable. Increase the global temperature a bit, however, and there could be a bad feedback effect, with water evaporating faster, freeing water vapor (a potent greenhouse gas), which traps more heat, which drives carbon dioxide from the rocks, which drives temperatures still higher. Earth could end up much like Venus, where the high on a typical day is 900 degrees Fahrenheit. It would probably take a lot of warming to initiate such a runaway greenhouse effect, but scientists have no clue where exactly the tipping point lies.

Science is also key to make everything better – they ensure death for a majority of people
Gross, 1994 (Barry R., Professor of philosophy at York College, City University of New York, Review of Higher Superstition: The Academic Left and Its Quarrels With Science and Science and Anti-Science, Academic Questions, Vol. 8, Issue 1, Winter)
Men and women now alive in both developed and undeveloped countries owe an incalculable debt to modern science. The ordinary person today lives in a state of safety, convenience, and comfort that even the wealthiest monarchs and merchants of the past would have found unimaginable. From the supply of food, clothing, and shelter to modern medicine, to vast communications networks, to the near universal availability of cheap and reliable systems of transport, science and its technological spinoffs make possible a rich and comfortable life on a scale never before known. Just 130 years ago, at the time of the American Civil War, societies were basically rural and few people had ever been or could ever have hoped to go more than twenty miles from home. Even among the better off in Europe and America, life expectancy at birth was about forty-eight years. Anesthesia was crude and antiseptics virtually unknown. Pasteur had just made his monumental discoveries concerning fermentation and disease and Tyndall had just begun to apply them medically. Hospitals were basically places where people went to die. In fact, before the explosive development of antibiotics and new medical and surgical techniques following Word War II, doctors were generally powerless before the onslaught of disease, which was overcome by the patient's immune system or not at all. Many can still recall that for a child a strep throat or a middle ear infection meant days of pain and weeks of bed rest. Today, modern medicine, like transport and communications, functions routinely in ways that were the stuff of science fiction only two generations ago. The explosion in knowledge that has made all this possible is hardly comprehensible to the layman. From the structure of matter to the structure of the earth, from the structure of the universe to the structure of DNA, modern natural science has opened a vast domain of knowledge, a realm that continues to grow with great rapidity. Absent modern science, most of the world's population would be living lives that, if not exactly solitary and brutal, would certainly be nasty and short. (And there would be about two-thirds fewer of us.)

=<span class="Underline">Pictures CP (Vs. K Aff) </span>= 
==<span class="Underline">1NC</span>== 

RELIANCE UPON THE PHONETIC ALPHABET DESTABILIZES THE BALANCE OF HUMAN MENTAL EVOLUTION, CREATING A DESTRUCTIVE TREND TOWARD MASCULINE VALUES THAT SUBLIMINALLY REPROGRAMS THE USER.
SHLAIN, 1998
Dr. Leonard Shlain is a neurosurgeon at California-Pacific Medical Center and contributor to The Encyclopedia of Creativity, The Alphabet Versus The Goddess: The Conflict Between Word and Image, 1998, pg. 66-8
Aside from the obvious benefits that derived from their ease of use, alpha¬bets produced a subtle change in cognition that redirected human thinking.For sophisticated neurolinguistic reasons the early practitioners could not have known, alphabets reinforced only half of the dual strategy that humans had evolved to survive. As we have seen, this strategy had three components: left brain/right brain, cone/rod, and right hand/left hand. Each tripartite half of this duality perceived and reacted to the world in a different way; a unified response emerged only when both complementary halves were used.All forms of writing increase the left brain's dominance over the right. As civilization progressed from image-based communication, such as pictographs and hieroglyphs, to non-iconic forms, such as cuneiform, written communication became more left-brain oriented. An alphabet, being the most abstract form of writing, enhances left-brain values the most. Each letter stands only for a singular sound; meaning emerges only when letters are strung together in a row. Unlike icons, which often evolved from images of things, an alphabetic word bears no resemblance to the object or action it symbolizes. Nowhere in the word dog can we discern a dog. There remain some trace correlations, as with the word water, which begins with the letter w. The ancient Egyptians created a hieroglyph for water that resembles our letter w and to indicate water on a map, or in a cartoon, we still use a series of wavy lines. This iconic symbol for water became the alphabetic letter w and is a component of many words associated with the liquid state of mat¬ter (e.g., wet, wave, wash, wade, wallow, winnow, womb, and woman). However, we no longer connect the letter w with water directly. When we see w in print as part of a word, the brain issues complex directions that instruct the lips to purse so that we can pronounce the phonetic sound of w. Alphabets have long divorced themselves from the images of concrete things. Theyhave washed out of the written language iconic patterns that were apparent in earlier forms of writing. All that remains are letters that stand starkly like rows of pier posts at ebb tide.The versatility of letters becomes evident when they are placed in regu¬lar, linear, consensually agreed upon arrangements. Aligning three letters to spell d-o-g results in the English reader instantly seeing a dog in the mind's eye. Yet the mental image of a dog was once attached only to a real dog, or to the invisible spoken word, dog. The induction of any member of society (usually a young child) into alphabet arcana numbs her to the fact that she supplants all-at-once gestalt perception with a new, unnatural, highly abstract one-at-a-time cognition. In this fashion, alphabets subliminally ele¬vated, within each alphabet user, the influence of the left hemisphere at the expense of the right. Rods were not as important as cones for reading this new form of writing. As more and more people could read and write, the dominant pen-wielding right hand played an increasingly critical role in communication, masculinizing culture. It made no difference if the writing hand belonged to a female or male: both sexes were inexorably brought to heel by the left brain within each individual.

Left-brain rational functions denigrate natural relationships, risking planetary extinction. Only re-balancing our mental spheres can revitalize connections to the earth.
Reuther, 1989
Rosemary Radford, Professor of Feminist Theology at Pacific School of Religion, “Toward an Ecological-Feminist Theology of Nature” in Healing the Wounds: the Promise of Ecofeminism ed. Judith Plant p. 147-150
Thus we have not so much the privilege of intelligence, viewed as something above and against nonhuman nature, but the responsibility and necessity to convert our intelligence to the earth. We need to learn how to use intelligence to mend the distortions we have created and how to convert intelligence into an instrument that can cultivate the harmonies and balances of the ecological community and bring these to a refinement. We can turn the desert wilderness or the jungle into the garden. But we need to do that hot simply by bulldozing what is and ignoring all other needs but our own, but by understanding the integrity of the existing ecological community and learning to build our niche in that community in harmony with the rest. We do this out of a genuine recognition of our interdependence.We cannot violate the ecological community without ultimately destroying our own lifesupport system. The notion of dominating the universe from a position ,of autonomy is an illusion of alienated consciousness. We have only two real options: either to learn to use our intelligence to become servants of the survival and cultivation of nature or to lose our own life-support system in an increasingly poisoned earth. This conversion of our intelligence to the earth will demand a new form of human intelligence. The dominant white western male rationality has been based on linear,dichotomized thought patterns that divide reality into dualism: one is good and the other bad, one superior and the other inferior, one should dominate and the other should be eliminated or suppressed. The biological base of these patterns is specialization in left-brain, rational functions in a way that suppresses the right-brain, relational sense. This one-sided brain development seems more dominant in males than in females, possibly because of later verbal development in males. This biological tendency has been exaggerated by socialization into dominant and subordinate social roles. Dominant social roles exaggerate linear, dichotomized thinking and prevent the development of culture that would correct this bias by integrating the relational side. Women and other subordinate groups, moreover, have had their rational capacities suppressed through denial of education and leadership experience and so tend to be perceived as having primarily intuitive and affective patterns of thought. Thus socialization in power and powerlessness distorts integration further and creates what appears to be dichotomized personality cultures of men and women, that is, masculinity and femininity. What we must now realize is thatthe patterns of rationality of left-brain specialization are, in many ways, ecologically dysfunctional. Far from this rationality being the mental counterpart of "natural law," it screens out much of reality as "irrelevant" to science and reduces scientific knowledge to a narrow spectrum fitted to dominance and control. But the systems it sets up are ecologically dysfunctional because they fail to see the larger relational patterns within which particular "facts" stand.This rationality tends toward monolithic systems of use of nature. Linear thinking, for example, directs agriculture, or even decorative planting, toward long rows of the same plant. This magnifies :he plants' vulnerability to disease. Humans then compensate with chemical sprays, which in turn send a ripple effect of poisons through :he whole ecological system. Nature, by contrast, diffuses and intersperses plants, so that each balances and corrects the vulnerabilities of the other. The inability to see the forest for the trees is typical of linear thinking. Linear thinking simplifies, dichotomizes, focuses on parts, and fails to see the larger relationality and interdependence. Ecological thinking demands a different kind of rationality, one that integrates left-brain linear thought and right-brain spatial and relational thought. One has to disrupt the linear concept of order to create a different kind of order that is truly the way nature "orders," that is, balances and harmonizes, but that appears very "disorderly" to the linear, rational mind. One observes a meadow with many kinds of plants and insects balancing each other, each with their ecological niches, and then one learns to plant for human use in a way that imitates these same principles, in a more simplified and selective fashion.Converting our minds to the earth means understanding the more diffuse and relational logic of natural harmony. We learn to fit human ecology into its relation to nonhuman ecology in a way that maximizes the welfare of the whole rather than undermining and subverting (polluting) the life system.Converting our minds to the earth cannot happen without converting our minds to each other, since the distorted and ecologically dysfunctional relationships appear necessary, yet they actually support the profits of the few against the many. There can be no ecological ethic simply as a new relation of "man" and "nature." Any ecological ethic must always take into account the structures of social domination and exploitation that mediate domination of nature and prevent concern for the welfare of the whole community in favor of the immediate advantage of the dominant class, race, and sex. An ecological ethic must always be an ethic of ecojustice that recognizes the interconnection of social domination and domination of nature. Nonhuman nature, in this sense, is not just a "natural fact" to which we can "return" by rejecting human culture. Nature is a product not only of natural evolution but of human historical development. It partakes of the evils and distortions of human development. There is virtually no place on the planet where one can go to find "nature untouched by human hands." Even if humans have not been there before, their influence has been carried by winds, water, and soil, birds, insects, and animals, who bear within their beings the poisoning effects of human rapine of the globe. Nature, in this sense, can be seen as "fallen," not that it is evil itself but in that it has been marred and distorted by human misdevelopment. The remaking of our relation with nature and with each other, then, is a historical project and struggle of re-creation. Nature will never be the same as it would have been without human intervention. Althoughwe need to remake the earth in a way that converts our minds to nature's logic of ecological harmony, this will necessarily be a new synthesis, a new creation in which human nature and nonhuman nature become friends in the creating of a livable and sustainable cosmos.

==<span class="Underline">Pictures CP 2NC</span>== 
THE DOMINANCE OF ALPHABET-BASED WRITING ALWAYS GENERATES PATRIARCHY, MISOGYNY, AND SLAVERY, THE APPEARANCE OF LIBERATION IN WESTERN SOCIETY IS A PRODUCT OF THE DECREASING IMPORTANCE OF ALPHABETIC TEXT.
SHLAIN, 1998Dr. Leonard Shlain is a neurosurgeon at California-Pacific Medical Center and contributor to The Encyclopedia of Creativity, The Alphabet Versus The Goddess: The Conflict Between Word and Image, 1998, pg. 2-3The proposition that the alphabet has hindered women's aspirations and accomplishments seems, at first glance, to be antithetical to historical facts. Western society, based on the rule of law and constitutional government, has increasingly affirmed the dignity of the individual, and in the last few centuries Western women have won rights and privileges not availabl e in many other cultures. Most people believe that the benefits that have accrued to women are due primarily to a high level of education among the populace. But a study of the origins of writing in less complex times thousands of years ago reveals how writing, first, and then the alphabet, altered the balance of power to women's detriment.Anthropological studies of non-literate agricultural societies show that, for the majority, relations between men and women have been more egalitarian than in more developed societies. Researchers have never proven beyond dispute that there were ever societies in which women had power and influence greater than or even equal to that of men. Yet, a diverse variety of preliterate agrarian cultures—the Iroquois and the Hopi in North America, the inhabitants of Polynesia, the African !Kung, and numerous others around the world—had and continue to have considerable harmony between the sexes.Anthropologist Claude Levi-Strauss was one of the very few scholars to challenge literacy's worth.There is one fact that can be established: the only phenomenon which, always and in all parts of the world, seems to be linked with the appear¬ance of writing ... is the establishment of hierarchical societies, consisting of masters and slaves, and where one part of the population is made to work for the other part. Literacy has promoted the subjugation of women by men throughout all but the very recent history of the West. Misogyny and patriarchy rise and fall with the fortunes of the alphabetic written word.

=Hardening PIC (ORS)= 
==CP Text 1NC== 

<span class="Underline">The United States federal government should substantially increase its development of Operationally Responsive Space by creating a launch infrastructure that increases launch on demand capabilities, small satellite development and deployment, maneuverability, rapid reconstitution, and space situational awareness. </span>

==Semiconductors Internal NB 1NC== 

<span class="Underline">Hardening will fail and turns launch costs </span>
<span class="Underline">Sexton 09 - Deputy Program Director, Space and Nuclear Network Group [12 February 2009, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA539893&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf, DEFENDING AMERICA’S INTERESTS IN SPACE, AIR WAR COLLEGE AIR UNIVERSITY, Access July 13, 2011] </span>
<span class="Underline">Given the disparity between the two theories, the choice to begin development of space weapons, as defined in chapter one, is black or white. The gray area in the decision surrounds the nature of any systems the United States opts to build. The United States must deliberately choose whether to seek capabilities for the express purpose of countering attacks on space-borne assets. Both the high ground and space sanctuary perspectives agree on the vital interests inherent in US space assets. In the context of this paper, an affirmative decision for developing space weapons can be made if even a single significant case exists where passive defenses alone cannot assure successful attainment of the space defense strategy objective. The previous discussion regarding strategy concepts versus actors analysis will provide the framework for cases to consider for this critical choice. Posing the most dangerous and least stable of the actor types, the non-peer spacefaring nation will be the hypothesis case in this dialectic since this actor is deemed to be the most likely actor to employ space weapons if it possesses them. The potential exists for a rogue nation either to detonate an EMP weapon in space, disabling most satellites, or to destroy a critical US intelligence collection satellite in low earth orbit though a direct ascent ASAT weapon. One should first determine if it’s possible to counter the effects of both threats strictly with passive defensive capabilities. In the case of an EMP detonation in space, all satellites theoretically could be hardened to an extreme extent to prevent damage induced by the various radiation types released, the dose levels and the dose rates. As for direct ascent ASAT weapons, theoretically these can be countered by improved space situational awareness (SSA) for ample warning time coupled with increased on-board fuel for satellite maneuvers to avoid the impending attack. As a singular event, passive defenses may seem to be a reasonable cost to bear. In reality, these passive defenses alone cannot insure the ability to survive and operate after such attacks. Intelligence, even with perfect SSA, is unlikely to discern the exact target for a direct ascent ASAT attack thus requiring all possible targets to maneuver for safety. Furthermore, the penalties for hardening all satellites and increasing onboard fuel are prohibitive and would come at the expense of payload capabilities and launch costs. Therefore, other defensive approaches short of space weapons should be considered. An alternative approach to defeating the effect of an adversary’s attack on US space assets is a rapid reconstitution capability. Contemporary space systems are typically 10-15 year acquisition efforts with multi-billion dollar price tags. In providing imaging, signals intelligence, communications, navigation, weather, and missile warning on a global basis, each constellation requires numerous satellites to achieve the degree of persistence required for economic activities and worldwide military operations. Rarely do commercial enterprises and government entities launch and store excess capacity on orbit. Within the US Government, building spare satellites for any constellation has become a cost prohibitive luxury given the reality of excessive program overruns and program delays.22 DoD has long yearned for improved space access through reduced costs and launch timelines.</span>

<span class="Underline">High launch costs inhibit commercial space development</span>
<span class="Underline">Coppersmith, 10 – historian of technology at Texas A&M University (Jonathan, The Space Review, “Obama in space: bold but not bold enough,” 4/12, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1603/1</span>

<span class="Underline">Lost in the attention given to ending shuttle flights this year, as intended by President Bush, and the cancellation of the overcost and overweight Constellation program, are the promising initiatives to develop and deploy new generations of technology. At the core of the president’s proposed revamping of NASA is the focus on new technologies to reduce the cost and complexity of operating in space. NASA will restart its Institute for Advanced Concepts, eliminated in 2007 to help pay for Constellation cost overruns. Chief technologist Robert D. Braun will head the new Space Technology Program, which will offer research grants to encourage innovative ideas. These steps will revitalize the private, academic, and NASA technology base. The chief flaw of the president’s proposals is they do not address the key constraint limiting human and robotic exploration and exploitation of space, the high cost of reaching orbit. When I fly domestically, I pay about $2 per pound of me for a ticket. To launch a satellite into orbit costs roughly $10,000 a pound. Until that cost dramatically drops, the promise of the final frontier will remain only a promise. These high launch costs restrict access to space to those governments and corporations that can afford tens of millions of dollars to launch a satellite. Consequently, the annual total of all payloads is only a few hundred tons, the equivalent of two 747 freighter flights. The great expense to reach orbit has not only hindered past exploration, but will also restrict the future if unchanged. Imagine how many more businesses would experiment and develop applications in space if the cost of launching a satellite was only in the hundreds of thousands instead of tens of millions of dollars. Making access to space affordable will create vast economic as well as scientific opportunities.</span>

<span class="Underline">Specifically key to semiconductor industry </span>
<span class="Underline">Pulham, 11 – CEO of the Space Foundation (Elliot, US Senate Testimony, 5/18, http://commerce.senate.gov/public/?a=Files.Serve&File_id=5d3fad1f-2ed9-4b52-8bec-7ab618108605)</span>
<span class="Underline">Space as an Economic Engine Space products and services are an integral part of daily life, expanding each year into new areas of human activity. In one dramatic example, space technology and expertise helped to ensure the survival and rescue of a group of Chilean miners trapped underground. This experience was but a single instance of how the knowledge gained from human activity in the challenging environment of space can be applied to life on Earth. In more commonplace situations, new space applications are helping people communicate with each other and access entertainment as they travel by ground, sea or air. Satellite-enabled Internet connections are becoming commonplace as airlines outfit their fleets with the latest equipment. Navigation applications for cell phones can combine input from built-in cameras and GPS chips, enabling users to view directions as an overlay on an image of their surroundings. GPS tracking systems installed on racecars 4 allow people playing computer games to participate in virtual competitions against professional drivers during real racing events. Whether during work or leisure hours, most people reap the benefits of space systems and technology as an integral part of their daily lives. The commercial sector continues to incorporate space technology both in its manufacturing processes and in its products. The glass manufacturing industry is incorporating techniques used in the analysis of data from the Hubble Space Telescope and the semiconductor industry is creating more powerful microchips using technology developed for building ESA’s XMM-Newton X-ray observatory. Consumers can purchase clothing made from textiles originally developed for use by astronauts or have their hair styled with tools that smooth and soften hair using nano-ceramic technology developed by NASA. Not only does space contribute to the wealth of products available to consumers, it also enables companies to estimate consumer activity by observing the ebb and flow of customer traffic in the parking lots of retailers by means of satellite imagery.</span>

<span class="Underline">Semiconductors are vital to every part of alternative energy development – continued innovation key. </span>
<span class="Underline">Dewey & LeBoeuf, 2009</span>
<span class="Underline">[Semiconductor Industry Association, “MAINTAINING AMERICA’S COMPETITIVE EDGE: GOVERNMENT POLICIES AFFECTING SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY R&D AND MANUFACTURING ACTIVITY,” White Paper Report, http://www.sia-online.org/galleries/default-file/Competitiveness_White_Paper.pdf]</span>
<span class="Underline">In addition to the direct and indirect economic benefits of the semiconductor industry itself, semiconductors are a key technology for addressing the energy challenges that face the United States and the world. Semiconductors will enable society to harness alternative energy sources more effectively, distribute it efficiently and intelligently and consume it in the most efficient manner, providing an important component to our nation’s efforts to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions that cause climate change and to increase our energy security. Applications include power management and virtualization in computers and data centers, electronic controlled efficient motors in factories, light emitting diodes to replace compact florescent and incandescent bulbs in offices and homes, plug-in electric vehicles on highways, solar panels and wind turbines generating electricity, smart meters and sensors monitoring power lines Semiconductors already are responsible for significant energy savings, and further advances in chip technology could greatly increase energy efficiency. In the home, semiconductor-enabled motor control technologies increasingly allow consumers to use smaller, more efficient motors with greater levels of performance in many household appliances, including refrigerators, dishwashers, and washing machines. Similarly, the dramatic improvements in automobile fuel efficiency and emissions control that have been witnessed over the past decades have largely been delivered by changes in engine control electronics. Today’s vehicles have countless chip-enabled features such as gasoline direct injection, knock detection, oxygen sensors, exhaust gas recirculation, evaporative emission control systems, misfire detection, and secondary air systems. Semiconductors also play an integral role in energy-efficient hybrid cars and further advances in semiconductor technology will be critical to expanding the utility of plug-in electric vehicles by substantially extending their range and performance. Going forward, further advances in chip technology could produce substantial additional energy efficiencies. Semiconductor technologies are currently in development that would allow a mobile phone to run off a single battery for extended periods of time, perhaps even years. Advances in chip technologies are also being applied to solar power systems. This will enable tomorrow’s laptops and other more power intensive portable devices to recharge using solar power and to operate in dim ambient indoor light. Semiconductor technology advances in two areas of data center server activity (computation and memory) have the potential to significantly lower the energy used and heat generated by servers. During computations, which account for about 35 percent of a server’s energy draw, new chip technologies allow those parts of the processor and the server not fully engaged in an application to transition to draw reduced amounts of energy. Meanwhile new chips can also reduce energy use by up to 40 percent, even in the less energy-intensive memory arena. In addition to the direct energy savings resulting from these chip-enabled server and system efficiencies in today’s data centers, chip technologies also improve the efficiency of the industrial cooling systems that are used to ensure optimal data center service and also allow intelligent sensing, control and communication capabilities to exist in the other equipment found in the data center.31 Industrial applications of new energy-saving chip technologies could improve energy efficiency in industrial settings by up to 88 percent due to more efficient motor control and power management. Chip-enabled motion and video sensors are increasingly being used in commercial and industrial settings to control lights and heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems based on movement within a room or building. Such smart facilities take on the task of making sure the environment is suitable for the worker while saving energy. Semiconductors also play a key role in the electronics used in both solar and windgenerated power systems, including solar inverters and wind turbines, which convert direct current from solar panels or turbines into usable household alternating current. With the latest chip technologies, system efficiency is maximized so it can be productive even on cloudy and low wind days. Chip technologies are also being researched to better use solar power – both natural sunlight and indoor ambient – in recharging the batteries of portable devices. The advances in energy efficiency and alternative energy technologies already achieved, and those projected for the future, all depend on continued innovation in semiconductor technology, as discussed below. </span>

<span class="Underline">Solves extinction</span>
<span class="Underline">Jagger 08 [Bianca, Chair @ World Future Council, CQ Congressional Testimony, 3-6]</span>
<span class="Underline">"If we go beyond the point where human intervention can no longer stabilise the system, then we precipitate unstoppable runaway climate change. That will set in motion a major extinction event comparable to the five other extinction crises that the earth has previously experienced." I find it deeply mystifying that the vast majority of the media are still not adequately expressing the scale of the danger we face. Professor John Holdren, President of the AAAS, said in August, "We have already passed the stage of dangerous climate change. The task now is to avoid catastrophic climate change." And as George Monbiot, in an article he wrote for the Guardian in July, said: "Unaware of the causes of our good fortune, blissfully detached from their likely termination, we drift into catastrophe." This clearly demonstrates what the World Future Council, the organisation I chair, is advocating. If we are serious about averting climate change catastrophe, we must think in revolutionary terms, and transform our way of life, restoring rather than destroying life on earth. We must embark upon a global renewable energy revolution: if we are to achieve the necessary carbon reduction by 2020, we must replace our carbon- driven economy with a renewable energy economy."</span>

===2NC Internal NB=== 

Chinas making aggressive attempts to steal skilled workers from US industries.
Lieberman, 2003
[Joe, US Senator, “THE NATIONAL SECURITY ASPECTS OF THE GLOBAL MIGRATION OF THE U.S. SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY,” 6-5, http://www.fas.org/irp/congress/2003_cr/s060503.html]
The Chinese are, however, able to increasingly draw on substantially larger pools of technically trained labor as compared to the U.S., from the large cohorts of domestic engineering graduates. Importantly, the output of Chinese universities is supplemented by large numbers of engineers trained at U.S. universities and mid-career professionals who are offered substantial incentives to return to work in China. These incentives for scientists and engineers, which include substantial tax benefits, world-class living facilities, extensive stock options taxed at par value, and other amenities, are proving effective in attracting expatriate labor. They also represent an important new dimension in an accelerating global competition for highly skilled IT labor.

Semiconductor offshoring collapses US industry lead and devastates military technology.
McCormack, 2005
[Richard, Manufacturing & Technology News, “Defense Science Board Tells Military To Develop A Grand Strategy To Save The U.S. Semiconductor Industry,” 4-22, Volume 12, No. 8, http://www.manufacturingnews.com/news/05/0422/art1.html]
The rapid migration of semiconductor manufacturing plants to locations outside the United States is an "alarming" trend that must be addressed in a forthright, immediate manner, according to a long-anticipated report from the Pentagon's Defense Science Board (DSB). "Urgent action is recommended, as the industry is likely to continue moving in a deleterious direction, resulting in significant exposure if not remedied," writes William Howard, chairman of the DSB task force looking into the issue. "We urge greater than usual speed in implementing the recommendations of our study. The nation's security and economic well being demands it." The Task Force on High Performance Microchip Supply says there is plenty to be worried about, and that the U.S. semiconductor industry cannot change the competitive dynamics that have emerged globally to shift the balance of production and markets away from the United States. "Addressing this problem is a uniquely government function," says the report. "The task force considers DOD the logical steward to lead, cajole and encourage a national solution to this critical problem regardless of which arm of government must act." DOD must take the lead because it needs a "trusted" supply of chips. "There is no longer a diverse base of U.S. IC fabricators capable of meeting trusted and classified chip needs," says the DSB task force. The study calls for a broad re-examination of U.S. government industrial policies regarding trade, its approach to the WTO, export controls, foreign investment into U.S. suppliers, protection of intellectual property, direct federal funding of trusted or foundries dedicated solely for defense production, economic development incentives with the states, research and development support and acquisition policies. It recommends that the secretaries of Defense and Homeland Security develop a special briefing for the National Security Advisor "and encourage him or her to take a key role in implementing measures...to slow the migration of the microelectronics industry." U.S. national technological leadership "is increasingly being challenged by these trends, which poses long-term national economic security concerns," says the report. "These changes are directly contrary to the best interests of the Department of Defense... The shift from United States to foreign IC manufacture endangers the security of classified information embedded in chip design; additionally, it opens the possibility that 'Trojan horses' and other unauthorized design inclusions may appear in unclassified integrated circuits used in military applications." The Pentagon and its suppliers face a "major integrated circuit supply dilemma" caused by the "hollowing out" of the chip industry in the country. As production moves offshore, research and development, design capabilities and tooling will go with it, along with skilled scientists and engineers. By the end of this year, only 16 of the 59 most advanced 300-mm fabrication plants operating worldwide will be located in the United States. Only one of these plants can be relied upon to produce trusted microelectronics for the Defense Department. The task force says the federal government and the DOD have no overall vision of how to assure U.S. leadership in the world's most strategic technology. It found that the military is losing access to classified devices. In the past, these have been supplied by facilities run by the National Security Agency and Sandia National Laboratories. But the NSA facility has become obsolete and Sandia is not able to supply the diversity or volume of special circuits needed by DOD. "There is no longer a diverse base of U.S. IC fabricators capable of meeting trusted and classified chip needs," says the report. The recently created "Trusted Foundry Program," which entails a take-or-pay contract with IBM for dedicated defense chip production, is a "good start," but "a more comprehensive program is needed that looks further into the future." The DSB report says the Defense Department will "expand the number of trusted foundry sources to cover all technology needs." The report marks the first known time the Defense Department has disclosed its trusted foundry program with IBM. The task force calls on DOD to begin working with other federal agencies to develop strategies to assure U.S. technological superiority in chips. It says the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency should consider creating a new Sematech type of research consortium. It calls for doubling the budget for the National Science Foundation and for funding the National Institute of Standards and Technology's Office of Microelectronics Programs. The Commerce Department and the United States Trade Representative should develop a response to China's aggressive policies to promote the construction of semiconductor fabs. The U.S. government must counter foreign government income tax incentives and tax holidays that last up to five years after companies start earning a profit on their production. The U.S. should consider changing the 20 percent annual depreciation rate on fabs, given that Japan's rate is 88 percent in the first year alone. "Although there have been concerns about isolated supply problems, the full integrated supply problem has emerged onto the acquisition agenda and is only now being fully identified," says the report. "DOD lacks a long-term plan for the preservation of U.S. information superiority, which is a cornerstone of U.S. national security. The department must either develop such a plan or be prepared to surrender this advantage."

Offshore semiconductor production destabilizes warfighting capabilities and kills long-term leadership.
Defense Science, 2005
[Defense Science Board Task Force, “Defense Science Board Task Force On HIGH PERFORMANCE MICROCHIP SUPPLY,” February, http://www.acq.osd.mil/dsb/reports/ADA435563.pdf]
Beyond the threat of IC device compromise described above, dependence on off-shore or foreign-owned semiconductor component production subjects the United States to several risks, such as lack of quick response or surge capacity in time of war, that could threaten its access to state-of-art microelectronics. As capacity moves to potential adversary countries, the United States is vulnerable to a governmental “reverse-ITAR” by which critical technologies are denied to the U.S. in international trade. A longer term risk lies in the historical fact that leading-edge R&D tends to follow production. The most attractive positions for talented process scientists and engineers moves with advanced production. Additionally, a separation of design from production could render the close collaboration between process engineers and designers required for leading edge chip development ineffective for U.S. defense industry.

Semiconductors enable radiation-hardening – solves force nuclear strike survival.
Defense Science, 2005
[Defense Science Board Task Force, “Defense Science Board Task Force On HIGH PERFORMANCE MICROCHIP SUPPLY,” February, http://www.acq.osd.mil/dsb/reports/ADA435563.pdf]
Defense systems, by the nature of their functions and use environment, require technologies for which there is no wide commercial demand. The most widely known of these “special” technologies is that of radiation-hardening of circuits to allow their operation and survival through a nuclear event. Similar unique technologies include low-power and countertamper techniques. Research and development for these special technologies is supported almost entirely by DOD through Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA), NSA, and similar mission agencies. Although commercial processes are evolving coincidentally toward satisfying some DOD special needs, such as radiation tolerance, there remains an irreducible need for special fabrication. Maintaining viable supply sources for microelectronics parts incorporating DOD-unique technologies is part of the trusted supply problem. Commercial facilities lack the unique processes required to meet DOD-unique needs.



==Politics 1NC== 

Hardening assets would be expensive and unpopular
Lewis 5 – senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (November 1, “Responding to Asymmetric Threats in Space”, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/congress/ts051101_lewis.pdf)

Risk Mitigation Through Hardening
Hardening involves making existing assets more difficult to attack and damage. Hardening makes space programs more expensive, something that could be difficult in a period of fiscal restraint, and policymakers will need to weigh the tradeoffs between hardening existing military space assets and building redundancy with commercial space services. There are also limits to the hardening of spacecraft. Given the weight limitations faced when putting a satellite into orbit, every pound devoted to hardening is a pound lost to mission capability. Armoring spacecraft, for example, is out of the question.

==Colonization Internal NB 1NC== 

<span class="Underline">Hardening will fail and turns launch costs </span>
<span class="Underline">Sexton 09 - Deputy Program Director, Space and Nuclear Network Group [12 February 2009, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA539893&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf, DEFENDING AMERICA’S INTERESTS IN SPACE, AIR WAR COLLEGE AIR UNIVERSITY, Access July 13, 2011] </span>
<span class="Underline">Given the disparity between the two theories, the choice to begin development of space weapons, as defined in chapter one, is black or white. The gray area in the decision surrounds the nature of any systems the United States opts to build. The United States must deliberately choose whether to seek capabilities for the express purpose of countering attacks on space-borne assets. Both the high ground and space sanctuary perspectives agree on the vital interests inherent in US space assets. In the context of this paper, an affirmative decision for developing space weapons can be made if even a single significant case exists where passive defenses alone cannot assure successful attainment of the space defense strategy objective. The previous discussion regarding strategy concepts versus actors analysis will provide the framework for cases to consider for this critical choice. Posing the most dangerous and least stable of the actor types, the non-peer spacefaring nation will be the hypothesis case in this dialectic since this actor is deemed to be the most likely actor to employ space weapons if it possesses them. The potential exists for a rogue nation either to detonate an EMP weapon in space, disabling most satellites, or to destroy a critical US intelligence collection satellite in low earth orbit though a direct ascent ASAT weapon. One should first determine if it’s possible to counter the effects of both threats strictly with passive defensive capabilities. In the case of an EMP detonation in space, all satellites theoretically could be hardened to an extreme extent to prevent damage induced by the various radiation types released, the dose levels and the dose rates. As for direct ascent ASAT weapons, theoretically these can be countered by improved space situational awareness (SSA) for ample warning time coupled with increased on-board fuel for satellite maneuvers to avoid the impending attack. As a singular event, passive defenses may seem to be a reasonable cost to bear. In reality, these passive defenses alone cannot insure the ability to survive and operate after such attacks. Intelligence, even with perfect SSA, is unlikely to discern the exact target for a direct ascent ASAT attack thus requiring all possible targets to maneuver for safety. Furthermore, the penalties for hardening all satellites and increasing onboard fuel are prohibitive and would come at the expense of payload capabilities and launch costs. Therefore, other defensive approaches short of space weapons should be considered. An alternative approach to defeating the effect of an adversary’s attack on US space assets is a rapid reconstitution capability. Contemporary space systems are typically 10-15 year acquisition efforts with multi-billion dollar price tags. In providing imaging, signals intelligence, communications, navigation, weather, and missile warning on a global basis, each constellation requires numerous satellites to achieve the degree of persistence required for economic activities and worldwide military operations. Rarely do commercial enterprises and government entities launch and store excess capacity on orbit. Within the US Government, building spare satellites for any constellation has become a cost prohibitive luxury given the reality of excessive program overruns and program delays.22 DoD has long yearned for improved space access through reduced costs and launch timelines.</span>

<span class="Underline">High launch costs inhibit commercial space development</span>
<span class="Underline">Coppersmith, 10 – historian of technology at Texas A&M University (Jonathan, The Space Review, “Obama in space: bold but not bold enough,” 4/12, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1603/1</span>

<span class="Underline">Lost in the attention given to ending shuttle flights this year, as intended by President Bush, and the cancellation of the overcost and overweight Constellation program, are the promising initiatives to develop and deploy new generations of technology. At the core of the president’s proposed revamping of NASA is the focus on new technologies to reduce the cost and complexity of operating in space. NASA will restart its Institute for Advanced Concepts, eliminated in 2007 to help pay for Constellation cost overruns. Chief technologist Robert D. Braun will head the new Space Technology Program, which will offer research grants to encourage innovative ideas. These steps will revitalize the private, academic, and NASA technology base. The chief flaw of the president’s proposals is they do not address the key constraint limiting human and robotic exploration and exploitation of space, the high cost of reaching orbit. When I fly domestically, I pay about $2 per pound of me for a ticket. To launch a satellite into orbit costs roughly $10,000 a pound. Until that cost dramatically drops, the promise of the final frontier will remain only a promise. These high launch costs restrict access to space to those governments and corporations that can afford tens of millions of dollars to launch a satellite. Consequently, the annual total of all payloads is only a few hundred tons, the equivalent of two 747 freighter flights. The great expense to reach orbit has not only hindered past exploration, but will also restrict the future if unchanged. Imagine how many more businesses would experiment and develop applications in space if the cost of launching a satellite was only in the hundreds of thousands instead of tens of millions of dollars. Making access to space affordable will create vast economic as well as scientific opportunities.</span>

<span class="Underline">Commercial space development prevents resource wars – causes extinction </span>
<span class="Underline">Collins and Autino, 10 - * Life & Environmental Science, Azabu University AND ** Andromeda Inc., Italy (Patrick and Adriano, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace,” Acta Astronautica 66 (2010) 1553–1562, science direct)</span>

<span class="Underline">The major source of social friction, including international friction, has surely always been unequal access to resources. People ﬁght to control the valuable resources on and under the land, and in and under the sea. The natural resources of Earth are limited in quantity, and economically accessible resources even more so. As the population grows, and demand grows for a higher material standard of living, industrial activity grows exponentially. The threat of resources becoming scarce has led to the concept of ‘‘Resource Wars’’. Having begun long ago with wars to control the gold and diamonds of Africa and South America, and oil in the Middle East, the current phase is at centre stage of world events today [37]. A particular danger of ‘‘resource wars’’ is that, if the general public can be persuaded to support them, they may become impossible to stop as resources become increasingly scarce. Many commentators have noted the similarity of the language of US and UK government advocates of ‘‘war on terror’’ to the language of the novel ‘‘1984’’ which describes a dystopian future of endless, fraudulent war in which citizens are reduced to slaves. 7.1. Expansion into near-Earth space is the only alternative to endless ‘‘resource wars’’ As an alternative to the ‘‘resource wars’’ already devastating many countries today, opening access to the unlimited resources of near-Earth space could clearly facilitate world peace and security. The US National Security Space Ofﬁce, at the start of its report on the potential of space-based solar power (SSP) published in early 2007, stated: ‘‘Expanding human populations and declining natural resources are potential sources of local and strategic conﬂict in the 21st Century, and many see energy as the foremost threat to national security’’ [38]. The report ended by encouraging urgent research on the feasibility of SSP: ‘‘Considering the timescales that are involved, and the exponential growth of population and resource pressures within that same strategic period, it is imperative that this work for ‘‘drilling up’’ vs. drilling down for energy security begins immediately’’ [38]. Although the use of extra-terrestrial resources on a substantial scale may still be some decades away, it is important to recognise that simply acknowledging its feasibility using known technology is the surest way of ending the threat of resource wars. That is, if it is assumed that the resources available for human use are limited to those on Earth, then it can be argued that resource wars are inescapable [22,37]. If, by contrast, it is assumed that the resources of space are economically accessible, this not only eliminates the need for resource wars, it can also preserve the beneﬁts of civilisation which are being eroded today by ‘‘resource war-mongers’’, most notably the governments of the ‘‘Anglo-Saxon’’ countries and their ‘‘neo-con’’ advisers. It is also worth noting that the $1 trillion that these have already committed to wars in the Middle-East in the 21st century is orders of magnitude more than the public investment needed to aid companies sufﬁciently to start the commercial use of space resources. Industrial and ﬁnancial groups which proﬁt from monopolistic control of terrestrial supplies of various natural resources, like those which proﬁt from wars, have an economic interest in protecting their proﬁtable situation. However, these groups’ continuing proﬁts are justiﬁed neither by capitalism nor by democracy: they could be preserved only by maintaining the pretence that use of space resources is not feasible, and by preventing the development of low-cost space travel. Once the feasibility of low-cost space travel is understood, ‘‘resource wars’’ are clearly foolish as well as tragic. A visiting extra-terrestrial would be pityingly amused at the foolish antics of homo sapiens using longrange rockets to ﬁght each other over dwindling terrestrial resources—rather than using the same rockets to travel in space and have the use of all the resources they need! 7.2. High return in safety from extra-terrestrial settlement Investment in low-cost orbital access and other space infrastructure will facilitate the establishment of settlements on the Moon, Mars, asteroids and in man-made space structures. In the ﬁrst phase, development of new regulatory infrastructure in various Earth orbits, including property/usufruct rights, real estate, mortgage ﬁnancing and insurance, trafﬁc management, pilotage, policing and other services will enable the population living in Earth orbits to grow very large. Such activities aimed at making near-Earth space habitable are the logical extension of humans’ historical spread over the surface of the Earth. As trade spreads through near-Earth space, settlements are likely to follow, of which the inhabitants will add to the wealth of different cultures which humans have created in the many different environments in which they live. Success of such extra-terrestrial settlements will have the additional beneﬁt of reducing the danger of human extinction due to planet-wide or cosmic accidents [27]. These horrors include both man-made disasters such as nuclear war, plagues or growing pollution, and natural disasters such as super-volcanoes or asteroid impact. It is hard to think of any objective that is more important than preserving peace. Weapons developed in recent decades are so destructive, and have such horriﬁc, long-term side-effects that their use should be discouraged as strongly as possible by the international community. Hence, reducing the incentive to use these weapons by rapidly developing the ability to use space-based resources on a large scale is surely equally important [11,16]. The achievement of this depends on low space travel costs which, at the present time, appear to be achievable only through the development of a vigorous space tourism industry. 8. Summary As discussed above, if space travel services had started during the 1950s, the space industry would be enormously more developed than it is today. Hence the failure to develop passenger space travel has seriously distorted the path taken by humans’ technological and economic development since WW2, away from the path which would have been followed if capitalism and democracy operated as intended. Technological know-how which could have been used to supply services which are known to be very popular with a large proportion of the population has not been used for that purpose, while waste and suffering due to the unemployment and environmental damage caused by the resulting lack of new industrial opportunities have increased. In response, policies should be implemented urgently to correct this error, and to catch up with the possibilities for industrial and economic growth that have been ignored for so long. This policy renewal is urgent because of the growing dangers of unemployment, economic stagnation, environmental pollution, educational and cultural decline, resource wars and loss of civil liberties which face civilisation today. In order to achieve the necessary progress there is a particular need for collaboration between those working in the two ﬁelds of civil aviation and civil space. Although the word ‘‘aerospace’’ is widely used, it is largely a misnomer since these two ﬁelds are in practice quite separate. True ‘‘aerospace’’ collaboration to realise passenger space travel will develop the wonderful profusion of possibilities outlined above. 8.1. Heaven or hell on Earth? As discussed above, the claim that the Earth’s resources are running out is used to justify wars which may never end: present-day rhetoric about ‘‘the long war’’ or ‘‘100 years war’’ in Iraq and Afghanistan are current examples. If political leaders do not change their viewpoint, the recent aggression by the rich ‘‘Anglo-Saxon’’ countries, and their cutting back of traditional civil liberties, are ominous for the future. However, this ‘‘hellish’’ vision of endless war is based on an assumption about a single number—the future cost of travel to orbit—about which a different assumption leads to a ‘‘heavenly’’ vision of peace and ever-rising living standards for everyone. If this cost stays above 10,000 Euros/kg, where it has been unchanged for nearly 50 years, the prospects for humanity are bleak. But if humans make the necessary effort, and use the tiny amount of resources needed to develop vehicles for passenger space travel, then this cost will fall to 100 Euros/kg, the use of extra-terrestrial resources will become economic, and arguments for resource wars will evaporate entirely. The main reason why this has not yet happened seems to be lack of understanding of the myriad opportunities by investors and policy-makers. Now that the potential to catch up half a century of delay in the growth of space travel is becoming understood, continuing to spend 20 billion Euro-equivalents/year on government space activities, while continuing to invest nothing in developing passenger space travel, would be a gross failure of economic policy, and strongly contrary to the economic and social interests of the public. Correcting this error, even after such a costly delay, will ameliorate many problems in the world today. As this policy error is corrected, and investment in proﬁtable space projects grows rapidly in coming years, we can look forward to a growing world-wide boom. Viewed as a whole, humans’ industrial activities have been seriously underperforming for decades, due to the failure to exploit these immensely promising ﬁelds of activity. The tens of thousands of unemployed space engineers in Russia, America and Europe alone are a huge waste. The potential manpower in rapidly developing India and China is clearly vast. The hundreds of millions of disappointed young people who have been taught that they cannot travel in space are another enormous wasted resource. We do not know for certain when the above scenario will be realised. However, it could have such enormous value that considerable expenditure is justiﬁed in order to study its feasibility in detail [5]. At the very least, vigorous investment by both private and public sectors in a range of different sub-orbital passenger vehicle projects and related businesses is highly desirable. Fortunately, the ambitious and rapid investment by the Indian and Chinese governments in growing space capabilities may ﬁnally jolt the space industries of Russia, America, Europe and Japan out of their long economic stagnation, and induce them to apply their accumulated know-how to economically valuable activities—notably supplying widely popular travel services to the general public.</span>

<span class="Underline">Hardening doesn’t solve attack against US assets</span>
<span class="Underline">Krepon, 3 – president of the Henry Stimson Center (Michael, Space Assurance or Space Dominance? THE CASE AGAINST WEAPONIZING SPACE, http://www.stimson.org/images/uploads/research-pdfs/spacebook.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">It is impossible to harden satellites against direct assaults by kinetic energy ASATs. The closing velocities and masses involved are simply too great for metals to withstand. Normal closing velocities in space are likely to be between 10 and 20 km/second. Hardening against explosives or ramming is therefore likely to be expensive as well as futile. Additionally, hardening would seriously reduce the life span of the satellite and significantly raise production and launch costs without providing suitable protection. The more refined satellite sensors are, the more likely they are to be susceptible to crude forms of attack. Adding satellite maneuverability might well be more useful than hardening or armoring. While a 10-ton imaging satellite would have a hard time escaping from a highly maneuverable homing ASAT, some potential adversaries fielding much cruder ASATs might have difficulty dealing with maneuverable targets. The costs of adding thrusters and strengthening the satellite for higher structural loads are estimated to be between 10 and 20 percent of total system costs.28 For certain high-value satellites and particularly those in higher orbits that have more time for evasive maneuvers, this additional cost might be deemed worthwhile.</span>

==AT: Perm== 

<span class="Underline">Turn – Hardening undermines Redundancy – cost trade offs</span>
<span class="Underline">Lewis 2005 - Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program [James A. Lewis. November 1, 2005. House Armed Service Committee, Panel on Asymmetric and Unconventional Threats Center for Strategic and International Studies. http://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&q=cache:Cr-YrlZ_4YJ:csis.org/files/media/csis/congress /ts051101_lewis.pdf+hardening+satellites&hl=en&gl=us&pid= bl&srcid=ADGEES jqa8YKzjyP3GZoZvlk1KzXGHAwK2bzuk03clno4BciLnY3pLmf12TN75rlMuAJFzw3E5JmOGq lWin0d1Ldf9UWz9NEeduREpcsvzljHCJIJUjNEHfpnuem7nvvZ7gEdyHm4&sig=AHIEtbT9LZ1I2M32TCFG4GFWgdeaoiEjEQ. Accessed June 21]</span>
<span class="Underline">Risk Mitigation Through HardeningHardening involves making existing assets more difficult to attack and damage. Hardening makes space programs more expensive, something that could be difficult in a period of fiscal restraint, and policymakers will need to weigh the tradeoffs between hardening existing military space assets and building redundancy with commercial space services. There are also limits to the hardening of spacecraft. Given the weight limitations faced when putting a satellite into orbit, every pound devoted to hardening is a pound lost to mission capability. Armoring spacecraft, for example, is out of the question.</span>

<span class="Underline">Hardening trades off with capability – defensive measures have diminishing returns</span>
<span class="Underline">Harrison et al. 09 – director of the Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Studies (Roger, Collins G. Shackelford, and Deron R. Jackson, “Space Deterrence: The Delicate Balance of Risk,” Space and Defense, a scholarly journal of the US Air Force Academy for the Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Studies, Summer 2009, http://web.mac.com/rharrison5/Eisenhower_Center_for_Space_and_Defense_Studies/Space_Deterrence_files/Space_and_Defense_3_1%20Space%20Deterrence.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Difficulties of Defense in Space The categories of direct, offensive threats to satellites have been very well understood for at least four decades. These divide, generally speaking, into physical threats – impact (kinetic kill) or proximity explosion – and electro-magnetic threats, EMP, laser, high power microwaves, neutron beam. Both types of attack can in theory be delivered by either terrestrially-based or space-based weapons. The options for defense of satellites have also been understood: hardening, maneuver and various guardian or self-defense satellite schemes. Given limitations on mass, satellites designers are faced with trade-offs between capability, service life, and defense. Generally speaking, they have made the choice of maximizing capability. This is true of the large satellites that form the backbone of U.S. strategic space and of the next generation of satellites, including GPS- III. 23 Given the state of satellite technology when these design decisions were made, they appear in retrospect to have been made with good reason. Capability was maximized. The operating environment remained relatively benign, at least as regards hostile attack. Even if designers had assumed a more hostile environment, it is not certain they would have altered fundamentally the tradeoff between capability and defense. Some space capabilities, especially reconnaissance and communication, required large structures in fixed orbits which are inherently easier to target and therefore more difficult to defend. Some defensive measures repay their cost, but with diminishing returns. For example, a satellite can be hardened against EMP and equipped to counter laser dazzling. It can be given some maneuver capability. But it cannot be hardened to defend against KE attack; maneuver is limited by on board fuel supplies (which are also needed for station keeping and against the contingency of maneuver to avoid space debris). Finally, defense against jamming and laser attack may require, in effect, shutting down operations temporarily – which is all a potential adversary may require. </span>

==Turns Case== 
<span class="Underline">Military relies on civilian resources for space</span>
<span class="Underline">Fernandez 04, Adolfo J., National Defense Fellow, “CRS Report for Congress: Military Role in Space Control: A Primer”, September 23, 2004</span>

<span class="Underline">Military reliance on space also extends to commercial and civil space resources. According to Army General Joseph Cosumano, Commander of U.S. Army Space and Missile Defense Command and Army Space Command, during Operation Iraqi Freedom, over 70 percent of military communications were provided by commercial satellites. According to a threat analysis from the U.S. Naval Postgraduate School, U.S. military dependence on space systems may continue to outpace DOD budget and production capability. The analysis concludes that DOD may have to continue looking to the commercial and civil sectors to satisfy a portion of its space service requirements.</span>

<span class="Underline">Turns heg – the DOD can buy tech from the commercial sector </span>
<span class="Underline">Adams 1 (Thomas K., Retired Lt. Colonel Thomas Adams surveys the vulnerabilities to the Global Positioning System including anti-satellite weapons and electronic jamming, “10 GPS Vulnerabilities,” March 1, 2011, http://www.c4i.org/gps-adams.html) </span>
<span class="Underline">The vision statements, implementing programs and policy statements are built on two foundation blocks—information systems and space-based resources. Together they lead to the "information dominance" that is key to the entire enterprise.4 Unfortunately, the inescapable interrelationship between the two creates serious vulnerabilities that could destroy military forces. A Double-Edged Sword Like most recent force-modernization efforts, most of Army After Next (AAN) and Army XXI technologies will come from commercial-sector research rather than Department of Defense (DOD)-sponsored research and development. Major General Robert Scales, a key architect of the AAN program, says about 40 percent of the dollars spent 25 years ago on telecommunications research and development came from DOD. In Fiscal Year 2000, DOD provided about 2 percent of the funds spent on developing information-age technologies.5 During a National Defense Industrial Association conference on the future force, Scales remarked, "Like it or not, the advantage we are going to gain in the future over a potential major competitor is going to come from the commercial sector. We ought to just step back, relax and be prepared to exploit it. In many ways, too much emphasis on military specific research . . . may very well work to our disadvantage."6 Dual use is not a ground-breaking innovation; it is a long-term trend. The United States has never owned a freestanding, solely military industrial base. Most military equipment is off-the-shelf commercial equipment painted olive drab. The American Expeditionary Force took commercial trucks right off the assembly line to France in 1917. The famous C-47 World War II transport aircraft was a green-painted cargo version of the Douglas DC-3 airliner. Artillery officers discovered hand-held Hewlett-Packard calculators early on, but the first widely distributed small computers in the US Army were ordinary Apple IIe's in a "militarized" box. The best-known example is probably the military use of thousands of off-the-shelf commercial Grid Positioning System receivers during the Gulf War.</span>

==Launch Cost Links== 

<span class="Underline">Hardening standards increase the cost of making satellites AND the cost of launching them </span>
<span class="Underline">David Suh Hoon Menke 08, Major, USAF “DISRUPTION IN SPACE SYSTEM DESIGN: EXPLOITING CARBON NANOTUBES IN STRUCTURES AND COMPONENT MATERIALS IN 2030” A Research Report Submitted to the Faculty In Partial Fulfillment of the Graduation Requirements Advisors: Lt Col Christopher C. Shannon Dr. Paul J. Moscarelli Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama April 2008 </span>
<span class="Underline">The commercial satellite radiation hardening requirements focuses on natural sources. Commercial industry measure risk differently and have significant opportunity costs when incorporating additional margins of protection. Requiring hardened specifications presents one problem of military systems attempting to leverage commercial technological gains. Fortunately, CNT structures provide inherent radiation hardening as an added benefit without additional cost. According to a Defense Threat Reduction Agency brief, the increased cost to harden against the natural environment approximates to one percent. To provide the next level of protections against high altitude nuclear bursts adds an additional two percent cost increase. This level protects electronics from latch-up. The next two levels of protection increase cost an additional two to three percent.23 Implementation of CNTs on all military systems spreads the research and development cost across all future platforms. If the cost of CNT production dropped low enough eventually commercial satellites may also utilize this new technology. Their use in structures would allow incorporation of the increasingly smaller architecture of integrated circuits that are more susceptible to natural sources of radiation. As a result, there may be a point in time where commercial satellites will also be impacted by the divergence of integrated circuit scaling (terrestrial based) and the requirement for hardening from natural sources of space radiation. Unlike the use of CNTs, current radiation hardening methods increase satellite weight. The additional weight will also increase launch cost or drive a weight trade with other payload capability. In addition to size and weight benefits, CNTs may provide protections from directed energy attacks. 11 </span>

<span class="Underline">Hardening raises launch costs greatly </span>
<span class="Underline">Krepon and Clary 3 – *director of the South Asia and Space Security programs and **director for South Asian affairs in the Office of the Secretary of Defense (Michael and Christopher, 2003, Stimson Center: “Space Assurance or Space Dominance? The Case Against Weaponizing Space” http://www.isn.ethz.ch/isn/Digital-Library/Publications/Detail/?ots591=0c54e3b3-1e9c-be1e-2c24-a6a8c7060233&lng=en&id=105601 WSX)</span>
<span class="Underline">Hardening against explosives It is impossible to harden satellites against direct assaults by kinetic energy ASATs. The closing velocities and masses involved are simply too great for metals to withstand. Normal closing velocities in space are likely to be between 10 and 20 km/second. Hardening against explosives or ramming is therefore likely to be expensive as well as futile. Additionally, hardening would seriously reduce the life span of the satellite and significantly raise production and launch costs without providing suitable protection. The more refined satellite sensors are, the more likely they are to be susceptible to crude forms of attack. Adding satellite maneuverability might well be more useful than hardening or armoring. While a 10-ton imaging satellite would have a hard time escaping from a highly maneuverable homing ASAT, some potential adversaries fielding much cruder ASATs might have difficulty with maneuverable targets. The costs of adding thrusters and strengthening the satellite for higher structural loads are estimated to be between alin 10 and 20 percent of total system costs.28 For certain high-value satellites and particularly those in higher orbits that have more time for evasive maneuvers, this additional cost might be deemed worthwhile.</span>

==Spillover== 

<span class="Underline">Hardening spillsover to the commercial sector if US goes first</span>
<span class="Underline">O’Hanlon 2005 (Michael Preserving U.S. Dominance While Slowing The Weaponization Of Space, mohanlon@brookings.edu, November 1, 2005 Testimony before the House Armed Services Committee for the Committee Defense Review Hardening And Defending (Or Doing Without) U.S. Satellites, http://www.brookings.edu/views/testimony/ohanlon/20051101.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">That said, military space competition will occur regardless of American policy, and other countries will gradually learn to use space as the United States does today. That calls for a two-tier approach from Washington. It must continue to anticipate, and protect against, attacks on its satellites to the extent possible. Commercial communications satellites and low-altitude military assets are probably the most vulnerable. Measures ranging from improved hardening against lasers to more maneuvering capability against microsats to retention of ground-based alternatives to satellites are thus required. In addition, with crossing the rubicon of weaponization or testing, the United States should keep its technology options open for development of antisatellite weapons of its own. Certain missile defense systems, together with laboratory research, provide such capabilities; no dedicated ASAT programs are needed or desirable.</span>
=Nuke Testing CP= 
==1NC== 

<span class="Underline">The United States federal government should resume nuclear tests for the purposes of stockpile certification.</span>

<span class="Underline">Lack of testing is fatal to our deterrent --- life extension and stockpile stewardship alone will fail.</span>
<span class="Underline">Pfaltzgraff and Cooper 09 [Dr. Robert L. Pfaltzgraff and Henry F. Cooper et al, July 2009. Professor of International Security Studies @ Tufts University, Founder and President, Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, and Former Director of the Defense Strategic Initiative (SDI); Former U.S. Representative to the Defense and Space Talks. “U.S. Nuclear Deterrence in the 21st Century Getting it Right,” Nuclear Deterrent Working Group, http://204.96.138.161/upload/wysiwyg/center%20publication%20pdfs/NDWG-%20Getting%20It%20Right.pdf]</span>
<span class="Underline">Permitted underground nuclear testing is the hub of the nuclear weapons “wheel.” It is the way the United States has historically pursued science; the way it trains weapon designers; the way it validates designs; the way it certifies warheads; the way it finds problems; the way it identify fixes to those problems; the way it verifies with high confidence that such fixes have, in fact, solved such defects; the way the Department of Energy’s National Nuclear Security Administration and the Defense Department are integrated into a tight- knit producer-user community; and the way key weapons systems are hardened to survive the effects of nuclear weapons. With the hub gone, what is left of the wheel is of greatly diminished effectiveness, and the deterrent supported by that “wheel” of much reduced credibility. Senior U.S. officials have repeatedly expressed concern about the cumulative effect of a lack of testing: 􏰀 NNSA Administrator D’Agostino (February/April 2008): “Keeping this stockpile healthy is becoming an increasingly difficult challenge. Periodically we identify problems with warheads that in the past would have been resolved with nuclear tests. Our SSP has worked well so far to help us to avoid that prospect. The considered judgment of the national weapons laboratories directors, however, is that maintaining certification of the finely-tuned designs of an aging Cold War stockpile through the LEP effort and absent nuclear testing involves increasing risk.”86 “The one certainty we do know is that warhead certification in the absence of testing will become more difficult, especially as life extensions and component aging move the warhead further away from originally-tested designs.”87 “The collective judgment of the Directors of our national weapons laboratories is that maintaining certification of the finely-tuned designs of the aging Cold War stockpile through Life Extension Programs (LEPs) only, absent nuclear testing, necessarily entails increasing risk overtime.”88 􏰀 Secretary of Defense Gates (October 2008): “No weapons in our arsenal have been tested since 1992. So the information on which we base our annual certification of stockpile grows increasingly dated and incomplete.”89 “At a certain point, it will become impossible to keep extending the life of our arsenal, especially in light of our testing moratorium. It also makes it harder to reduce existing stockpiles, because eventually we won’t have as much confidence in the efficacy of the weapons we do have.”90 Los Alamos National Laboratory Director Anastasio (April 2008): “The continuing accumulation of small changes from stockpile fixes, life extension activities, and aging with combined effects that are difficult to quantify will result in larger performance uncertainties and pose increasing risk to the certification of low- margin legacy warheads.”91 “In 1995, the United States embarked on an ambitious effort to sustain the nuclear weapons stockpile without nuclear testing, an effort for which we could not guarantee success. Many felt that maintenance of adequate confidence in the stockpile required following the scientific method with the ability to continue at least partial yield nuclear tests to address the inevitable issues that would arise.”92 “At a time when our uncertainties are increasing, we should have a more vigorous program of nonnuclear, above-ground testing development and use, capabilities that allow us to validate and augment our developing predictive simulation tools. Regrettably, we are moving in the opposite direction.”93 By implication at least, the unease evident in these comments about the present state of affairs produced by a seventeen-year long voluntary testing moratorium suggests that a permanent ban on such testing would be fatal for the U.S. deterrent. </span>

==2NC== 

<span class="Underline">History is on our side --- multiple fixes creating during the 60s moratorium were confidently backed by models and calculations --- a return to testing immediately humbled the scientists --- empirically proves only testing can ensure confidence.</span>
<span class="Underline">Kathleen Bailey, 1/15/1999. PhD @ U Illinois, Senior Fellow at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, former Assistant Director of the US Arms Control & Disarmament Agency, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau of Intelligence and Research, and Director of Research in the US Information Agency. “THE COMPREHENSIVE TEST BAN TREATY The Costs Outweigh the Benefits,” CATO Policy Analysis 330, www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa330.pdf.</span>

<span class="Underline">There has indeed been a decline in the confidence in the U.S. stockpile since testing ceased in 1992. In 1997 the director of Los Alamos National Laboratory, Sig Hecker, wrote to Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.), stating that con- fidence in the U.S. stockpile had decreased since the last U.S. test in 1992. Hecker also said that several problems, some of them age related, had developed, which previously "we would have turned to a nuclear test in the kiloton range to resolve."6 In 1997 it was possible to fix the warhead problems and to certify the reliability of the stockpile with con- fidence--but not to achieve the high level of confidence that would come from a test. The 1958-61 test moratorium provides a relevant comparison. At that time, some stockpile problems were fixed, and there was confidence that the solutions worked. When the moratorium ended and testing resumed, the "fixes" were found to be inadequate. A key reason for the confidence that allowed certification in 1997 was the presence of experienced scientists and engineers: the people who designed the devices in the stockpile and participated in testing them were still on hand and provided solutions for the problems that were found. According to one expert, those scientists and engineers have been repeatedly humbled by creating designs in which they had the highest confidence, only to see a test make a mockery of their assumptions and calculations. The designers know the designs in the stockpile well. Their experience in testing and working with the designs over the years has enabled the designers to understand the subtleties of changes and their effects on the weapons. The experience and understanding of the experts who designed the current U.S. nuclear weapons have not been well documented because the entire U.S. nuclear weapons program was predicated on the absolute need for and ability to conduct testing throughout the life of the design. Testing was viewed as essential to the development and proof of nuclear weapons designs, to ensuring the relia- bility of the stockpile, and to correcting any problems that occur. With such dependence on nuclear testing, extensive documentation was unnecessary. Although an effort is now under way to document and archive the expe- riences of designers, there is no way to be sure that all of their pertinent knowledge is recorded. Problems may also develop, particularly relating to the aging of weapon components, for which the designers' knowledge is of lit- tle or no help. Of the 85 remaining nuclear weapons designers at Los Alamos and Livermore laboratories, only 35 have been lead designers on a nuclear test.7 In the future, as those experts retire and die, there will be no nuclear weapons experts who have actually designed a stockpiled weapon or have gone through the rigors and learning processes of nuclear testing. </span>

<span class="Underline">Test readiness is critical to deterrence </span>
<span class="Underline">John T. Byrd, 6/12/2002. Admiral US Navy, Director of Plans and Policy @ STRATCOM. Statement before the House Armed Services Committee Procurement Sub-committee, http://armedservices.house.gov/comdocs/openingstatementsandpressreleases/107thcongress/02-06-12byrd.html.</span>

<span class="Underline">The lower number of deployed weapons is a long awaited and welcome development, but we must now prepare for implementation. With fewer weapons and weapon types, an unpredicted catastrophic failure of a warhead type places even greater emphasis on improved test readiness. Currently, there is no need to conduct nuclear tests, but at lower inventory levels, increasing test readiness is necessary to minimize the potential impact a technological failure would have on our operationally deployed strategic nuclear weapons. US Strategic Command strongly supports the findings of the Nuclear Posture Review as well as the recommendations of the Foster Panel to improve our readiness to conduct nuclear testing. This improved readiness will bolster the credibility of our arsenal and ultimately strengthen deterrence. Conclusion On behalf of all the men and women of United States Strategic Command, we look forward to continuing our strong relationship with the National Nuclear Security Administration and its predecessors. Together, we have encountered a number of unexpected challenges resulting from our decisive victory in the Cold War. With your continuing support, we have implemented or identified many of the solutions for these pressing issues. Under the outstanding guidance of General John Gordon, the NNSA has determined a path for regaining the health of our nuclear weapons complex both in terms of infrastructure and people. Your solid support of General Gordon's initiatives to improve our nuclear test readiness and to proceed with studies to modify our existing arsenal will help this Nation meet its critical deterrence needs in the 21st Century.</span>

<span class="Underline">Weakening US deterrent will cause counter balancing and kill heg</span>
<span class="Underline">Dr. Robert L. Pfaltzgraff and Henry F. Cooper et al, July 2009. Professor of International Security Studies @ Tufts University, Founder and President, Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, and Former Director of the Defense Strategic Initiative (SDI); Former U.S. Representative to the Defense and Space Talks. “U.S. Nuclear Deterrence in the 21st Century Getting it Right,” Nuclear Deterrent Working Group, http://204.96.138.161/upload/wysiwyg/center%20publication%20pdfs/NDWG-%20Getting%20It%20Right.pdf.</span>

<span class="Underline">Failure properly to maintain the U.S. nuclear deterrent – either by deploying a numerically inadequate force structure or by fielding forces that are qualitatively inappropriate to the evolving threats and the attendant deterrent requirements – could very well encourage the rise of aspiring “peer competitors,” thus exacerbating the very proliferation of nuclear weapons we seek to prevent. The Strategic Posture Commission’s interim report identified this risk with respect to future negotiations with Russia and its impact on the U.S.-China nuclear balance: “The Commission is prepared strongly to endorse negotiations with Russia in order to proceed jointly to further reductions in our nuclear forces, as part of a cooperative effort to stabilize relations, stop proliferation, and promote predictability and transparency. The large Russian arsenal of tactical nuclear weapons must be considered in this regard.”61 The Commission warned though that: “…Any negotiated reduction between Russia and the U.S. should not be carried out in a manner that might incentivize the Chinese to undertake a program to increase their nuclear capabilities in an effort to compete with us.”62</span>

=K Aff Framework= 
==1NC Framework Cards== 

<span class="Underline">3. Education --- academics must learn to engage the public’s line of thinking --- abstract moralism without addressing how to get our policies passed is useless.</span>
<span class="Underline">Jeffrey Isaac, Spring 2002. Professor of Political Science at Indiana University. “Ends, Means, and Politics,” Dissent, http://www.dissentmagazine.org/article/?article=601.</span>

<span class="Underline">What is striking about much of the political discussion on the left today is its failure to engage this earlier tradition of argument. The left, particularly the campus left—by which I mean “progressive” faculty and student groups, often centered around labor solidarity organizations and campus Green affiliates—has become moralistic rather than politically serious. Some of its moralizing—about Chiapas, Palestine, and Iraq—continues the third worldism that plagued the New Left in its waning years. Some of it—about globalization and sweatshops— is new and in some ways promising (see my “Thinking About the Antisweatshop Movement,” Dissent, Fall 2001). But what characterizes much campus left discourse is a substitution of moral rhetoric about evil policies or institutions for a sober consideration of what might improve or replace them, how the improvement might be achieved, and what the likely costs, as well as the benefits, are of any reasonable strategy. One consequence of this tendency is a failure to worry about methods of securing political support through democratic means or to recognize the distinctive value of democracy itself. It is not that conspiratorial or antidemocratic means are promoted. On the contrary, the means employed tend to be preeminently democratic—petitions, demonstrations, marches, boycotts, corporate campaigns, vigorous public criticism. And it is not that political democracy is derided. Projects such as the Green Party engage with electoral politics, locally and nationally, in order to win public office and achieve political objectives. But what is absent is a sober reckoning with the preoccupations and opinions of the vast majority of Americans, who are not drawn to vocal denunciations of the International Monetary Fund and World Trade Organization and who do not believe that the discourse of “anti-imperialism” speaks to their lives. Equally absent is critical thinking about why citizens of liberal democratic states—including most workers and the poor—value liberal democracy and subscribe to what Jürgen Habermas has called “constitutional patriotism”: a patriotic identification with the democratic state because of the civil, political, and social rights it defends. Vicarious identifications with Subcommandante Marcos or starving Iraqi children allow left activists to express a genuine solidarity with the oppressed elsewhere that is surely legitimate in a globalizing age. But these symbolic avowals are not an effective way of contending for political influence or power in the society in which these activists live. The ease with which the campus left responded to September 11 by rehearsing an all too-familiar narrative of American militarism and imperialism is not simply disturbing. It is a sign of this left’s alienation from the society in which it operates (the worst examples of this are statements of the Student Peace Action Coalition Network, which declare that “the United States Government is the world’s greatest terror organization,” and suggest that “homicidal psychopaths of the United States Government” engineered the World Trade Center attacks as a pretext for imperialist aggression. See http://www.gospan.org). Many left activists seem more able to identify with (idealized versions of) Iraqi or Afghan civilians than with American citizens, whether these are the people who perished in the Twin Towers or the rest of us who legitimately fear that we might be next. This is not because of any “disloyalty.” Charges like that lack intellectual or political merit. It is because of a debilitating moralism; because it is easier to denounce wrong than to take real responsibility for correcting it, easier to locate and to oppose a remote evil than to address a proximate difficulty. The campus left says what it thinks. But it exhibits little interest in how and why so many Americans think differently. The “peace” demonstrations organized across the country within a few days of the September 11 attacks—in which local Green Party activists often played a crucial role—were, whatever else they were, a sign of their organizers’ lack of judgment and common sense. Although they often expressed genuine horror about the terrorism, they focused their energy not on the legitimate fear and outrage of American citizens but rather on the evils of the American government and its widely supported response to the terror. Hardly anyone was paying attention, but they alienated anyone who was. This was utterly predictable. And that is my point. The predictable consequences did not matter. What mattered was simply the expression of righteous indignation about what is wrong with the United States, as if September 11 hadn’t really happened. Whatever one thinks about America’s deficiencies, it must be acknowledged that a political praxis preoccupation with this is foolish and self-defeating. The other, more serious consequence of this moralizing tendency is the failure to think seriously about global politics. The campus left is rightly interested in the ills of global capitalism. But politically it seems limited to two options: expressions of “solidarity” with certain oppressed groups—Palestinians but not Syrians, Afghan civilians (though not those who welcome liberation from the Taliban), but not Bosnians or Kosovars or Rwandans—and automatic opposition to American foreign policy in the name of anti-imperialism. The economic discourse of the campus left is a universalist discourse of human needs and workers rights; but it is accompanied by a refusal to think in political terms about the realities of states, international institutions, violence, and power. This refusal is linked to a peculiar strain of pacifism, according to which any use of military force by the United States is viewed as aggression or militarism. case in point is a petition circulated on the campus of Indiana University within days of September 11. Drafted by the Bloomington Peace Coalition, it opposed what was then an imminent war in Afghanistan against al-Qaeda, and called for peace. It declared: “Retaliation will not lead to healing; rather it will harm innocent people and further the cycle of violence. Rather than engage in military aggression, those in authority should apprehend and charge those individuals believed to be directly responsible for the attacks and try them in a court of law in accordance with due process of international law.” This declaration was hardly unique. Similar statements were issued on college campuses across the country, by local student or faculty coalitions, the national </span>
<span class="Underline">Campus Greens, 9- 11peace.org, and the National Youth and Student Peace Coalition. As Global Exchange declared in its antiwar statement of September 11: “vengeance offers no relief. . . retaliation can never guarantee healing. . . and to meet violence with violence breeds more rage and more senseless deaths. Only love leads to peace with justice, while hate takes us toward war and injustice.” On this view military action of any kind is figured as “aggression” or “vengeance”; harm to innocents, whether substantial or marginal, intended or unintended, is absolutely proscribed; legality is treated as having its own force, independent of any means of enforcement; and, most revealingly, “healing” is treated as the principal goal of any legitimate response. None of these points withstands serious scrutiny. A military response to terrorist aggression is not in any obvious sense an act of aggression, unless any military response—or at least any U.S. military response—is simply defined as aggression. While any justifiable military response should certainly be governed by just-war principles, the criterion of absolute harm avoidance would rule out the possibility of any military response. It is virtually impossible either to “apprehend” and prosecute terrorists or to put an end to terrorist networks without the use of military force, for the “criminals” in question are not law-abiding citizens but mass murderers, and there are no police to “arrest” them. And, finally, while “healing” is surely a legitimate moral goal, it is not clear that it is a political goal. Justice, however, most assuredly is a political goal. The most notable thing about the Bloomington statement is its avoidance of political justice. Like many antiwar texts, it calls for “social justice abroad.” It supports redistributing wealth. But criminal and retributive justice, protection against terrorist violence, or the political enforcement of the minimal conditions of global civility—these are unmentioned. They are unmentioned because to broach them is to enter a terrain that the campus left is unwilling to enter—the terrain of violence, a realm of complex choices and dirty hands. This aversion to violence is understandable and in some ways laudable. America’s use of violence has caused much harm in the world, from Southeast Asia to Central and Latin America to Africa. The so-called “Vietnam Syndrome” was the product of a real learning experience that should not be forgotten. In addition, the destructive capacities of modern warfare— which jeopardize the civilian/combatant distinction, and introduce the possibility of enormous ecological devastation—make war under any circumstances something to be feared. No civilized person should approach the topic of war with anything other than great trepidation. And yet the left’s reflexive hostility toward violence in the international domain is strange. It is inconsistent with avowals of “materialism” and evocations of “struggle,” especially on the part of those many who are not pacifists; it is in tension with a commitment to human emancipation (is there no cause for which it is justifiable to fight?); and it is oblivious to the tradition of left thinking about ends and means. To compare the debates within the left about the two world wars or the Spanish Civil War with the predictable “anti-militarism” of today’s campus left is to compare a discourse that was serious about political power with a discourse that is not. This unpragmatic approach has become a hallmark of post–cold war left commentary, from the Gulf War protests of 1991, to the denunciation of the 1999 U.S.-led NATO intervention in Kosovo, to the current post–September 11 antiwar movement. In each case protesters have raised serious questions about U.S. policy and its likely consequences, but in a strikingly ineffective way. They sound a few key themes: the broader context of grievances that supposedly explains why Saddam Hussein, or Slobodan Milosevic, or Osama bin Laden have done what they have done; the hypocrisy of official U.S. rhetoric, which denounces terrorism even though the U.S. government has often supported terrorism; the harm that will come to ordinary Iraqi or Serbian or Afghan citizens as a result of intervention; and the cycle of violence that is likely to ensue. These are important issues. But they typically are raised by left critics not to promote real debate about practical alternatives, but to avoid such a debate or to trump it. As a result, the most important political questions are simply not asked. It is assumed that U.S. military intervention is an act of “aggression,” but no consideration is given to the aggression to which intervention is a response. The status quo ante in Afghanistan is not, as peace activists would have it, peace, but rather terrorist violence abetted by a regime—the Taliban—that rose to power through brutality and repression. This requires us to ask a question that most “peace” activists would prefer not to ask: What should be done to respond to the violence of a Saddam Hussein, or a Milosevic, or a Taliban regime? What means are likely to stop violence and bring criminals to justice? Calls for diplomacy and international law are well intended and important; they implicate a decent and civilized ethic of global order. But they are also vague and empty, because they are not accompanied by any account of how diplomacy or international law can work effectively to address the problem at hand. The campus left offers no such account. To do so would require it to contemplate tragic choices in which moral goodness is of limited utility. Here what matters is not purity of intention but the intelligent exercise of power. Power is not a dirty word or an unfortunate feature of the world. It is the core of politics. Power is the ability to effect outcomes in the world. Politics, in large part, involves contests over the distribution and use of power. To accomplish anything in the political world, one must attend to the means that are necessary to bring it about. And to develop such means is to develop, and to exercise, power. To say this is not to say that power is beyond morality. It is to say that power is not reducible to morality. As writers such as Niccolo Machiavelli, Max Weber, Reinhold Niebuhr, and Hannah Arendt have taught, an unyielding concern with moral goodness undercuts political responsibility. The concern may be morally laudable, reflecting a kind of personal integrity, but it suffers from three fatal flaws: (1) It fails to see that the purity of one’s intention does not ensure the achievement of what one intends. Abjuring violence or refusing to make common cause with morally compromised parties may seem like the right thing; but if such tactics entail impotence, then it is hard to view them as serving any moral good beyond the clean conscience of their supporters; (2) it fails to see that in a world of real violence and injustice, moral purity is not simply a form of powerlessness; it is often a form of complicity in injustice. This is why, from the standpoint of politics—as opposed to religion—pacifism is always a potentially immoral stand. In categorically repudiating violence, it refuses in principle to oppose certain violent injustices with any effect; and (3) it fails to see that politics is as much about unintended consequences as it is about intentions; it is the effects of action, rather than the motives of action, that is most significant. Just as the alignment with “good” may engender impotence, it is often the pursuit of “good” that generates evil. This is the lesson of communism in the twentieth century: it is not enough that one’s goals be sincere or idealistic; it is equally important, always, to ask about the effects of pursuing these goals and to judge these effects in pragmatic and historically contextualized ways. Moral absolutism inhibits this judgment. It alienates those who are not true believers. It promotes arrogance. And it undermines political effectiveness.</span>

<span class="Underline">C. Voting issue --- resolving the framework is a pre-condition for debate to occur.</span>
<span class="Underline">Ruth Lessl Shively, 2K. Assistant Prof Political Science – Texas A&M U. Partisan Politics and Political Theory, p. 181-2.</span>

<span class="Underline">The requirements given thus far are primarily negative. The ambiguists must say "no" to-they must reject and limit-some ideas and actions. In what follows, we will also find that they must say "yes" to some things. In particular, they must say "yes" to the idea of rational persuasion. This means, first, that they must recognize the role of agreement in political contest, or the basic accord that is necessary to discord. The mistake that the ambiguists make here is a common one. The mistake is in thinking that agreement marks the end of contest-that consensus kills debate. But this is true only if the agreement is perfect-if there is nothing at all left to question or contest. In most cases, however, our agreements are highly imperfect. We agree on some matters but not on others, on generalities but not on specifics, on principles but not on their applications, and so on. And this kind of limited agreement is the starting condition of contest and debate. As John Courtney Murray writes: We hold certain truths; therefore we can argue about them. It seems to have been one of the corruptions of intelligence by positivism to assume that argument ends when agreement is reached. In a basic sense, the reverse is true. There can be no argument except on the premise, and within a context, of agreement. (Murray 1960, 10) In other words, we cannot argue about something if we are not communicating: if we cannot agree on the topic and terms of argument or if we have utterly different ideas about what counts as evidence or good argument. At the very least, we must agree about what it is that is being debated before we can debate it. For instance, one cannot have an argument about euthanasia with someone who thinks euthanasia is a musical group. One cannot successfully stage a sit-in if one's target audience simply thinks everyone is resting or if those doing the sitting have no complaints. Nor can one demonstrate resistance to a policy if no one knows that it is a policy. In other words, contest is meaningless if there is a lack of agreement or communication about what is being contested. Resisters, demonstrators, and debaters must have some shared ideas about the subject and/or the terms of their disagreements. The participants and the target of a sit-in must share an understanding of the complaint at hand. And a demonstrator's audience must know what is being resisted. In short, the contesting of an idea presumes some agreement about what that idea is and how one might go about intelligibly contesting it. In other words, contestation rests on some basic agreement or harmony.</span>

==2NC Framework Cards== 

And, the colon is meaningless --- everything after it is what’s important.
Webster’s Guide to Grammar and Writing, 2000. http://ccc.commnet.edu/grammar/marks/colon.htm.

Use of a colon before a list or an explanation that is preceded by a clause that can stand by itself. Think of the colon as a gate, inviting one to go on… If the introductory phrase preceding the colon is very brief and the clause following the colon represents the real business of the sentence, begin the clause after the colon with a capital letter.

Federal means relating to the national government of the United States
Black’s Law Dictionary, 1999

federal, adj. Of or relating to a system of associated governments with a vertical division of governments into national and regional components having different responsibilities; esp., of or relating to the national government of the United States.

2. Common framework is a prerequisite to meaningful debate.
Douglas Ehniger, 1970. Professor of Speech at University of Iowa, Speech Monographs. “Argument as Method: Its Nature, Its Limitation and Its Uses,” Volume 37, p. 108.

If two friends differ on whether they will gain grater satisfaction from dining at Restaurant A or Restaurant B, because the causes are simple and immediate, the common end at which they aim -- that of maximum enjoyment -- will exhibit like qualities. When, on the other hand, as in a dispute concerning political persuasions or social philosophies, the causes are broad and complex, the end aimed at may be remote or abstract. Always, however, some agreed upon end or goal must be present to define and delimit the evaluative ground within which the interchange is to proceed. When such round is lacking, argument itself, let alone any hope of resolution or agreement, becomes impossible. The absence of a commonly accepted aim or value is what lies at the root of many of the breakdowns that occur, for example, in negotiations between the Communist and Western nations, and what accounts for the well known futility of most disputes on matters of politics or religion. When disputants hold different values their claims pass without touching, just as they pass when different subjects are being discussed. What one party says simply is evaluatively irrelevant to the position of the other.

b. Testing ideas acts as a system of peer review preventing adoption of dangerous and unsupported claims --- this ensures the value of research.
David Murray et al., 2001. Director of the Statistical Assessment Service and Adjunct Professor at Georgetown, Joel Schwartz, Senior Adjunct Fellow at the Hudson Institute, and S. Robert Lichter, President of the Center for Media and Public Affairs. “It Ain’t Necessarily So: How Media Make and Unmake the Scientific Picture of Reality,” p. 148-149.

There is much truth to the claim that peer-reviewed research is legitimate research. As we will see, the presence or absence of peer review proves important for evaluating the quality of the research in all five of the cases that we introduced above. Why is peer review often thought to indicate if not guarantee reliability? In science as in law, the argument goes, people shouldn’t be judges in their own cases; it’s important for reasons to be assessed by someone who is both knowledgeable and impartial. Thus one danger is that researchers might knowingly deceive, falsify data to achieve a desired result; but scientific peer reviewers on the lookout for deception presumably deter a lot of it (just as cops walking the beat presumably deter crime). Human error on the part of researchers is far more common than outright deception, though. Researchers can make mistakes that render their conclusions worthless; and even when they conduct their research properly, they are also all too likely to exaggerate its importance. A review by scientists familiar with the subject matter is likely to detect mistakes and to qualify exaggerated claims. Thus peer review is important because it helps determine whether a study's substantive conclusion follows logically from the procedures used to arrive at it and whether the conclusion makes a significant contribution to our knowledge. Finally, science itself is the process through which scientists test one another's theories and evaluate and criticize one another's research. Science is supposed to be cumulative, to comprise a body of knowledge that is logically consistent, testable, and self-corrective. In that sense, peer review is more than a practice adopted by scientists. In a fundamental sense it is science, because only a researcher's peers will have the expertise needed to determine whether a research finding is scientific, in the sense that it adds to our knowledge and is consistent with what is already known. Science, then, consists of claims to knowledge that successfully with-stand criticisms from other scientists. Peer review is thought to provide an imprimatur of sorts because a scientist's claims are more likely to be valid if they've passed muster with competent scientific authorities. In science as in law, an unsupported assertion (or an assertion made by, say, a defendant in his own behalf) is rightly viewed more skeptically than an assertion buttressed by the support of eyewitnesses. In effect, peer reviewers, the judges of science, are also the witnesses who add credibility to the claims made by researchers.

Democracy checks biopolitical coercion and violence.
Dickinson 04 (Edward Ross, Associate Professor of History at the University of California-Davis, “ Biopolitics, Fascism, Democracy: Some Reflections on Our Discourse about "Modernity"”, in Central European History, Vol. 37, No. 1 (2004), pg 32.)
Again, as Peukert pointed out, many advocates of a rights-based welfare structure were open to the idea that "stubborn" cases might be legitimate tar-gets for sterilization; the right to health could easily be redefined as primarily a duty to be healthy, for example. But the difference between a strategy of social management built on the rights of the citizen and a system of racial policy built on the total power of the state is not merely a semantic one; such differences had very profound political implications, and established quite different constraints. The rights-based strategy was actually not very compatible with exclusionary and coercive policies; it relied too heavily on the cooperation of its targets and of armies of volunteers, it was too embedded in a democratic institutional structure and civil society, it lacked powerful legal and institutional instruments of coercion, and its rhetorical structure was too heavily slanted toward inclusion and tolerance.


b. Prevents rigorous testing --- we need to research and isolate weaknesses and problems of the aff.
James Zappen, 2004. Professor of Language and Literature at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. “The Rebirth of Dialogue: Bakhtin, Socrates, and the Rhetorical Tradition,” p. 35-36.

Finally, Bakhtin describes the Socratic dialogue as a carnivalesque debate between opposing points of view, with a ritualistic crownings and decrownings of opponents. I call this Socratic form of debate a contesting of ideas to capture the double meaning of the Socratic debate as both a mutual testing of oneself and others and a contesting or challenging of others' ideas and their lives. Brickhouse and Smith explain that Socrates' testing of ideas and people is a mutual testing not only of others but also of himself: Socrates claims that he has been commanded by the god to examine himself as well as others; he claims that the unexamined life is not worth living; and, since he rarely submits to questioning himself, "it must be that in the process of examining others Socrates regards himself as examining his own life, too." Such a mutual testing of ideas provides the only claim to knowledge that Socrates can have: since neither he nor anyone else knows the real definitions of things, he cannot claim to have any knowledge of his own; since, however, he subjects his beliefs to repeated testing, he can claim to have that limited human knowledge supported by the "inductive evidence" of "previous elenctic examinations." This mutual testing of ideas and people is evident in the Laches and also appears in the Gorgias in Socrates' testing of his own belief that courage is inseparable from the other virtues and in his willingness to submit his belief and indeed his life to the ultimate test of divine judgment, in what Bakhtin calls a dialogue on the threshold. The contesting or challenging of others' ideas and their lives and their ritualistic crowning/decrowning is evident in the Gorgias in Soocrates' successive refutations and humiliations of Gorgias, Polus, and Callicles.

3. We solve the terminal impact to education --- fairness in a debate context through topicality fosters tolerance of alternative viewpoints which solves dogmatism and bigotry in society.
Star Muir, 1993. Professor of Communication at George Mason. “A Defense of the Ethics of Contemporary Debate,” Philosophy and Rhetoric 26.4, p. 291-292.

Firm moral commitment to a value system, however, along with a sense of moral identity, is founded in reflexive assessments of multiple perspectives. Switch-side debate is not simply a matter of speaking persuasively or organizing ideas clearly (although it does involve these), but of understanding and mobilizing arguments to make an effective case. Proponents of debating both sides observe that the debaters should prepare the best possible case they can, given the facts and information available to them.52 This process, at its core, involves critical assessment and evaluation of arguments; it is a process of critical thinking not available with many traditional teaching methods.53 We must progressively learn to recognize how often the concepts of others are discredited by the concepts we use to justify ourselves to ourselves. We must come to see how often our claims are compelling only when expressed in our own egocentric view. We can do this if we learn the art of using concepts without living in them. This is possible only when the intellectual act of stepping outside of our own systems of belief has become second nature, a routine and ordinary responsibility of everyday living. Neither academic schooling nor socialization has yet addressed this moral responsibility,54 but switch-side debating fosters this type of role playing and generates reasoned moral positions based in part on values of tolerance and fairness. Yes, there may be a dangerous sense of competitive pride that comes with successfully advocating a position against one's own views, and there are ex-debaters who excuse their deceptive practices by saying "I'm just doing my job." Ultimately, however, sound convictions are distinguishable from emphatic convictions by a consideration of all sides of a moral stance. Moral education is not a guaranteed formula for rectitude, but the central tendencies of switch-side debate are in line with convictions built on empathic appreciation for alternative points of view and a reasoned assessment of arguments both pro and con. Tolerance, as an alternative to dogmatism, is preferable, not because it invites a relativistic view of the world, but because in a framework of equal access to ideas and equal opportunities for expression, the truth that emerges is more defensible and more justifiable. Morality, an emerging focal point of controversy in late twentieth-century American culture, is fostered rather than hampered by empowering students to form their own moral identity.


2. Turn --- policy debate solves spectator phenomenon and increases education.
Christopher C. Joyner, Spring 1999. Professor of International Law in the Government Department at Georgetown University. 5 ILSA J Int'l & Comp L 377, Lexis.

Use of the debate can be an effective pedagogical tool for education in the social sciences. Debates, like other role-playing simulations, help students understand different perspectives on a policy issue by adopting a perspective as their own. But, unlike other simulation games, debates do not require that a student participate directly in order to realize the benefit of the game. Instead of developing policy alternatives and experiencing the consequences of different choices in a traditional role-playing game, debates present the alternatives and consequences in a formal, rhetorical fashion before a judgmental audience. Having the class audience serve as jury helps each student develop a well-thought-out opinion on the issue by providing contrasting facts and views and enabling audience members to pose challenges to each debating team. These debates ask undergraduate students to examine the international legal implications of various United States foreign policy actions. Their chief tasks are to assess the aims of the policy in question, determine their relevance to United States national interests, ascertain what legal principles are involved, and conclude how the United States policy in question squares with relevant principles of international law. Debate questions are formulated as resolutions, along the lines of: "Resolved: The United States should deny most-favored-nation status to China on human rights grounds;" or "Resolved: The United States should resort to military force to ensure inspection of Iraq's possible nuclear, chemical and biological weapons facilities;" or "Resolved: The United States' invasion of Grenada in 1983 was a lawful use of force;" or "Resolved: The United States should kill Saddam Hussein." In addressing both sides of these legal propositions, the student debaters must consult the vast literature of international law, especially the nearly 100 professional law-school-sponsored international law journals now being published in the United States. This literature furnishes an incredibly rich body of legal analysis that often treats topics affecting United States foreign policy, as well as other more esoteric international legal subjects. Although most of these journals are accessible in good law schools, they are largely unknown to the political science community specializing in international relations, much less to the average undergraduate. By assessing the role of international law in United States foreign policy- making, students realize that United States actions do not always measure up to international legal expectations; that at times, international legal strictures get compromised for the sake of perceived national interests, and that concepts and principles of international law, like domestic law, can be interpreted and twisted in order to justify United States policy in various international circumstances. In this way, the debate format gives students the benefits ascribed to simulations and other action learning techniques, in that it makes them become actively engaged with their subjects, and not be mere passive consumers. Rather than spectators, students become legal advocates, observing, reacting to, and structuring political and legal perceptions to fit the merits of their case. The debate exercises carry several specific educational objectives. First, students on each team must work together to refine a cogent argument that compellingly asserts their legal position on a foreign policy issue confronting the United States. In this way, they gain greater insight into the real-world legal dilemmas faced by policy makers. Second, as they work with other members of their team, they realize the complexities of applying and implementing international law, and the difficulty of bridging the gaps between United States policy and international legal principles, either by reworking the former or creatively reinterpreting the latter. Finally, research for the debates forces students to become familiarized with contemporary issues on the United States foreign policy agenda and the role that international law plays in formulating and executing these policies. 8 The debate thus becomes an excellent vehicle for pushing students beyond stale arguments over principles into the real world of policy analysis, political critique, and legal defense. A debate exercise is particularly suited to an examination of United States foreign policy, which in political science courses is usually studied from a theoretical, often heavily realpolitik perspective. In such courses, international legal considerations are usually given short shrift, if discussed at all. As a result, students may come to believe that international law plays no role in United States foreign policy-making. In fact, serious consideration is usually paid by government officials to international law in the formulation of United States policy, albeit sometimes ex post facto as a justification for policy, rather than as a bona fide prior constraint on consideration of policy options. In addition, lawyers are prominent advisers at many levels of the foreign-policy-making process. Students should appreciate the relevance of international law for past and current US actions, such as the invasion of Grenada or the refusal of the United States to sign the law of the sea treaty and landmines convention, as well as for [*387] hypothetical (though subject to public discussion) United States policy options such as hunting down and arresting war criminals in Bosnia, withdrawing from the United Nations, or assassinating Saddam Hussein.

AT: USFG Bad

a. The vast majority of students thought it was unfair.
Thomas Preston, Summer 2003. Professor of communications at the University of Missouri-St. Louis. “No-topic debating in Parliamentary Debate: Students and Critic Reactions,” http://cas.bethel.edu/dept/comm/npda/journal/vol9no5.pdf.

The study involved forty-three students and nine critics who participated in a parliamentary debate tournament where no topic was assigned for the fourth round debates. True to the idea of openness, no rules regarding the topic were announced; no topic, or written instructions other than time limits and judging instruction, were provided. In this spirit, the participants first provided anecdotal reactions to the no-topic debate, so that the data from this study could emerge from discussion. Second, respondents provided demographic data so that patterns could be compared along three dimensions. These dimensions, the independent variables for the student portion of the study, involved three items: 1) level of debate experience; 2) whether NPDA was the only format of parliamentary debate the students had experienced; and 3) whether students had participated in NDT or CEDA policy debate. Third, the questions were to determine how students rated the debates based on criteria for good debate-educational value, clash, and a fair division of ground. Students were also asked two general questions: whether they would try the no-topic debate again, and whether they liked the no-topic round. These questions constituted the dependent variables for the student study. Because the sample was small, descriptive statistical data were gathered from critics. Taking into account the experience of the critics, additional questions concerning items such as whether no-topic debating deepened discussion. Both students and critics were asked which side they thought the no-topic approach favored, and the students with NDT/ CEDA policy debating experience were asked if a no-topic debating season would be good for policy debate.For the objective items, critics and students were asked to circle a number between 1 and 7 to indicate the strength of reaction to each item (Appendix I and Appendix II). In scoring responses, the most favorable rating received the highest score of seven and the least favorable rating a score of one. In some instances, values that were circled on the sheet were reversed such that the most favorable reaction to that category received the higher score. Frequency distributions and statistics were then tabulated for each question, and the anecdotal remarks were tabulated. For the student empirical data, t-tests were conducted to determine whether overall debate experience, NPDA experience, or policy experience affected how the students reacted to an item. As a test for significance, p was set to less than or equal to .05. Finally, of the 43 responses, 35, or 81.4 per cent, felt that the no-topic debate skewed the outcome of the debate toward one side or the other. Of those responses, 32 (91.4 per cent of those indicating a bias, or 74.4 per cent of all respondents) indicated that the no-topic debate gave an advantage to the Government. Three (8.6 per cent of those indicating a bias, or 7.0 per cent of all respondents) indicated that the no-topic debate gave an advantage to the Opposition.

b. The experiment empirically proves our argument --- people do actually quit debate because of a lack of rules, causing the activity to degenerate into chaos.
Thomas Preston, Summer 2003. Professor of communications at the University of Missouri-St. Louis. “No-topic debating in Parliamentary Debate: Students and Critic Reactions,” http://cas.bethel.edu/dept/comm/npda/journal/vol9no5.pdf.

For the overall student data, each the mean of each item was slightly below 4.0, but mostly, the kurtosis figures were negative, and the standard deviations high, indicating a bipolar response to each question. The frequency tables bear out strong negative reactions, but a number of positive reactions which tended to be less strong. On the one hand, a substantial number of students and critics felt very strongly that the experience was negative, with the mode=l for each item on the survey; however, on others, a substantial number of respondents rated aspects of the experience at 4 and above. The educational value had the highest central tendencies (mean=3.65, median=4.0, and mode=1.0), whereas the question over whether the students liked the experience was the lowest (mean=3.19, median=3.0, mode=1.0). Although there was a weak positive pole to the responses, those who had NDT/CEDA experience strongly opposed the idea of a no-topic year of debating in those organizations (mean=2.77, median =1.00, mode=1.00). cont. Reduced to absurdity, the notion of no rules for a debate tournament would result in chaos, bringing up an infinite regress into whether or not chaos is a good thing! At least on the surface, the results of this particular study would seem to discourage repeating this experiment as conducted for the present study. A number of participants may not want to return to the tournament because of the confusion and perceived lack of educational value. However, an exact representation and t-tests between results could help not only assess the validity and reliability of the instrument, but whether attitudes and perceptions have changed toward no-topic debating. Therefore, whereas Option III may seem to be out of the questions, benefits can still be gained from it in terms of studying the evolution of parliamentary debate form.


1. Fairness is important --- this is a competitive game and people have less incentive to start or stay in the game if it is unfair ---

a. Rules key to harness the educational value of competitive games like intellectual contests --- this accesses the educational value of fun.
Marc Prensky, 2001. Internationally acclaimed speaker, writer, consultant, and designer in the critical areas of education and learning, Founder, CEO and Creative Director of games2train.com, former vice president at the global financial firm Bankers Trust, BA from Oberlin College, an MBA from Harvard Business School with distinction and master's degrees from Middlebury and Yale. “Fun, Play and Games: What Makes Games Engaging,”Digital Game-Based Learning, www.marcprensky.com/writing/Prensky%20-%20Digital%20Game-Based%20Learning-Ch5.pdf.

So fun — in the sense of enjoyment and pleasure — puts us in a relaxed, receptive frame of mind for learning. Play, in addition to providing pleasure, increases our involvement, which also helps us learn. Both “fun” and “play” however, have the disadvantage of being somewhat abstract, unstructured, and hard-to-define concepts. But there exists a more formal and structured way to harness (and unleash) all the power of fun and play in the learning process — the powerful institution of games. Before we look specifically at how we can combine games with learning, let us examine games themselves in some detail. Like fun and play, game is a word of many meanings and implications. How can we define a game? Is there any useful distinction between fun, play and games? What makes games engaging? How do we design them? Games are a subset of both play and fun. In programming jargon they are a “child”, inheriting all the characteristics of the “parents.” They therefore carry both the good and the bad of both terms. Games, as we will see, also have some special qualities, which make them particularly appropriate and well suited for learning. So what is a game? Like play, game, has a wide variety of meanings, some positive, some negative. On the negative side there is mocking and jesting, illegal and shady activity such as a con game, as well as the “fun and games” that we saw earlier. As noted, these can be sources of resistance to Digital Game-Based Learning — “we are not playing games here.” But much of that is semantic. What we are interested in here are the meanings that revolve around the definition of games involving rules, contest, rivalry and struggle. What Makes a Game a Game? Six Structural Factors The Encyclopedia Britannica provides the following diagram of the relation between play and games: 35 PLAY spontaneous play organized play (GAMES) noncompetitive games competitive games (CONTESTS) intellectual contests physical contests (SPORTS) Our goal here is to understand why games engage us, drawing us in often in spite of ourselves. This powerful force stems first from the fact that they are a form of fun and play, and second from what I call the six key structural elements of games: 1. Rules 2. Goals and Objectives 3. Outcomes & Feedback 4. Conflict/Competition/Challenge/Opposition 5. Interaction, and 6. Representation or Story. There are thousands, perhaps millions of different games, but all contain most, if not all, these powerful factors. Those that don’t contain all the factors are still classified as games by many, but can also belong to other subclasses described below. In addition to these structural factors, there are also important design elements that add to engagement and distinguish a really good game from a poor or mediocre one. Let us discuss these six factors in detail and show how and why they lead to such strong engagement. Rules are what differentiate games from other kinds of play. Probably the most basic definition of a game is that it is organized play, that is to say rule-based. If you don’t have rules you have free play, not a game. Why are rules so important to games? Rules impose limits – they force us to take specific paths to reach goals and ensure that all players take the same paths. They put us inside the game world, by letting us know what is in and out of bounds. What spoils a game is not so much the cheater, who accepts the rules but doesn’t play by them (we can deal with him or her) but the nihilist, who denies them altogether. Rules make things both fair and exciting. When the Australians “bent” the rules of the America’s Cup and built a huge boat in 1988, and the Americans found a way to compete with a catamaran, it was still a race — but no longer the same game.

b. Fun is key to education and retention.
Marc Prensky, 2001. Internationally acclaimed speaker, writer, consultant, and designer in the critical areas of education and learning, Founder, CEO and Creative Director of games2train.com, former vice president at the global financial firm Bankers Trust, BA from Oberlin College, an MBA from Harvard Business School with distinction and master's degrees from Middlebury and Yale. “Fun, Play and Games: What Makes Games Engaging,”Digital Game-Based Learning, www.marcprensky.com/writing/Prensky%20-%20Digital%20Game-Based%20Learning-Ch5.pdf.

So what is the relationship between fun and learning? Does having fun help or hurt? Let us look at what some researchers have to say on the subject: “Enjoyment and fun as part of the learning process are important when learning new tools since the learner is relaxed and motivated and therefore more willing to learn.”6 "The role that fun plays with regard to intrinsic motivation in education is twofold. First, intrinsic motivation promotes the desire for recurrence of the experience… Secondly, fun can motivate learners to engage themselves in activities with which they have little or no previous experience." 7 "In simple terms a brain enjoying itself is functioning more efficiently." 8 "When we enjoy learning, we learn better" 9 Fun has also been shown by Datillo & Kleiber, 1993; Hastie, 1994; Middleton, Littlefield & Lehrer, 1992, to increase motivation for learners. 10 It appears then that the principal roles of fun in the learning process are to create relaxation and motivation. Relaxation enables a learner to take things in more easily, and motivation enables them to put forth effort without resentment.
==1NC T Beyond/Real Vs. K Aff== 
A. Interpretation --- “Beyond” means outside the limits of
Collins 9 (Collins English Dictionary Unabridged, “beyond”, http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/beyond)

-- prep
1. at or to a point on the other side of; at or to the further side of: beyond those hills there is a river
2. outside the limits or scope of: beyond this country's jurisdiction

That means activities must occur above 50 miles from the Earth’s surface
WC 11 (Weather Channel – Weather Glossary, “M”, http://www.weather.com/glossary/m.html)

MESOSPHERE
The layer of the atmosphere located between the stratosphere and the ionosphere, where temperatures drop rapidly with increasing height. It extends between 31 and 50 miles (17 to 80 kilometers) above the earth's surface.

==2NC T Beyond/Real Vs. K Aff== 

<span class="Underline">2. Common framework is a prerequisite to meaningful debate.</span>
<span class="Underline">Douglas Ehniger, 1970. Professor of Speech at University of Iowa, Speech Monographs. “Argument as Method: Its Nature, Its Limitation and Its Uses,” Volume 37, p. 108.</span>

<span class="Underline">If two friends differ on whether they will gain grater satisfaction from dining at Restaurant A or Restaurant B, because the causes are simple and immediate, the common end at which they aim -- that of maximum enjoyment -- will exhibit like qualities. When, on the other hand, as in a dispute concerning political persuasions or social philosophies, the causes are broad and complex, the end aimed at may be remote or abstract. Always, however, some agreed upon end or goal must be present to define and delimit the evaluative ground within which the interchange is to proceed. When such round is lacking, argument itself, let alone any hope of resolution or agreement, becomes impossible. The absence of a commonly accepted aim or value is what lies at the root of many of the breakdowns that occur, for example, in negotiations between the Communist and Western nations, and what accounts for the well known futility of most disputes on matters of politics or religion. When disputants hold different values their claims pass without touching, just as they pass when different subjects are being discussed. What one party says simply is evaluatively irrelevant to the position of the other.</span>
<span class="Underline">Must be physical </span>
<span class="Underline">Faith 9- G. Ryan Faith, Adjunct Fellow at the Center for Strategic & International Studies, Washington, DC, “Giving NASA a clear mission,” August 31, 2009, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1456/1, The Space Review</span>
<span class="Underline">If we wish to see NASA act effectively as a space exploration agency, then the most direct way to do this is to amend the Space Act to explicitly task the agency with the job of space exploration. However, before we do so, we must define what space exploration actually is. Space exploration is the expansion of human influence in space. A mandate to explore that isn’t just understood, but is explicitly delineated in policy and law, will give the current and future NASA administrators a powerful leadership tool to restore NASA’s clear sense of purpose and mission. This definition of exploration is inherently one of capacity building. Human influence in space is a measure of our ability to do useful things beyond the Earth’s surface. In order to do something useful, there has to be some sort of human presence, either humans themselves or their robotic proxies. Once some measure of human influence has been established at some destination in space, there are two ways a space exploration agency can expand that influence. One, the agency can decrease the costs and increase the benefits of human influence at a given location until such influence becomes sufficiently useful that it is economically self-sustaining, at which point continued use of agency resources is unnecessary. Alternately, human influence can be extended to some new place that may in future become home to some form of self-supporting human influence. The key element is that such a mandate compels each step to build on past accomplishments and lay the groundwork for future missions.</span>

<span class="Underline">Exploration refers to the government space program – not your personal advocacy</span>
<span class="Underline">Spudis, 10 - Senior Staff Scientist at the Lunar and Planetary Institute in Houston, Texas. He was Deputy Leader of the Science Team for the Department of Defense Clementine mission to the Moon in 1994 and is the Principal Investigator of an imaging radar experiment on the Indian Chandrayaan-1 mission, launched to the Moon in October, 2008 (Paul, “Have We Forgotten What Exploration Means?,” 1/25,</span>
<span class="Underline">http://blogs.airspacemag.com/moon/2010/01/have-we-forgotten-what-exploration-means/)</span>

<span class="Underline">As long as we are navel-gazing during this policy hiatus, I want to examine a topic that many think is self-evident: what activities do we mean by the word “exploration?” NASA describes itself as a space exploration agency; we had the Vision for Space Exploration. The department within the agency developing the new Orion spacecraft and Ares launch vehicle is the Exploration Systems Mission Directorate. So clearly, the term is tightly woven into the fabric of the space program. But exactly what does exploration encompass? Exploration can have very personal meanings, such as your own exploration of a new town, or a new and unknown field of knowledge. Here, I speak of the collective, societal exploration exemplified by our national space program. This exploration began in 1957, when the launch of Sputnik by the Soviet Union initiated a decade-long “space race” of geopolitical dimensions with the United States. That race culminated with our first trips to the Moon. Once its primary geopolitical rationale had been served, Moon exploration was terminated. Since then, the “space program” has been astonishingly unfocused – drifting from a quest to develop a reusable spacecraft to building orbiting space stations – and despite numerous studies affirming needed direction, unfulfilled plans to send humans back to the Moon and eventually on to Mars. When the race to the Moon began 50 years ago, space was considered just another field of exploration, similar to Earth-bound exploration of the oceans, Antarctica, and even more abstract fields such as medical research and technology development. Moreover, many used the term “frontier” when speaking about space, touching a very familiar chord in our national psyche by drawing an analogy with the westward movement in American history. What better way to motivate a nation shaped by the development of the western frontier than by enticing it with the prospect of a new (and boundless) frontier to explore? After all, we are descended from immigrants and explorers. Over time however, few recognized that there had been a shift in the definition and understanding of just what exploration represented. Starting around the turn of the last century, while still retaining its geopolitical context, exploration became closely associated with science. Although first detectable in the 19th Century exploration of America and Africa, the tendency to use science as the rationale for geopolitical exploration reached its acme during the heroic age of polar exploration. Amundsen, Nansen, Cook, Peary, Scott and Shackleton all had personal motivations to spend years of their lives in the polar regions, but all of them cloaked their ego-driven imperatives in the mantle of “scientific research.” After all, the quest for new knowledge sounds much nobler than self-gratification, global power projection or land grabbing. Science has been part of the space program from the beginning and has served as both an activity and a rationale. The more scientists got, the more they wanted. They realized that their access to space depended upon the appropriation of enormous amounts of public money and hence, supported the non-scientific aspects of the space program (although not without some resentment). Because science occurs on the cutting edge of human knowledge, its conflation with exploration is understandable. But originally, exploration was a much broader and richer term. Which brings us back to the analogy with the westward movement in American history and the changed meaning of the word “exploration.” A true frontier has explorers and scientists, but it also has miners, transportation builders, settlers and entrepreneurs. Many are perfectly satisfied to limit space access to only the former. “Exploration without science is tourism.” – Statement of the American Astronomical Society on the Vision for Space Exploration, July 11, 2005 This fatuous quote accurately reflects the elitist, constricted mindset of many in the scientific community. In one fell swoop, the famous explorers of history – Marco Polo, Columbus, Balboa, Drake – are consigned to the category of “tourist.” Overcoming great difficulty and hardship, these men sought new lands for many varied reasons. Exploration includes obtaining new knowledge but it does not end there; it begins there. The quest for new lands has always been a search for new territories, resources, and riches. Historically, survival and wealth creation are stronger drivers of exploration and settlement than curiosity. What is missing from our current program of space exploration is a firm understanding that it must generate wealth, not just consume it. Exploration is more than an experiment. The idea of space as a sanctuary for science has trapped us in an endless loop of building expendable hardware to support science experiments. Once the data are obtained, of what use is an empty booster or a used rover? We’ve “been there” and a pipeline of new inquiry awaits, to be facilitated by new spacecraft and new sensors designed to reach new destinations of study. Hugely expensive equipment must be developed to support science while the idea of creating transportation infrastructure or settlement is branded as “budget busting” (i.e., manned space exploration cuts into science’s budget). So “exploration” lives to enable science, period. This is our current model of space exploration. I contend that it is not exploration as historically understood and practiced. Traditionally, science (knowledge gathering) was a tool in the long process of exploration, which included surveys, mining, infrastructure creation and settlement (all advanced and protected with military assistance). This was the model of national exploration prior to the 20th Century and it is readily applicable today – if we change our business model for space. What is needed is the incremental, cumulative build-up of space faring infrastructure that is both extensible and maintainable, a growing system whose aim is to transport us anywhere we want to go, for whatever reasons we can imagine, with whatever capabilities we may need. These changes do not require that an ever-increasing amount of new money be spent on space. Instead, true exploration requires only the understanding that it must contribute more to society than it consumes. And the American people have every right to expect as much in return for their years of supporting NASA.</span>



<span class="Underline">a. Rules key to harness the educational value of competitive games like intellectual contests --- this accesses the educational value of fun.</span>
<span class="Underline">Marc Prensky, 2001. Internationally acclaimed speaker, writer, consultant, and designer in the critical areas of education and learning, Founder, CEO and Creative Director of games2train.com, former vice president at the global financial firm Bankers Trust, BA from Oberlin College, an MBA from Harvard Business School with distinction and master's degrees from Middlebury and Yale. “Fun, Play and Games: What Makes Games Engaging,”Digital Game-Based Learning, www.marcprensky.com/writing/Prensky%20-%20Digital%20Game-Based%20Learning-Ch5.pdf.</span>

<span class="Underline">So fun — in the sense of enjoyment and pleasure — puts us in a relaxed, receptive frame of mind for learning. Play, in addition to providing pleasure, increases our involvement, which also helps us learn. Both “fun” and “play” however, have the disadvantage of being somewhat abstract, unstructured, and hard-to-define concepts. But there exists a more formal and structured way to harness (and unleash) all the power of fun and play in the learning process — the powerful institution of games. Before we look specifically at how we can combine games with learning, let us examine games themselves in some detail. Like fun and play, game is a word of many meanings and implications. How can we define a game? Is there any useful distinction between fun, play and games? What makes games engaging? How do we design them? Games are a subset of both play and fun. In programming jargon they are a “child”, inheriting all the characteristics of the “parents.” They therefore carry both the good and the bad of both terms. Games, as we will see, also have some special qualities, which make them particularly appropriate and well suited for learning. So what is a game? Like play, game, has a wide variety of meanings, some positive, some negative. On the negative side there is mocking and jesting, illegal and shady activity such as a con game, as well as the “fun and games” that we saw earlier. As noted, these can be sources of resistance to Digital Game-Based Learning — “we are not playing games here.” But much of that is semantic. What we are interested in here are the meanings that revolve around the definition of games involving rules, contest, rivalry and struggle. What Makes a Game a Game? Six Structural Factors The Encyclopedia Britannica provides the following diagram of the relation between play and games: 35 PLAY spontaneous play organized play (GAMES) noncompetitive games competitive games (CONTESTS) intellectual contests physical contests (SPORTS) Our goal here is to understand why games engage us, drawing us in often in spite of ourselves. This powerful force stems first from the fact that they are a form of fun and play, and second from what I call the six key structural elements of games: 1. Rules 2. Goals and Objectives 3. Outcomes & Feedback 4. Conflict/Competition/Challenge/Opposition 5. Interaction, and 6. Representation or Story. There are thousands, perhaps millions of different games, but all contain most, if not all, these powerful factors. Those that don’t contain all the factors are still classified as games by many, but can also belong to other subclasses described below. In addition to these structural factors, there are also important design elements that add to engagement and distinguish a really good game from a poor or mediocre one. Let us discuss these six factors in detail and show how and why they lead to such strong engagement. Rules are what differentiate games from other kinds of play. Probably the most basic definition of a game is that it is organized play, that is to say rule-based. If you don’t have rules you have free play, not a game. Why are rules so important to games? Rules impose limits – they force us to take specific paths to reach goals and ensure that all players take the same paths. They put us inside the game world, by letting us know what is in and out of bounds. What spoils a game is not so much the cheater, who accepts the rules but doesn’t play by them (we can deal with him or her) but the nihilist, who denies them altogether. Rules make things both fair and exciting. When the Australians “bent” the rules of the America’s Cup and built a huge boat in 1988, and the Americans found a way to compete with a catamaran, it was still a race — but no longer the same game. </span>

<span class="Underline">b. Fun is key to education and retention.</span>
<span class="Underline">Marc Prensky, 2001. Internationally acclaimed speaker, writer, consultant, and designer in the critical areas of education and learning, Founder, CEO and Creative Director of games2train.com, former vice president at the global financial firm Bankers Trust, BA from Oberlin College, an MBA from Harvard Business School with distinction and master's degrees from Middlebury and Yale. “Fun, Play and Games: What Makes Games Engaging,”Digital Game-Based Learning, www.marcprensky.com/writing/Prensky%20-%20Digital%20Game-Based%20Learning-Ch5.pdf.</span>

<span class="Underline">So what is the relationship between fun and learning? Does having fun help or hurt? Let us look at what some researchers have to say on the subject: “Enjoyment and fun as part of the learning process are important when learning new tools since the learner is relaxed and motivated and therefore more willing to learn.”6 "The role that fun plays with regard to intrinsic motivation in education is twofold. First, intrinsic motivation promotes the desire for recurrence of the experience… Secondly, fun can motivate learners to engage themselves in activities with which they have little or no previous experience." 7 "In simple terms a brain enjoying itself is functioning more efficiently." 8 "When we enjoy learning, we learn better" 9 Fun has also been shown by Datillo & Kleiber, 1993; Hastie, 1994; Middleton, Littlefield & Lehrer, 1992, to increase motivation for learners. 10 It appears then that the principal roles of fun in the learning process are to create relaxation and motivation. Relaxation enables a learner to take things in more easily, and motivation enables them to put forth effort without resentment. </span>



<span class="Underline">2. Fairness is key to preserve the educational value of debate ---</span>

<span class="Underline">a. Unpredictability causes shallow and generic debates --- these are less valuable than strategies tailored to specific affirmatives.</span>

<span class="Underline">b. Prevents rigorous testing --- we need to research and isolate weaknesses and problems of the aff.</span>
<span class="Underline">James Zappen, 2004. Professor of Language and Literature at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. “The Rebirth of Dialogue: Bakhtin, Socrates, and the Rhetorical Tradition,” p. 35-36.</span>

<span class="Underline">Finally, Bakhtin describes the Socratic dialogue as a carnivalesque debate between opposing points of view, with a ritualistic crownings and decrownings of opponents. I call this Socratic form of debate a contesting of ideas to capture the double meaning of the Socratic debate as both a mutual testing of oneself and others and a contesting or challenging of others' ideas and their lives. Brickhouse and Smith explain that Socrates' testing of ideas and people is a mutual testing not only of others but also of himself: Socrates claims that he has been commanded by the god to examine himself as well as others; he claims that the unexamined life is not worth living; and, since he rarely submits to questioning himself, "it must be that in the process of examining others Socrates regards himself as examining his own life, too." Such a mutual testing of ideas provides the only claim to knowledge that Socrates can have: since neither he nor anyone else knows the real definitions of things, he cannot claim to have any knowledge of his own; since, however, he subjects his beliefs to repeated testing, he can claim to have that limited human knowledge supported by the "inductive evidence" of "previous elenctic examinations." This mutual testing of ideas and people is evident in the Laches and also appears in the Gorgias in Socrates' testing of his own belief that courage is inseparable from the other virtues and in his willingness to submit his belief and indeed his life to the ultimate test of divine judgment, in what Bakhtin calls a dialogue on the threshold. The contesting or challenging of others' ideas and their lives and their ritualistic crowning/decrowning is evident in the Gorgias in Soocrates' successive refutations and humiliations of Gorgias, Polus, and Callicles. </span>

<span class="Underline">3. We solve the terminal impact to education --- fairness in a debate context through topicality fosters tolerance of alternative viewpoints which solves dogmatism and bigotry in society.</span>
<span class="Underline">Star Muir, 1993. Professor of Communication at George Mason. “A Defense of the Ethics of Contemporary Debate,” Philosophy and Rhetoric 26.4, p. 291-292.</span>

<span class="Underline">Firm moral commitment to a value system, however, along with a sense of moral identity, is founded in reflexive assessments of multiple perspectives. Switch-side debate is not simply a matter of speaking persuasively or organizing ideas clearly (although it does involve these), but of understanding and mobilizing arguments to make an effective case. Proponents of debating both sides observe that the debaters should prepare the best possible case they can, given the facts and information available to them.52 This process, at its core, involves critical assessment and evaluation of arguments; it is a process of critical thinking not available with many traditional teaching methods.53 We must progressively learn to recognize how often the concepts of others are discredited by the concepts we use to justify ourselves to ourselves. We must come to see how often our claims are compelling only when expressed in our own egocentric view. We can do this if we learn the art of using concepts without living in them. This is possible only when the intellectual act of stepping outside of our own systems of belief has become second nature, a routine and ordinary responsibility of everyday living. Neither academic schooling nor socialization has yet addressed this moral responsibility,54 but switch-side debating fosters this type of role playing and generates reasoned moral positions based in part on values of tolerance and fairness. Yes, there may be a dangerous sense of competitive pride that comes with successfully advocating a position against one's own views, and there are ex-debaters who excuse their deceptive practices by saying "I'm just doing my job." Ultimately, however, sound convictions are distinguishable from emphatic convictions by a consideration of all sides of a moral stance. Moral education is not a guaranteed formula for rectitude, but the central tendencies of switch-side debate are in line with convictions built on empathic appreciation for alternative points of view and a reasoned assessment of arguments both pro and con. Tolerance, as an alternative to dogmatism, is preferable, not because it invites a relativistic view of the world, but because in a framework of equal access to ideas and equal opportunities for expression, the truth that emerges is more defensible and more justifiable. Morality, an emerging focal point of controversy in late twentieth-century American culture, is fostered rather than hampered by empowering students to form their own moral identity.</span>


<span class="Underline">a. The vast majority of students thought it was unfair.</span>
<span class="Underline">Thomas Preston, Summer 2003. Professor of communications at the University of Missouri-St. Louis. “No-topic debating in Parliamentary Debate: Students and Critic Reactions,” http://cas.bethel.edu/dept/comm/npda/journal/vol9no5.pdf.</span>

<span class="Underline">The study involved forty-three students and nine critics who participated in a parliamentary debate tournament where no topic was assigned for the fourth round debates. True to the idea of openness, no rules regarding the topic were announced; no topic, or written instructions other than time limits and judging instruction, were provided. In this spirit, the participants first provided anecdotal reactions to the no-topic debate, so that the data from this study could emerge from discussion. Second, respondents provided demographic data so that patterns could be compared along three dimensions. These dimensions, the independent variables for the student portion of the study, involved three items: 1) level of debate experience; 2) whether NPDA was the only format of parliamentary debate the students had experienced; and 3) whether students had participated in NDT or CEDA policy debate. Third, the questions were to determine how students rated the debates based on criteria for good debate-educational value, clash, and a fair division of ground. Students were also asked two general questions: whether they would try the no-topic debate again, and whether they liked the no-topic round. These questions constituted the dependent variables for the student study. Because the sample was small, descriptive statistical data were gathered from critics. Taking into account the experience of the critics, additional questions concerning items such as whether no-topic debating deepened discussion. Both students and critics were asked which side they thought the no-topic approach favored, and the students with NDT/ CEDA policy debating experience were asked if a no-topic debating season would be good for policy debate.For the objective items, critics and students were asked to circle a number between 1 and 7 to indicate the strength of reaction to each item (Appendix I and Appendix II). In scoring responses, the most favorable rating received the highest score of seven and the least favorable rating a score of one. In some instances, values that were circled on the sheet were reversed such that the most favorable reaction to that category received the higher score. Frequency distributions and statistics were then tabulated for each question, and the anecdotal remarks were tabulated. For the student empirical data, t-tests were conducted to determine whether overall debate experience, NPDA experience, or policy experience affected how the students reacted to an item. As a test for significance, p was set to less than or equal to .05. Finally, of the 43 responses, 35, or 81.4 per cent, felt that the no-topic debate skewed the outcome of the debate toward one side or the other. Of those responses, 32 (91.4 per cent of those indicating a bias, or 74.4 per cent of all respondents) indicated that the no-topic debate gave an advantage to the Government. Three (8.6 per cent of those indicating a bias, or 7.0 per cent of all respondents) indicated that the no-topic debate gave an advantage to the Opposition. </span>

<span class="Underline">b. The experiment empirically proves our argument --- people do actually quit debate because of a lack of rules, causing the activity to degenerate into chaos.</span>
<span class="Underline">Thomas Preston, Summer 2003. Professor of communications at the University of Missouri-St. Louis. “No-topic debating in Parliamentary Debate: Students and Critic Reactions,” http://cas.bethel.edu/dept/comm/npda/journal/vol9no5.pdf.</span>

<span class="Underline">For the overall student data, each the mean of each item was slightly below 4.0, but mostly, the kurtosis figures were negative, and the standard deviations high, indicating a bipolar response to each question. The frequency tables bear out strong negative reactions, but a number of positive reactions which tended to be less strong. On the one hand, a substantial number of students and critics felt very strongly that the experience was negative, with the mode=l for each item on the survey; however, on others, a substantial number of respondents rated aspects of the experience at 4 and above. The educational value had the highest central tendencies (mean=3.65, median=4.0, and mode=1.0), whereas the question over whether the students liked the experience was the lowest (mean=3.19, median=3.0, mode=1.0). Although there was a weak positive pole to the responses, those who had NDT/CEDA experience strongly opposed the idea of a no-topic year of debating in those organizations (mean=2.77, median =1.00, mode=1.00). cont. Reduced to absurdity, the notion of no rules for a debate tournament would result in chaos, bringing up an infinite regress into whether or not chaos is a good thing! At least on the surface, the results of this particular study would seem to discourage repeating this experiment as conducted for the present study. A number of participants may not want to return to the tournament because of the confusion and perceived lack of educational value. However, an exact representation and t-tests between results could help not only assess the validity and reliability of the instrument, but whether attitudes and perceptions have changed toward no-topic debating. Therefore, whereas Option III may seem to be out of the questions, benefits can still be gained from it in terms of studying the evolution of parliamentary debate form. </span>

<span class="Underline">We control government predictability – default to this because it is the guide of our research </span>
<span class="Underline">Lester and Robinson 09 –Research Fellow, PHD, Department of Astronomy, College of Natural Sciences at The University of Texas at Austin, and Michael Robinson is an assistant professor of history. His teaching and research fields include the history of exploration, history of American culture and science, and the history of globalization. He received his Ph.D. in the history of science at the University of Wisconsin-Madison (Daniel, and Michael November, “Visions of exploration” Space Policy Volume 25, Issue 4, November 2009, Pages 236-243)</span>

<span class="Underline"> “Exploration” is a word that is intimately associated with discussion of human space flight and national policy statements. For example, the White House laid out “The Vision for Space Exploration” (VSE), as per the National Security Presidential Directive NSPD-31 in January 2004 [1]. This document paved the way for the new Exploration Systems Mission Directorate at NASA as the agency implementer for at least the human space flight part of what was commonly abbreviated as the President's Exploration Initiative. The fundamental goal of this vision is to “advance US scientific, security, and economic interests through a robust space exploration program.” The word “exploration” also permeates the NASA Strategic Plan and budget proposals, as well as Congressional oversight of the agency (see Fig. 1). It appears almost a thousand times in the NASA budget proposal. As expressed in these documents, “exploration” is both a rationale and justification for the task that NASA has been congressionally authorized to perform. It is a key defining term in the agency charter, which identifies “space activities” as those required for the “exploration of space”. </span>


<span class="Underline">b. Testing ideas acts as a system of peer review preventing adoption of dangerous and unsupported claims --- this ensures the value of research.</span>
<span class="Underline">David Murray et al., 2001. Director of the Statistical Assessment Service and Adjunct Professor at Georgetown, Joel Schwartz, Senior Adjunct Fellow at the Hudson Institute, and S. Robert Lichter, President of the Center for Media and Public Affairs. “It Ain’t Necessarily So: How Media Make and Unmake the Scientific Picture of Reality,” p. 148-149.</span>

<span class="Underline">There is much truth to the claim that peer-reviewed research is legitimate research. As we will see, the presence or absence of peer review proves important for evaluating the quality of the research in all five of the cases that we introduced above. Why is peer review often thought to indicate if not guarantee reliability? In science as in law, the argument goes, people shouldn’t be judges in their own cases; it’s important for reasons to be assessed by someone who is both knowledgeable and impartial. Thus one danger is that researchers might knowingly deceive, falsify data to achieve a desired result; but scientific peer reviewers on the lookout for deception presumably deter a lot of it (just as cops walking the beat presumably deter crime). Human error on the part of researchers is far more common than outright deception, though. Researchers can make mistakes that render their conclusions worthless; and even when they conduct their research properly, they are also all too likely to exaggerate its importance. A review by scientists familiar with the subject matter is likely to detect mistakes and to qualify exaggerated claims. Thus peer review is important because it helps determine whether a study's substantive conclusion follows logically from the procedures used to arrive at it and whether the conclusion makes a significant contribution to our knowledge. Finally, science itself is the process through which scientists test one another's theories and evaluate and criticize one another's research. Science is supposed to be cumulative, to comprise a body of knowledge that is logically consistent, testable, and self-corrective. In that sense, peer review is more than a practice adopted by scientists. In a fundamental sense it is science, because only a researcher's peers will have the expertise needed to determine whether a research finding is scientific, in the sense that it adds to our knowledge and is consistent with what is already known. Science, then, consists of claims to knowledge that successfully with-stand criticisms from other scientists. Peer review is thought to provide an imprimatur of sorts because a scientist's claims are more likely to be valid if they've passed muster with competent scientific authorities. In science as in law, an unsupported assertion (or an assertion made by, say, a defendant in his own behalf) is rightly viewed more skeptically than an assertion buttressed by the support of eyewitnesses. In effect, peer reviewers, the judges of science, are also the witnesses who add credibility to the claims made by researchers.</span>


<span class="Underline">b) Overlimiting better than underlimiting </span>
<span class="Underline">Rowland ’84 - (Robert C., Baylor U., “Topic Selection in Debate”, American Forensics in Perspective. Ed. Parson, p. 53-4)</span>
<span class="Underline">The first major problem identified by the work group as relating to topic selection is the decline in participation in the National Debate Tournament (NDT) policy debate. As Boman notes: There is a growing dissatisfaction with academic debate that utilizes a policy proposition. Programs which are oriented toward debating the national policy debate proposition, so-called “NDT” programs, are diminishing in scope and size.4 This decline in policy debate is tied, many in the work group believe, to excessively broad topics. The most obvious characteristic of some recent policy debate topics is extreme breath. A resolution calling for regulation of land use literally and figuratively covers a lot of ground. Naitonal debate topics have not always been so broad. Before the late 1960s the topic often specified a particular policy change.5 The move from narrow to broad topics has had, according to some, the effect of limiting the number of students who participate in policy debate. First, the breadth of the topics has all but destroyed novice debate. Paul Gaske argues that because the stock issues of policy debate are clearly defined, it is superior to value debate as a means of introducing students to the debate process.6 Despite this advantage of policy debate, Gaske belives that NDT debate is not the best vehicle for teaching beginners. The problem is that broad policy topics terrify novice debaters, especially those who lack high school debate experience. They are unable to cope with the breadth of the topic and experience “negophobia,”7 the fear of debating negative. As a consequence, the educational advantages associated with teaching novices through policy debate are lost: “Yet all of these benefits fly out the window as rookies in their formative stage quickly experience humiliation at being caugh without evidence or substantive awareness of the issues that confront them at a tournament.”8 The ultimate result is that fewer novices participate in NDT, thus lessening the educational value of the activity and limiting the number of debaters or eventually participate in more advanced divisions of policy debate. In addition to noting the effect on novices, participants argued that broad topics also discourage experienced debaters from continued participation in policy debate. Here, the claim is that it takes so much times and effort to be competitive on a broad topic that students who are concerned with doing more than just debate are forced out of the activity.9 Gaske notes, that “broad topics discourage participation because of insufficient time to do requisite research.”10 The final effect may be that entire programs either cease functioning or shift to value debate as a way to avoid unreasonable research burdens. Boman supports this point: “It is this expanding necessity of evidence, and thereby research, which has created a competitive imbalance between institutions that participate in academic debate.”11 In this view, it is the competitive imbalance resulting from the use of broad topics that has led some small schools to cancel their programs. </span>

<span class="Underline">c) Broad definitions of space development are unmanageable</span>
<span class="Underline">Weeks, 10 - teaches courses on international relations, space law and outer space development at Webster University and Washington University in St. Louis, and has presented a variety of papers at the International Astronautical Federation Congress and is a member of the International Institute of Space Law (Edyth, “Outer Space Development: Including Everyone in the Process,” 7/9, http://www.e-ir.info/?p=4545)</span>

<span class="Underline">Outer space development studies involves many disciplines including technology, physics, geology, science, engineering, business, law, politics, hotel and restaurant management, space stations, space hotels, life support systems, psychology, sociology, medicine, international law, physiology, chemistry, intergovernmental organizations, institutions and industries, computer science, astronomy, and many more subject areas. Applying problem solving techniques usually involves several fields being integrated. Usually space studies require that students be fluent in several disciplines and this is good practice for interdisciplinary studies. Math, chemistry, science, architecture and other subjects can take on new meanings for students as they are taught to help solve problems related to outer space development. Space has been known to engage and interest students, and it is time to take these possibilities to a place beyond mere fascination and engagement. It is time to take students to a new level – actual meaningful participation in outer space development resulting in tangible careers opportunities.</span>

=Generic Satellite AFF Inherent= 
==1NC== 
<span class="Underline">A. Interpretation - Substantially increase must be measured against a preexisting baseline</span>
<span class="Underline">Markey, 9 – Judge for the Court of Appeals for the State of Michigan (PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN, Plaintiff-Appellee, v ROBERT ALAN McREYNOLDS, Defendant-Appellant. </span>
<span class="Underline">http://coa.courts.mi.gov/documents/OPINIONS/FINAL/COA/20090630_C282582_51_282582.OPN.PDF</span>
<span class="Underline">In MCL 777.37(1)(a), “sadism” is grouped with “torture,” “excessive brutality,” and “conduct designed to substantially increase the fear and anxiety a victim suffered during the offense.” The inclusion of the adjective “excessive” in “excessive brutality” is noteworthy. “Excessive” means going beyond the usual, necessary, or proper limit or degree; characterized by excess.” Random House Webster’s College Dictionary (1997). Thus, “excessive brutality” implies that there may be brutality in the commission of a crime, but the variable is scored for brutality that is “beyond the usual” occurring in the commission of the crime. Similarly, in the phrase, “conduct designed to substantially increase the fear and anxiety a victim suffered during the offense,” the inclusion of the words “substantially increase” is noteworthy. The phrasing implicitly recognizes that there is a baseline level of fear and anxiety a victim suffers during an offense, and the scoring of the variable is appropriate for conduct that is designed to substantially increase that level. This phrasing also suggests that the Legislature intended the scoring to be based on conduct beyond that necessary to commit the offense. The context of the term “sadism” with other terms that contemplate conduct beyond that necessary to commit the offense suggests that the conduct that forms the basis of sadism is conduct that is in addition to that necessary to commit the offense. Thus, “sadism” denotes conduct that exceeds that which is inherent in the commission of the offense.</span>

<span class="Underline">B. 3 violations –</span>
<span class="Underline">1) ORS works now – solves their aff </span>
<span class="Underline">Defense Systems 11/03/11 Terry Costlow (contributing editor) Modularity in satellite design is key to quick response Nov 03, 2011 http://defensesystems.com/articles/2011/11/15/c4isr-1-operationally-responsive-space-initiatives.aspx</span>
<span class="Underline">The Defense Department's efforts to quickly establish networks in any region are extending into space. The Operationally Responsive Space Office (ORS), which has already overseen four launches, is driving changes that shorten development times for satellites. ORS has demonstrated that it can respond quickly when urgent needs are determined by its five partners, DOD and the Army, Air Force, Navy and Marines. Two of the launches, ORS-1 and Tactical Satellite 4, were made this year. With each launch, ORS is fine tuning its quick response processes and technologies. On the technical side, ORS now focuses on using more modular components and improving communications compatibility. “One thing we’ve learned is that we want to focus on being interoperative with the current ground architecture,” said Valerie Skarupa, a spokeswoman at Kirtland Air Force Base, N.M., where ORS has been headquartered since its inception in 2007. “This has to fit into systems that let the warfighters talk and share information.” The trend to standardized modules follows trends seen in computing and telecommunications, where cost and complexity are reduced by using standard interfaces instead of designing these basic elements for every program. In 2010, ORS finalized a contract to design and launch a satellite built around modular buses and platforms. “We’re going to take this concept a step further and fly a modular system,” Skarupa said. When common interfaces are used, modules such as sensors can quickly be commissioned quickly. For example, Goodrich Corp. converted an imager used on unmanned aerial vehicle platforms for use on the ORS-1. Modularity also lets more vendors compete, which should help increase the number of launches even as budgets shrink. “As long as things plug into the standard interfaces, we can use modules from different vendors. Standardization will help us lower costs,” Skarupa said. “When costs come down, volume can go up.” Modularity has always been a mainstay of the design processes. The bus on ORS-1, which was launched earlier this year at a cost of $226.3 million, helped set the stage for the latest project. “The bus we used on ORS-1 was modular, but it is not as modular as the bus currently being designed for the ORS Office’s Modular Space Vehicle Program,” said Brendan Regan, ORS program manager at ATK Aerospace Systems Group. ATK completed the ORS-1 bus in about 17 months, shaving roughly seven months off the typical design cycle. ORS now plans to focus on tactical systems such as TS-4. “We want to complement the capabilities of the strategic systems with low-cost tactical systems,” Skarupa said. “This changes the way we fight, it’s much more adaptable.” ORS will also alter some of its design processes. It has already eliminated mission creep so its projects won’t be delayed by managers who add requirements. The ORS also lets vendors order some complex equipment before conventional design gates are opened, which helps shorten overall program schedules. Suppliers also said when modules have already been used successfully, they can be deployed with fewer tests. It may also be possible to eliminate some redundant testing. Tests are run on components, modules, boxes, systems and on up the line to full vehicle tests. As vendors gain experience in these quick turn designs, program managers can better understand which tests provide value. “We’ve done two of these projects, so we feel we’re ready to look at places where we don’t need redundant testing for every step,” Regan said. </span>

<span class="Underline">2) The SWIFT program will do your aff now </span>
<span class="Underline">DARPA 11 [2012 Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency] Exhibit R-2, RDT&E Budget Item Justification: PB 2012 Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DATE: February 2011 http://www.dtic.mil/descriptivesum/Y2012/DARPA/0603287E_3_PB_2012.pdf</span>
<span class="Underline">Title: Single Wafer Integrated Femto Satellites (SWIFT)*</span>
<span class="Underline">Description: *Formerly Advanced Nano/Micro-Satellite Technology for Tactical Applications The goal of the Single Wafer Integrated Femto Satellites (SWIFT) program is to demonstrate critically needed technologies enabling a very small (nano- and micro-) satellite constellation for persistent tactical military applications. SWIFT will develop, fabricate, and demonstrate fully functional "femtosat" spacecraft (less than 100 grams) which can enable new missions not currently possible with singular monolithic satellites by means of an adaptable hardware architecture and microfabrication technologies. Swarms of femtosats are ideally suited for distributed missions, such as sparse aperture arrays for remote sensing or fly-around inspectors for larger spacecraft. The U.S. Army, U.S. Air Force, intelligence community, and other potential users have identified such small satellites as a potential technical approach for delivering affordable support to the tactical warfighter. By deploying large numbers of very low cost nano-satellites in distributed constellations a persistent effect can be provided to terrestrial forces. Today's technology limits the ability to do this and advances in key areas are needed to make this vision a reality. Specifically, nanosatellites lack sufficient power, communications, propulsion and imaging capacity to address many tactical needs. Key technologies include: deployable communications antennas, crosslink communications, interferometric technologies, small imaging systems, attitude control subsystems, efficient solar electric arrays, efficient maneuver capability, efficient upper stages, and revolutionary manufacturing techniques. The anticipated transition partner is the Air Force.</span>
<span class="Underline">FY 2011 Plans:</span>
<span class="Underline">- Conduct trade study of available technologies and investment opportunities.</span>
<span class="Underline">- Initiate concept design.</span>
<span class="Underline">FY 2012 Plans:</span>
<span class="Underline">- Perform military utility analysis and develop concepts of operation </span>

<span class="Underline">3) SBSS just happened </span>
<span class="Underline">GovWin 1/4 The GovWin News team follows the latest developments for GovWin from Deltek, the network that helps government contractors win new business every day. GovWin Recon is the team’s daily newsletter highlighting federal government contracting news and analysis from around the GovCon world. Get it delivered to your inbox, free! To contact the team or suggest an item for the Recon, send mail to tips@govwin.com. GovWin Recon: Jan. 4, 2012: Panetta to Present Budget Strategy; DOD Cannot Grant Highest LEED Certifications; FAC 2005-55 Added 01/04/2012 DOD Contract Announcements Contract Announcements for January 3, 2012 [Defense.gov] – http://govwin.com/govwin-news_blog/govwin-recon-jan-4-2012/353695</span>
<span class="Underline">Raytheon won Air Force awards of $25.8 million for improvements to the Multi-Spectral Targeting System-B and $14 million for radar operations and maintenance services to ensure the availability of the Cobra Dane's radar facility. The service also gave contract modifications of $25.7 million to L-3 Communications for the Modernized User Equipment completion effort and $23.9 million to Boeing for maintenance and operations services for the Space Based Space Surveillance Block 10 System. </span>

==Defense Systems -- ORS== 

<span style="text-decoration: none;">ORS is key to intelligence and responsiveness</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Pike ’11- one of the world's leading experts on defense, space and intelligence policy, Director of GlobalSecurity.org (John, 7/24/11, Global Security, “LGM-30H Minuteman IV,” http://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/systems/lgm-30_4.htm)</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">In early 2003, AFMC, AFSPC, AFRL, and the Product Center Commanders established an Enterprise Leadership (EL) Long Range Strike (LRS) Task Team (LRS-TT) whose charter is to build roadmaps to describe the integrated development of LRS capabilities/solution options. Task teams uniquely bring together expertise from across enterprises & MAJCOMs to attack horizontal integration issues & produce integrated solutions in response to identified shortfalls. ACC had conducted several studies to research, assess and define LRS options. AFSPC has initiated the Operationally Responsive Space lift (ORS) Analysis of Alternatives (AoA) as part of the drive towards responsive space capabilities. A Prompt Global Strike (PGS) AoA is planned by AFSPC in FY05/06. USSTRATCOM has a newly defined Global Strike mission to provide Global Strike forces/options as a supporting or supported Combatant Commander. The Air Force needs to develop integrated air and space LRS capabilities to present forces for JTF/CC-directed Global Strike missions. LRS solutions must be developed to address shortfalls in current LRS capability. Operationally responsive space enables rapid access to space and power projection, space superiority, and enhanced intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) capabilities.</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">ORS rapid launch capabilities enable to US to develop an effective PGS system</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Doggrell ’06 - senior project engineer with the Aerospace Corporation (Les, 6/22/06, US Air Force, “Air & Space Power Journal,” http://www.freepatentsonline.com/article/Air-Space-Power-Journal/154818021.html) </span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Development of responsive space may in turn enable new concepts. We could use a highly responsive and inexpensive space-launch capability to precisely deliver conventional ordnance anywhere in the world (a Prompt Global Strike system). Low-cost spacecraft could enable space systems to provide direct support to the operational and tactical levels of warfare, as envisioned by the Air Force's concept document on joint war-fighting space. (16) Development of quick-response spacecraft capable of augmenting existing capabilities might allow transition to an expeditionary space forces concept whereby we deploy the full system capability only when needed. Counterspace missions will benefit from improvements to small spacecraft and responsive-launch technologies associated with ORS. Ultimately, technologies that improve the responsiveness of new missions and small spacecraft will transform the way we perform traditional space missions.</span>


==Darpa -- Swift== 


<span style="text-decoration: none;">2012 budget says DARPA will do it </span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Zonwu 11 Intelligent computers, GPS satellites and tiny star in the new budget DARPA Created on March 2, 2011 Zonwu http://it.paperblog.com/computer-intelligenti-gps-stellari-e-satelliti-microscopici-nel-nuovo-bilancio-della-darpa-267348/</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">*Note: This page has been translated by Google translator from Italian to English</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">As happens every year, DARPA has released its budget for 2012, revealing some of the objectives to which the Agency aims. DARPA's budget is a regular event for fans of military technology and research "borderline", and this year it seems that we can feel more satisfied. Here are some of the projects planned: ADEPT - Autonomous Diagnostics and Therapeutics to Enable Prevention ADEPT program, which received $ 25 million investment, wants to create equipment that can diagnose known and unknown threats and prevent chemical-biological, and treat the field in emergency conditions. In other words, DARPA will seek to build a series of portable machines that can detect in real time some chemicals considered as indicators or precursors of the disease . Dialysis-Like Therapeutics The project, which is an understatement to say ambitious, is to create a system to clean the blood of a soldier from any contaminating bacterial sepsis in the case of avoiding injury on the field. The sepsis , substantially un'avvelenamento of blood caused by toxins, it is often the result of an open wound is not treated in time and in an appropriate hospital. The idea behind the project is to build a machine capable of sucking all ' outside of the body of the patient's infected blood, cleanse the body of toxins and enter it again in a process similar to that used by the dialysis machines. Neovision2 The project has received very Neovision2 43.5 million dollars to make "artificial eyes "endowed with human characteristics. The challenge is to provide a vision system of the electronic ability to recognize, categorize and learn the characteristics of a new object in the space of a fraction of a second characteristic of human beings and animals are naturally gifted, but still misses any computer system. Cognitive Computing The Cognitive Computing is a project that many will think of SkyNet: it is a computerized system able to learn, reason, and apply the concepts learned through experience to respond intelligently to new events and unexpected. All of these technologies will lead to a system capable of displaying cooperative behavior, and having the ability to automatically reconfigure and survive (term used in the budget) with little human maintenance activities. XTIM XTIM is a system of detection time and position that uses X-rays emitted by the pulsar to provide independent information and additional to those of GPS. XTIM independently calculates the position using celestial sources, and then send this information on Earth or in space. Single Wafer Integrated Femto Satellites (SWIFT) SWIFT is a program that includes the launch of a cloud of small-sized satellites can provide valuable information for military tactical applications. The satellites , called "femtosat", weigh less than 100 grams, and will serve to provide more accurate and more widely than a single large satellite can do. Visibuilding Visibuilding is a program for the development of a technology that can create a complete map of an entire building using radio waves. The system will be able to create three-dimensional mapping of a building, locate any weapons and personnel within the various rooms of the structure, and track in real time the movement of the occupants. LS3 E 'also provided additional funding for LS3 , BigDog quadruped robot descendant of that will be field tested in 2012. The aim is to increase the operating distance (20 to 40 km) and let it run for a period of 24 hours or more on different terrain. Other interesting projects: Space Surveillance Telescope (SST) Blue Laser for Submarine Laser Communications (SLC) Unmanned / minimally-manned Underwater Vehicle (UMUV) </span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">2. Swift will do swarms of femtosats</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Chung and Hadaegh 11 – S.-J. Chung 1 University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, USA; F. Y. and Hadaegh 11 2 2 Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, USA “Swarms of Femtosats for Synthetic Aperture Applications” http://www.sffmt2011.org/Abstracts%5C7-New%5Csffmt2011Abstract00115.pdf</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">The Silicon Wafer Integrated Femtosatellites (SWIFT) Swarm Project presents a new paradigm-shifting definition of spacecraft technology that can enable flight of swarms of fully capable femtosats. In this definition, “swarm" refers to a collection of 100s to thousands of satellites, while “femtosat" implies a 100-gram class spacecarft. In contrast with prior work such as the Cubesats, or the satellite-on-a-printed circuit board (PCBSat) and the passive silicon-chip spacecraft, the SWIFT represents a fully capable 100-gram satellite built on novel 3-D silicon wafer fabrication and integration techniques. </span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Femtosats are nanosats</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Ziegler ’07 – Major, USAF (Dustin P, “PERSISTENT SPACE SITUATIONAL AWARENESS: DISTRIBUTED REAL-TIME AWARENESS GLOBAL NETWORK IN SPACE (DRAGNETS),” April, http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/cst/bh_ziegler.pdf)</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">In the decades since the space program first began, the United States has become more and more dependent on space across a broad spectrum of military, commercial, and civil applications. That dependence brings with it an inherent vulnerability, and recent evidence of the growing threat, combined with acknowledged gaps that exist in our ability to rapidly characterize and attribute attacks on our satellites results in a compelling need for a robust space situational awareness (SSA) capability. The Distributed Real-time Awareness Global Network in Space (DRAGNETS) is one solution that leverages the trend toward distributed, networked military capabilities that nanotechnology will enable within the next 20 years. The DRAGNETS approach uses distributed constellations of thousands of very small sugar cube-sized “femtosats” to maintain continual cognizance of the space environment. Current and future advances in nanotechnology will lead to substantial miniaturization of satellite functions and allow the Air Force to field flexible, adaptive, and responsive systems as part of an overall SSA architecture. In order to realize the DRAGNETS vision, the Air Force should plan phased investments leading to an operational assessment of a prototype DRAGNETS constellation at a technology readiness level of 7 by 2025. The end result will be a capability that, when integrated with existing ground and space-based SSA assets, provides Combatant Commanders and senior decision makers with the necessary awareness to preserve maximum flexibility in the use of US space capabilities. </span>


==GovWin -- SBSS== 

<span style="text-decoration: none;">SBSS solves your aff.</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Ridout 10 (http://www.huffingtonpost.com/timothy-a-ridout/post_1288_b_785375.html. Space-Monitoring Satellite Will Enhance Global Security. November 18th, 2010. Timothy A. Ridout. A Massachusetts native, Tim Ridout majored in government at Wesleyan University. In May 2011, he received a master's degree in law and diplomacy from the Fletcher School at Tufts University. At Fletcher, he focused on international security studies and US foreign policy.)</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">In September, the United States Air Force launched the first satellite capable of monitoring outer space. Currently, the USAF watches objects in Earth orbit through a ground-based system of radar and optical sensors scattered around the globe. Though this Space Surveillance Network is the best in the world, it is insufficient to ensure the security of the hundreds of satellites that are integral to modern life. When the new Space Based Space Surveillance (SBSS) satellite is operational in about six months, it will be a dramatic improvement. We all depend on satellites, whether or not we know it. From civilian uses such as TV, Internet, banking, GPS, agriculture, and weather forecasting, to military functions such as guiding munitions, operating Predator drones, gathering intelligence, enforcing arms control agreements, and monitoring missile launches, the value of satellites is incalculable. Unfortunately, as Earth orbit becomes crowded and actors proliferate, security threats increase. The anarchy and volatility of outer space are reduced only insofar as we know what is happening there -- a concept known as space situational awareness (SSA). Laws and norms protecting against aggression and harmful negligence are essentially worthless if actions cannot be reliably attributed to guilty parties. Without accurate information, punishment is nearly impossible and its deterrent effect is minimal. Imagine trying to arrest a robber based solely on the description provided by a blind person. Imagine further that all would-be robbers knew beforehand that the only likely witness would be blind. The SBSS satellite gives us eyes. It has a mounted sensor that is capable of pivoting, allowing the camera to focus on different areas of outer space without having to reposition the satellite itself. This enables ground controllers to quickly and frequently shift the area under observation, giving them broad monitoring capabilities without wasting the satellite's valuable fuel. The satellite will be able to track launches, debris, satellites, and other objects without being "encumbered by terrestrial limitations of weather, day-and-night restrictions," said Lt. Col. Robert Erickson, SBSS Space Situational Awareness Squadron commander. "It enables the (Joint Space Operations Center) to collect data when they need it, not when a ground asset may be able to see the target." Simply put, it will give us more and better information. This greater awareness of outer space activity can be used to enhance the effectiveness of international laws and norms, or to provide a deterrent to nefarious activity through the credible threat of retaliation. Both avenues will likely be pursued by international actors. Imagine that an American satellite is destroyed by colliding with another object. In debating how to respond, it would be essential to know whether that object was a "space mine" intentionally placed in the path of the satellite's orbit, or if the object was merely a piece of errant debris, perhaps a spent rocket casing left over from an old Apollo mission. If it could be accurately determined that the object was, in fact, a space mine deployed by a specific country, the United States could publicly denounce the guilty party and seek restitution through appropriate international legal channels, maybe taking the case to the UN Security Council. Alternatively, the United States could retaliate against that party in a way deemed proportionate to the offense committed. Though the latter option is more risky, both would enhance space security in the long run by making known the ever-increasing possibility of being caught and by simultaneously providing assured, predictable punishments for transgressions. Although the United States has the best space-monitoring capabilities, places like China, Europe, and India will inevitably catch up. As their SSA improves, so will outer space security due to more accurate information and more observing parties. Mutual monitoring has been highly effective at enforcing arms control agreements and avoiding nuclear exchanges since the Cold War. At the height of U.S.-Soviet tensions, early-warning systems allowed both sides to detect potential missile launches with enough advanced notice to retaliate, thereby eliminating the incentive to strike first, and reconnaissance satellites enabled each country to verify that the other was meeting its arms control obligations. In general, transparency of capabilities and intent are widely acknowledged to reduce misunderstanding and conflict. Though monitoring outer space presents a greater technical challenge than monitoring Earth, this wisdom still applies. Thus, making space safe and secure for both satellites and space travel will depend largely on enhancing space situational awareness. Ground-based monitoring will continue to play an important role, but space-based surveillance is the way of the future. </span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">500,000 pieces of debris now – only SSA can solve</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Korea Times 10 (“Satellite launched to track space junk”)</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">There are about 500,000 known pieces of space junk orbiting around our planet. Of those, about 21,000 objects are larger than 4 inches (10.1 centimeters) in diameter, and are being tracked by the Department of Defense, as part of the Space Surveillance Network. These are items like spent rocket stages and broken satellites. The U.S. Air Force lit up the night sky above California Saturday with the launch of a new satellite sentinel to keep tabs on other spacecraft and the growing problem of space junk around Earth. The Space-Based Space Surveillance satellite will monitor the orbital environment as part of the U.S. military's evolving Space Surveillance Network. Air Force officials said the rocket reached its intended orbit and deployed the SBSS spacecraft as planned. "This satellite is going to revolutionize the way we track objects in space by not being constrained by weather, the atmosphere or the time of day," Col. J.R. Jordan, vice-commander of the Space Superiority Systems Wing at the U.S. Air Force Space and Missile Systems Center, said during a prelaunch briefing. "This capability will be essential to our space situational awareness architecture for the near future and beyond." The satellite is essential to keep U.S. space assets safer and more secure, as well as "keeping America at the forefront of space," Jordan added. The overall cost of the SBSS program is about $858 million, Air Force officials have said.</span>


==1NC SBR== 



<span class="Underline">Violation – Government doing the plan now </span>

<span class="Underline">Turkish News Wire 11 SAR Satellite Offered by a US-Israeli Team -Micro Spy- Satellite Technology Evolving at RAFAEL | Defense Update Posted on 20. Dec, 2011 by editor in ANALYSIS, ARCHIVE, REGION, SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY, STRATEGY http://turkishcentralnews.com/archives/1697</span>

<span class="Underline">Northrop Grumman Corporation (NYSE:NOC) and Israeli Aerospace Industries (IAI) have teamed to build and launch surveillance satellites carrying an Israeli Synthetic Aperture Radar payload. The US government is seeking operationally responsive capabilities to address the challenge posed by the proliferation of anti-satelite capabilities, particularly in China. “An all-weather, day/night system like this adds an operationally responsive capability to the U.S. inventory that is critically needed… [such an] airborne assets will enable us to hold the high ground on a global scale when dealing with the threats we face today.”’ said Jeff Grant, vice president of Business Development for Northrop Grumman’s Space Technology sector. TECSAR satellite carries a multi-mode X-band radar imaging payload which can provide significant, near-term, day/night and all-weather point and area collection capability to meet the immediate needs of warfighters in theater as well as those of the broader intelligence community. The a space-based radar imaging system will provide an all-weather, day/night imaging capability, offering US military and government users a rapid response, low-risk and affordable access to space. “This new system provides a capability that complements both existing and U.S. military and intelligence community capabilities being developed,” said Alexis Livanos, corporate vice president and president of Northrop Grumman’s Space Technology sector. “When they want to move quickly on any given contingency, users now have an option that offers greatly reduced timelines for deploying tactical satellites at low cost and at very low risk.” </span>



==2NC SBR== 



<span class="Underline">TECSAR does the aff and solves the aff </span>

<span class="Underline">IAI 2/9 ISRAEL AEROSPACE INDUSTRIES' TECSAR SATELLITE WINS "TECHNOLOGIES" GROUP TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATION AWARD Feb 9, 2012 http://www.iai.co.il/32981-43758-en/MediaRoom_News.aspx</span>

<span class="Underline">Israel Aerospace Industries' (IAI) advanced TecSAR satellite, has won the Technological Innovation award at the "Technologies" group annual International Aerospace Conference and Exhibition in Jerusalem. The TecSAR satellite, the first Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) satellite designed by IAI, is an innovative and leading development in its category, integrating technologies from IAI's Missiles Systems & Space group and ELTA Systems Ltd., an IAI group and subsidiary. TecSAR has been producing thousands of high quality images per month since its launch in January 2008, to the users' full satisfaction. TecSAR provides very high resolution images, carrying an inovative SAR payload, which unlike Electro- Optical payloads, is able to provide images even in poor visibility conditions: night, heavy cloudiness, rain, sand storms and even through camouflage nets. With a very low weight of just 300kg, the satellite achieves extremely high mechanical agility. Combining high maneuverability with electronic beam steering antenna, TecSAR offers high-resolution coverage of large areas in mosaic form. TecSAR's unique ground coverage capability provides customers with unprecedented usability and overcomes the limitations of other SAR observation systems. TecSAR provides a very high quality cost-effective solution, with a low launch cost and capability for multiple ground station operations that facilitates multi-user collaboration. The satellite is compatible with commercial usage and is able to orbit in different altitudes/inclinations IAI's Satellite Bus design is versatile and can carry other payloads types of various weights/volume, including an electro - optical telescope. Indeed, a multi-platform configuration that includes an Ofeq electro-optical satellite combined with one other payloads types of various weights/volume, including an electro - optical telescope. Indeed, a multi-platform configuration that includes an Ofeq electro-optical satellite combined with one or more TecSAR satellites may produce optimal results. IAI has been a leader in space technologies for over 30 years, with proven unique abilities in all phases of space programs: from the early stages of analysis and defining the customers' operational needs, throughout all phases of building, integration and launching as well as operating the satellites in space. IAI has an exclusive teaming agreement in place with American defense company Northrop Grumman to provide a responsive, cost-effective, space-based SAR capability to the U.S. government based on IAI's TecSAR multi-mode X-band radar imaging satellite. This agreement is yet another testimony of TecSAR's unique abilities and exceptional quality. </span>



<span class="Underline">That is just one example – status quo is increasing space based radar, early warning and surveillance – laundry list of programs solve</span>

<span class="Underline">Northrop Grumman 12/31 UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 10-K x ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 or ¨ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 For the transition period from to Commission file number 1-16411 NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORPORATION </span>

<span class="Underline">Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance (ISR) Systems – delivers products and services for space satellite applications, airborne and ground based surveillance, multi-sensor processing, analysis, and dissemination for combat units and national agencies both domestically and internationally, providing battlespace awareness, missile defense, and command and control. The division continues to develop advanced space-based radar and electro-optical early warning and surveillance systems for strategic, tactical, and weather operations along with systems for enhancing the discovery, sharing, and exploitation of ISR data. Key products include the Space-Based Infrared System (SBIRS), Defense Meteorological Satellite Program (DMSP), Defense Support Program (DSP), ground processing, exploitation and dissemination systems, the TPS-78/703 family of ground based surveillance radars, and the Multi-role Electronically Scanned Array (MESA) radar.</span>

=CC DA= 
==1NC== 

Command and control high now.
Reuters 1/31 (http://www.trust.org/alertnet/news/us-forces-to-stay-strong-in-europe-despite-cuts-general/, Reuters, Jan 31st 2012)

BERLIN, Jan 31 (Reuters) - The United States will keep a strong force in Germany despite withdrawing two combat brigades soon as it cuts military spending, but some European nations could do more to share the defence burden, the U.S. commander in Europe said on Tuesday. Lieutenant-General Mark Hertling said a smaller but smarter U.S. presence would take a "scalpel" approach rather the "hammer" approach of the past, when Washington kept up to a quarter of a million troops in Europe during the Cold War. Under sweeping cuts announced by the Pentagon this month, the two U.S. heavy infantry brigades, equating to 8,000 soldiers, will be withdrawn from Europe. "We can maintain a significantly strong force, give them better training, better technology, better command and control and better intelligence than we could in the past, when we were using a very large force to go at things with a hammer as opposed to a scalpel," Hertling said at an event in Berlin. The U.S. force in Europe has transformed itself since the Cold War when a quarter of a million soldiers helped to protect the continent from the threat of Soviet attack, down to 40,500 personnel, some of whom are deployed in Afghanistan. Hertling, who has been commanding general of U.S. forces in Europe since March 2011, said some European allies could do more. "I think all you need to do is look at force size, capability, logistics constraints, command and control, opportunities and leadership and the answer would be yes, they could do more in many cases," he said, without saying which countries he had in mind. Some U.S. politicians have criticised the fact that only a few European countries are meeting a NATO requirement to spend at least two percent of gross domestic product on defence. Hertling noted that some states such as Georgia, which has troops serving in Afghanistan, had developed their armies to punch well above their weight. Europe remains a "corridor" to many areas of the world which could pose threats, although the U.S. strategic focus was now more global, he added. (Reporting by Alexandra Hudson; editing by David Stamp)


Integration is bad; turns the case destroys C2
Office of the Under Secretary of Defense 04 (Office of the Under Secretary of Defense For Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics 2004 Washington, D.C. 20301-3140 “Defense Science Board Task Force on Contributions of Space Based Radar to Missile Defense” http://www.acq.osd.mil/dsb/reports/ADA428771.pdf)

Exploiting SBR capabilities to contribute to ballistic missile defense adds significant complexity to the C2 and BM integration task for the SBR system. The added challenges include: Low latency and persistent SMTI and SAR imaging access to monitor ballistic missile installations of interest and to track vehicles of interest moving from such installations. Managing simultaneous demands to include: − Providing continuous AMTI access, during periods and at places of high interest, of known missile launcher locations, − Conducting AMTI search of designated areas, and − Performing other high-priority SBR missions. Adding SBR capabilities for missile defense will place new demands on a number of key functions, e.g., signal processing, software development, communication links, and off-board system updates. An aggressive technology development and transition program would be needed to provide a netted, integrated, computer aided command and control and battle management system.

C2 is the critical internal link to hegemony.
Office of the Assistant Security of Defense 09 (http://dodcio.defense.gov/docs/C2_Implementation_Plan_v1.pdf, DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE COMMAND & CONTROL IMPLEMENTATION PLAN VERSION 1.0 1 October 2009 The Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Networks and Information Integration / DoD Chief Information Officer)

1.2 Applicability and Scope This initial version of the DoD C2 Implementation Plan addresses the period encompassed by the Future Years Defense Program (FYDP) (2010-2015) and beyond the FYDP where appropriate guidance can be discerned. It also identifies near-term activities necessary to support fielding of C2 capabilities in response to urgent warfighting3 needs. Command and control capabilities must support the full range of operations and mission partners at the national, strategic, operational, and tactical levels. They must support all DoD operations including, but not limited to, defense and national leadership 3 Warfighters and warfighting are commonly used terms to broadly describe all members of DoD when they are performing missions across the full range of DoD operations in war and peace. The full range of missions includes homeland defense and domestic civil support activities of the Department of Defense. 2 UNCLASSIFIED UNCLASSIFIED C2 (to include Nuclear C2 and Continuity of Government),4 Homeland Defense-Defense Support of Civil Authorities (HD-DSCA) operations; Strategic Deterrence operations; Major Combat Operations (MCO); Irregular Warfare (IW) operations; Stability, Security, Transition and Reconstruction (SSTR) operations; Comprehensive National Cybersecurity Initiative (CNCI) activities; and Security Cooperation/Building Partnership Capacity support operations.5 While the intended scope of the DoD C2 Implementation Plan is quite broad, as stated above, this initial version of the plan focuses mainly on the specific key actions identified in the DoD C2 Strategic Plan.6 Accordingly, many aspects of C2 are not specifically addressed in this initial version—including many aspects of military tactical C2. Subsequent updates to this plan are expected to address additional issues of importance as they become identified and prioritized by the DoD C2 community. Section 2.5 on assessing risk and Section 4 on management and governance identify ways to facilitate this reassessment and potential broadening of C2 implementation activities on a recurring basis. 1.3 Background The DoD C2 Strategic Plan builds upon the Department’s strategic guidance to provide an executable strategy to manage risk involved with current operations and to allocate resources for DoD C2 investments to enable the Department to maintain a dominant edge globally. That strategic direction and policy guidance was based in part on the comprehensive C2 task and gap analysis contained in the C2 Joint Capabilities Document (JCD).7 The overarching goal is to mature C2 capabilities, centered on leaders highly skilled in the art of command, and ensure they are net-enabled to the appropriate level. Section 2.1 discusses this goal in greater detail. Achieving this goal requires unity of effort by DoD components in implementation planning and execution. Implementation activities and assignment of responsibilities will synchronize the implementation planning of the DoD components. This synchronization will enable the unity of effort necessary for accelerating delivery of C2 capabilities efficiently across the defense enterprise.

This could result in global nuclear conflicts in every region of the world
Kagan, 7 - senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html)

This is a good thing, and it should continue to be a primary goal of American foreign policy to perpetuate this relatively benign international configuration of power. The unipolar order with the United States as the predominant power is unavoidably riddled with flaws and contradictions. It inspires fears and jealousies. The United States is not immune to error, like all other nations, and because of its size and importance in the international system those errors are magnified and take on greater significance than the errors of less powerful nations. Compared to the ideal Kantian international order, in which all the world's powers would be peace-loving equals, conducting themselves wisely, prudently, and in strict obeisance to international law, the unipolar system is both dangerous and unjust. Compared to any plausible alternative in the real world, however, it is relatively stable and less likely to produce a major war between great powers. It is also comparatively benevolent, from a liberal perspective, for it is more conducive to the principles of economic and political liberalism that Americans and many others value. American predominance does not stand in the way of progress toward a better world, therefore. It stands in the way of regression toward a more dangerous world. The choice is not between an American-dominated order and a world that looks like the European Union. The future international order will be shaped by those who have the power to shape it. The leaders of a post-American world will not meet in Brussels but in Beijing, Moscow, and Washington. The return of great powers and great games If the world is marked by the persistence of unipolarity, it is nevertheless also being shaped by the reemergence of competitive national ambitions of the kind that have shaped human affairs from time immemorial. During the Cold War, this historical tendency of great powers to jostle with one another for status and influence as well as for wealth and power was largely suppressed by the two superpowers and their rigid bipolar order. Since the end of the Cold War, the United States has not been powerful enough, and probably could never be powerful enough, to suppress by itself the normal ambitions of nations. This does not mean the world has returned to multipolarity, since none of the large powers is in range of competing with the superpower for global influence. Nevertheless, several large powers are now competing for regional predominance, both with the United States and with each other. National ambition drives China's foreign policy today, and although it is tempered by prudence and the desire to appear as unthreatening as possible to the rest of the world, the Chinese are powerfully motivated to return their nation to what they regard as its traditional position as the preeminent power in East Asia. They do not share a European, postmodern view that power is passé; hence their now two-decades-long military buildup and modernization. Like the Americans, they believe power, including military power, is a good thing to have and that it is better to have more of it than less. Perhaps more significant is the Chinese perception, also shared by Americans, that status and honor, and not just wealth and security, are important for a nation. Japan, meanwhile, which in the past could have been counted as an aspiring postmodern power -- with its pacifist constitution and low defense spending -- now appears embarked on a more traditional national course. Partly this is in reaction to the rising power of China and concerns about North Korea 's nuclear weapons. But it is also driven by Japan's own national ambition to be a leader in East Asia or at least not to play second fiddle or "little brother" to China. China and Japan are now in a competitive quest with each trying to augment its own status and power and to prevent the other 's rise to predominance, and this competition has a military and strategic as well as an economic and political component. Their competition is such that a nation like South Korea, with a long unhappy history as a pawn between the two powers, is once again worrying both about a "greater China" and about the return of Japanese nationalism. As Aaron Friedberg commented, the East Asian future looks more like Europe's past than its present. But it also looks like Asia's past. Russian foreign policy, too, looks more like something from the nineteenth century. It is being driven by a typical, and typically Russian, blend of national resentment and ambition. A postmodern Russia simply seeking integration into the new European order, the Russia of Andrei Kozyrev, would not be troubled by the eastward enlargement of the EU and NATO, would not insist on predominant influence over its "near abroad," and would not use its natural resources as means of gaining geopolitical leverage and enhancing Russia 's international status in an attempt to regain the lost glories of the Soviet empire and Peter the Great. But Russia, like China and Japan, is moved by more traditional great-power considerations, including the pursuit of those valuable if intangible national interests: honor and respect. Although Russian leaders complain about threats to their security from NATO and the United States, the Russian sense of insecurity has more to do with resentment and national identity than with plausible external military threats. 16 Russia's complaint today is not with this or that weapons system. It is the entire post-Cold War settlement of the 1990s that Russia resents and wants to revise. But that does not make insecurity less a factor in Russia 's relations with the world; indeed, it makes finding compromise with the Russians all the more difficult. One could add others to this list of great powers with traditional rather than postmodern aspirations. India 's regional ambitions are more muted, or are focused most intently on Pakistan, but it is clearly engaged in competition with China for dominance in the Indian Ocean and sees itself, correctly, as an emerging great power on the world scene. In the Middle East there is Iran, which mingles religious fervor with a historical sense of superiority and leadership in its region. 17 Its nuclear program is as much about the desire for regional hegemony as about defending Iranian territory from attack by the United States. Even the European Union, in its way, expresses a pan-European national ambition to play a significant role in the world, and it has become the vehicle for channeling German, French, and British ambitions in what Europeans regard as a safe supranational direction. Europeans seek honor and respect, too, but of a postmodern variety. The honor they seek is to occupy the moral high ground in the world, to exercise moral authority, to wield political and economic influence as an antidote to militarism, to be the keeper of the global conscience, and to be recognized and admired by others for playing this role. Islam is not a nation, but many Muslims express a kind of religious nationalism, and the leaders of radical Islam, including al Qaeda, do seek to establish a theocratic nation or confederation of nations that would encompass a wide swath of the Middle East and beyond. Like national movements elsewhere, Islamists have a yearning for respect, including self-respect, and a desire for honor. Their national identity has been molded in defiance against stronger and often oppressive outside powers, and also by memories of ancient superiority over those same powers. China had its "century of humiliation." Islamists have more than a century of humiliation to look back on, a humiliation of which Israel has become the living symbol, which is partly why even Muslims who are neither radical nor fundamentalist proffer their sympathy and even their support to violent extremists who can turn the tables on the dominant liberal West, and particularly on a dominant America which implanted and still feeds the Israeli cancer in their midst. Finally, there is the United States itself. As a matter of national policy stretching back across numerous administrations, Democratic and Republican, liberal and conservative, Americans have insisted on preserving regional predominance in East Asia; the Middle East; the Western Hemisphere; until recently, Europe; and now, increasingly, Central Asia. This was its goal after the Second World War, and since the end of the Cold War, beginning with the first Bush administration and continuing through the Clinton years, the United States did not retract but expanded its influence eastward across Europe and into the Middle East, Central Asia, and the Caucasus. Even as it maintains its position as the predominant global power, it is also engaged in hegemonic competitions in these regions with China in East and Central Asia, with Iran in the Middle East and Central Asia, and with Russia in Eastern Europe, Central Asia, and the Caucasus. The United States, too, is more of a traditional than a postmodern power, and though Americans are loath to acknowledge it, they generally prefer their global place as "No. 1" and are equally loath to relinquish it. Once having entered a region, whether for practical or idealistic reasons, they are remarkably slow to withdraw from it until they believe they have substantially transformed it in their own image. They profess indifference to the world and claim they just want to be left alone even as they seek daily to shape the behavior of billions of people around the globe. The jostling for status and influence among these ambitious nations and would-be nations is a second defining feature of the new post-Cold War international system. Nationalism in all its forms is back, if it ever went away, and so is international competition for power, influence, honor, and status. American predominance prevents these rivalries from intensifying -- its regional as well as its global predominance. Were the United States to diminish its influence in the regions where it is currently the strongest power, the other nations would settle disputes as great and lesser powers have done in the past: sometimes through diplomacy and accommodation but often through confrontation and wars of varying scope, intensity, and destructiveness. One novel aspect of such a multipolar world is that most of these powers would possess nuclear weapons. That could make wars between them less likely, or it could simply make them more catastrophic. It is easy but also dangerous to underestimate the role the United States plays in providing a measure of stability in the world even as it also disrupts stability. For instance, the United States is the dominant naval power everywhere, such that other nations cannot compete with it even in their home waters. They either happily or grudgingly allow the United States Navy to be the guarantor of international waterways and trade routes, of international access to markets and raw materials such as oil. Even when the United States engages in a war, it is able to play its role as guardian of the waterways. In a more genuinely multipolar world, however, it would not. Nations would compete for naval dominance at least in their own regions and possibly beyond. Conflict between nations would involve struggles on the oceans as well as on land. Armed embargos, of the kind used in World War i and other major conflicts, would disrupt trade flows in a way that is now impossible. Such order as exists in the world rests not merely on the goodwill of peoples but on a foundation provided by American power. Even the European Union, that great geopolitical miracle, owes its founding to American power, for without it the European nations after World War ii would never have felt secure enough to reintegrate Germany. Most Europeans recoil at the thought, but even today Europe 's stability depends on the guarantee, however distant and one hopes unnecessary, that the United States could step in to check any dangerous development on the continent. In a genuinely multipolar world, that would not be possible without renewing the danger of world war. People who believe greater equality among nations would be preferable to the present American predominance often succumb to a basic logical fallacy. They believe the order the world enjoys today exists independently of American power. They imagine that in a world where American power was diminished, the aspects of international order that they like would remain in place. But that 's not the way it works. International order does not rest on ideas and institutions. It is shaped by configurations of power. The international order we know today reflects the distribution of power in the world since World War ii, and especially since the end of the Cold War. A different configuration of power, a multipolar world in which the poles were Russia, China, the United States, India, and Europe, would produce its own kind of order, with different rules and norms reflecting the interests of the powerful states that would have a hand in shaping it. Would that international order be an improvement? Perhaps for Beijing and Moscow it would. But it is doubtful that it would suit the tastes of enlightenment liberals in the United States and Europe. The current order, of course, is not only far from perfect but also offers no guarantee against major conflict among the world's great powers. Even under the umbrella of unipolarity, regional conflicts involving the large powers may erupt. War could erupt between China and Taiwan and draw in both the United States and Japan. War could erupt between Russia and Georgia, forcing the United States and its European allies to decide whether to intervene or suffer the consequences of a Russian victory. Conflict between India and Pakistan remains possible, as does conflict between Iran and Israel or other Middle Eastern states. These, too, could draw in other great powers, including the United States. Such conflicts may be unavoidable no matter what policies the United States pursues. But they are more likely to erupt if the United States weakens or withdraws from its positions of regional dominance. This is especially true in East Asia, where most nations agree that a reliable American power has a stabilizing and pacific effect on the region. That is certainly the view of most of China 's neighbors. But even China, which seeks gradually to supplant the United States as the dominant power in the region, faces the dilemma that an American withdrawal could unleash an ambitious, independent, nationalist Japan. In Europe, too, the departure of the United States from the scene -- even if it remained the world's most powerful nation -- could be destabilizing. It could tempt Russia to an even more overbearing and potentially forceful approach to unruly nations on its periphery. Although some realist theorists seem to imagine that the disappearance of the Soviet Union put an end to the possibility of confrontation between Russia and the West, and therefore to the need for a permanent American role in Europe, history suggests that conflicts in Europe involving Russia are possible even without Soviet communism. If the United States withdrew from Europe -- if it adopted what some call a strategy of "offshore balancing" -- this could in time increase the likelihood of conflict involving Russia and its near neighbors, which could in turn draw the United States back in under unfavorable circumstances. It is also optimistic to imagine that a retrenchment of the American position in the Middle East and the assumption of a more passive, "offshore" role would lead to greater stability there. The vital interest the United States has in access to oil and the role it plays in keeping access open to other nations in Europe and Asia make it unlikely that American leaders could or would stand back and hope for the best while the powers in the region battle it out. Nor would a more "even-handed" policy toward Israel, which some see as the magic key to unlocking peace, stability, and comity in the Middle East, obviate the need to come to Israel 's aid if its security became threatened. That commitment, paired with the American commitment to protect strategic oil supplies for most of the world, practically ensures a heavy American military presence in the region, both on the seas and on the ground. The subtraction of American power from any region would not end conflict but would simply change the equation. In the Middle East, competition for influence among powers both inside and outside the region has raged for at least two centuries. The rise of Islamic fundamentalism doesn't change this. It only adds a new and more threatening dimension to the competition, which neither a sudden end to the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians nor an immediate American withdrawal from Iraq would change. The alternative to American predominance in the region is not balance and peace. It is further competition. The region and the states within it remain relatively weak. A diminution of American influence would not be followed by a diminution of other external influences. One could expect deeper involvement by both China and Russia, if only to secure their interests. 18 And one could also expect the more powerful states of the region, particularly Iran, to expand and fill the vacuum. It is doubtful that any American administration would voluntarily take actions that could shift the balance of power in the Middle East further toward Russia, China, or Iran. The world hasn 't changed that much. An American withdrawal from Iraq will not return things to "normal" or to a new kind of stability in the region. It will produce a new instability, one likely to draw the United States back in again. The alternative to American regional predominance in the Middle East and elsewhere is not a new regional stability. In an era of burgeoning nationalism, the future is likely to be one of intensified competition among nations and nationalist movements. Difficult as it may be to extend American predominance into the future, no one should imagine that a reduction of American power or a retraction of American influence and global involvement will provide an easier path.

==2NC Links== 
Planning and prioritization key to C2.
Office of the Assistant Security of Defense 09 (http://dodcio.defense.gov/docs/C2_Implementation_Plan_v1.pdf, DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE COMMAND & CONTROL IMPLEMENTATION PLAN VERSION 1.0 1 October 2009 The Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Networks and Information Integration / DoD Chief Information Officer)

The DoD C2 Implementation Plan delineates planning and execution responsibilities necessary to achieve the Department’s C2 capability objectives and key actions as codified in the DoD C2 Strategic Plan. It also provides guidance for synchronizing C2 implementation activities across the Defense enterprise. The DoD C2 Implementation Plan provides an approach for organizing C2 implementation activities and executing, monitoring, and adjusting those activities, as the Department’s needs and priorities change and new and more effective solutions are identified across the C2 Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education, Personnel, and Facilities (DOTMLPF) spectrum. In addition, the DoD C2 Implementation Plan prescribes management activities, processes, and coordinating mechanisms that will facilitate the integration of C2 implementation activities across the Department’s Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution (PPBE) process; Defense Acquisition System (DAS); and Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS).

More sensing destroys military infrastructure.
Zyskowski, 11 (John, “Navy faces headwinds in critical IT plans,” Federal Computer Week, 6/15,
http://fcw.com/articles/2011/06/20/buzz-navy-it-plans.aspx)

Meanwhile, new capabilities such as UAVs and remote sensors are producing a flood of data and straining the Navy’s IT infrastructure, resulting in a 1,000 percent increase in afloat bandwidth demand, said Dave Weddel, assistant deputy chief of naval operations for information dominance. The challenge is not only to acquire and process that data, but also to share and act on it. None of that will be possible if the underlying infrastructure is not adequately secured. Along those lines, the Navy is preparing to launch initial operations at four new Regional Network Operations and Security Centers that will support the Navy's Fleet Cyber Command. “These [centers] will combine network operations with computer network defense” and will exploit the adversary, predict future attacks and defend networks, said Rear Adm. Edward Deets III, commander of the Naval Network Warfare Command.

=1NC JWST (Science Diplomacy)= 
JWST will be funded now but cuts still possible
Miller 3/5 Astronomer: Shoot for the stars Robert Miller Updated 02:44 p.m., Monday, March 5, 2012 Read more: http://www.newstimes.com/news/article/Astronomer-Shoot-for-the-stars-3380793.php#ixzz1oYC4Xw3N
Her work with AURA involves not only working with astronomers but with government officials and members of Congress, who must approve the $8 billion needed to launch the Webb telescope. President Barack Obama's proposed federal budget includes full funding for the project, but the threats to cut it still lurk in the halls of Congress. But Hammel said Saturday that she believes science will carry the day. "What are the chances of the Webb being launched?'' she said, "100 percent.''

Tradeoffs happen with JWST – assumes current environment
Atkinson 3/20 Can NASA’s Planetary Science Budget Be Saved? by NANCY ATKINSON on MARCH 20, 2012
“I wish I had a good succinct answer that this was punitive for overruns on the Mars Science Lab or JWST (James Webb Space Telescope), but this is not a Pavlovian system,” said Grunsfeld. “It comes down to tough trades: do we cut across the board, or do we pick some area? Sadly, it was decided that planetary science was the area.” President Obama’s proposed FY 2013 budget would eliminate $300 million from the agency’s Planetary Sciences Division, a 21% cut from the $1.5 billion it received for 2012. “We essentially lost the ability to create new missions,” Grunsfeld said.

And cancelling the James Webb will undermine scientific cooperation
Borowitz, 11 – Research Analyst and the Space Foundation, the Space Foundation has become one of the world's premier nonprofit organizations supporting space activities [July, 2011, Mariel John Borowitz, “The James Webb Space Telescope A Worthy Investment in Space Science,” http://www.aura-astronomy.org/news/2011/James_Webb_Space_Telescope_-_A_Worthy_Investment.pdf]
JWST is being developed in international partnership with the European Space Agency (ESA) and the Canadian Space Agency. Unilaterally canceling this program, especially so close to completion, will significantly undermine our relationships with key allies on both sides of the Atlantic. The European Space Agency and the Canadian Space Agency have been collaborating with NASA on the design and construction of JWST since 1996 and officially became partners in 2003. Europe is providing one of the four major scientific instruments for the telescope and a portion of a second instrument. It is also providing the launch on an Ariane 5 launch vehicle and will provide manpower to support JWST operations. In return, ESA is counting on access to the observatory for its astronomers, including at least 15 percent of the total observing time, similar to the current arrangement with Hubble. 13 Canada is also designing and building one of the four scientific instrument packages. Canadian astronomers are expecting at least 5 percent of the telescope’s observation time for astronomical research. 14 Both partners have already invested time and money in developing their portion of the instruments. As we attempt to increase our knowledge about the universe, we require increasingly complex systems. To build and operate these systems, international partnerships are becoming more and more important. Unilaterally canceling JWST would send a disheartening message to existing and potential partners and allies, and damage to U.S. credibility would likely make future joint endeavors much more problematic.

Science coop solves extinction
The Royal Society, 10 – a Fellowship of more than 1400 outstanding individuals from all areas of science, mathematics, engineering and medicine, who form a global scientific network of the highest calibre. The Fellowship is supported by over 130 permanent staff with responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Society and its activities. [January, 2010, “New frontiers in science diplomacy”]
Cooperation on the scientific aspects of sensitive issues may sometimes be the only way to initiate a wider political dialogue. The soft power of science, and the universality of scientific methods, can be used to diffuse tensions even in ‘hard power’ scenarios, such as those relating to traditional military threats. For example, technologies to verify nuclear arms control agreements were a rare focus of joint working between the US and USSR during the Cold War. Lessons from the Cold War are once again highly pertinent. In the run-up to the May 2010 Review Conference of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT), nuclear disarmament is firmly back on the international agenda. However, the timescale for disarmament is long, as illustrated by the history of negotiations over the Chemical Weapons Convention. After the Geneva Convention banned the use of chemical weapons in 1925, negotiations for a treaty banning their production and stockpiling did not start until the 1980s, and the convention entered into force only in 1997. Even now, stockpiles of chemical weapons in the US and Russia have yet to be destroyed. So focusing in 2010 on the challenges of the final stages of a nuclear disarmament process may be premature. A more practical next step could be to establish the scientific requirements for the verification regime necessary to support future stages of negotiation (Pregenzer 2008). In 2008, the Norwegian Minister of Foreign Affairs suggested that a high-level Intergovernmental Panel on Nuclear Disarmament could be established (based on the model of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change). This panel could begin by identifying the scientific and technical aspects of disarmament, and then set out a research agenda necessary to achieve them. International cooperation would be essential, both between nuclear and non-nuclear weapon states, as all would need to have confidence that reductions are taking place. The recent initiative between the UK and Norwegian governments on disarmament verifi cation sets a precedent here, and could be expanded to include additional States (VERTIC 2009). However, security threats now extend beyond the military domain, with environmental security attracting particular attention (Abbott C, Rogers P & Sloboda S 2007). Essential resources, such as freshwater, cultivable land, crop yields and fish stocks, are likely to become scarcer in many parts of the world, increasing the risk of competition over resources within and between states (UNEP 2009). This could intensify as previously inaccessible regions, such as the Arctic Ocean, open up as a consequence of climate change and ice melt. Substantial parts of the world also risk being left uninhabitable by rising sea levels, reduced freshwater availability or declining agricultural capacity. Many of the regions that are vulnerable to the impacts of these multiple stresses are already the locus of existing instability and conflict (see Figure 2). 5 Conclusions The main conclusions to emerge from the discussions at the Royal Society/AAAS meeting were as follows: 5.1 The three dimensions of science diplomacy The concept of science diplomacy is gaining increasing currency in the US, UK, Japan and elsewhere. It is still a fl uid concept, but can usefully be applied to the role of science, technology and innovation in three related areas: • informing foreign policy objectives with scientifi c advice (science in diplomacy); • facilitating international science cooperation (diplomacy for science); • using science cooperation to improve international relations between countries (science for diplomacy). 5.2 Science and universal values Scientific values of rationality, transparency and universality are the same the world over. They can help to underpin good governance and build trust between nations. Science provides a non-ideological environment for the participation and free exchange of ideas between people, regardless of cultural, national or religious backgrounds. 5.3 The soft power of science Science is a source of what Joseph Nye terms ‘soft power’ (Nye 2004). The scientific community often works beyond national boundaries on problems of common interest, so is well placed to support emerging forms of diplomacy that require non-traditional alliances of nations, sectors and non-governmental organisations. If aligned with wider foreign policy goals, these channels of scientific exchange can contribute to coalition building and conflict resolution. Cooperation on the scientific aspects of sensitive issues—such as nuclear nonproliferation—can sometimes provide an effective route to other forms of political dialogue. Similarly the potential of science as an arena for building trust and understanding between countries is gaining traction, particularly in the Middle East and wider Islamic world (see Case study 1). 5.4 Motivations for science diplomacy Science diplomacy seeks to strengthen the symbiosis between the interests and motivations of the scientific and foreign policy communities. For the former, international cooperation is often driven by a desire to access the best people, research facilities or new sources of funding. For the latter, science offers useful networks and channels of communication that can be used to support wider policy goals. Foreign ministries should place greater emphasis on science within their strategies, and draw more extensively on scientific advice in the formation and delivery of policy objectives. In the UK, the appointment of Professor David Clary FRS as the Chief Scientific Adviser at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office creates an important opportunity to integrate science across FCO priorities, and develop stronger linkages with science-related policies in other government departments. Mechanisms to help achieve this could include: • ensuring messages about the value of science are promulgated throughout foreign ministries and embassies, including to all Heads of Mission; • incorporating science policy training into induction courses and training for foreign ministry staff, and specialist diplomatic training for dedicated science officers; • involving more scientists in foreign ministries to advise at senior and strategic levels; • encouraging the recruitment of science graduates as part of the general intake to the foreign service; • encouraging secondments and pairing between diplomats and scientists; • encouraging independent scientific bodies to provide science policy briefi ngs for foreign ministry and embassy staff.
==2NC – Link Wall LSP== 

Planetary science and JWST funding are zero sum
Wall 2/9 Big NASA Budget Cuts to Slash Mars Missions, Experts Say by Mike Wall, SPACE.com Senior WriterDate: 09 February 2012 Time: 07:02 PM ET http://www.space.com/14531-nasa-mars-missions-budget-cuts-2013.html
Logsdon said he expects NASA's overall budget for fiscal 2013 — which runs from Oct. 1, 2012, to Sept. 30, 2013 — will be roughly similar to the agency's funding for the current year. NASA received $17.8 billion in the current fiscal year, or about 0.5 percent of the federal budget. However, the scuttlebutt in the space science community suggests NASA's planetary science program will suffer serious cuts, Logsdon added. The journal Science's ScienceInsider publication reported Thursday (Feb. 9) that Obama's budget request will allocate $1.2 billion to the program, compared with the $1.5 billion that planetary science received in fiscal year 2012. The 20 percent cut would make it tougher for the space agency to tackle ambitious exploration projects, including ExoMars. This state of affairs helped persuade Ed Weiler to tender his resignation as chief of NASA's science mission directorate last September, ScienceInsider reported. "The Mars program is one of the crown jewels of NASA," Weiler told ScienceInsider. "In what irrational Homer Simpson world would we single it out for disproportionate cuts?" Logsdon and other experts say planetary science is probably being slashed in part to help pay for the James Webb Space Telescope. That muscular successor to NASA's Hubble Space Telescope has suffered repeated delays and cost overruns over the years.

More evidence – only we assume the current environment
Winter 2/9 Scientists: NASA budget will cut Mars missions Comments By Michael Winter, USA TODAY http://content.usatoday.com/communities/ondeadline/post/2012/02/scientists-nasa-budget-will-cut-mars-missions/1
Red ink is forcing NASA to cut exploratory missions to the Red Planet, scientists are saying ahead of Monday's release of the next budget. Although NASA's overall budget is expected to remain near its current $17.8 billion, planetary exploration will be scaled back in fiscal 2013, with deep cuts coming to Mars missions, including two joint efforts with the European Space Agency, scientists briefed about the budget have told news organizations. President Obama will propose reducing NASA funding for planetary science by 20%, from $1.5 billion this fiscal year to $1.2 billion next year, The Washington Post says. The cutting continues through 2017. The proposed cuts prompted the head of NASA's science program to quit in September. "The Mars program is one of the crown jewels of NASA," Edward Weiler told Science Magazine today. "In what irrational, Homer Simpson world would we single it out for disproportionate cuts?" Experts told Space.com the planetary science cuts are probably designed to help pay for the James Webb Space Telescope, which will replace the Hubble. Delayed and over budget, the Webb's final cost is projected at $8.8 billion by the time it's launched -- 2018 at the earliest.

Return to moon and mars would cost a lot
Clements 9 – lecturer in astrophysics at Imperial College London (David, November, “Human Spaceflight: Science or Spectacle?”, Physics World Archive) WSX

Scientific space missions and human spaceflight take place on very different scales. Apollo is estimated to have cost about $25bn at 1969 prices, equivalent to $145bn at today’s prices. The plan to return astronauts to the Moon is currently estimated to cost $97bn, though there are likely to be over-runs beyond this, and a crewed mission to Mars is expected to cost several times more. The cost of Apollo alone is comparable to the combined cost of all robotic space missions since we left the Moon. If science were the primary goal of these successors to Apollo, then it could be done cheaper, better and faster without a human crew.

Budgets are flat – tradeoffs happen in the context of JWST
Rincon 3/20 Nasa science chief 'fighting' for planetary research By Paul Rincon Science editor, BBC News website, The Woodlands, Texas
Dr Mark Sykes, director of the Planetary Science Institute in Tucson, pressed Mr Grunsfeld on the James Webb Space Telescope (JWST). The mission comes under a different budget at Nasa and represents the agency's successor to the HST. But it has already been delayed by several years and costs have ballooned by about $1.5bn. Dr Sykes asked: "JWST went from $519m to $628m… it was about $100m that was contributed by the planetary science division to JWST. Is there a rationale for that level of contribution?" Mr Grunsfeld replied that it was not a valuable exercise to try to "trace the dollars" and that if different divisions of science at Nasa were to fight, "we all lose". After the session Dr Sykes told me: "Budgets are a conservative process and if you have a flat pot of money and something goes up and something comes down… it's a conservative process."

==2NC – Earth Science Link== 

Webb will cannibalize Earth science programs
Wired 10 (“Exclusive: NASA’s Plan to Save Astrophysics From Space Telescope’s Budget Overruns”, 11-23, [[http://www.wired.com/wiredscience/2010/11/james-webb-overruns/]])

The James Webb Space Telescope, named for the NASA administrator who oversaw the Apollo missions, will be the largest telescope ever launched into space. With a 21-foot-wide mirror (three times the diameter of Hubble’s), it promises to peer back to the birth of the first stars and galaxies, and will lay the foundation for much of the next generation of astrophysics research. “It’s the cornerstone of all the rest of astrophysics in the next decade,” said Debra Elmegreen, an astronomer at Vassar College and the president of the American Astronomical Society. But an independent review panel charged with investigating budget overruns released a report Nov. 10 announcing that, in the best-case scenario, the telescope will cost $1.5 billion more than its current $5 billion price tag. Even with the extra funds, the telescope’s launch date will slip from June 2014 to Sept. 2015. The telescope will need an extra $250 million per year in 2011 and 2012 in order to make that 2015 launch date, the report said. If those funds are not available, the launch date will be pushed back, and the price tag will balloon further. The new price tag imperiled other projects in NASA’s Astrophysics Science Division, which until this month had managed JWST. Historically, when NASA projects exceeded their budgets, the first place to look for extra funds was within the bloated project’s home division. “That was the context in which I was thinking, ‘Oh my god, this is Hurricane Katrina for astrophysics,’” Boss said. The Astrophysics Division is expected to receive about $1.1 billion a year from 2011 to 2015, and pays for all the astronomy satellites currently in operation, including Hubble, plus all the researchers who analyze the data those satellites collect. Particularly at risk were major projects suggested in the 2010 astronomy decadal survey, a community-wide effort to identify priorities for the next 10 years of research, which announced its intentions in an Aug. 13 report. The report’s top priorities, like the $1.6 billion WFIRST satellite that is designed to look for dark energy, may need to be delayed, cut back or canceled. The next place to look would be the other science divisions, which manage Earth science, heliophysics and planetary science, and then elsewhere in the space agency. But according to Boss, an (unnamed) official at NASA headquarters assured him the Astrophysics Division is safe. The agency has already moved administration of JWST from the Goddard Spaceflight Center in Greenbelt, Maryland, into its own division at NASA headquarters.

JWST is funded now—funding trades off w/ earth science
Space News 12 [“NASA 2012 Budget Funds JWST, Halves Commercial Spaceflight,” Accessed online at http://www.spacenews.com/civil/111118-nasa-budget-funds.html, Accessed on 1/29/11]
WASHINGTON — NASA will get $17.8 billion for 2012 under a compromise budget that increases funding for the troubled James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) astronomy flagship but provides less than half of what the agency sought for its commercial spaceflight program. The NASA funding was part of a $1 trillion measure signed into law Nov. 18 by U.S. President Barack Obama that funds several agencies for the remainder of the 2012 fiscal year, which began Oct. 1. NASA’s 2012 top line is $684 million below the agency’s 2011 level and $924 million less than the White House requested. The full-year budget for NASA and selected other federal agencies was bundled into must-pass legislation that will keep the remainder of the U.S. government funded at 2011 levels through Dec. 16. The entire government had been operating at 2011 levels under a continuing resolution that was set to expire Nov. 17. The so-called minibus package combined three previously separate spending bills into one. It was hammered out during a legislative conference of House and Senate appropriators that was convened Nov. 3. The minibus includes $4.9 billion for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, a 7 percent increase over 2011. Some $924 million of that amount is set aside for the Joint Polar Satellite System “to ensure the continuity of critical weather forecast data.” Lawmakers, however, denied that agency’s request for $322 million to establish a new Climate Service. According to the final conference report, posted Nov. 15 on a congressional website, the $17.8 billion for NASA would break down as follows: $3.8 billion for human space exploration, which is $30 million below the 2011 level. $4.2 billion for space operations, which is $1.3 billion below the 2011 level. That funding account includes the international space station and the space shuttle, which flew its final mission in July. $5.1 billion for science programs, or about $155 million above the 2011 level. This includes $529.6 million for the over budget JWST, which House appropriators had proposed canceling over the summer. Included in the $3.8 billion for human space exploration is $1.8 billion for the congressionally mandated heavy-lift rocket known as the Space Launch System, and $1.2 billion for its companion spacecraft, the Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle. NASA’s Commercial Crew Program, which is fostering development of astronaut taxis for the space station, will get $406 million in 2012, less than half of the $850 million Obama requested and $94 million less than Congress authorized. Moreover, $100 million of the appropriated funds would be withheld until NASA Administrator Charles Bolden provides House and Senate appropriators with written notice that NASA is proceeding with its acquisition of the Space Launch System. The JWST allocation is $156 million more than the White House requested and consistent with the Senate’s recommendation. The extra money will be offset by cutting back NASA’s request for Earth science, planetary science and other astrophysics programs. Earth science would get $1.77 billion, $30 million below the request. Planetary science would get $1.5 billion, $40 million below the request. Astrophysics would get $672 million, $10.7 million below the request.

==2NC – Yes Tradeoff== 


New NASA spending kills it – tradeoffs scare the EU
Red-Orbit 2/7 Redorbit Staff & Wire Reports NASA Jumping Out Of Joint ESA Mars Mission February 7, 2012 http://www.redorbit.com/news/space/1112469812/nasa-jumping-out-of-joint-esa-mars-mission/
ESA was originally concerned by NASA’s budget cuts last year, which prompted the space agency to talk with the Russian space agency (Roscosmos) about entering the ExoMars project. If Roscosmos decides to not play a role in the mission, ESA will be forced to use previous designs for a smaller rover, and a date of 2018. This is not the first adversity NASA has faced recently with budget cuts from the President Barack Obama administration. In 2010, President Obama introduced a plan to change how NASA operates, by getting rid of the decades-old shuttle program, and focusing future U.S. space travel in the private industry. NASA’s James Webb Space Telescope also faced the chopping block after last year’s budget was announced, but recent estimates show funding may still be there. The observatory, which is the successor to the Hubble Space Telescope, is now expected to cost $8.8 billion and could launch in 2018. Keith Cowing of NASAwatch.com wrote that the 2013 NASA budget will see the Science Mission Directorate budget drop 50 to 60 percent. He said half a billion could be pulled from this Mars exploration program due to overruns from its Webb telescope project.

JWST was funded on the stipulation other programs would not be funded – the plan breaks this deal
Mann 1/5 The New Year in Space: NASA’s Missions and Events in 2012 By Adam Mann January 5, 2012 http://www.wired.com/wiredscience/2012/01/nasa-2012/?pid=2850
There will be much anxiety leading up to the release of President Obama’s proposed federal budget for the 2013 fiscal year, expected during the 2nd week of February. The budget proposal will suggest how much funding NASA should receive in 2013 and beyond. Over the year, these numbers will be subject to a long and bitter debate process in Congress, which has been looking for ways to slash expenditures in recent years. If 2013 funding is anything like the last couple years, NASA may have to do more and more with less and less. Of high importance will be the details of funding the James Webb Space Telescope, the next generation space-based scientific instrument set to replace the aging Hubble Space Telescope. Already costing far beyond its initial proposed budget, JWST drew the wrath of members of the House of Representatives, who voted to cancel its funding last year. The final version of the 2012 budget bill eventually included funds for JWST, though it came with the stipulation that NASA take the needed money out of other programs. The president's budget proposal might give some clues as to how this allocation will be made.

Tradeoff is true in the context of James Webb and current environment
Foust 1/16 Jeff Foust (jeff@thespacereview.com) is the editor and publisher of The Space Review. He also operates the Spacetoday.net web site and the Space Politics and NewSpace Journal weblogs. Views and opinions expressed in this article are those of the author alone, and do not represent the official positions of any organization or company, including the Futron Corporation, the author’s employer. Big science in an era of tight budgets by Jeff Foust Monday, January 16, 2012
The current support for JWST comes at a price, Weinberg argued. “The rest of astrophysics at NASA, including cosmology, is being starved,” he said. That situation will only get worse with the threat of so-called “sequestration”, the across-the-board budget cuts looming for federal programs in the wake of last fall’s failure by a joint Congressional committee to come up with a long-term deficit reduction plan. “It’s going to be very hard for any kind of science, let alone big science,” in that kind of environment, he said. That means the progress being made in particle physics and astronomy alike could be coming to at least a temporary end soon as governments become unable or unwilling to fund the next generation of accelerators and telescopes. “We may see in the next decade or so an end to the search for the laws of nature which will not be resumed again in our own lifetimes,” he warned.

==2NC – AT: Intrinsicness== 

Tradeoff DAs are intrinsic
GAO 08-(investigative arm of congress examining payments of the government “Congressional Directives” pg 7-8 [[http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d08209.pdf]] )
Any definition of the term earmark requires a reference to two other terms in appropriations law—lump-sum appropriations and line-item appropriations. A lump-sum appropriation is one that is made to cover a number of programs, projects, or items. Our publication, //Principles of Federal Appropriations Law// (also known as the Red Book), notes that GAO’s appropriations case law defines earmarks as “actions where Congress . . . designates part of a more general lump-sum appropriation for a particular object, as either a maximum, a minimum, or both.”8 Today, Congress gives federal agencies flexibility and discretion to spend among many different programs, projects, and activities financed by one lump-sum appropriation. For example, in fiscal year 2007, Congress appropriated a lump-sum appropriation of $22,397,581,000 for all Army Operations and Maintenance expenses.9 Many smaller agencies receive only a single appropriation, usually termed Salaries and Expenses or Operating Expenses. All of the agency’s operations must be funded from this single appropriation.

==2NC – AT: SSA Thumper== 

SSA comes from the defense budget, not NASA budget
Kallender-Umezu 09 Mon, 7 September, 2009 Amid Shift in Power, Japan Seeks Space Budget Hike By Paul Kallender-Umezu http://www.spacenews.com/civil/amid-shift-power-japan-seeks-space-budget-hike.html
Keiko Nakano, a Defense Ministry spokeswoman, said Sept. 1 the defense budget request also includes much smaller sums to study new military capabilities including: space situational awareness, an air-launched rocket and microsatellites (39 million yen); a dedicated military communications satellite (57 million yen); and infrared missile warning sensor technology (8 million yen).

==2NC – Science Coop O/V LSP== 
And it’s try or die – extinction is inevitable without science-based, multilateral cooperation.
Sackett, 10 – former Chief Scientist for Australia, former Program Director at the NSF, PhD in theoretical physics, the Director of the Australian National University (ANU) Research School of Astronomy and Astrophysics and Mount Stromlo and Siding Spring Observatories (2002 – 07) [August 10, 2010, Penny Sackett, “Science diplomacy: Collaboration for solutions,” published in the Forum for Australian-European Science and Technology cooperation magazine, http://www.chiefscientist.gov.au/2010/08/science-diplomacy-collaboration-for-solutions/]
Imagine for a moment that the globe is inhabited by a single individual who roams free across outback plains, through rainforests, across pure white beaches — living off the resources available. Picture the immensity of the world surrounding this one person and ask yourself, what possible impact could this single person have on the planet? Now turn your attention to today’s reality. Almost 7 billion people inhabit the planet and this number increases at an average of a little over one per cent per year. That’s about 2 more mouths to feed every second. Do these 7 billion people have an impact on the planet? Yes. An irreversible impact? Probably. Taken together this huge number of people has managed to change the face of the Earth and threaten the very systems that support them. We are now embarked on a trajectory that, if unchecked, will certainly have detrimental impacts on our way of life and to natural ecosystems. Some of these are irreversible, including the extinction of many species. But returning to that single individual, surely two things are true. A single person could not have caused all of this, nor can a single person solve all the associated problems. The message here is that the human-induced global problems that confront us cannot be solved by any one individual, group, agency or nation. It will take a large collective effort to change the course that we are on; nothing less will suffice. Our planet is facing several mammoth challenges: to its atmosphere, to its resources, to its inhabitants. Wicked problems such as climate change, over-population, disease, and food, water and energy security require concerted efforts and worldwide collaboration to find and implement effective, ethical and sustainable solutions. These are no longer solely scientific and technical matters. Solutions must be viable in the larger context of the global economy, global unrest and global inequality. Common understandings and commitment to action are required between individuals, within communities and across international networks. Science can play a special role in international relations. Its participants share a common language that transcends mother tongue and borders. For centuries scientists have corresponded and collaborated on international scales in order to arrive at a better and common understanding of the natural and human world. Values integral to science such as transparency, vigorous inquiry and informed debate also support effective international relation practices. Furthermore, given the long-established global trade of scientific information and results, many important international links are already in place at a scientific level. These links can lead to coalition-building, trust and cooperation on sensitive scientific issues which, when supported at a political level, can provide a ‘soft politics’ route to other policy dialogues. That is, if nations are already working together on global science issues, they may be more likely to be open to collaboration on other global issues such as trade and security. Many countries have recognised the value of science diplomacy. In March this year, the US passed a bill to fund a Global Science Program for Security, Competitiveness and Diplomacy. Earlier, President Obama used his speech in Cairo to announce an expanded team of science envoys in the Middle East, Africa and Southeast Asia. In April, British Foreign Secretary David Miliband made the case for research as a political bridge. In Australia, there are two science envoy posts, one in Brussels and the other in Washington DC. In my own role as Chief Scientist, I engage with researchers and agency heads of other nations to improve Australia’s scientific relations. For example, my recent trip to the United States included a visit with Professor Daniel Kammen, Clean Energy Envoy of the US State Department, and previous trips have established a connection with Chief Scientists and Scientific Academy Presidents in Britain, China, India, New Zealand, and the United States. Central to these diplomatic efforts, is the establishment and continued nurturing of collaboration. Scientific collaboration operates best as a network of individual researchers supported by corporate and government policy and investment. The keys then are forging links at the ground level and providing clear and consistent bi-national and multi-national policy and funding frameworks to sustain these links.

Turns the case –
Terminating JWST kills the economy, tanks heg, STEM, and space leadership – we only need a small chance of the link
Lieberman 11, Director of the International Society for Optics, 8/5/11 – Director of SPIE, SPIE is the largest international not-for-profit society in optics, photonics and imaging [August 5, 2011, R. A. Lieberman, http://www.aura-astronomy.org/news/2011/JWST%20Statement%20-%20August%202011.pdf]
5 August 2011 – SPIE, the international society for optics and photonics, strongly objects to the decision of the U.S. House of Representatives’ Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice and Space to terminate the James Webb Space Telescope (JWST). This proposal wastes billions of taxpayer dollars already invested in the project, undermines American leadership and innovation in space technology, and will eliminate much-needed jobs and economic growth at a time of critical importance for our country. We understand that the proposed cuts to JWST come as part of a larger effort by Congress to rein in federal spending. Unfortunately, NASA and other federal science agencies and programs have been unduly targeted in these cuts. While SPIE fully supports improved and informed oversight of all federal spending on science and technology and recognizes the importance of beginning to reduce the deficit, we need be smart about the reductions. Federal support for science will spur economic growth and help restore a firm fiscal foundation for our nation. JWST is symbolic of our nation’s science and technology future and provides an opportunity for Congress to demonstrate its commitment to supporting this key job-creating field. More than 50 years of experience shows that a strong federal commitment to scientific research is crucial to building a better America. NASA’s 2012 budget proposal asked Congress for $375 million for JWST for the coming year — hundreds of millions less than what the Independent Comprehensive Review Panel estimated the program would need to keep the launch from extending beyond 2015. More than 75% of the telescope’s hardware has already been delivered. It takes decades for space telescope missions to be fulfilled, and due to their duration and complexity, it is imperative that NASA be provided with a stable, long-term budget to avoid inefficiencies and achieve its missions. Now is not the time to abandon a project in which U.S. taxpayers have already invested so much. Just as Hubble has added enormously to our understanding of the universe over the last 20 years, once launched JWST will contribute unanticipated new discoveries and capture the imagination of an entirely new generation of Americans. In this era of boundless discovery and exploration, it is even more critical to ensure a robust national commitment to both manned and scientific space programs and to maintain America's leadership in space science.

[IF TIME] Abandoning the James Webb will crush U.S. leadership
Illingworth, 11 – Ph.D., Australian National University, chairs a relatively new committee, the Astronomy and Astrophysics Advisory Committee, that offers advice to Congress and NSF, NASA and DOE on the implementation of the science program developed by the astronomy science community through studies carried out by the National Academy of Sciences [January 21, 2011, Garth Illingworth, letter to Dr. John P. Holdren, http://www.stsci.edu/jwst/community-advice/JSTAC_Holdren_JWST.pdf]
Hubble, and the other ongoing Great Observatories (Chandra and Spitzer) have demonstrated the value and cost-effectiveness of broadly-capable space observatories through their wide-ranging and continuing scientific discoveries. Such Great Observatories have been shown to return discoveries very cost-effectively. The Great Observatories have also made a disproportionately large contribution to advancing public science interest and literacy (Hubble again is the pre-eminent example). Furthermore, the breadth of the science programs that such flagship missions can undertake, along with their ability to respond quickly to discoveries from other missions and observatories, makes them a truly unique scientific resource that benefits large numbers of scientists, their students and their postdoctoral researchers. Hubble’s role in the discovery of planets beyond our solar system, of dark energy, and of young galaxies looking back through 96% of time to just 500 Myr after the Big Bang are some of the many examples of forefront science areas that have touched the popular imagination. JWST will play a similar role to Hubble, except that its dramatically higher performance will lead to an even broader range of studies and discoveries even closer to the cuttingedge of astrophysical frontiers. The James Webb Space Telescope Advisory Committee (JSTAC) is an international committee of senior members of the scientific community who are experienced with large space projects and their optimal operation. Given the importance and cost of JWST, the Space Telescope Science Institute (STScI) Director set up JSTAC with the support and concurrence of NASA, ESA and CSA. The core focus of the JSTAC is to offer advice on maximizing the scientific return from JWST within its 5-year required life (10-yr goal). The JSTAC’s recommendations to the STScI Director are made available to the space agencies and are also made public to the science community (and all interested parties) through the STScI website. The space agencies are also cognizant of the JSTAC’s deliberations and recommendations through their ex-officio agency members. The JSTAC fully endorses the completion of the construction and the launch of JWST not only because it will dramatically increase humanity’s understanding of the cosmos, but also because it will continue Hubble's legacy of inspiring the next generation of scientists. JWST will also demonstrate technologies crucial for future NASA science missions of all sizes. The JSTAC is very concerned that recent funding and management issues during the development process for JWST may place the future of the mission at risk. The JWST Independent Comprehensive Review Panel (ICRP) report provided a critical assessment of the recent management problems and budget issues in response to a letter from Senator Mikulski to the NASA Administrator. As the ICRP report noted, technical progress on the mission had been excellent but a number of issues have arisen that require additional funding to resolve. The JSTAC recognizes the fiscal challenges facing the US as well as the international partners, but asks for your support and that of OSTP to work with OMB and NASA, and ultimately Congress, to find a costeffective approach to bring this remarkable mission to fruition. The impact of not moving forward expeditiously towards launching JWST as soon as practical would reverberate far beyond the astronomical science community. The cancellation of the Superconducting Super Collider (SSC) had ramifications for US leadership in the physical sciences that is still being felt. The center of gravity of highenergy physics moved to Europe. As a project of comparable scale and scientific importance, JWST is crucial to US scientific leadership both in science and through the visibility of its space program. US leadership in space has arisen through NASA’s human spaceflight program and through its stunningly successful and popular science missions. To abandon JWST at this time would not only have a dramatic impact on NASA’s science programs, but would also have a dramatic impact on US leadership in space. JWST, like Hubble, is a flagship program that has public visibility and scientific capabilities far beyond smaller missions. The cost and the risks of flagships are more than compensated for by the scientific and public interest returns. Our international partners are making very substantial investments in JWST, and are key partners for the US effort. The contributions of the European Space Agency (ESA), its member states and the Canadian Space Agency (CSA) are central to the success of the project. Europe is providing two scientific instruments, the launch vehicle and operations staff for the project at the STScI. In value, this contribution is equivalent to the total cost of a medium-sized space mission within ESA. The Canadian contribution of the critical fine guidance sensor and a further science instrument is the largest space science project supported to date by the Canadian Space Agency. The CSA also provides operations staff at the STScI. The international contributions have been essential for the development and implementation of the project and their contributions represent a major commitment of their resources towards a project that will do much to raise the visibility of the US and its technological capabilities. JWST is challenging but doable. No other nation could currently undertake a mission of the scale of JWST. JWST distinguishes the US technologically and scientifically, and is a striking example of US leadership in the field of space science. The JSTAC asks for your support in moving JWST forward expeditiously to launch. I would be happy to provide further information or a briefing on the importance of the JWST science mission from the perspective of the JSTAC.

The JWST is key to spark a new era of space colonization.
Harrold, 08 – staff writer for the Gazette [July 18, 2008, Max Harrold, The Gazette, “Earth's twin coming into view; Scientists believe habitable planet will be spotted soon,” Lexis]
With less fanfare than H.G. Wells's science fiction, but no less of the sweep, scientists in Montreal this week are conjuring new Earths. This time, it's for real. Spotting Earth's twin is tantalizingly close - perhaps a year or two away - a conference of the world's top space scientists was told yesterday. "Everywhere we can look for planets we are finding them," said Sara Seager, a Torontonian who teaches physics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "Everyone wants to meet an alien," Seager said, "but (extraterrestrial) life might just be bacteria." Of the 300 or so known exoplanets, as planets in other star systems are called, most are too close to their suns and too hot to sustain life. Some astronomers have claimed there are about 45 Earth-like planets. They might have water vapour in their atmospheres, Seager added. But until better optical techniques are devised, the Earth-like worlds can't be hailed as certainties, she said. "It certainly will happen in my lifetime," said Seager, who is about 40. "I intend to live a very long life." Finding an Earth twin, or several, would revolutionize how humans see themselves, she said. It might also begin a new era of space colonization. People "would probably want to send a probe there," she said. The hitch? "The closest one is probably 200 years away" using existing means of space travel. The distance isn't stopping scientists around the globe from engaging in a race to nail an Earth-like sighting, however. The biggest challenge is separating the intense light of a star to isolate a planet orbiting the star. Some planets have been sighted next to stars, but they are often so large and dense they would not support life. Seager is excited about other scenarios. If not Earth's twin, how about a cousin? she asked. Some planets spotted close to their suns might be habitable since the suns are much smaller and cooler. Some are several times larger than Earth, but with what might be a rocky composition, like Earth, and the chemicals in their atmospheres to sustain life. Seager said existing space telescopes like the Hubble, and the James Webb Space Telescope, to be launched in 2013, could be the ones to spot another oasis in space. Canada's $130-million contribution to the Webb includes providing its guidance system. A full-scale, 5.4-tonne model of the telescope is on view until tomorrow at the Old Port. The 37th International Scientific Assembly, for 2,000 leading space scientists, wraps up Sunday. Seager said looking for life on other planets is no longer considered futile, or blasphemous. "Even the Vatican's astronomer has said it's okay to look."


==2NC – Science Coop O/V== 

And it’s try or die – extinction is inevitable without science-based, multilateral cooperation.
Sackett, 10 – former Chief Scientist for Australia, former Program Director at the NSF, PhD in theoretical physics, the Director of the Australian National University (ANU) Research School of Astronomy and Astrophysics and Mount Stromlo and Siding Spring Observatories (2002 – 07) [August 10, 2010, Penny Sackett, “Science diplomacy: Collaboration for solutions,” published in the Forum for Australian-European Science and Technology cooperation magazine, http://www.chiefscientist.gov.au/2010/08/science-diplomacy-collaboration-for-solutions/]
Imagine for a moment that the globe is inhabited by a single individual who roams free across outback plains, through rainforests, across pure white beaches — living off the resources available. Picture the immensity of the world surrounding this one person and ask yourself, what possible impact could this single person have on the planet? Now turn your attention to today’s reality. Almost 7 billion people inhabit the planet and this number increases at an average of a little over one per cent per year. That’s about 2 more mouths to feed every second. Do these 7 billion people have an impact on the planet? Yes. An irreversible impact? Probably. Taken together this huge number of people has managed to change the face of the Earth and threaten the very systems that support them. We are now embarked on a trajectory that, if unchecked, will certainly have detrimental impacts on our way of life and to natural ecosystems. Some of these are irreversible, including the extinction of many species. But returning to that single individual, surely two things are true. A single person could not have caused all of this, nor can a single person solve all the associated problems. The message here is that the human-induced global problems that confront us cannot be solved by any one individual, group, agency or nation. It will take a large collective effort to change the course that we are on; nothing less will suffice. Our planet is facing several mammoth challenges: to its atmosphere, to its resources, to its inhabitants. Wicked problems such as climate change, over-population, disease, and food, water and energy security require concerted efforts and worldwide collaboration to find and implement effective, ethical and sustainable solutions. These are no longer solely scientific and technical matters. Solutions must be viable in the larger context of the global economy, global unrest and global inequality. Common understandings and commitment to action are required between individuals, within communities and across international networks. Science can play a special role in international relations. Its participants share a common language that transcends mother tongue and borders. For centuries scientists have corresponded and collaborated on international scales in order to arrive at a better and common understanding of the natural and human world. Values integral to science such as transparency, vigorous inquiry and informed debate also support effective international relation practices. Furthermore, given the long-established global trade of scientific information and results, many important international links are already in place at a scientific level. These links can lead to coalition-building, trust and cooperation on sensitive scientific issues which, when supported at a political level, can provide a ‘soft politics’ route to other policy dialogues. That is, if nations are already working together on global science issues, they may be more likely to be open to collaboration on other global issues such as trade and security. Many countries have recognised the value of science diplomacy. In March this year, the US passed a bill to fund a Global Science Program for Security, Competitiveness and Diplomacy. Earlier, President Obama used his speech in Cairo to announce an expanded team of science envoys in the Middle East, Africa and Southeast Asia. In April, British Foreign Secretary David Miliband made the case for research as a political bridge. In Australia, there are two science envoy posts, one in Brussels and the other in Washington DC. In my own role as Chief Scientist, I engage with researchers and agency heads of other nations to improve Australia’s scientific relations. For example, my recent trip to the United States included a visit with Professor Daniel Kammen, Clean Energy Envoy of the US State Department, and previous trips have established a connection with Chief Scientists and Scientific Academy Presidents in Britain, China, India, New Zealand, and the United States. Central to these diplomatic efforts, is the establishment and continued nurturing of collaboration. Scientific collaboration operates best as a network of individual researchers supported by corporate and government policy and investment. The keys then are forging links at the ground level and providing clear and consistent bi-national and multi-national policy and funding frameworks to sustain these links.

==2NC – GOTR Impact== 

The JWST is key to spark a new era of space colonization.
Harrold, 08 – staff writer for the Gazette [July 18, 2008, Max Harrold, The Gazette, “Earth's twin coming into view; Scientists believe habitable planet will be spotted soon,” Lexis]
With less fanfare than H.G. Wells's science fiction, but no less of the sweep, scientists in Montreal this week are conjuring new Earths. This time, it's for real. Spotting Earth's twin is tantalizingly close - perhaps a year or two away - a conference of the world's top space scientists was told yesterday. "Everywhere we can look for planets we are finding them," said Sara Seager, a Torontonian who teaches physics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "Everyone wants to meet an alien," Seager said, "but (extraterrestrial) life might just be bacteria." Of the 300 or so known exoplanets, as planets in other star systems are called, most are too close to their suns and too hot to sustain life. Some astronomers have claimed there are about 45 Earth-like planets. They might have water vapour in their atmospheres, Seager added. But until better optical techniques are devised, the Earth-like worlds can't be hailed as certainties, she said. "It certainly will happen in my lifetime," said Seager, who is about 40. "I intend to live a very long life." Finding an Earth twin, or several, would revolutionize how humans see themselves, she said. It might also begin a new era of space colonization. People "would probably want to send a probe there," she said. The hitch? "The closest one is probably 200 years away" using existing means of space travel. The distance isn't stopping scientists around the globe from engaging in a race to nail an Earth-like sighting, however. The biggest challenge is separating the intense light of a star to isolate a planet orbiting the star. Some planets have been sighted next to stars, but they are often so large and dense they would not support life. Seager is excited about other scenarios. If not Earth's twin, how about a cousin? she asked. Some planets spotted close to their suns might be habitable since the suns are much smaller and cooler. Some are several times larger than Earth, but with what might be a rocky composition, like Earth, and the chemicals in their atmospheres to sustain life. Seager said existing space telescopes like the Hubble, and the James Webb Space Telescope, to be launched in 2013, could be the ones to spot another oasis in space. Canada's $130-million contribution to the Webb includes providing its guidance system. A full-scale, 5.4-tonne model of the telescope is on view until tomorrow at the Old Port. The 37th International Scientific Assembly, for 2,000 leading space scientists, wraps up Sunday. Seager said looking for life on other planets is no longer considered futile, or blasphemous. "Even the Vatican's astronomer has said it's okay to look."
==2NC – Astronomy Internal== 
JWST key to astronomy
American Astronomical Society 2/23 American Astronomical Society Issues Statement on President's FY 2013 Budget Source: American Astronomical SocietyPosted Thursday, February 23, 2012
The American Astronomical Society, noting the budgetary challenges that the nation faces, appreciates the President's commitment to science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) research in the FY 2013 budget. Astronomical research, including the study of the Sun, the solar system, and the rest of the universe, is a vital part of the research activity of the United States and an area in which the U.S. has been preeminent for many decades. It is critical to maintain a balance among the large, medium, and small missions, projects, and activities recommended in the heliophysics, planetary, and astronomy and astrophysics decadal surveys in order to sustain a vibrant research community that is essential to our nation's economic, scientific, and technological future. The AAS is grateful to the Congress and the Administration for the inclusion of NASA funding to enable launch of the James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) later this decade, as the top-ranked large-scale space mission of the 2001 astronomy and astrophysics decadal survey and the successor to the Hubble Space Telescope. The AAS also appreciates National Science Foundation (NSF) funding for the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope (LSST) pre-construction planning and Department of Energy support for LSST camera development, continued funding for the construction of the Advanced Technology Solar Telescope (ATST), and for the Atacama Large Millimeter Array (ALMA), now entering science operations. These are top-ranked projects in the 2001 and 2010 astronomy and astrophysics decadal surveys.

===2NC – Turns STEM=== 

Astronomical discoveries can spur national interest in STEM – that’s key to long term growth and competitiveness
Elmegreen 11 – President of the American Astronomical Society and is the Maria Mitchell Professor of Astronomy and Department Chair in the Department of Physics and Astronomy at Vassar [March 11, 2011, Dr. Debra Elmegreen, “Testimony of Dr. Debra M. Elmegreen President of the American Astronomical Society Before the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies On Astronomy and Astrophysics in the FY 2012 Budget,” [[http://blog.aas.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/03/AAS-Testimony-to-Congress.pdf]]]

The excitement of scientific discovery is a powerful force among our Nation’s youth, and leads directly to an improved standard of living in our Nation by attracting talented young people to pursue STEM careers. Astronomy has a role to play in this regard, not just in uncovering the mysteries of the Universe, but by drawing young people to the worlds of science, technology and engineering. Nearly everyone I have met involved in the pursuit of science, from student to professor, is amazed by discoveries about the Universe revealed by NSF-supported telescopes like the VLA and NASA missions like the Hubble Space Telescope and the Kepler mission. The “Rising Above the Gathering Storm” report warns that our younger generation is less educated than its parents, and that the nation is not adequately training the next generation of engineers and scientists; this failure directly impacts our economy. The public science literacy rate is less than 30%, and the US must improve to remain competitive. Astronomy offers one way to help because it is a mind-opening field that engages the public and schoolchildren in science; 60 million people go to museums and planetariums every year, 15% of all future K-12 teachers take astronomy as their only college science course, and 250,000 college students are enrolled in astronomy courses annually.
===2NC – Turns Warming=== 

Astronomy is a prerequisite to solving climate change
Blandford, et. al, 10 – a Pehong and Adele Chen Professor of Physics and director of the Kavli Institute for Astrophysics and Cosmology at Stanford University [Roger D. Blandford, Chair, Committee for a Decadal Survey of Astronomy and Astrophysics National Research Council, //New Worlds, New Horizons in Astronomy and Astrophysics//, 2010, ISBN: 9780309158008, pg. 114-5]

Astronomy Addresses the Challenges of the 21st Century The examples above show that astronomy contributes in unexpected ways to national agendas that extend far beyond the study of the universe itself. In science and technology today, two of the most important challenges are the impact of global climate change and the search for clean, sustainable, carbon-free sources of energy. In his address to the National Academy of Sciences in April 2009, President Obama issued a call to action, exhorting the United States to muster its collective expertise and energy to assume international leadership in addressing these challenges. Astronomy has already played a major role in our understanding of global climate and climate change. The first understanding of the planet-wide greenhouse effect came from studies of Venus, whose surface temperature exceeds 800 degrees Fahrenheit because of a thick atmosphere of carbon dioxide. The first understanding of rapid global climate change came from computer models of the effects of nuclear war, and of catastrophic asteroid impacts that led to a mass extinction 60 million years ago. One of the best ways to investigate the complex problem of how Earth’s climate responds to stress is to study the geological record of changes induced by periodic changes in Earth’s orbit over the past few million years. A better understanding of the Sun is also critical to modeling and understanding climate change. Over the past few decades, as computational power has increased, our fundamental understanding of how the Sun works has been improving dramatically. One of the most ambitious efforts to solve the nation’s energy problems involves the development of controlled nuclear fusion. Nuclear fusion was first understood early in the last century by astronomers seeking the energy source of the stars, and since then there has been a close and fertile collaboration between astrophysicists trying to understand the behavior of plasmas in astrophysical systems and fusion researchers working to control plasmas in the laboratory; indeed, the U.S. fusion program was started by the same astronomer, Lyman Spitzer, Jr., who first proposed the concept of a space telescope. Astronomers can bring to these initiatives their relevant experience, capabilities, and expertise in the atmospheres of planets and stars, radiative transfer, fluid dynamics, nuclear physics, plasma physics, electronics, detectors, remote sensing, numerical simulation of complex systems, and data handling, as well as one of their most important skills— the ability to draw reliable inferences from incomplete observations as opposed to controlled experiments. CONCLUSION: Astronomy is a pure science, driven by human curiosity. Nevertheless, the techniques and models developed in the process of conducting astronomical research often have broad utility. Advances in under­ standing of the Sun and of the climates of other planets help illuminate critical issues and inform thinking about climate change here on Earth. The impact of recent discoveries and the many new opportunities that they have created have led to great interest in astronomy.

==2NC – Turns Leadership== 

Abandoning the James Webb will crush U.S. leadership
Illingworth, 11 – Ph.D., Australian National University, chairs a relatively new committee, the Astronomy and Astrophysics Advisory Committee, that offers advice to Congress and NSF, NASA and DOE on the implementation of the science program developed by the astronomy science community through studies carried out by the National Academy of Sciences [January 21, 2011, Garth Illingworth, letter to Dr. John P. Holdren, http://www.stsci.edu/jwst/community-advice/JSTAC_Holdren_JWST.pdf]
Hubble, and the other ongoing Great Observatories (Chandra and Spitzer) have demonstrated the value and cost-effectiveness of broadly-capable space observatories through their wide-ranging and continuing scientific discoveries. Such Great Observatories have been shown to return discoveries very cost-effectively. The Great Observatories have also made a disproportionately large contribution to advancing public science interest and literacy (Hubble again is the pre-eminent example). Furthermore, the breadth of the science programs that such flagship missions can undertake, along with their ability to respond quickly to discoveries from other missions and observatories, makes them a truly unique scientific resource that benefits large numbers of scientists, their students and their postdoctoral researchers. Hubble’s role in the discovery of planets beyond our solar system, of dark energy, and of young galaxies looking back through 96% of time to just 500 Myr after the Big Bang are some of the many examples of forefront science areas that have touched the popular imagination. JWST will play a similar role to Hubble, except that its dramatically higher performance will lead to an even broader range of studies and discoveries even closer to the cuttingedge of astrophysical frontiers. The James Webb Space Telescope Advisory Committee (JSTAC) is an international committee of senior members of the scientific community who are experienced with large space projects and their optimal operation. Given the importance and cost of JWST, the Space Telescope Science Institute (STScI) Director set up JSTAC with the support and concurrence of NASA, ESA and CSA. The core focus of the JSTAC is to offer advice on maximizing the scientific return from JWST within its 5-year required life (10-yr goal). The JSTAC’s recommendations to the STScI Director are made available to the space agencies and are also made public to the science community (and all interested parties) through the STScI website. The space agencies are also cognizant of the JSTAC’s deliberations and recommendations through their ex-officio agency members. The JSTAC fully endorses the completion of the construction and the launch of JWST not only because it will dramatically increase humanity’s understanding of the cosmos, but also because it will continue Hubble's legacy of inspiring the next generation of scientists. JWST will also demonstrate technologies crucial for future NASA science missions of all sizes. The JSTAC is very concerned that recent funding and management issues during the development process for JWST may place the future of the mission at risk. The JWST Independent Comprehensive Review Panel (ICRP) report provided a critical assessment of the recent management problems and budget issues in response to a letter from Senator Mikulski to the NASA Administrator. As the ICRP report noted, technical progress on the mission had been excellent but a number of issues have arisen that require additional funding to resolve. The JSTAC recognizes the fiscal challenges facing the US as well as the international partners, but asks for your support and that of OSTP to work with OMB and NASA, and ultimately Congress, to find a costeffective approach to bring this remarkable mission to fruition. The impact of not moving forward expeditiously towards launching JWST as soon as practical would reverberate far beyond the astronomical science community. The cancellation of the Superconducting Super Collider (SSC) had ramifications for US leadership in the physical sciences that is still being felt. The center of gravity of highenergy physics moved to Europe. As a project of comparable scale and scientific importance, JWST is crucial to US scientific leadership both in science and through the visibility of its space program. US leadership in space has arisen through NASA’s human spaceflight program and through its stunningly successful and popular science missions. To abandon JWST at this time would not only have a dramatic impact on NASA’s science programs, but would also have a dramatic impact on US leadership in space. JWST, like Hubble, is a flagship program that has public visibility and scientific capabilities far beyond smaller missions. The cost and the risks of flagships are more than compensated for by the scientific and public interest returns. Our international partners are making very substantial investments in JWST, and are key partners for the US effort. The contributions of the European Space Agency (ESA), its member states and the Canadian Space Agency (CSA) are central to the success of the project. Europe is providing two scientific instruments, the launch vehicle and operations staff for the project at the STScI. In value, this contribution is equivalent to the total cost of a medium-sized space mission within ESA. The Canadian contribution of the critical fine guidance sensor and a further science instrument is the largest space science project supported to date by the Canadian Space Agency. The CSA also provides operations staff at the STScI. The international contributions have been essential for the development and implementation of the project and their contributions represent a major commitment of their resources towards a project that will do much to raise the visibility of the US and its technological capabilities. JWST is challenging but doable. No other nation could currently undertake a mission of the scale of JWST. JWST distinguishes the US technologically and scientifically, and is a striking example of US leadership in the field of space science. The JSTAC asks for your support in moving JWST forward expeditiously to launch. I would be happy to provide further information or a briefing on the importance of the JWST science mission from the perspective of the JSTAC.


And science leadership is key to hegemony and soft power
Coletta, 09 – Duke University , Ph.D. in Political Science, December 1999 Harvard University , Master in Public Policy, 1993 Stanford University , Master in Electrical Engineering, 1989 Stanford University , B.S.E.E., 1988 [September 2009, Damon Coletta, “Science, Technology, and the Quest for International Influence,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA536133&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]
To discover sustainable hegemony in an increasingly multipolar world, American policy makers will need more than the Kaysen list of advantages from basic science. Dr. Carl Kaysen served President John Kennedy as deputy national security adviser and over his long career held distinguished professorships in Political Economy at Harvard and MIT. During the 1960s, Kaysen laid out a framework with four important reasons why a great power, the United States in particular, should take a strategic interest in the basic sciences. 1. Scientific discoveries provided the input for applied research, which in turn produced technologies crucial for wielding economic and military power. 2. Scientific activity educated a cadre of operators for leadership in industries relevant to government such as health care and defense. 3. Science proficiency generated the raw elements for mounting focused, applied efforts such as the Manhattan Project during World War II to build the first atomic bomb. 4. Scientific progress built a basic research reserve that when necessary could move quickly to shore up national needs.1 These arguments underscored science‘s contribution to new products and services that provided market or military advantages. The pursuit of physics, chemistry, and biology at the frontiers of knowledge could have direct effects on national excellence. The following sections of this article extend Kaysen‘s list for the present multi-polar world. The United States’ largest military and economic shares in such a world do not guarantee empire. Soft power from scientific achievement, however, may make up part of the deficit, enough to augment America‘s reputation and American leadership in the international order. The U.S. science establishment is then described and evaluated for its capacity to integrate and leverage the complete list of science benefits: Kaysen‘s nation-based items plus the civilization-based advantages exposited here. Case studies of the Office of Naval Research and U.S. scientific outreach to Brazil illustrate underlying strengths and weaknesses of the U.S. system for maintaining the lead in basic science. Among the weaknesses, democratic regimes tend to suffocate professions, particularly in the sciences, due to natural hostility between democracy and technocracy. The United States might yet find the right balance by inculcating a politically sophisticated professionalism. In other areas of heavy government responsibility—finance, health care, foreign intelligence, and defense—officials and the public have over time placed considerable trust in expert agents. With greater scientific literacy at the mass level and greater political literacy at the scientific level, America‘s state and society may forge a somewhat freer, healthier relationship with American science, accruing benefits for U.S. material power in the long run and, in the short run, for persuasive influence in the international system. Science and International Leadership In their book on Leading Sectors and World Powers (1996), George Modelski and William Thompson extended their analysis of innovation back, beyond the birth of industrial capitalism, to the Sung Dynasty in China at the turn of the First Millennium. 2 Modelski and Thompson mentioned inventions like the compass that helped leaders extract wealth from maritime East-West trade routes, but they also noted the Sung rulers’ cultivation of knowledge and the influence of Chinese intellectuals on administrative reform. A scientific society has the opportunity to apply methods and models toward political and economic questions. Just before the November 2008 elections, the New York Times’ David Ignatius sat down with two former national security advisers, Zbigniew Brzezinski and Brent Scowcroft, for a series of interviews on foreign policy. 3 In their discussion of complementary strengths that could lay the groundwork for greater transatlantic cooperation, the advisers noted how impressive it was that the European Union could knit together so many independent states with sophisticated, comprehensive rules and regulations without inadvertently strangling economic growth. It seems improbable that Europe could build the administrative structures for a successful common currency or a single labor market without an ethos that came from scientific competence. Progress in the physical sciences can spill over in a way that supports modern institutions and efficient public policy. Spillover to social sciences reinforces the notion that scientific progress and scientific literacy are civilizing influences. As such they can fortify what Joseph Nye termed a country‘s soft power, its capacity to establish appealing precedents for the rest of the world. 4 Science shares properties with Olympic sport in that it can open avenues for non-coercive cultural hegemony. Foreign emulation in science, though, counts for more than soccer or gymnastics. The demonstration effect in physics may initially appear as man-overcoming-Nature rather than man-versus man, but great scientific advance is more cumulative than victory in the Games. Anyone seeking to take the next step must accommodate the vernacular of the pioneer and accept his tutelage in the universal logic governing scientific concepts. Moreover, the ingenuity and skills on display as a citizen in a specific nation-state, albeit working at university, unlocks another secret of nature register around the world as excellence that could someday be harnessed by government and adapted to the state-versus-state context. That fungibility garners international respect and piques interest in greater collaboration. In his study of American science overtures to Europe during the first decades of the Cold War, John Krige related how overlapping interests and in some instances the overlapping community of scientists and government officials infused pure science aid with foreign policy purpose. The construction of CERN (Conseil Européen pour la Recherche Nucléaire) for all-European particle research in Geneva. European conferences of the well-connected Ford Foundation and the development of the NATO Science Committee did not simply advance basic knowledge; they also nurtured a special dialogue, unencumbered by normal diplomatic preoccupations. This privileged communication nevertheless facilitated American hegemony and buttressed Western solidarity against intimidation, or alternate offers, from the Soviet Union. In material balance of power terms, the larger economy and more capable nuclear forces of the United States were seen as less threatening to Western Europe than the Red Army, deployed just over the makeshift border with East Germany. 5 Cultural appeal, including scientific prowess as well as liberal democratic ideals, afforded the United States extra diplomatic margin as it simultaneously expanded its own arsenal and its alliances against a technically inferior opponent. Finally, during the late-Cold War, after 1970, the economic rise of Germany and Japan, the larger diplomatic role of China, and the greater international participation from post-colonial governments in the developing world reshaped the global agenda. Problems traditionally managed by the great powers— arms control, arms proliferation, international development, environmental consequences of industrialization and urbanization—were picked up by non-governmental entities who sought to influence state behavior. Given their small budgets and their status as outside observers rather than diplomats or official negotiators, specialized knowledge was their instrument of choice. As transportation and communication technologies improved through the 1980s and 1990s, issue-based groups and public policy institutes proliferated, combining with academic researchers to build epistemic communities.
==2NC – Turns Space Heg== 


JWST funding is key to broader space leadership
AAS, 7/7/11 – the American Astronomical Society (AAS), established in 1899 and based in Washington, DC, is the major organization of professional astronomers in North America. Its membership of about 7,500 individuals also includes physicists, mathematicians, geologists, engineers, and others whose research and educational interests lie within the broad spectrum of subjects now comprising contemporary astronomy [July 7, 2011, “American Astronomical Society Statement on the James Webb Space Telescope,” [[http://aas.org/press/pr2011Jul07_jwst]]]

The proposal released on July 6 by the House Appropriations Subcommittee for Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies to terminate the James Webb Space Telescope would waste more taxpayer dollars than it saves while simultaneously undercutting the critical effort to utilize American engineering and ingenuity to expand human knowledge. Such a proposal threatens American leadership in the fields of astrophysics and advanced space technology while likely eliminating hundreds, if not thousands, of high-tech jobs. Additionally, this proposal comes before the completion of a revised construction plan and budget for a launch of JWST by 2018. The United States position as the leader in astronomy, space science, and spaceflight is directly threatened by this proposal. The JWST is the highest-ranked mission in the National Academy of Science’s Astronomy and Astrophysics decadal survey released in 2000 and remains a high priority for the Nation’s astronomers in this decade as well, as the revolutionary successor to the Hubble Space Telescope. This survey, conducted once every 10 years by hundreds of the Nation’s leading scientists, prioritizes — based on scientific merit and impact — projects proposed by the scientific community that require significant government support for completion. These reports represent a community consensus on the efforts necessary to advance our knowledge of the universe. The potential of JWST to transform astronomy underlies many of the activities recommended in the 2010 decadal report released last August. JWST is designed to observe well beyond Hubble’s capabilities. It is expected to serve thousands of astronomers in the coming decades to revolutionize our understanding of our place in the Universe, just as Hubble has done since its completion and launch just over two decades ago. The JWST’s completion, launch, and operation will unveil new knowledge about the earliest formation of stars and planets and on a wide range of additional advanced scientific questions, including many not yet formulated. As was true with the Hubble Space Telescope, recognized as a tremendous success by the public, scientists, and policy-makers, building the most advanced telescopes comes with the risk of unexpected costs and delays. However, the whole Nation can rightly take pride in the engineering and scientific accomplishment that the completion and launch of such instruments represents. With the help of important international partners, we are the only nation that could lead such an effort; we should not shirk from completing the project when the most difficult engineering challenges have already been overcome. As stated in the Casani report, an independent review of project readiness completed late last year, “The JWST Project has made excellent progress in developing the difficult technologies required for its successful operation, and no technical constraints to successful completion have been identified.” The mirrors stand ready and waiting for integration into the spacecraft. The telescope has passed both preliminary design review and critical design review. It is time to complete construction and look ahead to JWST’s launch and science operations.


=Space Heg Bad 1NC= 

US space hegemony is unsustainable—decline in market, costs, enthusiasm, counter-balancing.
Kaufman 8 (Marc, Washington Post, Staff Writer, “U.S. Finds It's Getting Crowded Out There,” July 9, 2008, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2008/07/08/AR2008070803185.html?sid=ST2008070900751]] DA: 6/23/11)
At the same time, the enthusiasm for space ventures voiced by Europeans and Asians contrasts with America's lukewarm public response to the moon-Mars mission. In its assessment, Futron listed the most significant U.S. space weakness as "limited public interest in space activity." The cost of manned space exploration, which requires expensive measures to sustain and protect astronauts in the cold emptiness of space, is a particular target. "The manned space program served a purpose during the Apollo times, but it just doesn't anymore," says Robert Parks, a University of Maryland physics professor who writes about NASA and space. The reason: "Human beings haven't changed much in 160,000 years," he said, "but robots get better by the day." Satellite Launches Fall The study by Futron, which consults for public clients such as NASA and the Defense Department, as well as the private space industry, also reported that the United States is losing its dominance in orbital launches and satellites built. In 2007, 53 American-built satellites were launched -- about 50 percent of the total. In 1998, 121 new U.S. satellites went into orbit. In two areas, the space prowess of the United States still dominates. Its private space industry earned 75 percent of the worldwide corporate space revenue, and the U.S. military has as many satellites as all other nations combined. But that, too, is changing. Russia has increased its military space spending considerably since the collapse of the Soviet Union. In May, Japan's parliament authorized the use of outer space for defense purposes, signaling increased spending on rockets and spy satellites. And China's military is building a wide range of capabilities in space, a commander of U.S. space forces said last month. Last year, China tested its ground-based anti-satellite technology by destroying an orbiting weather satellite -- a feat that left behind a cloud of dangerous space debris and considerable ill will.

Space dominance triggers Chinese attacks on US ground controllers and space assets – turns their advantage.
Cheng 11 (Dean, The Heritage Foundation's research fellow on Chinese political and security affairs, specializes in China's military and foreign policy, in particular its relationship with the rest of Asia and with the United States bachelor's degree in politics from Princeton University, “China’s Active Defense Strategy and Its Regional Impact,” February 1, 2011, [[http://www.heritage.org/research/testimony/2011/01/chinas-active-defense-strategy-and-its-regional-impact]], DA: 1/1/12)
In the tactical and operational realm, PLA observation of Western conflicts has led them to conclude that, in order to conduct the high-tempo, dispersed operations typical of recent Local Wars, it is essential to have access to space. Chinese analyses of the first Gulf War, the conflicts in the Balkans, and the march to Baghdad are rife with statistics on the number of satellites employed, whether maintaining surveillance over opponents, providing essential weather information, or guiding munitions and forces. Thus, as one PLA analysis notes, in places like Afghanistan, when U.S. military forces have identified the enemy, they have promptly exploited GPS to determine the enemy’s location and satellite communications to transmit the target’s location to weapons operators, in order to attack targets promptly. Similarly, in Iraq, the use of space was essential for the U.S. military’s intelligence gathering and battlefield command and control.[1] From their perspective, the ability to exploit space is essential for the ability to wage non-contact, non-linear, non-symmetric warfare. This reliance is so extensive that another Chinese analysis posits that the U.S. could not conduct the kind of warfare it prefers, but only high-level mechanized warfare, if it could not access space. The implication is that an essential part of any Chinese anti-access/area denial effort will probably entail operations against the U.S. space infrastructure, both in order to secure space dominance, zhitian quan, for the PLA, as well as to deny it to the United States. Space dominance, in this case, is defined as the ability to control the use of space, at times and places of one’s own choosing, while denying an opponent the same ability. It should be noted here, first, that there is still no indication of whether the PLA has developed a formal space doctrine governing military operations in space. The available PLA literature does have, however consistent themes that emerge. One of these themes derived from the available Chinese writings that discuss the establishment of space dominance is that it does not necessarily require the destruction of satellites, such as in the 2007 anti-satellite test or last year’s exo-atmospheric test. Rather, it involves a full range of measures, involving both hard- and soft-kill, aimed at the satellites, the terrestrial infrastructure of launch sites; tracking, telemetry, and control (TT&C) facilities; and the data links that bind the system together. Indeed, PLA writings emphasize that the establishment of space dominance requires integrated operations, involving the use of all available strength, all techniques, and all operational methods. By integration of all available strength, this refers to two aspects. One is civil-military integration. The PLA, it is worth recalling, manages China’s terrestrial space infrastructure, and plays a role in satellite design and manufacturing. It also is presumed to have access to information derived from space-based systems, consistent with the larger, long-standing Chinese theme of civil-military integration. The other is integration of space capabilities with those of land, sea, and air forces, with the goal of generating synergies that will lead to space dominance. Ground, naval, air, and missiles forces, for example, can suppress enemy terrestrial space facilities, such as TT&C centers, and interfere with data links. This can prevent an opponent’s space forces from properly operating, as well as help defend one’s own space capabilities. Meanwhile, space forces can enhance the operation of ground, air, and naval forces by providing information support that will make them more effective.[2] By integrated application of techniques, this refers to the combination of destructive and disruptive techniques. In some cases, disrupting an opponent’s systems may be as effective, and more desirable, than destroying them. Destruction of systems in orbit may generate diplomatic problems, especially among third parties whose systems may be affected by debris. Attacking terrestrial targets in third countries may result in horizontal escalation. Thus, in some cases, one may choose to rely on jamming, cyber warfare, and other less physically destructive means to attack enemy space infrastructure.[3] On the other hand, soft-kill systems often cannot permanently destroy physical facilities, and it may be difficult to assess whether it has succeeded in disrupting normal space operations.[4] In order to inflict long-lasting impact on enemy space capabilities, or to be assured of disruption of high-value targets, one may prefer more kinetic, hard-kill options. By integrated coordination of all activities, PLA analysts are discussing the importance of defensive as well as offensive roles. It should be noted that “offensive” and “defensive” are not synonymous with “hard kill” and “soft kill.” Rather, the objective is to reduce an opponent’s advantage in space. The general tenor of PLA writings regarding space offensive measures suggests an interest in attacking the full space infrastructure of an opponent, suggesting attacks against both terrestrial and orbital assets, as well as the attendant data and communications systems that link them together. In particular, striking at mission control facilities and launch sites has the advantage of not only disrupting ongoing space operations, but retarding reconstitution efforts, and is compared with attacking command nodes in more traditional warfare.[5] At the same time, the PLA fully expects its own space capabilities to be targeted. In this regard, PLA writings suggest that there is a role to play in both active and passive defensive measures. Active measures include the provision of defenses around key terrestrial facilities, including launch sites and mission control centers. Passive measures include efforts to limit the effectiveness of enemy efforts to detect and track one’s own space systems and infrastructure. They include efforts at camouflage, concealment, and deception of both terrestrial and orbital systems, as well as redundancy and mobility.[6] There is also reference to hardening of both satellites and ground facilities. All of these efforts suggest that, in the event of a Sino-American confrontation, the PLA would seek to engage American space systems early in the crisis. This would deny American forces the ability to establish information dominance (zhi xinxi quan), that all-aspect understanding of an opponent’s forces, deployments, and capabilities. As important, it would also disrupt the coordination of American forces, including not only widely dispersed combat forces, but also the essential combat support elements that would sustain U.S. operations. PLA writings also suggest that there may be demonstrations of anti-space capabilities, the conduct of space exercises, redeployment and reinforcement of space assets, and most worrisome, actual use of space weapons, in order to deter and dissuade the United States from intervening. The very possession of an effective space warfare capability, PLA writings note, allows China to effect space deterrence. Two aspects of space deterrence should be especially noted. In the first place, such measures almost certainly would not occur in isolation, but would be part of a larger pattern of activities, involving not only the full range of the PLA but all the assets, economic, diplomatic, political, cyber, available to the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). And many of these measures, especially ASAT tests and the conduct of space war games, may be occurring months or even years in advance, so as to influence U.S. decision-making far in advance of any actual outbreak of hostilities.

Heg is durable -- status quo conditions of accommodation instead of containment as well as nuclear peace promote one power
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Monteiro 11</span> - Nuno P., Assistant Professor of Political Science at Yale University (June 13, 2011, “BALANCING ACT WHY UNIPOLARITY MAY BE DURABLE,” http://www.nunomonteiro.org/wp-content/uploads/Nuno-Monteiro-Balancing-Act-20110613.pdf)
What is, then, wrong with the argument that unipolarity is indeed durable? Why are primacists not right? If the impact of the nuclear revolution on the structure of international politics reduces the salience of survival concerns for major powers, then unipolarity should necessarily last. 44 This should settle the debate on unipolar durability in favor of primacist views. Not so fast. Survival is indeed the first goal of states and, therefore, nuclear weapons, by guaranteeing state survival, eliminate the need for major powers to balance against a unipole. But states do not care only about survival. Economic growth is also important for states, for at least two reasons. First, states care about economic growth as an end in itself. 45 One of the primary raisons d’être of the state is, after all, the well-being of its citizens, defined largely in terms of material wealth. Second, and more importantly for the purposes of this paper, states care about economic growth also for security reasons. If a major power is prevented from continuing to grow economically, then its future security may be imperiled. Nothing ensures xthat nuclear weapons will continue to guarantee survival indefinitely. A major technological breakthrough, such as comprehensive missile defense, might erode the deterring effect of a survivable nuclear arsenal. Major powers therefore have strong incentives not to fall behind in economic terms. But this pursuit of wealth is subordinated to survival concerns. In other words, I expect major powers to pursue wealth only once the goal of state survival is fully ensured and in ways that do not undermine it. To borrow a concept from John Rawls, this means that survival has ‘lexical priority’ over all other state aims, including wealth creation. 46 What does this mean for balancing and, consequently, for the durability of a unipolar world? In the previous section, I introduced a revised logic of balancing focused exclusively on the goal of state survival. It is now time to expand it to account for the secondary goal of economic growth. This means that (2’) must be revised to include not only threats to state survival but also to their economic growth. In the expanded logic, then, states will (3’) balance against concentrated power to the extent that it threatens both these goals. Consequently, states will now balance until they minimize (4’’) both threats to their survival and to their economic growth. The expanded logic goes like this (with italics indicating change from the revised version above): 1) States care first and foremost about their own survival and only pursue other goals, such as wealth, to the extent they do not threaten survival; 2’’) An unmatched concentration of power in one state may threaten the survival of others as well as their pursuit of economic growth; 3’) To the extent that it does, other states will balance against concentrated power; 4’’) Threats to survival and to economic growth may be minimized short of amassing as much or more power than any other state; 5’) Balancing efforts will therefore not necessarily lead to shifts in the systemic balance-of-power; 6’) As a result, unmatched concentrations of power in one state may be longlasting. The result (6’) is the same. But the conditions of possibility for an unmatched concentration of power in one state to be long-lasting have changed. Now, the durability of unipolarity depends, beyond major powers’ guaranteed survival, on a second factor: the presence of international conditions that make the continuation of their economic growth possible. The absence of such conditions, by endangering the long-term ability of the state to maintain its deterrent capability, ultimately places the survival of the state at risk. Therefore, major powers have a strong incentive to balance against a unipole that is -- purposely or not -- containing their economic growth. This extends the conditions of possibility of a durable unipolar world from the structural to the strategic level. In a nutshell, if a major power’s economic growth is constrained by the unipole’s strategy then that major power has incentives to continue to balance against the unipole beyond the point at which nuclear weapons ensure its immediate survival. In sum, a strategy of containment on the part of the unipole, by constraining the economic growth of major powers, will lead the latter to balance, converting their latent capabilities into military power. Containment, therefore, leads major powers to balance beyond the point at which their immediate survival is guaranteed, up to the point at which they effect a shift in the systemic balance of power, bringing about the end of unipolarity. A strategy of accommodation, on the contrary, allows major powers to continue their economic growth, thus guaranteeing that their immediate ability to secure their own survival will not be eroded over time. By doing so, accommodation takes away the incentives major powers might have to balance beyond the point at which their immediate survival is guaranteed. Consequently, a strategy of accommodation -- when implemented under conditions in which survival may be guaranteed even in the absence of a systemic balance of power -- makes unipolarity durable. V. EMPIRICAL IMPLICATIONS AND ILLUSTRATION This section extracts empirical implications from my theory and tests the argument against the evolving empirical record. My “qualified durability” argument yields two empirical implications for contemporary world politics. First, for as long as the United States pursues a strategy of economic accommodation, major powers, all of which today possess a survivable nuclear arsenal, should not pursue further balancing against the United States. Second, in case the United States shifts towards a strategy of containment, major powers should initiate a balancing effort, increasing the rate at which they convert their latent power into military capabilities and pooling those capabilities together through the formation of alliances, eventually shifting the systemic balance of power and putting an end to unipolarity.

==2NC Cyber Impact Calc== 
===Cyberattacks block=== 

Cyberspace attacks are more likely than space attacks and they have the same impact
Lambeth, 11 – senior staff member at RAND, where he also directed the International Security and Defense Policy Program in 1989–1990 (Benjamin, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]])

If the case for proceeding with timely initiatives to ensure the continued enabling functions of the Nation's space-based assets sounds reasonable enough in principle, then the argument for pursuing similar measures by way of vouchsafing our continued freedom of movement in cyberspace can be said to be downright compelling. The latter arena, far more than today's military space environment, is one in which the Nation faces clear and present threats that could be completely debilitating when it comes to conducting effective military operations. Not only that, opponents who would exploit opportunities in cyberspace with hostile intent have every possibility for adversely affecting the very livelihood of the Nation, since that arena has increasingly become not just the global connective tissue, but also the Nation's central nervous system and center of gravity.
Just a few generations ago, any American loss of unimpeded access to cyberspace would have been mainly an inconvenience. Today, however, given the Nation's ever-expanding dependence on that medium, the isolation, corruption, or elimination of electrical power supply, financial transactions, key communications links, and other essential Web-based functions could bring life as we know it


to a halt. Furthermore, given the unprecedented reliance of the United States today on computers and the Internet, cyberspace has arguably become the Nation's center of gravity not just for military operations, but for //all// aspects of national activity, to include economic, financial, diplomatic, and other transactions. Our heightened vulnerability in this arena stems from the fact that we have moved beyond the era of physical information and financial exchanges through paper and hard currency and rely instead on the movement of digital representations of information and wealth. By one informed account, more than 90 percent of American business in all sectors, to say nothing of key institutions of governance and national defense, connects and conducts essential communications within the cyberspace arena.7 Accordingly, that arena has become an American Achilles heel to a greater extent than any of our current opponents.

Cyberspace control is substantially more important than the plan – any loss in cyberspace immediately neutralizes all space based capabilities
Lambeth, 11 – senior staff member at RAND, where he also directed the International Security and Defense Policy Program in 1989–1990 (Benjamin, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]])

Indeed, America's vulnerabilities in cyberspace are open to the entire world and are accessible by anyone with the wherewithal and determination to exploit them. Without appropriate defensive firewalls and countermeasures in place, anything we might do to exploit cyberspace can be done to us as well, and relatively inexpensively. Worse yet, threat trends and possibilities in the cyberspace domain put in immediate jeopardy much, if not all, of what the Nation has accomplished in the other two domains in recent decades. Our continued prevalence in cyberspace can help ensure our prevalence in combat operations both within and beyond the atmosphere, which, in turn, will enable our prevalence in overall joint and combined battlespace. On the other side of the coin, any loss of cyberspace dominance on our part can negate our most cherished gains in air and space in virtually an instant. Technologies that can enable offensive cyberspace operations, moreover, are evolving not only within the most well-endowed military establishments around the world, but also even more so in the various innovative activities now under way in other government, private sector, and academic settings. The United States commands no natural advantage in this domain, and its leaders cannot assume that the next breakthrough will always be ours. All of this has rendered offensive cyberspace operations an attractive asymmetric option not only for mainstream opponents and other potential exploiters of the medium in ways inimical to the Nation's interests, but also for state and nonstate rogue actors with sufficient resources to cause us real harm.

These are most probable ways to deny US space control –

a. buy-in for capabilities is substantially lower cost
Lambeth, 11 – senior staff member at RAND, where he also directed the International Security and Defense Policy Program in 1989–1990 (Benjamin, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]])

One reason for the imminent and broad-based nature of the cyberspace challenge is the low buy-in cost compared to the vastly more complex and expensive appurtenances of air and space warfare, along with the growing ability of present and prospective Lilliputian adversaries to generate what one expert called "catastrophic cascading effects" through asymmetric operations against the American Gulliver.10 Because the price of entry is fairly minimal compared to the massive investments that would be required for any competitor to prevail in the air and space domains, the cyberspace warfare arena naturally favors the offense. It does so, moreover, not only for us, but also for any opponents who might use the medium for conducting organized attacks on critical nodes of the Nation's infrastructure. Such attacks can be conducted both instantaneously and from a safe haven anywhere in the world, with every possibility of achieving high impact and a low likelihood of attribution and, accordingly, of timely and effective U.S. retribution.

b. Peer competitors already exist in cyberspace
Lambeth, 11 – senior staff member at RAND, where he also directed the International Security and Defense Policy Program in 1989–1990 (Benjamin, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]])

Moreover, unlike the air and space environments, cyberspace is the //only// military operating area in which the United States already has peer competitors in place and hard at work. As for specific challengers, U.S. officials have recently suggested that the most sophisticated threat may come from China, which unquestionably is already a peer competitor with ample financial resources and technological expertise. There is more than tangential evidence to suggest that cyberwar specialists in China's People's Liberation Army have already focused hostile efforts against nonsecure U.S. transmissions.11 Such evidence bears strong witness to the fact that state-sponsored cyberspace intrusion is now an established fact and that accurate and timely attack characterization has come to present a major challenge.

===Cyberattacks on ground stations=== 

Ground stations are just as vulnerable
Rendleman, 10 - Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)

Satellite systems consist not only of spacecraft, each with their own payload and bus, but also a supporting infrastructure—ground control stations, tracking and control links, commonly referred to as the tracking, telemetry, and control (TT&C) links, data links, launch facilities, and an industrial base. Each of these components is at risk to threats of physical and cyber attack, and sabotage, and can be negated, simultaneously or each in detail. The satellite payload, bus, links, and infrastructure can be negated by using a variety of permanent or reversible means to achieve one of the five possible effects, known as the ‘‘five Ds’’—deception, disruption, denial, degradation, and destruction.5

Ground stations can be targeted instead
Rendleman, 10 - Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)

Ground systems, supporting communications, and their nodes, are vulnerable to diverse land, sea, or air kinetic attacks, including sabotage. Unprotected systems are also susceptible to electronic attack through jamming and electromagnetic deception techniques. Jammers emit signals that mask or prevent reception of desired signals; these methods can disrupt uplinks, downlinks, and even cross-links. By disabling the means of command and control, and data communications, jammers render satellites inoperable or unavailable. Electromagnetic deception techniques can be employed to confuse systems; this could include sending false, but deceptively plausible, commands that cause spacecraft to perform damaging or wasteful maneuvers, modify databases or execute configuration changes, or otherwise destroy it.
Similarly, supporting terrestrial ground stations, computer networks, and links are vulnerable to information operation and cyber attacks. These attacks could involve directing global denial of service tasks, injecting fake commands, malicious software and viruses into the space system, performing unauthorized monitoring and disclosure of sensitive information (data interception), and causing unauthorized modification or deliberate corruption of network information, services, and databases.



===China will use cyberattacks=== 

PLA doctrine is more likely to focus on cyber attacks to neutralize space assets
Cheng, 11 - Senior Asia Analyst at the CNA Corporation (Dean, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]])

It was unclear as of 2007 whether a PLA space doctrine had been formally promulgated. But recent PRC activities suggest that interest is shifting from the theoretical to the physical. Reports in late 2006, for example, indicated that the PRC has fired lasers, possibly several times, at U.S. satellites, apparently in an attempt to blind them.84 This was then followed by the January 2007 test of a direct-ascent ASAT that destroyed a defunct FY–1C weather satellite.
Although the kinetic kill vehicle test focused attention on Chinese development of hardkill systems, PLA writings appear to approach the topic from a much broader perspective. Since the objective is attaining information dominance—that is, dominating space is a means, not necessarily an end—the focus is on disrupting the flow of information, rather than necessarily destroying satellites per se.
Consequently, many PLA writings discuss the utility of soft-kill methods against space architectures. Satellite operations rely heavily on the use of computers to transmit and manage the data.85 Without functioning command, control, communications, computers, and information systems, it would be difficult to employ space systems. This is a major reason why space combat and information combat are so closely linked.86 As one set of PLA teaching materials notes, an especially effective means to soft-kill space systems may be interference with the computer systems controlling space platforms, both onboard systems as well as those in ground-based control centers.87
PLA writings also suggest that there is an important role for passive countering of space systems, which involves various deception and camouflage methods to counter enemy space-based reconnaissance and surveillance systems.88 Utilizing various deception measures and stealthing techniques in order to forestall detection from space offers the potential for China to suddenly appear where there had been few indications of a PLA presence, thus surprising an opponent. Thus, PLA authors have suggested that "skillful use of technical means to avoid reconnaissance" can be an extremely effective combat style in space-related coordinated activities. 89


===Cyberattacks kill ISR=== 

Cyberspace attacks undermine ISR and C3I from space
Lambeth, 11 – senior staff member at RAND, where he also directed the International Security and Defense Policy Program in 1989–1990 (Benjamin, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]])

In light of that emergent reality, it is essential to include cyberspace in any consideration of air and space capabilities. Like the air and space domains, cyberspace is part and parcel of the third dimension (the first two being the land and maritime environments). Also like those other two domains, it is a setting in which organized attacks on critical infrastructure and other targets of interest can be conducted from a distance, on a wide variety of "fronts," and on a global scale—except in this case, at the speed of light. Moreover, it is the principal domain in which the Nation's air services exercise their command, control, communications, and ISR capabilities that enable global mobility and rapid long-range strike.
In thinking about cyberspace as a military operating arena, a number of the medium's distinguishing characteristics are worth noting. First and foremost, control of cyberspace is a sine qua non for operating effectively in the other two domains. Were unimpeded access to the electromagnetic spectrum denied to us through hostile actions, satellite-aided munitions would become useless, command and control mechanisms would be disrupted, and the ensuing effects could be paralyzing. Accordingly, cyberspace has become an emergent theater of operations that will almost surely be contested in any future fight. Successful exploitation of this domain through network warfare operations can allow an opponent to dominate or hold at risk any or all of the global commons. For that reason, not only American superiority but also American dominance must be assured.

Controlling cyberspace is a prerequisite to ISR
Lambeth, 11 – senior staff member at RAND, where he also directed the International Security and Defense Policy Program in 1989–1990 (Benjamin, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]])

Until the day comes when military space activity is more than "merely" about enabling terrestrial combat operations, however, a more useful exercise in theory-building in the service of combat operators at all levels might be to move beyond the //air//-power theorizing that has taken place to date in pursuit of something akin to a working "unified field theory" that explicates the connections, interactions, and overlaps among the air, space, and cyberspace domains in quest of synergies between and among them in the interest of achieving a joint force commander's objectives more efficiently and effectively. A major pitfall to be avoided in this regard is the pursuit of separate theory sets for each medium. To borrow from Clausewitz on this point, space, like the earth's atmosphere and the electromagnetic spectrum, may have its own grammar, but it does not have its own logic. Each of the three environments explored in the preceding pages has distinctive physical features and operating rules that demand respect. By one characterization in this regard, "air permits freedom of movement not possible on land or sea. . . . Space yields an overarching capability to view globally and attack with precision from the orbital perspective. Cyberspace provides the capability to conduct combat on a global scale simultaneously on a virtually infinite number of 'fronts.'"15 Yet while the air, space, and cyberspace mediums are all separate and unique physical environments, taken together, they present a common warfighting challenge in that operations in each are mutually supportive of those in the other two. For example, the pursuit of air supremacy does not simply entail combat operations in the atmosphere, but also hinges critically on ISR functions and on GPS targeting from both air-breathing and space-based platforms that transmit through cyberspace.


===Cyber prerequisite to hegemony=== 

Boosting cyber capabilities is a prerequisite to greater remote sensing – the military won’t be able to process the extra data
Zyskowski, 11 (John, “Navy faces headwinds in critical IT plans,” Federal Computer Week, 6/15,
[[http://fcw.com/articles/2011/06/20/buzz-navy-it-plans.aspx]])

Meanwhile, new capabilities such as UAVs and remote sensors are producing a flood of data and straining the Navy’s IT infrastructure, resulting in a 1,000 percent increase in afloat bandwidth demand, said <span style="color: #0f587b;">[[@http://fcw.com/GIG/Defense-Systems/Articles/2011/06/09/Naval-IT-Day-AFCEA-TCPED-intelligence-data-challenge.aspx|Dave Weddel]]</span>, assistant deputy chief of naval operations for information dominance. The challenge is not only to acquire and process that data, but also to share and act on it.
None of that will be possible if the underlying infrastructure is not adequately secured. Along those lines, the Navy is preparing to launch initial operations at four new Regional Network Operations and Security Centers that will support the Navy's Fleet Cyber Command.
“These [centers] will combine network operations with computer network defense” and will exploit the adversary, predict future attacks and defend networks, said Rear Adm. <span style="color: #0f587b;">[[@http://fcw.com/GIG/Defense-Systems/Articles/2011/06/09/Naval-IT-Day-Deets-network-cybersecurity.aspx|Edward Deets III]]</span>, commander of the Naval Network Warfare Command.



==2NC Turns Case== 
===Arms Race?=== 

Weaponization kills US-Russian and US-Sino relations – causes global prolif
Krepon, 4 – president of the Henry L. Stimson Center (Michael, “Avoiding the Weaponization of Space”, http://www.stimson.org/images/uploads/research-pdfs/Avoiding_the_Weaopnization_of_Space.pdf)
Weaponizing space would poison relations with China and Russia, whose help is essential to stop and reverse proliferation. ASAT weapon tests and deployments would surely reinforce Russia’s hair-trigger nuclear posture, and China would likely feel compelled to alter its relaxed nuclear posture, which would then have negative repercussions on India and Pakistan. The Bush Administration’s plans would also further alienate America’s friends and allies, which, with the possible exception of Israel, strongly oppose the weaponization of space. The fabric of international controls over weapons of mass destruction, which is being severely challenged by Iran’s and North Korea’s nuclear ambitions, could rip apart if the Bush Administration’s interest in testing space and nuclear weapons is realized.

Despite space leadership other countries will continue to counter the US – makes their impacts inevitable.
McLaughlin 2002, Kevin. "Would Space-Based Defenses Improve Security?." Washington Quarterly. Vol. 25 (Summer 2002): 177-191. [ 3 quotes ] http://www.twq.com/02summer/mclaughlin.pdf
The level of U.S. dominance gives rise to some predictable and some unanticipated results. Europe, driven primarily by French and German concerns, will strive mightily to forge a common European identity that might be capable of keeping U. S. power in check and will work to maintain a strong role for Europe in global affairs. Russia and China will continue to use their limited resources in broad efforts to reduce the relative imbalance between their national power and that of the United States. Other countries and regions may also act in ways designed to counter act U. S. strength. These possibilities are not new ideas; commentators have extensively written about them. No one has given much thought, however, to how this new reality shapes the potential effect that more extensive use of space may have on strategic stability.

This rhetoric is based on a US centric view, creating good/bad dichotomies and furthering violent imperialism.
Moore 6 (A Debate About Weapons in Space: Against A New Cold War? Moore, Mike. SAIS Review 26. 1 (Winter 2006): 175-188.)
We Americans are inclined to believe that our nation's virtues are endless. Given that, why would any law-abiding nation be alarmed by ownership-of-space rhetoric? Why should other nations, other than rogue states, worry about the U.S. capacity for "instant engagement anywhere in the world"? The rhetoric of space warriors, the Defense Department, and the White House (whether occupied by Democrats or Republicans) seems driven by a worldview that says the values of the United States represent the end state in human development. If the United States chooses to develop a space-control capability and to place weapons in space, it will have done so because in this troubled world only it can be trusted to do it right. U.S. space-power partisans define space control as having the capability to grant access to space to the good guys and deny access to the bad guys. That power is framed in the language of deterrence; it would be used only when necessary. However, this goal ignores the predictable political impact of possessing such power. A nation able to deny access to space to hostile states in a time of conflict would have the latent capability to deny access to anyone at any time. Why would any nation-state that values its own sovereignty be content with that? The people of many nations already hate, fear or mistrust the United States, in part because of its staggering lead in high-tech warfare, which has been repeatedly demonstrated not only in war games, but in actual battle. One suspects most countries already have come to terms with the fact that the United States will continue indefinitely to be the most powerful state the world has ever known, militarily, economically, and culturally. But is there a tipping point? A line beyond which even a nation as relatively benign as the United States cannot go without provoking reactions that ultimately would compromise the security of its own citizens? U.S. control of space, says Everett C. Dolman of the Air Force's highly influential School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, would place "as guardian of space the most benign state that has ever attempted hegemony over the greater part of the world." It would be a bold and decisive step, and "at least from the hegemon's point of view, morally just."4 Morally just? That phrase lies at the heart of the debate over space control and weapons in space. This debate is not just about whether such courses of action would be prudent or imprudent. It is also about America's message to the world. The United States is a free and open society, with a commitment to liberty and the rule of law. We have a generosity of spirit that is uncommon in history, which we advertise widely. On balance, this sounds like a nation concerned with morality and justice. But modern America has at times demonstrated an unseemly imperial arrogance in its foreign policy. Americans sometimes ask, "Why do they hate us?" One answer comes easily: We are the world's richest and most powerful nation, a nation that-on the whole-lives well. This fact incites envy. Another easy answer: Many tens of millions of people hate America because they live in an intellectual dark age and are culturally incapable of understanding the extraordinary values that make the United States great. One would not describe jihadists as children of the Enlightenment. Yet there is another, harsher answer. Perhaps some men and women hate us because they know America well. They resent the common belief among Americans that the United States-alone among nations-is nearly always right. Indeed, righteous. For more than a century, dozens of U.S. interventions-hundreds, really-in the internal affairs of other states have been driven, at least in part, by that sense of righteousness.5 National righteousness is not uncommon. It characterizes the elites of any number of states beginning with France, a nation whose chief exports seem to be wine, cheese, and moral smugness. But Britain and Germany are powerfully righteous states, too, as are Norway and Sweden, Russia and India, Saudi Arabia and Israel, China and Japan. None of these states, however, aspires to develop and maintain the capability to exercise "full spectrum dominance"-a favored Defense Department phrase6-anywhere in the world at any time; none of these states contemplates developing and deploying a space-control capability; none of these states is attempting to design space-based weapons. A definitive U.S. decision to develop and deploy a comprehensive space-control capability and to place weapons in space would be a bridge too far.

===China=== 

And, prefer our scenario, the mere perception of our argument triggers an all-out arms race.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Zhang 11</span> (Baohui Zhang is Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University, Hong Kong. He wishes to thank an anonymous reviewer for the helpful comments that contributed to the revision of this article. Email: <bzhang@ln.edu.hk>. “The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship” accessed by means of JSTOR, /)
One particular concern for the Chinese military is that the U.S. may no longer be content with merely militarizing space, which involves extensive use of satellites for military operations. Instead, weaponization of space is on the agenda. The PLA now believes that the U.S. is on the verge of important breakthroughs in the development of weapons for space war. As one study claims: “Currently, the U.S. military already possesses or will soon possess ASAT technologies with real combat capabilities, such as aircraft-launched ASAT missiles, land-based laser ASAT weapons, and space-based energy ASAT weapons.”21 Moreover, the PLA suggests that the U.S. is trying to acquire space-based weapons to attack targets on earth: The U.S. military is developing orbital bombers, which fly on low altitude orbits, and when given combat orders, will re-enter the atmosphere and attack ground targets. This kind of weapon has high accuracy and stealth capability, and is able to launch sudden strikes. These capabilities make it impossible for enemies to defend against. Orbital bombers thus can strike at any target anywhere on the planet. It is the major means for the U.S. military to perform global combat in the 21st century.22 This perception of the American lead in space militarization and attempts for its weaponization is a major motive for the Chinese military to develop similar projects and thus avoid U.S. domination in future wars. The PLA believes that control of the commanding heights will decide the outcome of future wars, and China cannot afford to cede that control to the U.S. As a result, space war is a key component of the PLA Air Force’s (PLAAF) new doctrines. In 2006 the PLAAF released a comprehensive study called Military Doctrines for Air Force, which makes the following statement: In future wars, merely possessing air superiority will no longer be sufficient for seizing the initiative of battles. In significant ways, only obtaining space superiority could ensure controlling the initiative of war. The contest in outer space has become the contest for the new commanding heights. Seizing control of space will mean control of the global commanding heights, which will in turn enable dominance in air, land, and sea battles. Thus, it is impossible to achieve national security without obtaining space security.23 Another driver of the PLA’s efforts to counter U.S. dominance in space is the time factor. There is a genuine sense of urgency about controlling the commanding heights in space. The U.S. is seen as already possessing a decisive lead in the race toward space hegemony. As observed by Lieutenant General Ge Dongsheng, vice president of the PLA Academy of Military Sciences: Establishing space capability is not only important but also urgent. This is due to the fact that the U.S. and Russia have already taken the steps and now enjoy a vast lead over us. Even India, Japan, and European countries have ambitious plans to develop their own space capabilities. Under this situation, if we do not hasten implementing our own plan, there will be the possibility of having to face a generational gap in space capabilities.24


And, we control the biggest magnitude and risk of escalation.
William C. Martel and Toshi Yoshihara Averting a Sino-U.S.Space Race 2003 http://www.twq.com/03autumn/docs/03autumn_martel.pdf
Strategists in the United States and in China are clearly monitoring the other’s developments in space. How the United States judges Chinese intentions and capabilities will determine Washington’s response; of course, the reverse is equally true. As each side eyes the other, the potential for mutual misperceptions can have serious and destabilizing consequences in the long term. In particular, both countries’ exaggerated views of each other could lead unnecessarily to competitive action-reaction cycles. What exactly does such an action-reaction cycle mean? What would a bilateral space race look like? Hypothetically, in the next 10 years, some critical sectors of China’s economy and military could become increasingly vulnerable to disruptions in space. During this same period, Sino-U.S. relations may not improve appreciably, and the Taiwan question could remain unresolved. If Washington and Beijing could increasingly hold each other’s space infrastructure hostage by threatening to use military options in times of crisis, then potentially risky paths to preemption could emerge in the policy planning processes in both capitals. In preparing for a major contingency in the Taiwan Strait, both the United States and China might be compelled to plan for a disabling, blinding attack on the other’s space systems before the onset of hostilities. The most troubling dimension to this scenario is that some elements of preemption (already evident in U.S. global doctrine) could become a permanent feature of U.S. and Chinese strategies in space. Indeed, Chinese strategic writings today suggest that the leadership in Beijing believes that preemption is the rational way to prevent future U.S. military intervention. If leaders in Beijing and Washington were to position themselves to preempt each other, then the two sides would enter an era of mutual hostility, one that might include destabilizing, hair-trigger defense postures in space where both sides stand ready to launch a first strike on a moment’s notice. One scenario involves the use of weapons, such as lasers or jammers, which seek to blind sensors on imaging satellites or disable satellites that provide warning of missile launches. Imagine, for example, Washington’s reaction if China disabled U.S. missile warning satellites or vice versa. In that case, Sino-U.S. relations would be highly vulnerable to the misinterpretations and miscalculations that could lead to a conflict in space. Although attacks against space assets would likely be a precursor or a complement to a broader crisis or conflict, and although conflicts in the space theater may not generate many casualties or massive physical destruction, the economic costs of conflict in space alone for both sides, and for the international community, would be extraordinary given that many states depend on satellites for their economic well-being.

And, happens quickly – China believes it must first-strike the US.

Pollpeter 5 (Kevin, Research Analyst with DGI’s Center for Intelligence Research and Analysis, formerly with the RAND Corporation, he focuses on Chinese national security issues, “The Chinese Vision of Space Military Operations,” //China's Revolution in Doctrinal Affairs: Emerging Trends in the Operational Art of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army//, Chapter 9, December 2005, [[http://www.defensegroupinc.com/cira/pdf/doctrinebook.pdf]], DA: 1/2/12)
Increasingly, the PLA views information operations as being critical to winning future wars. Primarily due to the U.S. performance in recent operations, the PLA has come to realize the important role of information in the conduct of modern wars. According to The Science of Campaigns, the goal of information warfare is: . . . to cut off the enemy’s observation, decision-making, and troop command and control capabilities at critical times and in areas related to overall campaign operations, while maintaining our own command and control ability, thus allowing us to seize information superiority, to establish strategic and campaign superiority, and to create conditions to win the decisive battle. 838 In addition, . . . whoever receives, transmits, and uses information more frequently in real-time, more accurately, and more effectively has more chances to win the war. Moreover, the one who has the control over collecting information generally usually can achieve better cost-effectiveness in war. Therefore, the primary task of modern campaigns has become seizing information superiority and taking away the enemy’s capability of acquiring information. Because of the primacy of information warfare, . . . the first targets of a campaign are no longer the enemy’s heavy forces and artillery positions. Instead, they are detection, command and telecommunications information systems, whose degradation or destruction will negate or reduce the enemy’s ability to control information and create conditions for later combat. 840 Indeed, The Science of Campaigns concludes “to cripple or destroy the enemy’s information system would drastically degrade the enemy’s combat capabilities by making it blind, deaf or paralyzed.” 841 A list in The Science of Campaigns may prioritize command and information systems as the first and second of five target types to be struck. 842 Another aspect of the concept of integrated operations and concentrated strike is the principle of taking the enemy by surprise. Taking the enemy by surprise catches the enemy unprepared “and causes confusion in and huge psychological pressure on the enemy, and would help one win relatively large victories at relatively small costs.” 843 The authors of The Science of Campaigns write that information warfare both necessitates and facilitates “gaining mastery by striking first.” Launching an information offensive through a sudden attack is easier with information operations because it can be carried out remotely and covertly. Secondly, information operations consume fewer resources than other types of operations and can be conducted for longer periods of time. Thirdly, information systems use the electromagnetic spectrum, which leaves them vulnerable to attack. Finally, information systems that are destroyed may not be able to be restored for long periods of time. These factors determine that “whoever takes the early advantage is more likely to seize control over information on the battlefield and get better combat effect.” 844

===Hegemony=== 


Space dominance is bad for hegemony – destroys the economy and causes transition wars.
MacDonald, Bruce W. 2009 "Steps to Strategic Security and Stability in Space." Disarmament Forum. No. 4 (Winter 2009): 17-26. [ 8 quotes ] http://www.unidir.org/pdf/articles/pdf-art2907.pdf
It would be unwise for any country to seek space dominance, for quite practical and strategic reasons. There are many ways to attack space assets, and it is easier and cheaper to attack than to defend them, which would likely frustrate any sustained attempt at dominance and leave every country worse off. In trying to maintain dominance, any country would be at the mercy of unpredictably advancing space technologies that could favour another country. In the face of likely resistance to such a provocative and hegemonic posture, any country seeking to dominate in space would constantly be trying to stay ahead technologically to maintain this dominance, demanding large expenditures that would be a growing burden on other national security and economic needs. Such a situation would also be very unstable, especially if another country achieved a technological breakthrough that threatened to upset the previously dominant country’s hegemony. A crisis occurring in this context could provide a compelling incentive to the about-to-be-dethroned country to pre-empt before its space dominance slipped away. In the years ahead, the United States will remain a pre-eminent space power, though other countries, most especially China, will very possibly diminish the margin. US space policy of the recent past has exhibited an incomplete appreciation of this new strategic environment and has been incautious in some policy dimensions. This is because of the absence of both a clearly thought-out space doctrine and a coherent national space security strategy. Other countries, though in different ways, have also exhibited an incomplete appreciation of the new strategic landscape of space. To avoid the dangers inherent to seeking dominance, the United States could aim instead for a posture of space excellence: the most capable in space, a space leader. The United States could seek a non-hegemonic “best-in-class” posture: a state with more advanced space capabilities than other countries, deriving substantially more benefits from space than others, but which would not dominate in space. This space excellence would provide leverage in commercial, civilian and military applications, but would not make space a new battleground.

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Space leadership guts US soft power.</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Brown 9</span> (Trevor (BA, Indiana University; MSc, S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies, Nanyang Technological University [Singapore]) is a new author interested in political, economic, and military strategy for the medium of space.vor, is a “Soft Power and Space Weaponization” [[http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj09/spr09/brown.html]] ///)//
//<span class="Underline">Evidently</span>, <span class="Underline">rhetoric emanating from the U</span>nited <span class="Underline">S</span>tates <span class="Underline">regarding space has made members of the </span>international <span class="Underline">community suspicious that America could bar them from the medium on nothing more than a whim</span>. <span class="Underline">Such apprehensions unnecessarily contribute to further reductions in </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">soft power</span>//. The United States should take care to ensure that other nations receive the impression that it has no intention of hindering their peaceful use of space. <span class="Underline">If those countries find current US space supremacy tolerable</span>, then perhaps in time they could endure the United States’ possession of weapons <span class="Underline">if this were a significant aspect of US primacy in space and maintenance of the status quo. But if US rhetoric and posturing leave other nations with the belief that the United States has stratagems for orbital despotism, then the international system will hesitate to look to it for leadership</span>. Furthermore, <span class="Underline">even if most nations cannot compete in space, they will nevertheless do whatever they can to oppose the U</span>nited <span class="Underline">S</span>tates.

Soft power key to heg.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Nye 4</span> (Joseph S., Professor of International Relations at Harvard. “Soft Power and American Foreign Policy,” Summer 2004, Political Science Quarterly, Volume 119, Issue 2; page 255, proquest, download date: 9-21-07)
<span class="underline0">In the global information age, the attractiveness of the United States will be crucial to our ability to achieve the outcomes we want</span>. Rather than having to put together pick-up coalitions of the willing for each new game, we will benefit if we are able to attract others into institutional alliances and eschew weakening those we have already created. NATO, for example, not only aggregates the capabilities of advanced nations, but its interminable committees, procedures, and exercises also allow these nations to train together and quickly become interoperable when a crisis occurs. <span class="underline0">As for alliances, if the United States is an attractive source of security and reassurance, other countries will set their expectations in directions that are conducive to our interests. </span>Initially, for example, the U.S.-Japan security treaty was not very popular in Japan, but polls show that over the decades, it became more attractive to the Japanese public. Once that happened, Japanese politicians began to build it into their approaches to foreign policy. <span class="underline0">The United States benefits when it is regarded as a constant and trusted source of attraction so that other countries are not obliged continually to re-examine their options in an atmosphere of uncertain coalitions. </span>In the Japan case, broad acceptance of the United States by the Japanese public "contributed to the maintenance of US hegemony" and "served as political constraints compelling the ruling elites to continue cooperation with the United States."18 Popularity can contribute to stability. Finally, as the RAND Corporation's John Arquila and David Ronfeldt argue, power in an information age will come not only from strong defenses but also from strong sharing. A traditional realpolitik mindset makes it difficult to share with others. <span class="underline0">But in an information age, such sharing not only enhances the ability of others to cooperate with us but also increases their inclination to do so. As we share intelligence and capabilities with others, we develop common outlooks and approaches that improve our ability to deal with the new challenges. Power flows from that attraction. Dismissing the importance of attraction as merely ephemeral popularity ignores key insights from new theories of leadership as well as the new realities of the information age. We cannot afford that.</span>


===Russia=== 

[TURNS RUSSIA]
Cooperation is key to preventing war with Russia and solves larger risk of relations.
Mindell et al ’08 – Director of the Space, Policy, and Society Research Group of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (David, “The Future of Human Spaceflight” Report of the Space, Policy, and Society Research Group, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, December 2008, [[http://web.mit.edu/mitsps/MITFutureofHumanSpaceflight.pdf]])

International partnerships in human spaceflight represent the best use of science and technology to advance broad human goals and bring nations together around common values, hence they are a primary objective. The 1975 Apollo -Soyuz Test Project, for example, showcased an international gesture of cooperation between the United States and the Soviet Union at a time of tension between the nations. Through these and similar means, human spaceflight can be an effective instrument of global diplomacy.
United States should reaffirm its long standing policy of international leadership in human spaceflight and remain committed to its existing international partners. In a significant shift from current policies, such leadership should not be defined only as “first, largest, and in charge.” Leadership should also represent foresight in building new relationships and collaborations, and in setting an example for human spaceflight as a civilian enterprise. Given the public enthusiasm for human spaceflight around the globe, a clear perception of the United States as collaborating with other countries to accomplish goals in space would have far reaching benefits.
The United States should invite international and commercial partners to participate in its new exploration initiatives to build a truly global exploration effort, with significant cost sharing.
The United States should continue to build a sustainable partnership with Russia to promote shared values, build greater credibility and confidence in the relationship, and ultimately improve U.S. national and international security//.// Such a partnership would support Russia’s interest in prolonging the service life of the ISS until 2020 and cooperating on transportation elements of the lunar and Mars programs. A sustainable partnership could ensure utilization of the ISS, share costs and risks, help prevent proliferation, and help turn Russian public opinion in favor of collaboration with the United States in other arenas.

<span class="Underline">U.S. Russia war is the only existential risk in the round. </span>
<span class="Underline">Bostrom 2 (Nick Bostrum, professor of philosophy at Oxford University, March 2002, Journal of Evolution and Technology, “Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards,” http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">A much greater existential risk emerged with the build-up of nuclear arsenals in the US and the USSR. An all-out nuclear war was a possibility with both a substantial probability and with consequences that might have been persistent enough to qualify as global and terminal. There was a real worry among those best acquainted with the information available at the time that a nuclear Armageddon would occur and that it might annihilate our species or permanently destroy human civilization.[4] Russia and the US retain large nuclear arsenals that could be used in a future confrontation, either accidentally or deliberately. There is also a risk that other states may one day build up large nuclear arsenals. Note however that a smaller nuclear exchange, between India and Pakistan for instance, is not an existential risk, since it would not destroy or thwart humankind’s potential permanently. Such a war might however be a local terminal risk for the cities most likely to be targeted. Unfortunately, we shall see that nuclear Armageddon and comet or asteroid strikes are mere preludes to the existential risks that we will encounter in the 21st century. </span>
==2NC Uniqueness== 
===Space Heg Unsustainable=== 

US Space heg unsustainable – counterbalancing
Kaufman 8 (Marc, Washington Post, Staff Writer, “U.S. Finds It's Getting Crowded Out There,” July 9, 2008, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2008/07/08/AR2008070803185.html?sid=ST2008070900751]] DA: 6/23/11)
China plans to conduct its first spacewalk in October. The European Space Agency is building a roving robot to land on Mars. India recently launched a record 10 satellites into space on a single rocket. Space, like Earth below, is globalizing. And as it does, America's long-held superiority in exploring, exploiting and commercializing "the final frontier" is slipping away, many experts believe. Although the United States remains dominant in most space-related fields -- and owns half the military satellites currently orbiting Earth -- experts say the nation's superiority is diminishing, and many other nations are expanding their civilian and commercial space capabilities at a far faster pace. "We spent many tens of billions of dollars during the Apollo era to purchase a commanding lead in space over all nations on Earth," said NASA Administrator Michael D. Griffin, who said his agency's budget is down by 20 percent in inflation-adjusted terms since 1992. "We've been living off the fruit of that purchase for 40 years and have not . . . chosen to invest at a level that would preserve that commanding lead." In a recent in-depth study of international space competitiveness, the technology consulting firm Futron of Bethesda found that the globalizing of space is unfolding more broadly and quickly than most Americans realize. "Systemic and competitive forces threaten U.S. space leadership," company president Joseph Fuller Jr. concluded. Six separate nations and the European Space Agency are now capable of sending sophisticated satellites and spacecraft into orbit -- and more are on the way. New rockets, satellites and spacecraft are being planned to carry Chinese, Russian, European and Indian astronauts to the moon, to turn Israel into a center for launching minuscule "nanosatellites," and to allow Japan and the Europeans to explore the solar system and beyond with unmanned probes as sophisticated as NASA's. While the United States has been making incremental progress in space, its global rivals have been taking the giant steps that once defined NASA: · Following China's lead, India has announced ambitious plans for a manned space program, and in November the European Union will probably approve a proposal to collaborate on a manned space effort with Russia. Russia will soon launch rockets from a base in South America under an agreement with the European company Arianespace, whose main launch facility is in Kourou, French Guiana. · Japan and China both have satellites circling the moon, and India and Russia are also working on lunar orbiters. NASA will launch a lunar reconnaissance mission this year, but many analysts believe the Chinese will be the first to return astronauts to the moon. The United States is largely out of the business of launching satellites for other nations, something the Russians, Indians, Chinese and Arianespace do regularly. Their clients include Nigeria, Singapore, Brazil, Israel and others. The 17-nation European Space Agency (ESA) and China are also cooperating on commercial ventures, including a rival to the U.S. space-based Global Positioning System. · South Korea, Taiwan and Brazil have plans to quickly develop their space programs and possibly become low-cost satellite launchers. South Korea and Brazil are both developing homegrown rocket and satellite-making capacities. This explosion in international space capabilities is recent, largely taking place since the turn of the century. While the origins of Indian, Chinese, Japanese, Israeli and European space efforts go back several decades, their capability to pull off highly technical feats -- sending humans into orbit, circling Mars and the moon with unmanned spacecraft, landing on an asteroid and visiting a comet -- are all new developments. A Different Space Race In contrast to the Cold War space race between the United States and the former Soviet Union, the global competition today is being driven by national pride, newly earned wealth, a growing cadre of highly educated men and women, and the confidence that achievements in space will bring substantial soft power as well as military benefits. The planet-wide eagerness to join the space-faring club is palpable. China has sent men into space twice in the past five years and plans another manned mission in October. More than any other country besides the United States, experts say, China has decided that space exploration, and its commercial and military purposes, are as important as the seas once were to the British empire and air power was to the United States. The Chinese space program began in the 1970s, but it was not until 2003 that astronaut Yang Liwei was blasted into space in a Shenzhou 5 spacecraft, making China one of only three nations to send men into space. "The Chinese have a carefully thought-out human spaceflight program that will take them up to parity with the United States and Russia," Griffin said. "They're investing to make China a strategic world power second to none -- not so much to become a grand military power, but because deals and advantage flow to world leaders." Meanwhile, other nations are pushing to increase their space budgets. Ministers from the European Space Agency nations will vote in November on a costly plan to begin a human space program. David Southwood, ESA's director for science, said human space travel has broad support across the continent, and European astronauts who have flown to the space station on U.S. and Russian spacecraft are "extremely popular people" in their home nations. "It seems highly unlikely that Europe as a whole will opt out of putting humans into space," he said.

Space Hegemony Unsustainable – weak aerospace industry means it will inevitably collapse
<span class="Author-Date">AAIA 11 (AAIA</span> – American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, the world’s largest professional society devoted to the progress of engineering and science in aviation, space, and defense, (20<span class="Author-Date">11</span>, Public Policy , “AIAA Publishes Report And Recommendations On Workforce Development”, http://www.aiaa.org/content.cfm?pageid=768)
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The regeneration of our professional workforce is the leading challenge confronting the aerospace community. The aerospace workforce is aging, and too few young people are choosing engineering and science careers. The “silver tsunami” of retirements, a potential shortfall of engineering graduates, and an inability to retain and inspire top new talent combine to define this challenge. Key elements of the problem are an inadequate number of engineering graduates, a lack of diversity in the aerospace fields, and past industry hire-and-layoff practices. Aerospace has not been able to capitalize on two-thirds of the nation’s future workforce, specifically women and minorities. Our cyclical business, coupled with a lack of inspirational activities and role models, have created a nationwide image that fails to attract and retain the desired workforce. Unless this trend is reversed, the aerospace industry cannot survive and flourish.</span>
===Heg Sustainable=== 

Heg is sustainable – US has dominance in all areas of power and its not going anywhere
Brooks and Wohlforth 08 Associate Professor of Government in the Department of Government at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dartmouth_College|Dartmouth College]] and Professor of Government in the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dartmouth_College|Dartmouth College]] Department of Government (Stephen and William, World Out of Balance, pg 27- 31)
“<span class="HeaderChar">Nothing has ever existed like this disparity of power;</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">nothing,” historian Paul Kennedy observes: “I have returned to all of the comparative defense spending and military personnel statistics over the past 500 years that I compiled in The Rise and Fall of the Great Powers, and no other nation comes close.” Though assessments of U.S. power have changed since those words were written in 2002, they remain true. Even when capabilities are understood broadly to includ</span>e <span class="HeaderChar">economic, technological, and other wellsprings of national power, they are concentrated in the United States to a degree never before experienced in the history of the modern system of states and thus never contemplated by balance-of-power theorists. The United spends more on defense than all the other major military powers combined, and most of those powers are its allies. Its massive investments in the human, institutional, and technological requisites of military power, cumulated over many decades, make any effort to match U.S. capabilities even more daunting that the gross spending numbers imply</span>. <span class="HeaderChar">Military</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">research and development</span> (<span class="HeaderChar">R&D</span>) <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">may best capture the scale of the long-term investment that</span> <span class="HeaderChar">give the United States a dramatic qualitative edge in military capabilities</span>. <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">As table 2.1 shows, in 2004 U.S. military R&D expenditures were more than six times greater than those of Germany, Japan, France, and Britain combined. By some estimates over half the military R&D expenditures in the world are American. And</span> <span class="HeaderChar">this disparity has been sustained for decades:</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">over the past 30 years, for example, the United States has invested over three times more than the entire European Union on military R&D. These vast commitments have created a preeminence in military capabilities vis-à-vis all the other major powers that is unique after the seventeenth century. While other powers could contest U.S. forces near their homelands, especially over issues on which nuclear deterrence is credible, the</span> <span class="HeaderChar">United States is and will long remain the only state capable of projecting major military power globally. This capacity arises from “command of the commons” – that is, unassailable military dominance over the sea, air, and space</span>. <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">As Barry Posen puts it, Command of the commons is the key military enabler of the U.S global power position</span>. <span class="HeaderChar">It allows the United States to exploit more fully other sources of power, including its own economic and military might as well as the economic and military might of its allies</span>. <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Command of the commons also helps the United States to weaken its adversaries, by restricting their access to economic, military, and political assistance…</span>.<span class="HeaderChar">Command of the commons provides the United States with more useful military potential for a hegemonic foreign policy than any other offshore power has ever had.</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Posen’s study of American military primacy ratifies Kennedy’s emphasis on the historical importance of the economic foundations of national power.</span> <span class="HeaderChar">It is the combination of military and economic potential that sets the United States apart from its predecessors at the top of the international system. Previous leading states were either great commercial and naval powers or great military powers on land, never both.</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The British Empire in its heyday and the United States during the Cold War, for example, shared the world with other powers that matched or exceeded them in some areas. Even at the height of the Pax Britannica, the United Kingdom was outspent, outmanned, and outgunned by both France and Russia. Similarly, at the dawn of the Cold War the United States was dominant economically as well as in air and naval capabilities. But the Soviet Union retained overall military parity, and thanks to geography and investment in land power it had a superior ability to seize territory in Eurasia. </span><span class="HeaderChar">The United States’ share of world GDP in 2006, 27.5 percent, surpassed that of any leading state in modern history</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, with the sole exception of its own position after 1945 (when World War II had temporarily depressed every other major economy).</span> <span class="HeaderChar">The size of the U.S economy means that its massive military capabilities required roughly 4 percent of its GDP in 2005, far less than the nearly 10 percent it averaged over the peak years of the Cold War, 1950-70, and the burden borne by most of the major powers of the past. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">As Kennedy sums up, “Being Number One at great cost is one thing; being the world’s single superpower on the cheap is astonishing</span>.”



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">U.S. hegemony is sustainable---military </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Mullen 2/8/11 (M.G. Mullen, admiral of the U.S. navy and chairman of the joint chiefs of staff. The National Military Strategy of the United States of America, Joint chiefs of staff. 2/8/11, Page 8, http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/nms/nms.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Defeat Aggression: The core task of our Armed Forces remains to defend our Nation and win its wars. To do so, </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">we</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> must </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">provide capabilities to defeat adversary aggression. Military force</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">, at times, may be </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">necessary to defend our Nation and allies or to preserve broader peace and security.</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Seeking to adhere to international standards</span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">, the United States will use military force in concert with allies and partners whenever possible, while reserving the right to act alone if necessary. Across a wide range of contingencies, military leaders will provide our Nation’s leadership with options of how the military can help achieve the Nation’s objectives.</span>

Perception
Drezner 9 - Professor of International Politics at the Fletcher School at Tufts University, senior editor at The National Interest, author (Daniel W., "The False Hegemon," The National Interest, http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=21858, 7/15/09)
The rest of the world certainly seems to treat America as the hegemonic power, for good or ill. According to the New York Times, Latin America is waiting for the United States to break the deadlock in Honduras. Vladimir Putin is incapable of giving a foreign-policy speech in which he does not blast American hegemony as the root of all of Russia’s ills. While Chinese officials talk tough about ending the dollar’s reign as the world’s reserve currency, its leaders also want America to solve the current economic crisis and to take the lead on global warming in the process. It’s not just foreign leaders who are obsessed with American hegemony. Last week, in an example of true hardship duty, I taught a short course in American foreign policy at the Barcelona Institute for International Studies. The students in my class represented a true cross section of nationalities: Spaniards, Germans, Brits, Estonian, Chinese, Vietnamese, Indian, Thai, Ghanaian, Kenyan, Turkish, Belgian, Mexican, Nicaraguan and, yes, even Americans. I cannot claim that my students represent a scientific cross section of non-Americans (one of them complained that I did not rely on Marxism as a structural explanation for American foreign policy). Still, by and large the students were bright, well informed about world affairs and cautiously optimistic about President Obama. That said, a persistent trend among my students was their conviction that the U.S. government was the world’s puppeteer, consciously manipulating every single event in world politics. For example, many of them were convinced that George W. Bush ordered Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili to precipitate last year’s war with Russia. The Ghanaian students wanted to know why Obama visited their country last week. The standard “promotion of good democratic governance” answer did not satisfy them. They were convinced that there had to be some deeper, potentially sinister motive to the whole enterprise. Don’t even ask what they thought about the reasons behind the war in Iraq. To be sure, the United States is a powerful actor; the government is trying to influence global events (and Americans are not immune to their own misperceptions). And good social scientists should always search for underlying causes and not take rhetoric at face value. Nevertheless, the belief in an all-powerful America hatching conspiracies left and right frequently did not jibe with the facts. For many of these students, even apparent policy mistakes were merely examples of American subterfuge. Ironically, at the moment when many Americans are questioning the future of U.S. hegemony, many non-Americans continue to believe that the U.S. government is diabolically manipulating events behind the scenes. Going forward, the persistence of anti-Americanism in the age of Obama might have nothing to do with the president, or his rhetoric or even U.S. government actions. It might, instead, have to do with the congealed habits of thought that place the United States at the epicenter of all global movings and shakings. The tragedy is that such an exaggerated perception of American power and purpose is occurring at precisely the moment when the United States will need to scale back its global ambitions. Indeed, the external perception of U.S. omnipresence will make the pursuit of a more modest U.S. foreign policy all the more difficult. The Obama administration has consciously adopted a more modest posture in the hopes of improving America’s standing abroad. If the rest of the world genuinely believes that the United States causes everything, however, then the attempt at modesty will inevitably fail.



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]