[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
Email [[mailto:jacobtucker@rowlandhall.org|jacobtucker@rowlandhall.org]] for cite requests.
==Plan Text - NDCA== 
Plan: The Department of Defense should substantially increase its development of defensive, space-based nanotechnology including launch on demand, small satellite development, reconstitution, maneuverability, and hardening capabilities.
==Nanotech Regulation Advantage - Round 4 NDCA== 
Contention 3: Regulation
Nanotech is humanity’s final arms race – the first nano-power will have total control over the world for the rest of human existence
Marlow 4 (John, Interview on the Superswarm Option, Nanotechnology Now, February, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nanotech-now.com/John-Marlow-Superswarm-interview-Feb04.htm]]</span>, JT)

Marlow's 2nd Paradox As stated in the Nano
AND
to lose, and the world to gain.


China will weaponize nanotechnology. Only the United States can be trusted for peaceful development
Navrozov 9 (Lev, prominent Russian writer, translator, and journalist, March 26, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.newsmax.com/navrozov/china-nanoweapons/2009/03/26/id/329078]]</span>, accessed: 10 April 2012)

Let us now see how nanoweapons have been
AND
of peaceful nano commodities, and no nanoweapons.


If China succeeds, it will develop nanoweapons for offensive purposes – private sector development ensures a Chinese victory and preemptive strikes against the US. American victory in the arms race solves extinction.
Marlow 4 (John, writer@NanoNews Now Monthly Report, “Nanosecurity and the Future (if Any),” a publication of Nanotechnology Now, April, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://johnrobertmarlow.com/a_homedex.html]]</span>, JT)

The Chinese Question According to an October,
AND
Defense Science and Engineering Committee. [17]


Unregulated Nanotech sparks a massive arms race and collapses deterrence
Treder and Phoenix 7 (Mike, consultant to the Millennium Project of the American Council for the United Nations University and to the Future Technologies Advisory Group, Chris, CRN’s directory of research,Center for Responsible Nanotechnology, Results of Our Ongoing Research, April 16, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.crnano.org/overview.htm]]</span>, JT)

Nanotech weapons would be extremely powerful and could
AND
the chance of a regional conflict blowing up.


Military development avoids our impacts
Reynolds 2 (Gleen, law@U of Tennessee, “Forward to the Future: Nanotechnology and Regulatory Policy,” Pacific Research Institute, November, JT)


PAINT IT BLACK One approach short of prohibition
AND
might similarly be induced to love Big Brother.


Quick US development is key to prevent unregulated development by corporations and nations, which results in Arms Races, collapse of the global economy and all scenarios for conflict as preemptive wars erupt to ensure dominance
Treder and Phoenix 7 (Mike, consultant to the Millennium Project of the American Council for the United Nations University and to the Future Technologies Advisory Group, Chris, CRN’s directory of research,Center for Responsible Nanotechnology, Results of Our Ongoing Research, April 16, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.crnano.org/overview.htm]]</span>, JT)

Overview: The Center for Responsible Nanotechnology has
AND
but any risk must be balanced against it.

Additionally, being the first to develop defensive nanotechnology is especially critical to preventing an international nano-arms race and extinction from grey-goo
Freitas 6 (Robert, senior research fellow@Institute for Melecular Manufacturing, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.rfreitas.com/Nano/MMDangerous.pdf]]</span>, p. 15-18, accessed: 8 April 2012, JT)

One common argument against pursuing a molecular assembler
AND
disease or solve important environmental problems would suffer.

Government R&D prevents Grey Goo, theft, hacking, and copyright infringement, solving nanotech black markets
Treder and Phoenix 7 (Mike, consultant to the Millennium Project of the American Council for the United Nations University and to the Future Technologies Advisory Group, Chris, CRN’s directory of research,Center for Responsible Nanotechnology, Results of Our Ongoing Research, April 16, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.crnano.org/overview.htm]]</span>, JT)

Nanotech must be restricted somewhat. We can't
AND
, it would not pass the novelty test.

Grey goo development causes extinction
Joy 2k (Bill, chief scientist@Sun Microsystems, “why the future doesn’t need us,” Wired, April, JT)

Unfortunately, as with nuclear technology, it
AND
that could stem from a simple laboratory accident.

Contention 4: Solvency
Space is key – microgravity allows for the optimization of multiple nanotech applications
VDI Technology Center, ‘3 [ Contributing Authors:Dr. G. Bachmann, Prof. Dr. D. Bimberg, Dr. K. Brunner, Prof. Dr. S. Fasoulas, P. Gawlitza, Prof. Dr. B. Günther, Dr. R. Janovsky, K.-O. Jung, Dr. G. Krötz, Prof. Dr. P. Leiderer, S. Manhart, Dr. A. Mühlratzer, Dr. H. Presting, Prof. Dr. G. Reiss, Dr. R. Schlitt, Dr. B. Schultrich, Dr. W. Seboldt, D. Sporn, Dr. T. Stuffler, T. Völker, Prof. Dr. S. Will “Applications of Nanotechnology in Space Developments and Systems” http://media.nanotech-now.com/pdf/space-nanotechnology-VDI.pdf

The application of microgravity as research instrument for
AND
the year 2005/2006.63,64


Additionally, DoD cooperation with the private sector is key to high-risk nanotech developments - expertise and sustained support.
Young 7 (John, director of defense research&engineering@DoD, April 26, “Defense Nanotechnology Research and Development Program,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fas.org/irp/agency/dod/nano2007.pdf|www.fas.org/irp/agency/dod/nano2007.pdf]]</span>, JT)

The DoD nanotechnology program is a direct result
AND
focused on key opportunities emerging from nanotechnology research. 



Only federal funding ensures swift development – other agents’ progress stagnates because of perceptual risks
Sargent 8 (John, specialist in Science and Tech Policy in the Resources, Science, and Industry Division, “Nanotechnolgoy and U.S. Competitiveness,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://fpc.state.gov/documents/organization/106153.pdf]]</span>)

Much of the public dialogue on how the
AND
able to capture their economic and societal benefits.



==Nanotech Affirmative - State== 
Plan: The Department of Defense should substantially increase its development of nanotechnology and deploy it beyond the earth’s mesosphere.

===Contention One: Inherency=== 
First, Nanotechnology is inevitable by 2020.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Treder and Phoenix, 2007</span> (Mike,- Executive Director of CRN, BS Biology, University of Washington, Research Fellow with the Institute for Ethics and Emerging Technologies, a consultant to the Millennium Project, Center For Responsible Nanotechnology, Results of Our Ongoing Research, Last Updated April 16, 2007. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.crnano.org/overview.html]]</span>

Early development of molecular nanotechnology increases some risks
AND
. Unfortunately, the <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.crnano.org/dangers.htm|risks]]</span> are also immense.
However, Shrinking manufacturing capacity means the US will not develop in the status quo
Paul <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Roberts 2005</span>, “US Falling Behind Across the Board,” 7/27/05. Paul Craig Roberts (born April 3, 1939, in Atlanta, Georgia) is an economist and a nationally syndicated columnist for Creators Syndicate. He served as an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury in the Reagan Administration earning fame as the "Father of Reaganomics". He is a former editor and columnist for the Wall Street Journal, Business Week, and Scripps Howard News Service. He is a graduate of the Georgia Institute of Technology and he holds a Ph.D. from the University of Virginia. He was a post-graduate at the University of California, Berkeley, and Oxford University where he was a member of Merton College. In 1992 he received the Warren Brookes Award for Excellence in Journalism. In 1993 the Forbes Media Guide ranked him as one of the top seven journalists in the United States.[1] <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.counterpunch.org/roberts07272005.html]]</span>

On Monday, I reported that the US
AND
on nanotech R&D than the US.


===Contention 2: Calculation of the Rebels=== 
ORS is currently the predominant deterrence strategy – massive budget increases
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">McCain December 17</span> (John, republican senator from Arizona, “REMARKS BY SENATOR JOHN McCAIN ON THE CONFERENCE REPORT OF THE FY2012 OMNIBUS APPROPRIATIONS BILL,” accessed: 5 January 2012, LexisNexis, JT)

* "The budget requested $86 million
AND
will not solve our systemic space acquisition problems.

ORS was a good step, but it’s not enough. Other countries will keep developing satellites that are better. Nanotechnology creates assured deterrence for decades to come. Without a strong investment now, space weaponization is inevitable.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Colon 10</span> (Miguel, Lt Col in USAF – deputy commander of Space Group responsible for testing space and missle weapon systems, “Deterrence 2035 – The Role of Transparency and Diversity in a World of Nanosats,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[https://www.afresearch.org]]</span>, JT)

A New Approach to Space Deterrence The book
AND
dictate not to attack; effectively deterring him.

Current vulnerabilities in US space assets invite attacks from multiple adversaries—a broad deterrence strategy beyond the threat of retaliation is necessary to defend against different military doctrines.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rendleman 10</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;"> (James, Col in US Air force, Astropolitics 8(220), “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco, JT)</span>

The 11 January 2007 test of a Chinese
AND
to counter new 21st Century adversary attack capabilities.

Space attacks are inevitable in the status quo because of reliance on space for terrestrial warfare.
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Smith 11</span>(M.V., Colonel, PhD in Politics and IR @ University of Reading, Citing Colin Gray, “Chapter 17: Security and Spacepower, Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]]</span>)</span></span>

It is a rule in strategy, one
AND
once or stretch them slowly over time.21

40 countries are on the brink of space weapons – the US must act now to guarantee safe access to space and prevent conflict.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Donahue 10</span>(Jack, Major in USAF, April, “CATASTROPHE ON THE HORIZON: A SCENARIO-BASED FUTURE EFFECT OF ORBITAL SPACE DEBRIS,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_af691818-359f-4999-be24-f88ca154bd94/display.aspx?rs=enginespage]]</span>, accessed: 2 September 2011)

Currently, the configuration of global space technologies
AND
) and becoming potential hazards to other satellites.


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Specifically, China will weaponize space – the US must maintain leadership to prevent PLA control of power</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheng January 18</span>** (Dean, research fellow in Asian Studies@Heritage, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2012/01/us-needs-to-meet-chinas-space-challenge-of-the-next-5-years]]</span>, accessed: 24 January 2012, JT)

The decision to pursue such systems provides an
AND
.S. should not ignore its implications.


The PLA is more likely to initiate a space attack in a crisis because of miscalculation and instability.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MacDonald 11</span>(Bruce, Sen Dir Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program@U.S. Institute of Peace, May 11, “MILITARY AND CIVIL SPACE PROGRAMS IN CHINA,” Testimony before congress, accessed: 5 September 2011, LexisNexis)

One characteristic of too many wars in the
AND
for crisis and conflict in the years ahead.

Conflict causes a US-China nuclear war.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Forden 8</span>(Geoffrey, PhD and Research Associate at MIT, “How China Loses the Coming Space War (Pt. 2),” 1/10, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2008/01/inside-the-ch-1/]]</span>,)

The United States has five satellites in geostationary
AND
a nuclear war without a clear military goal.
US China war escalates to extinction
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheong 2k</span>(Ching, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Lexis)</span>
THE high-intensity scenario postulates a cross
AND
, we would see the destruction of civilization.

Independently, perceived vulnerability causes the US to preemptively strike China—that escalates

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tellis, 7</span>(Ashley, Senior Associate at Carnegie, Survival, Autumn, “China’s Military Space Strategy”, ingenta)

Finally, the growing Chinese capability for
AND
added complications of accidents and further misperception.96


Deterrence prevents weaponization of space
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Krepon et al, 11 </span>– President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, also Theresa Hitchens, Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and Michael Katz-Hyman, Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space Security and South Asia Projects (Michael, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)

Because the use of weapons in or from
AND
tests and deployments are both unwise and unnecessary.

Unchecked, the weaponization of space causes miscalculation leading to nuclear and biological warfare
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mitchell 1</span> [Gordon R., Member of the Center for Strategic and International Studies Working Group on Theater Missile Defenses in the Asia-Pacific Region., Winter “Japan-U.S. Missile Defense Collaboration: Rhetorically Delicious, Deceptively Dangerous”, **http://www.pitt.edu/~gordonm/JPubs/JapanTMD.pdf**]

Any clear-cut distinction between offensive and
AND
into the most destructive military conflict ever seen.



===Contention 3: Coolest kid on the playground=== 
**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">China will use its growing space dominance to neutralize American hegemony – the US must stay ahead in space</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Radhakrishna January 3</span>** (Rao, Institute of Peace and Conflict Studies, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ipcs.org/article/china/china-in-outer-space-a-strategy-for-global-supremacy-3547.html]]</span>, accessed: 24 January 2012, JT)

A recently unveiled white paper spells out the
AND
by the technology management consulting firm Futron Corp.



**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Multiple threats to US hegemony are coming because of technological gaps – that will destroy space leadership.</span>**
Eva S. **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jenkins </span>**3/18/20**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">09 </span>**– Colonel; Vice Commander of the Air Force Technical Applications Center, Patrick Air Force Base, Fla; B.S. in mathematics at University of Miami; winner of the Defense Meritorious Service Medal with two oak leaf clusters, Meritorious Service Medal with one oak leaf cluster, Joint Service Achievement Medal Air Force Commendation Medal with oak leaf cluster (NANOTECHNOLOGY – ENABLING FUTURE SPACE VIABILITY)

Addressing the Challenges. What will U.
AND
may hold the key to overcoming the challenges.

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Leadership in space is crucial to maintaining hegemony</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Young 8</span>** (A. Thomas, chairman of Institute for Defense Analysis, July, “Leadership, Management, and Organization for National Security Space,” accessed: 4 September 2011, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://dodreports.com/pdf/ada486551.pdf]]</span>, JT)

Today, U.S. leadership in
AND
are predicated upon the availability of space capabilities.

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Sustaining US military dominance is key to maintaining heg</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thayer 7</span>** (Bradley, associate professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University, “American Empire: A Debate”, Routledge, pg 43-44)

Another critical question is not simply how much
AND
like-minded states to advance common interests.

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Nanotech facilitates continued US dominance in space – that’s key to our warfighting capabilities and overall hegemony</span>**
Eva S. **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jenkins </span>**3/18/20**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">09 </span>**– Colonel; Vice Commander of the Air Force Technical Applications Center, Patrick Air Force Base, Fla; B.S. in mathematics at University of Miami; winner of the Defense Meritorious Service Medal with two oak leaf clusters, Meritorious Service Medal with one oak leaf cluster, Joint Service Achievement Medal Air Force Commendation Medal with oak leaf cluster (NANOTECHNOLOGY – ENABLING FUTURE SPACE VIABILITY)

The U.S. is at a
AND
space viability and dominance in 2035 and beyond.

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">The impact is massive transition wars across the globe that lead to extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brzezinski 5</span>**(Zbigniew National Security Advisor in the Carter Administration, Professor of Foreign Policy at Johns Hopkins University, “The Choice: Global Domination or Global Leadership”, p. 2-4)

History is a record of change, a
AND
common effort to shape a secure international environment.

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">American leadership solves nuclear wars in every region</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Khalilzad 11</span>** (Zalmay, previous US ambassador to Afghanistan/Iran/UN now counselor@CSIS, February 8, “The Economy and National Security,” The national Review Online, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad?page=2]]</span>, JT)

We face this domestic challenge while other major
AND
most significant barrier facing Chinese hegemony and aggression.

And, a peaceful transition to multipolarity is impossible – realism, power politics, and interventionism are inevitable. There is no alternative to American power.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brzezinski 2/1</span> (2/1/2012, Zbigniew Brzezinski, National Security Advisor in the Carter Administration, Professor of Foreign Policy at Johns Hopkins University, “Global stability depends on America not collapsing: Superiority of Washington's military and economic power creates order where there would normally be conflict,” Washington Post, http://gulfnews.com/opinions/columnists/global-stability-depends-on-america-not-collapsing-1.974027) CS
Not so long ago, a high-
AND
itself for a dangerous slide into global turmoil.

===Contention 4: We’re burning up down here=== 
Warming is real, anthropogenic, and happening now.
Braganza 11 (Karl, climate monitor at the Bureau of Meteorology in Australia, “The greenhouse effect is real: here’s why,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://the]]</span>conversation.edu.au/the-greenhouse-effect-is-real-heres-why-1515)

In public discussions of climate change, the
AND
greenhouse gases will cause rapid future warming is irrefutable
The impact is extinction
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tickell 8</span> (Oliver, Environmental Researcher, The Guardian, August 11, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]]</span>, JT)

We need to get prepared for four degrees
AND
emissions could propel us towards a similar hothouse Earth

Nanotechnology will allow for the production of clean energy solutions, preventing the greenhouse gas emissions that cause warming
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Peterson and Heller 7</span> (Christine, prez of foresight institute, Jacob, policy associate@Foresight Institute, //Nanoethics: The Ethical and Social Implications of// Nanotechnology, p. 59-60, GoogleBooks, JT)

Today's patterns of energy use are not environmentally
AND
energy to those who cannot access it today.
===Contention 4: Solvency=== 
Nanotech ensures the long-term effectiveness of space assets and preserves our competitiveness, but further government investment is needed.
Eva S. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jenkins </span>3/18/20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">09 </span>– Colonel; Vice Commander of the Air Force Technical Applications Center, Patrick Air Force Base, Fla; B.S. in mathematics at University of Miami; winner of the Defense Meritorious Service Medal with two oak leaf clusters, Meritorious Service Medal with one oak leaf cluster, Joint Service Achievement Medal Air Force Commendation Medal with oak leaf cluster (NANOTECHNOLOGY – ENABLING FUTURE SPACE VIABILITY)

It is hard to imagine life in the
AND
. Space is the frontier of the future.

==ORS Aff== 

**Plan Text -<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;"> The United States federal government should substantially increase the development of Operationally Responsive Space capabilities, including a military launch infrastructure that allows for launch on demand, small satellite development, reconstitution, maneuverability, and hardening of military satellites.</span>**



===**Deterrence Advantage –**=== 

**Current vulnerabilities in US space assets invite attacks is necessary to defend against different military doctrines.**
**Rendleman 10** (James, Col in US Air force, Astropolitics 8(220), “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco, JT)
The 11 January 2007 test of a Chinese … to counter new 21st Century adversary attack capabilities.

**Space attacks are inevitable in the status quo because of reliance on space for terrestrial warfare.**
**Smith 11** (M.V., Colonel, PhD in Politics and IR @ University of Reading, Citing Colin Gray, “Chapter 17: Security and Spacepower, Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]])
__It is a rule in strategy, one … once or stretch them slowly over time__.21

**40 countries are on the brink of space guarantee safe access to space and prevent conflict.**
**Donahue 10** (Jack, Major in USAF, April, “CATASTROPHE ON THE HORIZON: A SCENARIO-BASED FUTURE EFFECT OF ORBITAL SPACE DEBRIS,” [[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_af691818-359f-4999-be24-f88ca154bd94/display.aspx?rs=enginespage]], accessed: 2 September 2011)
Currently, the configuration of global space technologies… and becoming potential hazards to other satellites.

**Any attack would destroy power projection and global leadership.**
**Farfour and Yee 08** (George R. Farfour and Kenneth E. Yee, commander, 595th Operations Support Squadron, 595th Space Group, Space Innovation and Development Center, at Schriever AFB in Colorado and a National Defense Intelligence College and operations officer, 595th Operations Support Squadron, 595th Space Group, Space Innovation and Development Center at Schriever AFB in Colorado. No Space Capabilities—No Joint Fight, High Frontier Volume 4 Number. February 2008. Pages 38-39. http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-080226-050.pdf)
__Taken together, a coordinated assault on ground … **impacts** look like a **speed bump** by comparison**.**__

**Satellites are key to stopping proliferation, fighting terrorism, and maintaining US national security.**
**Imburgia 11** (Joseph S., author in Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational Law; “Space Debris and Its Threat to National Security: A Proposal for a Binding International Agreement to Clean Up the Junk.” May 2011 http://web.ebscohost.com/ehost/detail?sid=6e7410a9-26b2-454c-a808-c656e99bad12%40sessionmgr15&vid=2&hid=15&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWhvc3QtbGl2ZQ%3d%3d S1H)
These gloomy prognostications about the threats to our… __and actors from acquiring or using WMD__.”**165**

**Specifically, China is preparing to attack US are too minimal to be a credible deterrent.**
**Sejba 10**- Lt Col Timothy A. Sejba, BS, Computer Engineering, Univer- sity of Minnesota-Duluth, MBA, San Jose State University, congressional budget liaison officer, budget and appropriations liaison directorate, deputy assistant secretary for budget, Secretary of the Air Force, May 2010, “Deterrence for Space: Is Operationally Responsive Space Part of the Solution?” //High Frontier Journal//, pg 39-43, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA521878&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf
__People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) view of space …. to the need for new deterrence practices.__

**The PLA is more likely to initiate a space attack in a crisis because of miscalculation and instability.**
**MacDonald 11** (Bruce, Sen Dir Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program@U.S. Institute of Peace, May 11, “MILITARY AND CIVIL SPACE PROGRAMS IN CHINA,” Testimony before congress, accessed: 5 September 2011, LexisNexis)
__One characteristic of too many wars **in the …**for crisis and conflict__ in the years ahead.

**Conflict causes a US-China nuclear war.**
**Forden 8** (Geoffrey, PhD and Research Associate at MIT, “How China Loses the Coming Space War (Pt. 2),” 1/10, [[http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2008/01/inside-the-ch-1/]],)
__The United States has__ five __satellites__ in geostationary… __a **nuclear war** without a clear military goal.__

**Extinction [Replace with Mikee’s Card]**
**Cheong 2k** (Ching, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Lexis)
THE high-intensity scenario postulates __a cross__… __we would see the **destruction of civilization**.__

**ORS provides a credible deterrent and limits the result of any attack that occurres.**
**Sejba 10** (Timothy, Secretary of the Air Force, May, “Deterrence for Space: Is Operationally Responsive Space Part of the Solution?” High Frontier, 6(3), p. 39, accessed: 5 September 2011)
__The space domain**, often referred to as… by attacking the asymmetric advantages enabled by space.**__

**And the deterrent ORS provides also prevents weaponization of space**
**Krepon et al, 11** – President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, also Theresa Hitchens, Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and Michael Katz-Hyman, Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space Security and South Asia Projects (Michael, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]])
__Because the use of weapons in or from…__ tests and deployments are both unwise and unnecessary.

**With further investment technology for responsive space will be ready to use.**
**Felt 10-** Lt Col Eric J. Felt, PhD, Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, University of California, Berkeley, commander of the Space Test Operations Squadron, Space Test Group, Space Development and Test Wing, Kirtland AFB, New Mexico, May 2010, “Responsive Space Funding Challenges and Solutions: Avoiding a Tragedy of the Commons,” //High Frontier Journal//, pg 27-32, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA521878&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf
__Technology advances making small satellites more militarily useful**…** toward smaller responsive space systems will further accelerate__.


===**Hegemony Advantage –**=== 
**First is surveillance:**
**Current SSA capabilities are inadequate because of old systems and coverage gaps- ORS solves through joint operations.**
**Sejba 10**- Lt Col Timothy A. Sejba, BS, Computer Engineering, Univer- sity of Minnesota-Duluth, MBA, San Jose State University, congressional budget liaison officer, budget and appropriations liaison directorate, deputy assistant secretary for budget, Secretary of the Air Force, May 2010, “Deterrence for Space: Is Operationally Responsive Space Part of the Solution?” //High Frontier Journal//, pg 39-43, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA521878&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf
__One area of greatest concern to the US … true on-orbit ORS Tier 1 capability.__

**Information superiority in space is critical to sustaining hegemony.**
**Baines 5-** Philip J, Senior Advisor, Science and Technology, Non-Proliferation, Arms Control and Disarmament Division, Department of Foreign Affairs, United Nations Institute of Disarmament Research, March 21-22 2005, “Safeguarding Space Security: Prevention of an Arms Race in Outer Space” kms1.isn.ethz.ch/.../Files/.../2005_SafeguardingSpaceSecurity-full.pdf
This leads to an argument that __outer space…__ against an opposing space-based weapon deployment.

**Space surveillance capabilities are necessary in order to solve terrorism**
**Discovery News 11** (Irene Klotz, Reporter, Discovery News, Mini Spy Satellites to Track Terrorists, Discovery News, 6/7/11, http://news.discovery.com/space/cubesat-spy-satellites-terrorists-110607.html, KR)
__Keeping an eye on terrorists from space has ..__. All objectives were achieved," Ticer wrote.

**Nuclear terrorism causes extinction- escalation from nuclear tensions**
**Morgan 9**(Dennis Ray, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies in South Korea, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race”, July 10, Futures 41 (2009) 683–693)-
In a remarkable website on nuclear war… __upon the environment and fragile ecosphere as well.__

**Second is the aerospace industry:**
**ORS solves current problems by mitigating the risks caused by pursuing exquisite systems and by spurring innovation**
**Felt 10-** Lt Col Eric J. Felt, PhD, Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, University of California, Berkeley, commander of the Space Test Operations Squadron, Space Test Group, Space Development and Test Wing, Kirtland AFB, New Mexico, May 2010, “Responsive Space Funding Challenges and Solutions: Avoiding a Tragedy of the Commons,” //High Frontier Journal//, pg 27-32, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA521878&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf
__Quantity and quality of space capabilities needed__… __budget shortfalls, not part of the cause**.**__

**A strong Aerospace industry drives economic growth – purely private sector approaches guarantee failure.**
**Hernnstadt 8** – Director of Trade and Globalization @ IAMAW
Owen, director of the Trade and Globalization www.sharedprosperity.org/bp201.html
__Aerospace is an especially important industry for **a …**__ U.S. Department of Labor 2004).

**The U.S. is key to the global economy**
**Caploe 9** (David Caploe is CEO of the Singapore-incorporated American Centre for Applied Liberal Arts and Humanities in Asia., “Focus still on America to lead global recovery”, April 7, The Strait Times, lexis)
IN THE aftermath of the G-20… thus ravaging the American and global economies.

**Continued economic decline triggers every impact**
**Green and Schrage 9** (Michael Green, Associate Professor of International Relations at the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University and a Senior Adviser and Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Steven P Schrage, CSIS Scholl Chair in International Business and a former senior official with the US Trade Representative's Office, “It's not just the economy”, March 26, [[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Asian_Economy/KC26Dk01.html]])
Facing the worst economic crisis since the… negotiated with allies like South Korea and Columbia.

**A collapsing aerospace sector also takes down important divisions of US hegemony**
**Walker et al 2** Robert Walker, et cal, Chair of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners, 2002, “Final Report of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners,” [[http://www.trade.gov/td/aerospace/aerospacecommission/AeroCommissionFinalReport.pdf]]
Defending our nation against its enemies is the… __our position as the **world’s preeminent military power.**__

**The impact is massive transition wars across the globe**
**Brzezinski 5** (Zbigniew National Security Advisor in the Carter Administration, Professor of Foreign Policy at Johns Hopkins University, “The Choice: Global Domination or Global Leadership”, p. 2-4)
History is a record of change… common effort to shape a secure international environment.

**Transition wars guarantee extinction**
**Nye 90** (Joseph, University Distinguished Service Professor and Sultan of Oman Professor of International Relations at Harvard University., “Bound to Lead: The Changing Nature of American Power”, 17-18)
__Perceptions of change in the relative power of …__ two nations have dominated the balance of power.

**American leadership solves nuclear wars in every region**
**Khalilzad 11**- Zalmay Khalilzad, served as U.S. ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations, now serves as a counselor to the Center for Strategic and International Studies, February 8, 2011, “The Economy and National Security,” The National Review Online, http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad?page=2
We face this domestic challenge while other major … __most significant barrier facing Chinese hegemony and aggression__.

**Vulnerabilities have put US hegemony on the brink – only ORS can sustain space capabilities and reinvigorate heg**
**Sheridan 10** (John, commander of US Space and Missile Systems Center&exec officer, May, “Operationally Responsive Space and the National Security Space Architecture,” High Frontier, 6(3), p. 3, accessed: 3 September 2011, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA521878&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]], JT)
__For nearly 60 years, the US has **…** responsive capabilities at the operational and tactical levels__**.**







==**Nanotech Aff - Gonzaga**== 
**Advantage 1: Deterrence**
**Current vulnerabilities in US space assets invite attacks from multiple adversaries—a broad deterrence strategy beyond the threat of retaliation is necessary to defend against different military doctrines.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rendleman 10</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;"> (James, Col in US Air force, Astropolitics 8(220), “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco, JT)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">The 11 January 2007 test of a Chinese </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">to counter new 21st Century adversary attack capabilities</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">.</span>

**ORS is currently the predominant deterrence strategy – massive budget increases**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">McCain December 17</span> (John, republican senator from Arizona, “REMARKS BY SENATOR JOHN McCAIN ON THE CONFERENCE REPORT OF THE FY2012 OMNIBUS APPROPRIATIONS BILL,” accessed: 5 January 2012, LexisNexis, JT)

* "The budget requested $86 million
AND
will not solve our systemic space acquisition problems.

**ORS will inevitably fail – launch costs and reliance on political climate.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brown, 6</span> – Lt Col, USAFR, PhD liquid-rocket-engine system engineer at the NASA Marshall Space Flight Center and a researcher at the College of Aerospace Doctrine (6/1/06, Kendall K., Air & Space Power Journal, “Is Operationally Responsive Space the Future of Access to Space for the US Air Force?,” http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj06/sum06/brown.html, Sawyer)


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">From this history of the responsive launch vehicle</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Force budget caused by aircraft-recapitalization needs.</span>

**Space attacks are inevitable in the status quo because of reliance on space for terrestrial warfare.**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Smith 11</span>(M.V., Colonel, PhD in Politics and IR @ University of Reading, Citing Colin Gray, “Chapter 17: Security and Spacepower, Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]]</span>)</span>

It is a rule in strategy, one
AND
once or stretch them slowly over time.21

**40 countries are on the brink of space weapons – the US must act now to guarantee safe access to space and prevent conflict.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Donahue 10</span>(Jack, Major in USAF, April, “CATASTROPHE ON THE HORIZON: A SCENARIO-BASED FUTURE EFFECT OF ORBITAL SPACE DEBRIS,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_af691818-359f-4999-be24-f88ca154bd94/display.aspx?rs=enginespage]]</span>, accessed: 2 September 2011)

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Currently, the configuration of global space technologies </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">) and becoming potential hazards to other satellites.</span>

**Specifically, China is moving to weaponize space and become a space power. This militarization will be controlled by the PLA.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Eimer, 11/5</span>(“China's huge leap forward into space threatens US ascendancy over heavens,” By David, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/china/8872196/Chinas-huge-leap-forward-into-space-threatens-US-ascendancy-over-heavens.html]]</span>)

Floating 200 miles above earth is the latest
AND
its technology remain barriers to any meaningful partnership.

**The PLA is more likely to initiate a space attack in a crisis because of miscalculation and instability.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MacDonald 11</span>(Bruce, Sen Dir Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program@U.S. Institute of Peace, May 11, “MILITARY AND CIVIL SPACE PROGRAMS IN CHINA,” Testimony before congress, accessed: 5 September 2011, LexisNexis)

One characteristic of too many wars in the
AND
for crisis and conflict in the years ahead.

**Conflict causes a US-China nuclear war.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Forden 8</span>(Geoffrey, PhD and Research Associate at MIT, “How China Loses the Coming Space War (Pt. 2),” 1/10, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2008/01/inside-the-ch-1/]]</span>,)

The United States has five satellites in geostationary
AND
a nuclear war without a clear military goal.

**US China war escalates to extinction**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheong 2k</span>(Ching, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Lexis)</span>
THE high-intensity scenario postulates a cross
AND
, we would see the destruction of civilization.

**Independently, perceived vulnerability causes the US to preemptively strike China—that escalates**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tellis, 7</span>(Ashley, Senior Associate at Carnegie, Survival, Autumn, “China’s Military Space Strategy”, ingenta)

Finally, the growing Chinese capability for
AND
added complications of accidents and further misperception.96

**And, the weaponization of space causes miscalculation leading to nuclear and biological warfare**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mitchell 1</span> [Gordon R., Member of the Center for Strategic and International Studies Working Group on Theater Missile Defenses in the Asia-Pacific Region., Winter “Japan-U.S. Missile Defense Collaboration: Rhetorically Delicious, Deceptively Dangerous”, **http://www.pitt.edu/~gordonm/JPubs/JapanTMD.pdf**]
Any clear-cut distinction between offensive and
AND
into the most destructive military conflict ever seen.

===Advantage 2: Hegemony=== 
**Multiple threats to US hegemony are coming because of technological gaps – that will destroy space leadership.**
Eva S. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jenkins </span>3/18/20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">09 </span>– Colonel; Vice Commander of the Air Force Technical Applications Center, Patrick Air Force Base, Fla; B.S. in mathematics at University of Miami; winner of the Defense Meritorious Service Medal with two oak leaf clusters, Meritorious Service Medal with one oak leaf cluster, Joint Service Achievement Medal Air Force Commendation Medal with oak leaf cluster (NANOTECHNOLOGY – ENABLING FUTURE SPACE VIABILITY)

Addressing the Challenges. What will U.
AND
may hold the key to overcoming the challenges.

**Leadership in space is crucial to maintaining hegemony**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Young 8</span> (A. Thomas, chairman of Institute for Defense Analysis, July, “Leadership, Management, and Organization for National Security Space,” accessed: 4 September 2011, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://dodreports.com/pdf/ada486551.pdf]]</span>, JT)

Today, U.S. leadership in
AND
are predicated upon the availability of space capabilities.

**Sustaining US military dominance is key to maintaining heg**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thayer 7</span> (Bradley, associate professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University, “American Empire: A Debate”, Routledge, pg 43-44)
Another critical question is not simply how much
AND
like-minded states to advance common interests.

**The impact is massive transition wars across the globe that lead to extinction**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brzezinski 5</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">(Zbigniew National Security Advisor in the Carter Administration, Professor of Foreign Policy at Johns Hopkins University, “The Choice: Global Domination or Global Leadership”, p. 2-4) </span>
History is a record of change, a
AND
common effort to shape a secure international environment.

**American leadership solves nuclear wars in every region**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Khalilzad 11</span> (Zalmay, previous US ambassador to Afghanistan/Iran/UN now counselor@CSIS, February 8, “The Economy and National Security,” The national Review Online, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad?page=2]]</span>, JT)

We face this domestic challenge while other major
AND
most significant barrier facing Chinese hegemony and aggression.

===Advantage 3: Warming=== 
**Warming is real, anthropogenic, and happening now. Deal with it.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Braganza</span> 6/14/<span style="font-size: 12pt;">11 (</span>Karl, Manager, Climate Monitor at the Bureau of Meteorology in Australia, The Bureau presently operates under the authority of the Meteorology Act 1955, which requires it to report on the state of the atmosphere and oceans in support of Australia's social, economic, cultural and environmental goals. His salary is not funded from any external sources or dependent on specially funded government climate change projects. Karl Braganza does not consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organisation that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations “The greenhouse effect is real: here’s why
,” http://theconversation.edu.au/the-greenhouse-effect-is-real-heres-why-1515, AM)

In public discussions of climate change, the
AND
greenhouse gases will cause rapid future warming is irrefutable

**Warming is anthropogenic and reversible. Every metric concludes. Even if nature influences warming, human-made emissions are the __biggest__ factor**.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fitzpatrick et al ‘6</span> (Melanie Fitzpatrick (Earth and Space Sciences and Atmospheric Sciences at the University of Washington and UCS consultant) prepared this summary with input from Brenda Ekwurzel (Union of Concerned Scientists) and reviews by Philip Mote (Climate Impacts Group at the University of Washington and Washington's state climatologist), Richard Gammon (Chemistry, Oceanography, and Atmospheric Sciences at the University of Washington) and Peter Frumhoff (Union of Concerned Scientists), “Human Fingerprints,” http://www.ucsusa.org/global_warming/science_and_impacts/science/global-warming-human.html)

ANDEarth's surface has undergone unprecedented warming over the
, and slowing deforestation (among other solutions).

**Space based earth monitoring systems are critical to solving warming – other countries will get behind the US**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lewis et al 10</span> (James, senior fellow for tech+public policy@CSIS, Sarah Ladislaw, senior fellow@CSIS, Denise Zheng, fellow@CSIS, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]]</span>, p. IX-X, accessed: 5 January 2012, JT)

Climate change poses a dilemma for space policy
AND
largest share of the cost at this time.

**The impact is extinction**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tickell 8</span> (Oliver, Environmental Researcher, The Guardian, August 11, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]]</span>, JT)

We need to get prepared for four degrees
AND
emissions could propel us towards a similar hothouse Earth
===Plan Text=== 
**Thus the plan: The Department of Defense should substantially increase its development of nanotechnology beyond the earth’s mesosphere.**

===Observation 2: Solvency=== 
**Nanotech ensures the long-term effectiveness of space assets and preserves our competitiveness, but further government investment is needed.**
Eva S. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jenkins </span>3/18/20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">09 </span>– Colonel; Vice Commander of the Air Force Technical Applications Center, Patrick Air Force Base, Fla; B.S. in mathematics at University of Miami; winner of the Defense Meritorious Service Medal with two oak leaf clusters, Meritorious Service Medal with one oak leaf cluster, Joint Service Achievement Medal Air Force Commendation Medal with oak leaf cluster (NANOTECHNOLOGY – ENABLING FUTURE SPACE VIABILITY)

It is hard to imagine life in the
AND
. Space is the frontier of the future.

**ORS was a good step, but it’s not enough. Other countries will keep developing satellites that are better. Nanotechnology creates assured deterrence for decades to come. Without a strong investment now, space weaponization is inevitable.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Colon 10</span> (Miguel, Lt Col in USAF – deputy commander of Space Group responsible for testing space and missle weapon systems, “Deterrence 2035 – The Role of Transparency and Diversity in a World of Nanosats,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[https://www.afresearch.org]]</span>, JT)

A New Approach to Space Deterrence The book
AND
dictate not to attack; effectively deterring him.

**Nanotech facilitates continued US dominance in space – that’s key to our warfighting capabilities and overall hegemony**
Eva S. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jenkins </span>3/18/20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">09 </span>– Colonel; Vice Commander of the Air Force Technical Applications Center, Patrick Air Force Base, Fla; B.S. in mathematics at University of Miami; winner of the Defense Meritorious Service Medal with two oak leaf clusters, Meritorious Service Medal with one oak leaf cluster, Joint Service Achievement Medal Air Force Commendation Medal with oak leaf cluster (NANOTECHNOLOGY – ENABLING FUTURE SPACE VIABILITY)

The U.S. is at a
AND
space viability and dominance in 2035 and beyond.

**And the deterrent nanotech provides also prevents weaponization of space**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Krepon et al, 11 </span>– President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, also Theresa Hitchens, Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and Michael Katz-Hyman, Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space Security and South Asia Projects (Michael, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)

Because the use of weapons in or from
AND
tests and deployments are both unwise and unnecessary.

**Nanotechnology will allow for the production of clean energy solutions, preventing the greenhouse gas emissions that cause warming**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Peterson and Heller 7</span> (Christine, prez of foresight institute, Jacob, policy associate@Foresight Institute, //Nanoethics: The Ethical and Social Implications of// Nanotechnology, p. 59-60, GoogleBooks, JT)

Today's patterns of energy use are not environmentally
AND
energy to those who cannot access it today.



==Earth Monitoring Aff - Gonzaga== 
**__Contention 1: Green is the New Pink__**
**The current patriarchical order justifies and encourages crimes against women and the earth. The global framework of domination necessitates violence and extermination of everything, legitimating subjectification and extinction**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Warren and Cady 94</span> (Karen, philosophy@Macalester College, Duane, philosophy@Hamline U, Hypatia, 9(2), p. 4, JT).l

Operationalized, the evidence of patriarchy as a
AND
connections in regional, national and global contexts.

**Masculine approaches to ecology exclude feminine relations to the environment and attempt to dominate the earth, forcing it to produce commodities for the market economy. This comes in the form of the destruction of the environment and the oppression of women and indigenous groups.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sobha 7</span> (I., dpt women’s studies@ Sri Padmavati Mahila Visvavidyalayam in India, “Green Revolution: Impact on Gender,” Journal of Human Ecology, 22(2), p. 107-108, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.krepublishers.com/02-Journals/JHE/JHE-22-0-000-000-2007-Web/JHE-22-2-000-000-2007-Abstract-PDF/JHE-22-2-107-07-1491-Sobha-I/JHE-22-2-107-07-1491-Sobha-I-Tt.pdf]]</span>, accessed: 18 October 2011, JT)

Women, particularly those living in the areas
AND
wages in agricultural labour (Mies, 1987)


**Patriarchal notions of science and development serve to destroy the earth in an attempt to manage and control it through technological and maldevelopmental means. Only a feminine outlook on science can overcome this masculine domination over the earth and create ecological growth rather than destruction.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shiva 88</span> (Vandana, board member for International Forum on Globalization, “Staying Alive: Women, Ecology and Survival in India,” p. 14-15, accessed: 18 October 2011, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.arvindguptatoys.com/arvindgupta/stayingalive.pdf]]</span>, JT)

The recovery of the feminine principle is an
AND
and respect nature's processes and interconnectedness as science.



**Current earth monitoring systems are rooted in patriarchical notions and assumptions. We must affirm EOS to recognize its faults and benefits—to overcome the hierarchical visions of the earth and embrace the other, women, nature, and the earth as a whole. Only the vision created by the affirmative can hope to overcome masculinity’s dominance.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Litfin, ’97</span> (Karen, Prof of Political Science @ University of Washington, The gendered eye in the sky: A feminist perspective on earth observation satellites, Frontiers: A Journal of Women Studies, Vol. 18. 2)

Thus, the six assumptions implicit in the
AND
made between data, knowledge, and wisdom.


===__Contention 2: The Girls Are Back__=== 
**Status quo focus on technology through a masculine lens legitimates and necessitates violence toward every form of life. Technology must grow through a feminist perspective in order to regain civil decency. Questioning the “experts” of technology is critical to preventing this catastrophe.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nhanenge 9</span> (Jytte, Development Studies@U South Africa, August 25, “Ecofeminism: Towards Integrating the Concerns of Women, Poor People and Nature Into Development,” http://uir.unisa.ac.za/bitstream/handle/10500/570/dissertation.pdf?sequence=1 , JT)

Technology can be used to dominate societies or
AND
: 20, 126, 128, 130).


**War is not inevitable, but rather a masculine construct. Only by removing notions of masculine domination from society can we hope to overcome war and conflict.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Workman 96</span> (Thom, Poli Sci@U of New Brunswick, YCISS Paper no. 31, p. 5, January, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.yorku.ca/yciss/publications/OP31-Workman.pdf]]</span>, JT)

The gender critique of war provides a generalized
AND
that wars of conquest between nations are inevitable."

**Masculinity necessitates domination over everything it comes into contact with. This results in militarization, insecurity, exploitation, and the destruction of the environment.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zalewski and Parpart 98</span> (Marysia, reader@Center for Women’s Studies, Jane, Gender Studies@U of Dalhousie, “The ‘Man” Question in International Relations,” p. 86, JT)

Whereas we think it important to avoid what
AND
imminent catastrophe ( Peterson 1992; Tickner 1992).


**Every form of oppression is a reason to vote affirmative, even if that oppression does not appear to be causing physical pain.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cuomo 98</span> (Chris, Philosophy@U of Cincinnati, Feminism and Ecological Communities: An Ethic of Flourishing, p. 32, JT)

Oppression is more than harm, and though
AND
men who seriously, physically threaten their lives.

**Satellite mapping systems such as the affirmative liberate indigenous and oppressed groups, especially women, through the access to information. Vote to affirm the ethical obligation of providing these groups with basic human rights and to protect the environment from masculine domination.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thomas-Slayter, Rocheleau, and Edmunds 94</span> (Barbara, international development@Clark U, Dianne, Geography@Clark U, David, environmental director@Clark, Winter, “Gendered Resource Mapping: Focusing on Women's Spaces in the Landscape,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.culturalsurvival.org/ourpublications/csq/article/gendered-resource-mapping-focusing-womens-spaces-landscape]]</span>, accessed: 14 October 2011, JT)

Cultural survival and the geographic ordering of space
AND
undermine even the most carefully constructed territorial agreements.

**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its development of Earth Observation Satellites beyond the earth’s mesosphere.**
===__Contention 3: Solvency__=== 
**Geomatics allows indigenous groups to overcome oppression and domination**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Peter and Poole 94</span> (writers@Cultural Survival, Fall/Winter, “Geomatics: Who Needs It?” 18(4), <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.culturalsurvival.org/ourpublications/csq/article/geomatics-who-needs-it]]</span>, accessed: 12 October 2011, JT)
In Sarawak, Penan can get arrested for
AND
and concerns, rather than mobilizing internal energies.

**Only through embracing a feminist methodology can we hope to overcome status quo masculinity and create a peaceful and just world.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zalewski 7</span> (Marysia, Gender Studies@U of Aberdeen, April 17, “Do We Understand each Other Yet? Troubling Feminist Encounters With(in) International Relations,”p. 304, JT)

Drawing attention to the problem of ‘masculinist
AND
as a whole’ (Wiegman 2006, 99).

===__Contention 4: Framework__=== 
**Exposing the oppression of women through spheres such as debate is key to overcoming them. Only the aff’s framing mechanism can hope to access change.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Charlesworth 94</span> (Hillary, Law @ ANU, Human Rights of Women National and International Perspectives, p. 76, www.newschool.edu/.../Charlesworth_What%20are%20Womens%20International%20 Human%20Rights.pdf, JT)

How can international human rights law tackle the
AND
the gendered dichotomy of public and private worlds.

**Thought cannot be divorced from a thinker’s ontological standpoint – as academics we have a responsibility to critically examine the context of social theory**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wyn Jones 99</span> (Richard, International Ptx@U of Wales, Security, Strategy, and Critical Theory, p. 9)
All social theories and political philosophies reflect,
AND
and attain a certain critical distance from it.

**Vote to overcome oppression – a pure focus on mere survival justifies fascism in the name of overcoming threats.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CALLAHAN 1973</span> (Daniel, institute of Society and Ethics, The Tyranny of Survival, p. 91-3)

The value of survival could not be so
AND
the Pyrrhic victory to end all Pyrrhic victories.

**The domination of women is explicitly connected to discourse – only through examining this discourse can we come to know the true nature of the world and human experience**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tucker 8</span> (Judith, Law @ Georgetown, October 2008, Women, Family and Gender in Islamic Law, p. 7, JT)

The major difficulty with woman-centered approaches
AND
context of a transformation of the entire society.

**Be skeptical of their truth claims – their conception of international relations is based in a framework of masculinity**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tickner 92</span> (Ann, Int Relations@USC, Gender in International Relations Feminist Perspectives on Achieving Global Security, p. 13-14, JT)

Since, as I have suggested, the
AND
new ways of thinking about our contemporary dilemmas.



=Negative= 
Email corinnesugino(at)rowlandhall(dot)org for cite requests.
==Topicality== 

==Politics Scenarios== 
===Politics - SKFTA=== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 14.6667px;">Uniqueness: Obama will submit FTAs to Congress this month – votes are there but Obama must work to ensure continued support.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 14.6667px;">Palmer, 9/2</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Doug, 9/2/2011, Reuters News,” ANALYSIS-Obama's trade legacy in a crucible this fall,” Factiva)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;">WASHINGTON, Sept 2 (Reuters) - After a slow start that has frustrated U……. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Schott, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Plan spends political capital – there is always massive opposition to space.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Powell 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> (Stewart M., Washington Bureau – Houston Chronicle, “Potential Uphill Battle for NASA”, Houston Chronicle, 9-13, [[http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/nation/6615751.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">NASA supporters are bracing for </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Calibri;">…….</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> to put forward an Obama space program.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Obama’s</span>****<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 17.3333px;"> capital is key</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">McLarty & Cunningham, 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;"> – *chief of staff to Clinton in 1993-94 and helped bring Bill Daley into the White House to lead the 1993 Nafta ratification effort, AND **<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Mr. Cunningham was an aide to President Clinton and to then-Sen. Joseph Biden (1/24/11, Thomas "Mack" McLarty III and Nelson W. Cunningham, “Obama's Free Trade Opportunity,” Factiva)</span>**</span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;">Much has been written about Bill Daley's ……. may alienate some in the Democratic base, but it is essential.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">SKFTA key to boost the alliance, prevent Korean conflict and solidify U.S. leadership.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Hubbard, 4/7</span>****<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Senior Director for Asia, McLarty Associates and Former Ambassador to South Korea (4/7/11, Thomas, Congressional Documents and Publications, “House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade Hearing - Brady Announces Third in a Series of Three Hearings on the Pending, Job-Creating Trade Agreements: South Korea Trade Agreement,” Factiva) The United States-South Korea Free …..</span>**<span class="underline">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">fundamental security and economic interests into the future.</span>**</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">A Korean conflict will escalate to __global__ nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">STRATFOR, 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (5/26/10, “North Korea, South Korea: The Military Balance on the Peninsula,” [[http://www.stratfor.com/analysis/20100526_north_korea_south_korea_military_balance_peninsula]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;">But </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">no one, of course, is interested in …….</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;">— </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">way they might be if the situation escalates much further.</span>


===Payroll Tax Cuts=== 
**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Uniqueness: Obama is aggressively pushing his jobs agenda - smaller initiatives like the payroll tax reduction are likely to pass</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Werner, 10/25</span>** (Erica, AP, 10/25/2011, “For Obama, new focus on the piecemeal,” http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5jBBAuCkwwz36b0l5ZSe63veDz47Q?docId=c480f4a9b7634e9f8e0fd60ddd74c5ef)
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">LOS ANGELES (AP) — The president who ran for office promising sweeping change now finds himself calling for baby s.....president. He's got to try to do everything he can."</span>

**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Plan spends political capital – there is always massive opposition to space.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Powell 9</span>** (Stewart M., Washington Bureau – Houston Chronicle, “Potential Uphill Battle for NASA”, Houston Chronicle, 9-13, <span style="color: #0000ff;">[[http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/nation/6615751.html]]</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">NASA supporters are bracing for an uphill battle ....... forward an Obama space program.”</span>

**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Obama political capital is key to passage</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Longbottom, 10/13</span>**(Wil, 10/13/2011, “'I won't take no for an answer on jobs bill': Defiant Obama vows to continue despite Senate defeat,” <span style="color: #0000ff;">[[http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2048604/Obama-I-wont-answer-Jobs-bill.html?ito=feeds-newsxml]]</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">President Barack Obama has recorded a........he said. Recent polling data has revealed 52 per cent of Americans now back the bill, according to SBS.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Failure to extend the tax cut will jack the economy --- it’s a top priority</span>**
**Temple-West, 10/6** (Patrick, 10/6/2011, Reuters News, “Payroll tax cut needed to avoid recession: Zandi,” Factiva)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Reuters) - Failure to extend a payroll tax holiday ......at we are too close to another dip -- then we need to act soon," Casey told Reuters.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Econ collapse causes war</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Royal, </span>Director of cooperative threat reduction,<span style="font-size: 16px;"> ‘10</span> [Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Less intuitive is how periods ...... debate and deserves more attention. </span>

===Jackson-Vanik Politics=== 
**A. Uniqueness: Obama is pushing to repeal Jackson-Vanik – it will pass now.**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Barkley, 1/19</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> (Tom, 1/19/2012, “US Seen Lifting Trade Restrictions On Russia,” [[http://www.nasdaq.com/article/us-seen-lifting-trade-restrictions-on-russia-20120119-01370]] )</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">WASHINGTON -- A senior World Trade Organization ….Congress will back the move.</span>

**B. Links:**
**1. Obama’s political capital is key to passage**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Inside U.S. Trade, 1/13</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> (“WHITE HOUSE UNDER PRESSURE TO DO HEAVY LIFTING ON RUSSIA MFN VOTE,” 1/13/2012, Factiva )</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;">Permanent MFN for Russia is coming to the …… lobbyists who do not carry the same clout, this aide said.</span>

**2. Plan drains his capital – space initiatives are especially controversial now.**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Powell 9</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> (Stewart M., Washington Bureau – Houston Chronicle, “Potential Uphill Battle for NASA”, Houston Chronicle, 9-13, [[http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/nation/6615751.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px; text-decoration: none;">NASA supporters are bracing for an uphill battle …. forward an Obama space program.”</span>

**C. Impacts:**
**1. Ending Jackson-Vanik necessary for a full re-set in relations --- it has a massive symbolic effect and is the litmus test for relations**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Finlay Lewis, 8 (8/10/2008, Congressional Quarterly Weekly, http://www.ncsj.org/AuxPages/081009CQ_Jackson-Vanik.shtml, “Russia Longs to Graduate At the Top of Trade Class”)</span>

President Obama has repeatedly stressed …involved in the U.S.-Russia relationship,” he<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;"> said. </span>

**2. Relations solve multiple scenarios for extinction**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Tayler, ‘8</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> (11/14/2008, Jeffrey, The Atlantic, “Medvedev Spoils the Party; It will take more than Obama's electoral triumph to improve the United States' strained relations with Russia,” http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2008/11/medvedev-spoils-the-party/7130/?single_page=true)</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Like it or not, …. face a volatile future arm in arm.</span>

==Disadvantages== 
===Space Debris=== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15pt;">Debris reaching a critical mass – cleanup methods won’t be able to keep up with new mass amounts of debris – prevention now is key</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">BBC News 9/1</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> <September 1, 2011. “Space junk at a tipping point, says report.” BBC News. </span><span style="background-color: initial; color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-us-canada-14757926]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">></span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">A report by the National Research Council says </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">, or into a higher but safer orbit. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15pt;">Each new space launch drastically increases the space debris</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Australian Space Academy 7</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">“Briefing on Space Law,” ASA, </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-family: Calibri;">[[http://www.spaceacademy.net.au/spacelaw/spacelaw.htm]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Since the start of the space age the </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">themselves then pose collision hazards to active spacecraft.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15pt;">Debris pollution causes strikes on Russian early-warning satellites, resulting in an accidental global nuclear war </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Jeffery Lewis ‘4</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">. Postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Study Program; worked in the office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy . Center for Defense Information, “What if Space were Weaponized?” July 2004, </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Available Online @ <</span><span style="background-color: initial; font-family: Calibri;">[[http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">></span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">This is the second of two scenarios that </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">that allows national nuclear forces to operate safely. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15pt;">Extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Dean </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Babst ‘2</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">, retired government research scientist and Coordinator of the Nuclear Age Peace Foundation's Accidental Nuclear War Studies Program, February ’02, “Preventing an Accidental Armageddon,” </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Available online @ <</span><span style="background-color: initial; font-family: Calibri;">[[http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2000/02/00_babst_armageddon.htm]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">></span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Although international relations have changed drastically since the </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">overkill, the potential for an accidental Armageddon.</span>

===Weaponization=== 
**Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization**
**Huntley, 11** - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, [[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]])

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">As is well understood, the space policies of the Bush administration were decidedly ….. the strategy remain to be developed.18 Many devils may lurk in these details. </span>

**Unilateral U.S. SSP causes an international backlash against hegemony**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Glaser, 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;"> - aerospace engineer, vice president at Arthur D. Little, consulting on consulting projects in aerospace, solar energy, and materials science (Peter, Ad Astra, Interview, “An energy pioneer looks back”, Spring, [[http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf]]) //DH</span>

<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">Glaser: Since it would be such a huge ….. a network of power satellites built by an international effort. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Unilateral action alienates allies and shatters other areas of cooperation**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Sabathier et. al 6**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">— senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program and former senior fellow and director of CSIS space initiative (September 18, 2oo6 ,Vincent G. Sabathier, D.A. Broniatowski, G. Ryan Faith, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “The Case for Managed International Cooperation in Space Exploration”, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/060918_managed_international_cooperation.pdf , FS)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">International cooperation is …….possibility of future beneficial cooperation would be more likely. </span>

**Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens, 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, [[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]])</span>

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Perhaps of even greater concern is that ……</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> their strong self-interest in preventing the testing and use of orbital weapons. The nations of Earth must soon decide whether it is possible to sustain the predominantly peaceful human space exploration that has already lasted half a century. The likely alternative would be unacceptable to all.</span>

**Space control is impossible, countermeasures override deterrence and risk nuclear escalation**
**Krepon et al, 11** – President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, also Theresa Hitchens, Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and Michael Katz-Hyman, Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space
Security and South Asia Projects (Michael, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]])

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">While some have compared space to another "global commons," the high seas, …….Paradoxically, the preservation and growth of U.S. spacepower will be undercut by the use of force in space.</span>

**War is space occurs through miscalculation, risks extinction**
**<span style="color: black;">Mitchell, et al 1</span>**<span style="color: black;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="color: black;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span>)</span>

__<span style="color: black;">A buildup of space weapons might begin with noble …… **the most destructive military conflict ever seen.**</span>__
==CPs== 
===Privatization CP=== 
**<span style="font-family: Cambria;">CP Text: The United States federal government should pass the Zero Tax, Zero Gravity Tax Act for private companies to develop and deploy solar powered satellites above the Earth’s mesosphere.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Passage of Zero Tax, Zero Gravity Tax Act would increase private development of space</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Whittington 10</span>** Mark R. Whittington is a writer, Newspaper writer, author, and researcher with a BA in History, gd/al,09/17/10, http://www.associatedcontent.com/article/5803020/zero_taxes_zero_gravity_a_better_way.html?cat=15
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">The debate raging about how best to support the growth of …..anti-commercial space for opposing the Obama plan. </span>Sources: H.R. 5310: Zero

**<span style="font-family: Cambria;">SPS should be privatized – solves faster, costs less, and revitalizes the aerospace sector more effectively</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">NSS 06</span>, National Space Society, organization researching and analyzing various methods to explore and develop space, 12-6-2006, “Introduction to the motion to the National Space Society Board of Directors”, [[http://www.sspi.gatech.edu/sunsatcorpfaq.pdf]], DKreus
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">Space Solar Power must be a commercial or ……</span> in commercial launch to orbit costs commensurate with, and as a direct result of a massively expanded market.


===RPS/Navy CP=== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 16px;">The United States federal government should implement a renewable portfolio standard which requires corporations to produce 20% of their electricity from sources of renewable energy including terrestrial wind, terrestrial solar, and terrestrial biomass. The United States federal government should substantially expand the size and capability of the Navy.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 16px;">CP Solves - National RPS solves dependence on fossil fuels and boosts the economy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 16px;">Fershee 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">- prof @ University of North Dakota Law, focus in energy law</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Joshua,“Changing Resources, Changing Market: The Impact of a National Renewable Portfolio Standard on the U.S. Energy Industry” Energy Law Journal, Vol. 29, No. 1, http://74.125.155.132/scholar?q=cache:5o1fbZrYa-AJ:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=0,23) </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;">In May 2007, the House Committee on Energy and Commerce sent a letter to more than forty ……hundreds of thousands of jobs in the past six years.66 </span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 16px;">CP Solves - Space is insignificant compared to naval power. The CP solves deterrence, global economy, alliances, trade, and war fighting.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Ealgen and McGrath 5/16</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;">, Mackenzie Eaglen is Research Fellow for National Security in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, at The Heritage Foundation. Bryan McGrath is a retired naval officer and the Director of Delex Consulting, Studies and Analysis in Vienna, Virginia. On active duty, he commanded the destroyer USS Bulkeley (DDG 84) and served as the primary author of the current maritime strategy. (5/16/11, Mackenzie, Bryan, “Thinking about A Day Without US Sea Power: Implications for US defense Policies” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2011/05/Thinking-About-a-Day-Without-Sea-Power-Implications-for-US-Defense-Policy</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;">) AT</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;">America is a maritime power and a strong U.S. Navy is……..demonstrate how rapidly a navy can become hollow and unable to influence events abroad.</span>

===Emissions Counterplan=== 
**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Counterplan Text: The United States federal government should mandate a reduction in its emissions of 20-30% by 2020.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">CP solves leadership and warming – only by taking leadership over emissions can the US spur international action key to solve, otherwise other countries will just hide behind our inaction</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Purvis in 8 -</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> founder, President and CEO of Climate Advisers, a DC-based consultancy in U.S. climate change policy, international climate change cooperation, global carbon markets, and climate-related forest conservation. The firm’s clients include philanthropic foundations, think tanks, environmental groups, governments, international organizations, companies and financial institutions. (July 2008. “ U.S. Global Leadership to Safeguard our Climate, Security, and Economy ” Better World Campaign. </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.betterworldcampaign.org/assets/pdf/climatechange-purvis-final-1.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

Protecting the United States and the world from
AND
regulation, albeit in a more qualified manner.


===India-Australia CP=== 
=== === 
**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Text: The United States should begin an official trilateral dialogue with India and Australia on broad foreign policy, strategic, governance issues across the Indo–Pacific region, on defense issues, on trilateral initiatives for keeping the Indian Ocean safe, on global nonproliferation, and on counterterrorism. The United States Federal Government should lead global rebalancing and explore ways to free the movement of labor among the three economies and address the subsidies problem.</span>**
=== === 
**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Solves Asian wars and the economy</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Curtis</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13.3333px;"> et al 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 16px;"> -</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Lisa Curtis is Senior Research Fellow for South Asia and Walter Lohman is Director of the Asian Studies Center at The Heritage Foundation. Rory Medcalf is Program Director of International Security at the Lowy Institute for International Policy (Sydney, Australia). Lydia Powell is Head of the Centre for Resources Management and Rajeswari Pillai Rajagopalan, Ph.D., is Senior Fellow at the Observer Research Foundation (New Delhi, India). Andrew Shearer is Director of Studies and Senior Research Fellow at the Lowy Institute. (Shared Goals, Converging Interests: A Plan for U.S.–Australia–India Cooperation in the Indo–Pacific, A Joint Project by Scholars from The Heritage Foundation, the Lowy Institute for International Policy, and the Observer Research Foundation, http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/11/shared-goals-converging-interests-a-plan-for-u-s-australia-india-cooperation-in-the-indo-pacific)</span>

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;">This paper provides ideas for establishing ……</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">trade, and democratic governance.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 120%; text-decoration: none;">Anti-Space Counterplan</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15pt;">Text: The United States Congress should direct all relevant federal agencies to investigate and implement alternative non-space platforms to replace space systems in the event of conflict. Congress should expand the pool of experts capable of analyzing China’s space capabilities in the original language. Congress should specify clear guidelines for agency interaction with China. </span>**



**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 16pt;">The CP solves deterrence, hegemony and avoids miscalculation. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Cheng 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">– Dean, Research Fellow in Chinese Political and Security Affairs in the Asian Studies Center at The Heritage Foundation. “(China’s Space Program: A Growing Factor in U.S. Security Planning,” August 16, 2011, </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-family: Calibri;">[[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/08/chinas-space-program-a-growing-factor-in-us-security-planning)-mikee]]</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Increase alternatives to space systems. Ironically, </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">plan forces and allocate resources to this end.</span>





===<span style="font-size: 120%; text-decoration: none;">Japan CP</span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Japan is capable of large scale space development programs</span>**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nikkei Weekly 11</span> (November 14, “Keyword: Japan's space development effort,” accessed: 26 November 2011, LexisNexis, JT)



In Japan, the development of space is

AND

, called the Quasi-Zenith Satellite System.





===<span style="font-size: 120%; text-decoration: none;">Consult Russia CP</span>=== 

**Text: The United States federal government should enter into binding consultation with the Russian Federation through the Bilateral Presidential Commission to propose that it <INSERT PLAN TEXT> The United States should support the proposal during consultation and abide by the result of consultation. We’ll clarify**

**Observation one is competition –**

**A) “should” and “will” are “used to express obligation” and “a requirement,” meaning it implies such permanence—Dictionary.com,** **03**

**B)** **Thus, the fiat of the plan is unconditional, with immediate action and enforcement. Consultation is mutually exclusive because it conditions the plan on Russia’s acceptance.**

**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Observation Two is the Net Benefit – </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">BPC key to relations – disagreements put us on the brink – failures to consult will collapse relations</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">**Rojansky**, 7/</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">13 [7/13/11, Matthew Rojansky, the deputy director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment “Lavrov's Visit and a New Foundation for U.S.-Russia Cooperation”, http://carnegie.ru/publications/?lang=en&fa=45036, SM]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov is in ….. we are capable of doing when two great nations work together</span>.

**Collapse of US-Russian relations causes full-scale nuclear war**

**FORDEN 2001**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Geoffrey, senior research fellow at the Security Studies Program at MIT, Policy Analysis)</span>

__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The danger posed by those incidents …..should be narrowly focused on solving real problems.</span>__

===__<span style="font-size: 16.6667px;">India-Australia CP</span>__=== 

**Text: The United States should begin an official trilateral dialogue with India and Australia on broad foreign policy, strategic, governance issues across the Indo–Pacific region, on defense issues, on trilateral initiatives for keeping the Indian Ocean safe, on global nonproliferation, and on counterterrorism. The United States Federal Government should lead global rebalancing and explore ways to free the movement of labor among the three economies and address the subsidies problem.**

**Solves Asian wars**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Curtis</span>** et al <span style="font-size: 16px;">**11** - </span>Lisa Curtis is Senior Research Fellow for South Asia and Walter Lohman is Director of the Asian Studies Center at The Heritage Foundation. Rory Medcalf is Program Director of International Security at the Lowy Institute for International Policy (Sydney, Australia). Lydia Powell is Head of the Centre for Resources Management and Rajeswari Pillai Rajagopalan, Ph.D., is Senior Fellow at the Observer Research Foundation (New Delhi, India). Andrew Shearer is Director of Studies and Senior Research Fellow at the Lowy Institute. (Shared Goals, Converging Interests: A Plan for U.S.–Australia–India Cooperation in the Indo–Pacific, A Joint Project by Scholars from The Heritage Foundation, the Lowy Institute for International Policy, and the Observer Research Foundation, http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/11/shared-goals-converging-interests-a-plan-for-u-s-australia-india-cooperation-in-the-indo-pacific)

<span style="color: #333333;">This paper provides ideas for establishing U.S.–Australia–India dialogue …..</span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px; text-decoration: none;">continued free and open trade, and democratic governance.</span>



==Kritiks== 
===Astropolitics Kritik=== 
**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Space is discursively constructed – this necessitates evaluating reps first. </span>**
**Stuart 9**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> – </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;">Fellow in Global Politics in the Department of Government at the London School of Economics and Political Science (Jill, “Unbundling sovereignty, territory and the state in outer space Two approaches” From Securing Outer Space, Edited by Borrman and Sheean—Chapter 1)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;">In regards to the study of sovereignty…… angles to that challenge. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The production of outer space as a sphere in which the U.S. must ensure full spectrum dominance simultaneously produces a militarization of __inner space__, or domestic politics—the politics of the aff ensures a __never-ending war__ against alterity</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Orr, 4</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;"> – Professor of Sociology at Syracuse University (Jackie, The Militarization of Inner Space, Critical Sociology, Sage Journals)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;">“[Every American is a soldier” now, declared George W. Bush</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;"> onemont…..**__of civil society for the production of violence.__**</span>

**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The Alternative is to use the ballot as a political tool to refuse security. Only our discursive dissent can create the critical starting point necessary for breaking down oppressive systems of power premised on politics of fear and subjective control. Vote negative, not so much to imagine a world without security, but to respond to security’s totalizing attempt at power. </span>**
**Burke in 2**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">(Anthony, “Aporias of Security” Alternatives: Global, Local, Political, Vol. 27, 2002)-mikee</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.6667px;">It is perhaps easy to become despondent, but …….. shimmering possibilities might be.</span>


===Capitalism Critique=== 
**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">The plan is a last ditch effort at averting crisis by making an ‘outer spatial fix’ to resolve the core contradictions of capitalism. These endeavors inevitably fail creating an endless cycle of violence in an attempt to sustain capital.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dickens 10</span>**(Peter, Affiliated Lecturer in the Department of Sociology, Faculty of Politics, Psychology, Sociology and International Studies , University of Cambridge, "The Humanization of the Cosmos—To What End?," [<span style="background-color: initial;">[[https://monthlyreview.org/2010/11/01/the-humanization-of-the-cosmos-to-what-end]]</span>]

The Cosmos: Capitalism’s New “Outside”
AND
attempting to make their own cosmic “fixes.”

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">They theorize power wrong – their deferral from material analysis towards cultural critique destroys radical politics and renders capitalism invisible, ensuring its continued dominance</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Katz 2k</span>**(Adam, English instructor at Onodaga Community College, Postmodernism and the Politics of “Culture,” p. 104-105, JT)

Contemporary attempts to conceptualize these cultural shifts have
AND
pro­duced through the contradictory processes of material production.

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Capitalism renders whole populations standing reserves, making widespread extermination inevitable, culminating in the destruction of the planet</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Internationalist Perspective 2k</span>**, Spring 2000, “Capitalism and Genocide”, #36,<span style="background-color: initial; color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.geocities.com/wageslavex/capandgen.html]]</span>

Mass death, and genocide, the deliberate
AND
more and more frequent recourse to mass murder.

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Our alternative is to vote negative to refuse to participate in activities which support capitalism. We must hollow out capitalist structures by refusing to invest our energy in reforms and rescue operations</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Herod 2004</span>**(James, Getting Free, <span style="background-color: initial; color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://site.www.umb.edu/faculty/salzman_g/Strate/GetFre/06.htm]]</span>)

It is time to try to describe,
AND
to perpetual slavery and possibly even to extinction.

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">And, method comes first. Our understandings of the ways in which society is constructed and how that affects our political imagination is a prerequisite to action or critique - any other framing mechanism makes capitalism and the case impacts inevitable.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tumino 1</span>** (Stephen, English@U Pittsburgh, “what is Orthadox Marxism and why it matters now more than ever,” Red Critique, Spring,<span style="background-color: initial; color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.redcritique.org/spring2001/whatisorthodoxmarxism.htm]]</span>, JT)
Any effective political theory will have to do
AND
knowledge work") that masquerades as social theory.



===Ecopsychology Critique=== 
A) Framework
The psyche exists and comes first – it shapes our understanding of the world – everything depends on it
Jung 06 (Carl G., renowned scholar of psychoanalysis and founder of the Jung Institute, The Undiscovered Self, New American Library, New York, 81-83)
For more than fifty years
AND
and can happen to everyone.


B. Link
The Affirmative attempts at controlling space reveal a narcissistic and damaged psyche that objectifies the universe and natural world
Dickens and Ormrod 7 (Outer Space and Internal Nature: Towards a Sociology of the Universe, Sociology Vo. 41 (4) pp. 610-611)
There are strong indications
AND
plan to colonize Mars.


C. Impacts
1. As Narcissistic relationships to the natural world perpetuate a psychology of infantilism humans strike out against the natural world and participate in mad devastation of the planet
Hibbard 3 (Hibbard, Whit. Ecopsychology: a Review Vol. 19 no. 2 p. 34)

The purpose of this section,
AND
environmental crisis and individual neuroses.”80


2. With planetary devastation comes also the loss of human experience – not only is the survival of civilization at stake but our very souls, that which makes us human
Adams 6 (Will W. Adams. The Ivory-Billed Woodpecker, Ecopsychology, and the Crisis of Extinction: On Annihilating and Nurturing Other Beings, Relationships, and Ourselves. The Human Psychologist 34(2), Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Inc. P. 120-121)

Because these relational couplings
AND
actually become less human.


D. The alternative is to embrace a new psychologically based cosmology – one that reconnects the relationship between self and nature
A new psychological relationship to the universe is essential to survival – we desperately need a new cosmology, which moves from objectifying nature to experiencing nature fully
Hibbard 3 (Hibbard, Whit. Ecopsychology: a Review Vol. 19 no. 2 p. 34)

Essential to the ecopsychological project
AND
that was never made for us.”127


===Timecube Kritik=== 
**Their internal link scenarios imagine the world as a singularity, this entrenches ONEness and leads to endless nihilism and extinction**
**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Ray in 5 </span></span>**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"><2005.Gene Ray, wisest human in all of the universe, world renowned schizo and self awarded professor of Cubism. www.timecube.com “Cube4 Intelligence, SuperSymmetry Of TimeCube4 Math Is Absolute Proof Of School Retardation.”></span>

Opposites Versus Queer God. God is a State of Queerdom….. but that corrupts your Opposite Brain

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The alternative is to reject evil ONEness and demand a space in debates for Cubism discussion, only stopping ignorance to Cubism can expose the truth of Cubic time and stop endless warfare and evil.</span>**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Ray in 5 </span>**</span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"><2005.Gene Ray, wisest human in all of the universe, world renowned schizo and self awarded professor of Cubism. www.timecube.com “Cube4 Intelligence, SuperSymmetry Of TimeCube4 Math Is Absolute Proof Of School Retardation.”></span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Force teachers to debate Time Cube ….before inflicting hell upon you.</span>