===[[toc]]=== 



===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">For cites email [[mailto:michaelxu0@gmail.com|michaelxu0@gmail.com]] or [[mailto:rttalla@gmail.com|rttalla@gmail.com]]</span>=== 
=Affirmative= 
=1AC Stanford= 
Plan :
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The United States federal government should develop, deploy, and demonstrate space based solar power beyond the Earth’s mesosphere. </span>**

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Contention 1 is the Aerospace Industry </span>== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The Industry is declining now and it’s key to the economy </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Hernnstadt 8</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – Director of Trade and Globalization @ IAMAW</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Owen, director of the Trade and Globalization Department, International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, “Offsets and the lack of a comprehensive U.S. policy,” Economic Policy Institute, http://www.sharedprosperity.org/bp201.html</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Aerospace is an especially important .... their companies significant backing based on well-developed industrial policies.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Scenario 1 is Competitiveness</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Only a federal investment solves</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">NSSO 7</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, 10-10-2007, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study,” NSS, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">FINDING: The SBSP Study Group found that .... program would be a powerful expression of this imperative.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Aerospace sector key to hegemony</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Walker et al 2 – Chairman of the USAI</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Robert Walker, et cal, Chair of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners, 2002, “Final Report of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners,” http://www.trade.gov/td/aerospace/aerospacecommission/AeroCommissionFinalReport.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Defending our nation against its enemies is.... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">the world’s preeminent military power. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The impact is global conflict</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Khalilzad 11 – Former US ambassador, former Professor @ Columbia</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Zalmay Khalilzad, PhD, United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992 (2/8/11, National Review, “The Economy and National Security; If we don’t get our economic house in order, we risk a new era of multi-polarity,” http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">We face this domestic challenge ..... significant barrier facing Chinese hegemony and aggression.</span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Scenario 2 is the Economy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The plan creates millions of jobs</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Nansen, 95 - </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">led the Boeing team of engineers in the Satellite Power System Concept Development and Evaluation Program for the Department of Energy and NASA, and President Solar Space Industries (Ralph, Sun Power, <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/sunpower/sunpower09.html]]</span>, MA)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The major task during the development phase.... </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">support this </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">work force</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> would reach into the millions. </span>__


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Deficit spending stimulates the economy and it’s reverse causal</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Krugman 9/6- </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">PhD in from MIT. Nobel Laureate and worked at the White House Council of Economic Advisors (Paul 9/6/11, “ President must go big and bold to get Washington focused on jobs again”, <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.smh.com.au/business/president-must-go-big-and-bold-to-get-washington-focused-on-jobs-again-20110905-1ju6k.html]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Last Friday brought two numbers that ....I hope he pulls it off. </span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Economic decline causes global war </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Royal 10</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> – Director of CTR</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how periods .... debate and deserves more attention.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Contention 2 is Energy</span>== 



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Scenario 1 is Resource Wars:</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Resources are finite- Only SPS solves the perception that triggers war</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Collins and Autino 10</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> - * Life & Environmental Science, Azabu University AND  **Andromeda Inc., Italy** </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Patrick and Adriano, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace,” Acta Astronautica 66 (2010) 1553–1562, Science Direct</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The major source of social friction ... the wonderful profusion of possibilities outlined above.</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">These wars go global</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Schubert 10 – PhD in electrical engineering</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Peter J. Schubert, PhD in electrical and computer engineering from Purdue University, holds 30 US patents, 8 foreign patents, and has published over 60 technical papers and book chapters, 12-2010, “Costs, Organization, and Roadmap for SSP,” Online Journal of Space Communication, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/schubert.html</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">For a miracle to occur ... these options favor SSP</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Scenario 2 is Warming:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Warming is real and anthropogenic- Acting now can stop its impacts</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Pew Center 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Pew Center on Global Climate Change, The Pew Center on Global Climate Change is as a non-profit, non-partisan, and independent organization dedicated to providing credible information, straight answers, and innovative solutions in the effort to address global climate change. The Center engages business leaders, policy makers, and other key decision makers at the international, national, regional, and state levels to advance meaningful, cost-effective climate policy and action, “Climate Change 101: Understanding and Responding to Global Climate Change,” January 2011, PM) </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The scientific evidence is unequivocal ... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">magnitude and rate of climate change.”</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">17 </span>**


Scientific consensus goes aff
EDF 11**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Environmental Defense Fund, leading national nonprofit organization representing more than 700,000 members. Citing Science and the IPCC, as well as other multinational climate organizations, “Scientific Consensus on the Basic Facts of Global Warming,” AM)</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The most respected scientific... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">warning that global warming is real</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. The time to start working on solutions is now. </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Avoiding 450 parts per million of CO2 is key </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Hansen 2009</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Climate Scientist at the Goddard Institute for Space Studies at NASA and professor in the department of Earth and Environmental Sciences at Columbia University, received the Carl-Gustaf Rossby Research Medal which is the highest award for atmospheric research of the American Meteorological Society, Time Magazine’s Top 100 Most influential People, Member of the National Academy of Sciences, PhD in Physics and Astronomy at the University of Iowa (John, “Storms of our grandchildren”, pages 158-160)</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Now let us turn to the ques­tion ... </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">will not re­cov­er on any time scale that hu­mans can imag­ine. </span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Adaptation is useless—avoiding 450 ppm is the only way to avoid catastrophic warming</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Romm ‘10 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Joe, PhD in Physics from MIT, senior fellow at American progress, editor of Climate Progress, “Real adaptation is as politically tough as real mitigation, but much more expensive and not as effective in reducing future misery,” Climate Progress, August 27, 2010, PM)</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Rhetorical adaptation, however, is a political .... level that one could actually adapt to. </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">SPS is competitive with coal</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Gomez et al 09</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Raul, Evelyn Panier, Xin Sun and Cornelius Zund, MS and Lt Colonel of the Columbian Air Force and Planning Director of Military Aeronautical Institute, Finance Application Consultant, IT Director at the China Academy of Space and Technology, Control Systems Engineer at Aviya Technologies, “Financial and Organizational Analysis for a Space Solar Power System A business plan to make Space Solar Power a reality,” Paper supervised by Dr. Uche Okongwu, Professor of Logistics at the Touluose Business School, This an academic research project performed by a group of four students of the Aerospace MBA Toulouse Business School – France, July 20, 2009) </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">World Energy Mix According to the .... energy which also end up in the biosphere. </span>**


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">SPS solves warming</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Hsu 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Dr. Feng Hsu, a well respected world expert; former research fellow of Brookhaven National Laboratory in the fields of risk assessment, risk-based decision making, safety & reliability and mission assurances for nuclear power, space launch, energy infrastructure and other high integrity social and engineering systems. He has most recently left NASA and is taking on greater challenges as Sr. VP of the Space Energy Group. Dr. Hsu was until recently head of the NASA GSFC risk management function, and was the GSFC lead on the NASA-MIT joint project for risk-informed decision-making support on key NASA programs, as GPM, LSS and the CxP etc. He was also a leading engineer/scientist in the Shuttle and Exploration Analysis Department at JSC in Houston, and led key projects such as the Shuttle PRA modeling & integration, SLEP and Shuttle upgrade trade studies. Dr. Hsu served on many agency and center expert panels supporting challenging SMA issues, including his key roles in the STS-107 (Space Shuttle Columbia) investigation team, the Return to Flight team, and ECO expert team for the Discovery mission.Dr. Hsu has over 90 publications and is coauthor of two books and co-chair of several technical committees. He is frequently invited as a keynote speaker on many international forums, and is increasingly dedicated to frontier research ranging from human space exploration; solar energy to global collective intelligence and risk based policy-making on emerging environmental and energy security issues. Hsu holds a bachelors degree in Applied Math, masters degree in Operations Research and Statistics and a doctoral degree in Engineering Science. As senior advisory of Aerospace Technology Working Group (ATWG) and a co-founder of Space Development Steering Committee, Dr. Hsu has been a strong advocate for SBSP for years and was instrumental in instigating the 2007 NSSO study on space solar energy and has contributed whole-heartedly to the great human endeavor of harnessing solar energy for sustainable human development., “Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap,” http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html) </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Whether terrestrially based or ... them is not harm to human beings </span>**



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">CO2 acidifies the oceans</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Ward 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Peter, PhD, professor of Biology and Earth and Space Sciences at the University of Washington, paleontologist and NASA astrobiologist, Fellow at the California Academy of Sciences, The Flooded Earth: Our Future in a World Without Ice Caps, June 29, 2010) </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Not only do greenhouse gases ... changes we are witnessing now.</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Ocean acidification causes extinction</span>
<span style="background-color: white;">Romm ‘10</span>** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Joe, PhD in Physics from MIT, senior fellow at American progress, editor of Climate Progress, “Imagine a World without Fish: Deadly ocean acidification — hard to deny, harder to geo-engineer, but not hard to stop — is subject of documentary,” Climate Progress, August 27, 2010, PM)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Global warming is “capable of wrecking ... time to start slashing carbon dioxide emissions is now.</span>


==Contention 3 is Japan Cooperation== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Co-operation with Japan is normal means</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Mohammed and Ramasamy ‘09, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Politicians and former Members of the Legislative Assembly</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(S. Sheik Mohammed and K.Ramasamy, proceedings of international conference on energy and environment, [[http://web.ebscohost.com/ehost/detail?vid=10&hid=112&sid=5ac440de-7fdb-4dec-93a0-4edc0039db57%40sessionmgr13&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWhvc3QtbGl2ZSZzY29wZT1zaXRl#db=a9h&AN=40086283|Ebsco]], AJ)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">As world-wide activities,... </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Japan and Europe are discussed in this chapter.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Co-op solves relations and is normal means</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Glosserman and Furukawa ’08- </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">the Pacific Forum CSIS (www.pacforum.org) operates as the autonomous Asia-Pacific arm of the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, DC. The Forum’s programs encompass current and emerging political, security, economic, business, and oceans policy issues through analysis and dialogue undertaken with the region’s leaders in the academic, government, and corporate areas. (Brad and Katsu, 2008, “A New US-Japan Agenda”, CSIS Volume 8)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">After the halcyon days of the ... foundation for bilateral cooperation on global issues.” </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Solves space mil</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Briggs ’10- </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">A major commander at USAF (Michael Joseph, March 2010, “POLICY RECOMMENDATION FOR THE UNITED STATES REGARDING THE WEAPONIZATION OF SPACE”, pg. 16-17)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The objective of </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">a carefully executed</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> ... </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">sustainable for decades to come.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Japan can help develop SSP- they already have a dedicated program</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Cox, 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> - retired prosecutor and public interest lawyer, author and political activist (William, “The Race for Space Solar Energy,” 3/26,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/TPV3/Voices.php/2011/03/26/the-race-for-space-solar-energy)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The failures of the General Electric ... and unimaginable futures that surround and await us. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">SPS pilot plant would boost the Japanese economy </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Matsuoka, 99 – </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Hideo Matsuoka, Professor at Teikyo Heisei University (10/7/99, Paper presented to IAF Congress, “An Equatorial SPS Pilot Plant”, [[http://www.spacefuture.com/archive/an_equatorial_sps_pilot_plant.shtml]]) MH--JC</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The Japanese space industry faces ... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> would certainly have economic value</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Japan’s economy is key to the global econ**
**Brummer ’11-**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> veteran economic commentator, working as a British journalist, editor, and author (Alex, 4/16/11, “Now we learn Japan's crucial role in the world economy”, http://www.thisismoney.co.uk/money/news/article-1715454/Now-we-learn-Japans-crucial-role-in-the-world-economy.html#)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">When the Japanese economy - ... terrible events in Japan on the prosperity of us all</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Economic collapse causes wars in Asia- those go global</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Auslin, 9</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – resident scholar at AEI (Michael “Averting Disaster”, The Daily Standard, 2/6, http://www.aei.org/article/100044) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">As they deal with a collapsing world .... greed that have destroyed international systems in the past.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Contention 4 is Solvency</span>== 
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">SSP solves energy, is technologically feasible and is economically viable</span>**</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">McLinko and Sagar ’11- </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics Space Systems Laboratory Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Department of Mathematics Massachusetts Institute of Technology (Ryan M. and Basant V., 2011, “Space-based Solar Power Generation Using a Distributed Network of Satellites and Methods for Efficient Space Power Transmission”, pg. 1)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Space-based solar power (SSP) generation ... use of economies of scale. </span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Demonstrations solve SSP industry and costs- Makes it cost competitive</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Globus et al 11 </span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Al, Chair of the National Space Society's Space Settlement Advocacy Committee, Ion Bararu and Mihai Radu Popesc, " TOWARDS AN EARLY PROFITABLE POWERSAT, PART II," http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/2011-TowardsAnEarlyProfitablePowerSatPartII.pdf, EMM) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Development of space solar power ... getting there in a single step. What we need is a small step in the right direction. </span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Plan a prerequisite—NASA development must precede private adoption, empirics prove</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Hickam 07</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Homer, Former Aerospace Engineer at NASA, October 3, 2007, "NASA vs. the far-out space nuts,” JSkoog)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">What I'm getting at is that... they call me the Rocket Boy. </span>












=1AC Harker= 



Plan:
**The United States federal government should develop and deploy space based solar power.**

===Contention 1 is Aerospace=== 

**The Aerospace Industry is collapsing now- Businesses are losing customers and China’s aerospace is rising**
**Carafano 8/22-** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">a senior research fellow for national security at The Heritage Foundation (James Jay, 8/22/11, “Regulations force America to forfeit its place in outer space”, http://www.sfexaminer.com/opinion/op-eds/2011/08/regulations-force-america-forfeit-its-place-outer-space)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">What was once thought impossible ..... </span>, by our own excessive laws and regulations.

**Aerospace competitiveness //__drives economic growth__// – purely private sector approaches guarantee failure**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Hernnstadt 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Director of Trade and Globalization @ IAMAW</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Owen, director of the Trade and Globalization Department, International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, “Offsets and the lack of a comprehensive U.S. policy,” Economic Policy Institute, http://www.sharedprosperity.org/bp201.html</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Aerospace is an especially important industry for a nation's economic and physical security... o</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">ther countries are giving their companies significant backing based on well-</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">developed industrial policies.</span>


**Scenario 1 is Aerospace Competitiveness**



**Federal investment into SBSP solves aerospace competitiveness- Intellectual and Employment**

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">NSSO 7</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, 10-10-2007, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study,” NSS, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">FINDING: The SBSP Study Group found that SBSP offers a path ......An SBSP program would be **a powerful expression** of this imperative.</span>


**A collapsing aerospace sector takes down //__key sectors__// of US hegemony**

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Walker et al 2 – Chairman of the USAI</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Robert Walker, et cal, Chair of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners, 2002, “Final Report of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners,” </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.trade.gov/td/aerospace/aerospacecommission/AeroCommissionFinalReport.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Defending our nation against its enemies is the first and fundamental commitment of the federal ...thus </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">maintaining **our position as the world’s preeminent military power**. </span>__



**The impact is global conflict**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Khalilzad 11 – Former US ambassador, former Professor @ Columbia</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Zalmay Khalilzad, PhD, United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992 (2/8/11, National Review, “The Economy and National Security; If we don’t get our economic house in order, we risk a new era of multi-polarity,” </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">We face this domestic challenge while other major powers are experiencing rapid economic ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">states. Still, the United States is the most significant barrier facing Chinese hegemony and aggression.</span>




**Scenario 2 is Econ**



**SPS boosts economy- creates millions of jobs**

**Nansen, 95 -** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">led the Boeing team of engineers in the Satellite Power System Concept Development and Evaluation Program for the Department of Energy and NASA, and President Solar Space Industries (Ralph, Sun Power, [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/sunpower/sunpower09.html]], MA)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The major task during the development phase would be a new ...periphery </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">fields to support this work force would reach into the millions. </span>__

**Deficit Spending is good- Stimulates the economy- It’s reverse causal- Not spending increases unemployment and decreases business**
**Krugman 9/6-** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">PhD in from MIT. Nobel Laureate and worked at the White House Council of Economic Advisors (Paul 9/6/11, “ President must go big and bold to get Washington focused on jobs again”, [[http://www.smh.com.au/business/president-must-go-big-and-bold-to-get-washington-focused-on-jobs-again-20110905-1ju6k.html]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Last Friday brought two numbers that should have had everyone ... l</span>ittle prospect of finding another job, I hope he pulls it off.



**Economic decline causes global war**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Royal 10 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Director of CTR</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how periods of </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">__economic decline__ ... </span>prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention.

===Contention 2 is Energy=== 

**SPS provides access to reliable secure energy**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">NSSO 8</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">*National Space Security Office of the USFG [Space-Based Solar Power Study Group, Ad Astra, “Strategic Importance” Spring 2008, pg. 28, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Like all species in a closed ecosystem, human civilization ...</span>applications because today the DoD is the largest single consumer of petroleum in the U.S.




**Scenario 1 is the Military**

**The military is entirely dependent on petroleum, transition away is critical**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Parthemore and Nagl 10*</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Christine Parthemore is a fellow at the Center for New American Security **Dr. John Nagl is President of the Center for New American Security [**</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Fueling%20the%20Future%20Force_NaglParthemore.pdf</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Fueling the Future Force Preparing the Department of Defense for a Post-Petroleum Era” September 2010]</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The U.S. Department of Defense (DOD) must prepare now ...</span>operate worldwide in the event of petroleum scarcity or unavailability.**

And military readiness will collapse now, 2 key warrants:

First is force protection:
Oil dependence allows rogue states leverage over U.S. foreign policy; and enemies to cherry pick our supply lines
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Parthemore and Nagl 10*</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Christine Parthemore is a fellow at the Center for New American Security </span>**Dr. John Nagl is President of the Center for New American Security [<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Fueling%20the%20Future%20Force_NaglParthemore.pdf</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Fueling the Future Force Preparing the Department of Defense for a Post-Petroleum Era” September 2010]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The growing world demand for petroleum presents major geostrategic risks...</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> continue to consider the attraction of fuel supply lines to opponents.</span>__




**2 is the fuel tether:**
**DOD oil dependence straightjackets our forces and operational capacity, this hampers power projection and makes our military posture unsustainable**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Crowley et. al 7</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">*Thomas D. Crowley is a Policy Consultant for LMI **Tonya D. Corrie is a policy consultant for LMI** *David B. Diamond is a policy consultant for LMIStuart D. Funk is a policy Consultant for LMI*Wilhelm A. Hansen, Andrea D. Stenhoff, and Daniel C. Swift are policy consultants for LMI**LMI is a governmental consulting organization [**</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA467003</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, april 2007, “Transforming the Way DOD Looks at Energy”]</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The goal of our security strategies is to shape the future security ...</span>operational capability of the force may be unsustainable in the long term.**

Independently SPS is critical to Air Force military dominance – informational superiority and agile combat
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Ramos 2k</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> *Kim Ramos is a U.S. Air Force Major the paper is a thesis submitted for the AIR COMMAND AND STAFF COLL MAXWELL Air Force Base [“Solar Power Constellations: Implications for the United States Air Force,” April, http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA394928]</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Solar power satellites may affect terrestrial Air Force operations. One ...</span>equipment, war readiness spares kits, tools, and spillage clean up kits.13**

Military readiness and intervention capabilities key to prevent war
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kagan 7</span>** – **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">senior associate, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, July, End of Dreams, Return of History, </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html, AG/JMP)</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Were</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">U</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">S</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">to diminish</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> its </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">influence</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">in the ... one of </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">intensified competition among nations and nationalist movements</span>__**

Scenario 2 is Resource Wars

SPS solves energy wars – proximate cause of 21st century conflict

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Dinerman 8 – DoD Consultant</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Taylor Dinerman, DoD Consultant, 9-15-2008, “War, peace, and space solar power,” Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1209/1</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">It was a little more than a month ago when the crisis ... The need for vulnerable pipelines and shipping routes will diminish.</span>**



These wars go global**

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Schubert 10 – PhD in electrical engineering</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Peter J. Schubert, PhD in electrical and computer engineering from Purdue University, holds 30 US patents, 8 foreign patents, and has published over 60 technical papers and book chapters, 12-2010, “Costs, Organization, and Roadmap for SSP,” Online Journal of Space Communication, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/schubert.html</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">For a miracle to occur </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">__the US must__ ... </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">over scarce energy sources.</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> None of these options favor SSP.</span>

===Contention 3 is Japan Cooperation=== 


**Co-operation with Japan is normal means**
**Mohammed and Ramasamy,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Politicians and former Members of the Legislative Assembly</span>**, ‘09**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(S. Sheik Mohammed and K.Ramasamy, proceedings of international conference on energy and environment, [[http://web.ebscohost.com/ehost/detail?vid=10&hid=112&sid=5ac440de-7fdb-4dec-93a0-4edc0039db57%40sessionmgr13&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWhvc3QtbGl2ZSZzY29wZT1zaXRl#db=a9h&AN=40086283|Ebsco]], AJ)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">As world-wide activities, the SPS research</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> ... </span>activities of United States, Japan and Europe are discussed in this chapter.




**US-Japan co op on space solves relations- It’s also normal means**
**Glosserman and Furukawa ’08-** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the Pacific Forum CSIS (www.pacforum.org) operates as the autonomous Asia-Pacific arm of the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, DC. The Forum’s programs encompass current and emerging political, security, economic, business, and oceans policy issues through analysis and dialogue undertaken with the region’s leaders in the academic, government, and corporate areas. (Brad and Katsu, 2008, “A New US-Japan Agenda”, CSIS Volume 8)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">After the halcyon days of the Bush-Koizumi era, friends ... </span>mutual confidence that constitutes the foundation for bilateral cooperation on global issues.”

**A cooperative strategy with Japan increases space multilateralism and checks back space mil**
**Briggs ’10-** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">A major commander at USAF (Michael Joseph, March 2010, “POLICY RECOMMENDATION FOR THE UNITED STATES REGARDING THE WEAPONIZATION OF SPACE”, pg. 16-17)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The objective of </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">a carefully executed</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> space strategy </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> ....</span>US national interests and sustainable for decades to come.





**Japan can help develop SSP- they already have a dedicated program**
**Cox, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - retired prosecutor and public interest lawyer, author and political activist (William, “The Race for Space Solar Energy,” 3/26, </span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/TPV3/Voices.php/2011/03/26/the-race-for-space-solar-energy</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The failures of the General Electric nuclear reactors ... </span>of unlimited and unimaginable futures that surround and await us.

**Japan’s economy is low now- Key to US Econ**
**Amadeo 8/26-** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">columnist for About.com (Kimberly, 8/26/11, “Japan’s Economy”, http://useconomy.about.com/od/grossdomesticproduct/a/Japan_Recession.htm?p=1)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Before Japan's 2011 earthquake1, its economy was just starting ... </span>787 billion Economic Stimulus Package11 or the $700 billion TARP fund12.


**Participation in a global SPS project would help economies worldwide**
**Matsuoka, 99**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Hideo Matsuoka, Professor at Teikyo Heisei University (10/7/99, Paper presented to IAF Congress, “An Equatorial SPS Pilot Plant”, http://www.spacefuture.com/archive/an_equatorial_sps_pilot_plant.shtml) MH -- JC</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">In addition, the present economic ... Participation in SPS 2000 could be a positive and popular move in this direction. </span>





**SPS pilot plant would boost the Japanese economy**
**Matsuoka, 99 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hideo Matsuoka, Professor at Teikyo Heisei University (10/7/99, Paper presented to IAF Congress, “An Equatorial SPS Pilot Plant”, [[http://www.spacefuture.com/archive/an_equatorial_sps_pilot_plant.shtml]]) MH--JC</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The Japanese space industry faces a similar ... </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">operation of an SPS pilot plant would certainly have economic value</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>__



**Japan’s economy is key to the global econ**
**Brummer ’11-**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> veteran economic commentator, working as a British journalist, editor, and author (Alex, 4/16/11, “Now we learn Japan's crucial role in the world economy”, http://www.thisismoney.co.uk/money/news/article-1715454/Now-we-learn-Japans-crucial-role-in-the-world-economy.html#)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">When the Japanese economy - one ... </span>terrible events in Japan on the prosperity of us all.

**<span style="color: black;">Economic collapse causes wars in Asia- those go global</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Auslin, 9</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – resident scholar at AEI (Michael “Averting Disaster”, The Daily Standard, 2/6, http://www.aei.org/article/100044)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">As they deal with a collapsing world economy, policymakers ... </span>greed that have destroyed international systems in the past.

===Contention 4 is Solvency=== 






**A major government investment and demonstration ensure sustainable and environmentally friendly growth**
**-current technologies must be developed and demonstrated**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">IAA 11</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">International Academy of Astronautics, Academy that brings together ... </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">technology in-space tests and demonstrations.</span>


**The plan significantly retires SSP risk – key to jump-starting private sector investment**

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">NSSO 7</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, 10-10-2007, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study,” NSS, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The SBSP Study Group concludes that space</span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif; font-size: 8pt;">‐</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">based ... </span>__of SBSP and incentivize its development.__




=Negative= 

==1NC Space Mil DA== 

**Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership through NSP is creating a framework against weaponization**
**Huntley, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">As is well understood.....</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Many devils may lurk in these details. </span>




**The plan’s unilateralism undermines the NSP – it occurs without genuine consultation and will be __perceived__ as abandoning the commitment to international partnership**

**Smith 11**-- Space and Technology Policy Group

(February, 2011, Marcia A., Space Policy, Vol. 27, Issue 1, p. 22-23, Science Direct, FS)



<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Over succeeding months national security....</span> at the UN in October 2010 [5].


**Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens, 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;"> – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Perhaps of even greater concern ....</span>____<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">accidental one would be highly problematic. </span>__


==<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">__PACs Neg USC__</span>== 

===1NC Hegemony=== 

**States won’t want to usurp US space dominance- no capability to challenge US heg AND they’re more concerned with regional issues**
**Brooks and Wohlforth 2**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - *Assistant Professor AND **Associate Professor in the Department of Government at Dartmouth College (Stephen G. and William C., "American Primacy in Perspective," Foreign Affairs, Vol. 81, No. 4, July/August 2002)**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Many who acknowledge the extent of American....United States would be a gargantuan task.</span>**

No impact to heg collapse- liberal international order will integrate rising powers and states have an interest to achieve economic and security goals, avoid backlash,
Ikenberry 11 **(May/June issue of Foreign Affairs, G. John, PhD, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University in the Department of Politics and the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, “The Future of the Liberal World Order,” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/67730/g-john-ikenberry/the-future-of-the-liberal-world-order?page=show )**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But this panicked narrative misses a ..... of American decline and liberal unraveling. </span>**

Heg is unnecessary
Preble 8/3/10 (**Christopher Preble, director of foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, taught history at St. Cloud State University and Temple University, was a commissioned officer in the U.S. Navy, Ph.D. in history from Temple University. “U.S. Military Power: Preeminence for What Purpose?” 8/3/10) http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/u-s-military-power-preeminence-for-what-purpose/
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Most in Washington still ...security of their respective regions.</span>


===1NC China=== 
**Turn – China would perceive US defensive counterspace measures to be threatening, triggering a Chinese response and a self-fulfilling prophecy.**
**MacDonald 2008**
(Bruce, Council on Foreign Relations Council Special Report No. 38 September China, Space Weapons, http://www.cfr.org/china/china-space-weapons-us-security/p16707)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A third doctrinal option is sustained offensive .... integrated into an overall doctrine of spacedeterrence.</span>


**Even if their arguments that China is militarizing are true, we couldn’t stop them- Counter-measures fail- China has cyber-warfare capabilities, co-orbital ASATs, radiofrequency, and ground-based lasers**
**Easton 09** (Ian Easton is a research at the project2049 Institute, The Project 2049 Institute seeks to guide decision makers toward a more secure Asia by the century’s mid-point and provides tailored studies for sponsors with an interest in long-range strategic forecasting, “The Great Game in Space,” http://project2049.net/documents/china_asat_weapons_the_great_game_in_space.pdf)
__China has__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also </span>__been developing ....__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. is especially reliant upon its space assets. </span>


**Look, China isn’t stupid- their OWN 1AC evidence points out how ridiculous it would be for China to use its ASATs**
<span class="Underline">**ASAT capabilities exists, but even** </span>**an all-out Chinese ASAT attack would not be enough to cripple our military**
**Forden 8**
//(Geoffrey////,// //PhD, an MIT research associate and a former UN weapons inspector and strategic weapons analyst at the Congressional Budget Office,// //How China Loses the Coming Space War//
//http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2008/01/inside-the-ch-1/)//

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The answers to these questions should..... It turns out, there is no such thing.</span>


**Their war scenario is outdated- Chinese military has switched from offensive training to defensive preparations to protect their own assets**

**Thompson** 4/**2010** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Drew Thompson is director of China studies and Starr senior fellow at the Nixon Center, Foreign Policy March/April 2010 Issue, “Think Again: China’s Military,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/02/22/think_again_chinas_military?page=full)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"China's War Plans Are All .... as the British did in the 1800s. </span>

===1NC Solvency=== 
= = 

**1) Countries would negatively perceive this shift in power - this causes space wars and turns case**
**Page, 1AC author, 2006** (Joseph, Assistant flight commander and ICBM combat crew commander (Squadron Command Post) at the 741st Missile Squadron, 91st Space Wing, Minor AFB, North Dakota, “Stealing Zeus's Thunder” Air & Space Power Journal Summer 2006 pg. 29-31)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although the few SC PACS.... space control must begin here </span>

M**icrosatellites fail in protecting our satellites- collateral damage to satellites, debris, and impossible to position correctly**
**Schendzielos, 1AC author, 2008** (Kurt, Director, 13th Air Force Commander's Action Group at US Air Force, “Protection in Space: A Self-Defense Acquisition Priority for U.S. Satellites” http://dodreports.com/pdf/ada485553.pdf )
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">One critical downside to the use ....</span> __even a successful defeat of the original intercept.__

**Even if launches are covert, countries will find out about them- leaks**
**Weinberger 11** (Sharon Weinberger is a national security writer and a 2011 Alicia Patterson Foundation Fellow. During 2008-2009, she was a Knight Science Journalism Fellow at MIT and a Carnegie Newhouse Legal Reporting Fellow, She holds an M.A. in International Affairs from the University of Pittsburgh's Graduate School of Public and International Affairs and an M.A. in Russian and East European Studies from Yale University, “US Special Ops Building Satellites to Track Terrorists Everywhere,” http://www.popularmechanics.com/technology/military/satellites/us-special-ops-building-satellites-to-track-terrorists-everywhere-5767401)
__An official with Special Ops....__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">for scientific missions for a number of years.</span>

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]