==Affirmative== 
**OBSERVATION ONE:** I will defend the resolution as a general principle, but I am open to alternate interpretations. If the NEG would like me to defend something else, they can ask me to do so in CX.

**OBSERVATION TWO IS FRAMEWORK:** <span style="color: #000000;">I value **justice.** T</span>he nature of our relationships with and obligations towards others form the basis of the requirements of justice.

<span style="color: #000000;">Previous philosophical theories try to distill justice into a single principle that is to be applied to all situations. For example, Kantian ethics establishes human dignity or reflective practical reason as the basis for all ethical reasoning. </span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Bruce Ellis Benson. [Wheaton Professor who is super smart] “</span>//<span style="color: #000000;">Graven Ideologies: Nietzsche, Derrida, Marion On Modern Idolatry</span>//<span style="color: #000000;">” 2002. Intervarsity Press.</span>

//<span style="color: #000000;">Emmanuel Levinas and... my own image.</span>//


<span style="color: #000000;">Other agents cease to be unique entities that exist independently of ourselves because all knowledge is said to stem from //our// systemic procedures for ethics. </span>

**<span style="color: #000000;">However,</span>**<span style="color: #000000;"> a sound basis for ethics requires a coherent understanding of the other. Failure to recognize and identify with that which is not us prevents us from constructing ourselves as autonomous beings.</span>

<span style="color: #1d1d1d;">Allen Wood. Fichte’s Intersubjective I. (Stanford University, USA) Inquiry, Volume 49, Number 1 (February, 2006)</span><span style="color: #1f2734;">[[http://www.stanford.edu/%7Eallenw/webpapers/FichteIntersubjective.pdf|http://www.stanford.edu/~allenw/webpapers/FichteIntersubjective.pdf]]</span>

//**<span style="color: #000000;">There the transcendental... possible at all.</span>**//

**<span style="color: #000000;">Thus</span>**<span style="color: #000000;">, our self-awareness can only arise through our encounter with the Other. Without the capacity to distinguish that which is in our control from that which is not, the external world would appear to be governed by our will so we could not distinguish our own autonomous action from the decisions of the other. This makes it impossible to concpetualize our autonomy. </span>

Thus we must respect the other.

[[2011-2012 - Harvard-Westlake (CA) - Michelle Choi#_ftnref|A]]<span style="color: #000000;">nthony F. Beaver. “Emmanuel Levinas and the Prophetic Voice of Postmodernity”. Originally presented as an Andiron Lecture at the University of Evansville, 1993.</span>

//If the otherness... look at God.//


**<span style="color: #000000;">Therefore,</span>**<span style="color: #000000;"> the AFF **burden** is to prove that animals are an other worthy of ethical consideration.</span>


**<span style="color: #000000;">Further,</span>**<span style="color: #000000;"> prefer this framework for two additional reasons:</span>

**<span style="color: #000000;">First</span>**<span style="color: #000000;">, any coherent conception of ethics arises out of respect for the other. Discussion that precedes a response to the other is internally self-defeating because it tries to attribute characteristics to the other before encountering the other,s. This also allows us to exclude anything outside of our defined interpretation of what the other is. </span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Anthony F. Beaver. “Emmanuel Levinas and the Prophetic Voice of Postmodernity”. Originally presented as an Andiron Lecture at the University of Evansville, 1993.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">//If we can... on the environment//.</span>

**<span style="color: #000000;">Second</span>**<span style="color: #000000;">, ethics must accept others because we can never fully understand them. When we encounter the other, it has an independent perspective that eludes my understanding so we have no choice but to respect its otherness</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Jonathan Crowe [Senior Lecturer and Fellow, Centre for Public, International and Comparative Law, T. C. Beirne School of Law, University of Queensland] </span>//<span style="color: #000000;">ARTICLE: LEVINASIAN ETHICS AND ANIMAL RIGHTS. </span>//<span style="color: #000000;">2008 University of Windsor Windsor Yearbook of Access to Justice</span>

//Levinas suggests in...a power exercised.//


<span style="color: #000000;">My thesis and sole contention is that a proper understanding of the other requires the recognition of animal rights.</span>
**<span style="color: #000000;">A) </span>**<span style="color: #000000;">Animals constitute an other because we are unable to truly and fully understand them. </span>


<span style="color: #000000;">Jonathan Crowe [Senior Lecturer and Fellow, Centre for Public, International and Comparative Law, T. C. Beirne School of Law, University of Queensland] </span>//<span style="color: #000000;">ARTICLE: LEVINASIAN ETHICS AND ANIMAL RIGHTS. </span>//<span style="color: #000000;">2008 University of Windsor Windsor Yearbook of Access to Justice</span>

//<span style="color: #000000;">It is useful...types of beings.</span>//


**<span style="color: #000000;">Further</span>**<span style="color: #000000;">, differences between humans and animals are irrelevant. This dichotomy would thematize and totalize the other**<span style="color: #000000;">[[2011-2012 - Harvard-Westlake (CA) - Michelle Choi#_ftn7|.]]</span>**</span>

B<span style="color: #000000;">arbra Jane Davy. An Other Face of Ethics in Levinas. Ethics & the Environment, Volume 12, Number 1, Spring 2007</span>

//Our humanity is...of active invitation.//


**<span style="color: #000000;">B) </span>**<span style="color: #000000;">Justice would require the recognition of animal rights, even if animals are not truly an “other.”</span>

B<span style="color: #000000;">arbra Jane Davy. An Other Face of Ethics in Levinas. Ethics & the Environment, Volume 12, Number 1, Spring 2007</span>

//Levinas's statements in... question of ethics.//

**<span style="color: #000000;">Thus,</span>**<span style="color: #000000;"> justice must recognize the rights of all agents that influence the interaction between ourselves and the other, not just those within the realm of the other. </span>

**Finally,** ethical obligations to others can only be conceptualized as rights.

<span style="color: #000000;">Jonathan Crowe [Senior Lecturer and Fellow, Centre for Public, International and Comparative Law, T. C. Beirne School of Law, University of Queensland] </span>//<span style="color: #000000;">ARTICLE: LEVINASIAN ETHICS AND ANIMAL RIGHTS. </span>//<span style="color: #000000;">2008 University of Windsor Windsor Yearbook of Access to Justice</span>

//**<span style="color: #000000;">We have seen... a moral right.</span>**//
== == 
**CAPABILITIES AFF**
Section One is Epistemology
Value: Justice

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Daniels 2011</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">describes the model of reflective equilibrium</span>


<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Daniels, Norman [Prof. of Population Ethics, Harvard University], "Reflective Equilibrium", </span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Spring 2011 Edition)</span>//</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/spr2011/entries/reflective-equilibrium/</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">The method of</span>__**...<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> are still defeasible </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Moral judgment about a particular case would be justified if it was consistent with the rest of our beliefs on due reflection and after appropriate revisions.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Prefer this method of justifying a theory of justice for three reasons:</span>

1.<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> Reasoning from first principles or definitions is not adequate to justify normative theories. **Rawls** </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">John Rawls [American Philosopher, formerly Prof. at Harvard University], __A Theory of Justice: Revised Edition__, Cambridge: The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press (1971). P. 506</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Philosophers commonly try</span>__**...**__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">to be justified.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Reflective Equilibrium avoids the problematic epistemology of foundationalist accounts.</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> Daniels </span>**

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Daniels, Norman [Prof. of Population Ethics, Harvard University], "Reflective Equilibrium", </span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">//<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Cambria','serif';">The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Spring 2011 Edition)</span>//</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/spr2011/entries/reflective-equilibrium/</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Because we are</span>__**...**__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">told about them.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">2.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Trying to reason from first principles gets in the way of developing a substantive conception of justice. **Rawls 2**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">John Rawls [American Philosopher, formerly Prof. at Harvard University], __A Theory of Justice: Revised Edition__, Cambridge: The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press (1971). P. 506-507</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Therefore**__we do..__**</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">.theory of justice.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">And </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Rights are based off of multiple norms, not one reason. Therefore, we must look to a theory that takes all norms into account. </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Kelch</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 12px;">Kelch, Thomas G. 1999. [Professor of Law At Whitter Law School] //The Role of the Rational and the Emotive in a Theory of Animal Rights// 1999 Boston College Law School, Boston College Environmental Affairs Law Review. </span>


**__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">When we ask</span>__**...<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">of various ingredients.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">3. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Some form of consensus is necessary to engage in discourse. **Rawls 3**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">John Rawls. 1987. //The Idea of an Overlapping Consensus.// </span><span style="font-family: Code2000; font-size: 16px;">Oxford Journal of Legal Studies, Vol. 7, No. 1 (Spring, 1987), pp. 1-25.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Consider why: **__the__**</span>...**__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">of political justice.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">**Section 2 is Framework**</span>**


**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Robeyns</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> describes the capabilities approach to justice.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Robeyns, Ingrid [Prof. of Practical Philosophy, Erasmus University Rotterdam], "The Capability Approach", //The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Summer 2011 Edition)//, Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = <http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/sum2011/entries/capability-approach/>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Within moral and</span>...**__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">income or wealth)</span>__**


**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Robeyns 2 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">furthers</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Robeyns, Ingrid [Prof. of Practical Philosophy, Erasmus University Rotterdam], "The Capability Approach", //The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Summer 2011 Edition)//, Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = <http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/sum2011/entries/capability-approach/>.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">According to the</span>...**__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> not human functionings.</span>__**


**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Thus the standard</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> is promoting dignified and flourishing life. Prefer it for two reasons:</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">First,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> the capabilities approach is most consistent with reflective equilibrium. **Nussbaum 1**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Martha C. Nussbaum [Prof. of Law and Ethics, University of Chicago], __Frontiers of Justice: Disability, Nationality, Species Membership__, Cambridge: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press (2006), pp. 355</span>
Although such a... make them only

**Second,**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> varying need for resources based on differential capabilities is an omnipresent aspect of moral life **Nussbaum 2**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Martha C. Nussbaum [Prof. of Law and Ethics, University of Chicago], __Frontiers of Justice: Disability, Nationality, Species Membership__, Cambridge: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press (2006), pp. 355</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">My capabilities approach... in public places</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">And, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">showing we should respect animal entitlements to a flourishing and dignified life means that we should recognize their rights. **Nussbaum 3**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Martha C. Nussbaum [Prof. of Law and Ethics, University of Chicago], __Frontiers of Justice: Disability, Nationality, Species Membership__, Cambridge: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press (2006), pp. 336-337</span>

This is a... unfair to them.

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">So, the affirmative burden is to show that the capabilities approach recognizes the moral interests of animals.</span>

**Section 3: The Capabilities Approach Applies to Animals**


**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">First,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> animals are capable of living a dignified life, which humans often deny them. **Nussbaum 4**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Martha C. Nussbaum [Prof. of Law and Ethics, University of Chicago], __Frontiers of Justice: Disability, Nationality, Species Membership__, Cambridge: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press (2006), pp. 326</span>

**__Nonhuman animals are... court boldly does__**

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">**Second**, animal lives inspire awe and wonder like human lives, suggesting we ought to value their flourishing.</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> Nussbaum 5</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Martha C. Nussbaum [Prof. of Law and Ethics, University of Chicago], “Beyond ‘Compassion and Humanity’: Justice For Non-Human Animals” //Animal Rights: Current Debates and New Directions//. Eds. Cass R. Sunstein and Martha C. Nussbaum. New York: Oxford University Press, 2004. 299-320. Print.</span>

**__The same attitude... the capabilities approach__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Third,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> affording dignity to diverse ways of life, including those marked as “animalistic” in human beings, suggest that we ought to extend moral respect to non-human animals. **Nussbaum 6**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Martha C. Nussbaum [Prof. of Law and Ethics, University of Chicago], __Frontiers of Justice: Disability, Nationality, Species Membership__, Cambridge: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press (2006), pp. 356</span>
**__In chapter 3... the whole idea__**


**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Fourth, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">the pervasive effect of humans on animals requires strong positive obligations. **Nussbaum 7**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Martha C. Nussbaum [Prof. of Law and Ethics, University of Chicago], “Beyond ‘Compassion and Humanity’: Justice For Non-Human Animals” //Animal Rights: Current Debates and New Directions//. Eds. Cass R. Sunstein and Martha C. Nussbaum. New York: Oxford University Press, 2004. 299-320. Print.</span>
In the human... make for themselves

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Nussbaum 8 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">concludes the AC</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Martha C. Nussbaum [Prof. of Law and Ethics, University of Chicago], __Frontiers of Justice: Disability, Nationality, Species Membership__, Cambridge: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press (2006), pp. 350-351</span>
Put another way... off or fruitless



----

==[[#September-October-Negative]]Negative== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">I negate and value **Justice.**</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Justice is a social construct more than an absolute or transcendent set of principles. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Kuflik</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> Arthur Kuflik. “Hume on Justice to Animals, Indians and Women.” April 1998. Hume Studies Volume XXIV, Number I, pp. 53-70. [[@http://www.humesociety.org/hs/issues/v24n1/kuflik/kuflik-v24n1.pdf]]. BG</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri;">For Hume,</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> the...</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">all these extremes” [EPM 1881.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">As a system that exists to effectively govern societal relationships, any scheme of justice must be based on the assumption that all of its members could flourish without infringing on the rights or desires of others. </span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">Barilan </span>**

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">Y. Michael Barilan, MD, MA [Department of Internal Medicine B Meir Hospital Kfar Saba </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">[[@mailto:bentovia@shani.net|bentovia@shani.net]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">. Department of Behavioral Sciences Sackler Faculty of Medicine Tel Aviv University Tel Aviv, Israel]. Speciesism as a precondition to justice.</span>


<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">People abuse and ... trying to do so.38</span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Therefore, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">the standard is **Demonstrating Moral Sociability.** </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">I contend that animals are not morally sociable creatures.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">To</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;"> survive, animals must violate the rights of other animals. Thus, they cannot coexist in a just society. **Barilan 2**</span>


<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">Y. Michael Barilan, MD, MA [Department of Internal Medicine B Meir Hospital Kfar Saba </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">[[@mailto:bentovia@shani.net|bentovia@shani.net]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">. Department of Behavioral Sciences Sackler Faculty of Medicine Tel Aviv University Tel Aviv, Israel]. Speciesism as a precondition to justice.</span>

**__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;">The lion and ...</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri;"> own moral sense.</span>