======[[toc]]====== 


=Things That Are Bad= 
==Prolif Bad== 
===General=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Adventurism</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Prolif-filled world leads to adventurism, miscalculation from fear, and is the only impact that bypasses all checks on war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Utgoff, 2002 (Victor, Deputy Director of the Strategy, Forces, and Resources Division of the</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Institute for Defense Analyses, Survival, v44, n2)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">If leaders are willing… with a harried leader.</span>



====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Bioweapons</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Speed difference between proliferating states ensures miscalc, causes war before and after nukes are ready, and leads to bio-weapons</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Utgoff, 2002 (Victor, Deputy Director of the Strategy, Forces, and Resources Division of the</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Institute for Defense Analyses, Survival, v44, n2)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Many readers are probably… opportunity is actually zero.</span>


====Rivalries==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Poor transparency, defense, and protection creates lopsided nuclear rivalries- triggers war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Pallathra, 2007, Ryan Andrew, junior at Tufts University major in International Relations, “Nuclear Weapons: A Source of Peace in World Politics or an Unjustified Risk to International Security?” http://www.polisci.ufl.edu/UF_Review/documents/Pallathra-%20Nuclear%20Weapons.doc, KHaze</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Regional Hostilities and… they were stolen.</span>



====Terrorism==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Prolif causes nuclear terror- it’s possible and they’ll do it</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Pallathra, 2007, Ryan Andrew, junior at Tufts University major in International Relations, “Nuclear Weapons: A Source of Peace in World Politics or an Unjustified Risk to International Security?” http://www.polisci.ufl.edu/UF_Review/documents/Pallathra-%20Nuclear%20Weapons.doc, KHaze</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">In the last few decades,… constraints in moral judgment.</span>


====Empirics==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Frequency of wars involving nuclear powers proves it’s most probable</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Utgoff, 2002 (Victor, Deputy Director of the Strategy, Forces, and Resources Division of the</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Institute for Defense Analyses, Survival, v44, n2)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">To be sure, some theorists… a beautiful flower?’5</span>


====AT: Deterrence==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Their defense doesn’t assume terrorism, suicide, and irrationality</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Pallathra, 2007, Ryan Andrew, junior at Tufts University major in International Relations, “Nuclear Weapons: A Source of Peace in World Politics or an Unjustified Risk to International Security?” http://www.polisci.ufl.edu/UF_Review/documents/Pallathra-%20Nuclear%20Weapons.doc, KHaze</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">There are many… properly dealt with.</span>



===Iran Prolif=== 
====Iran > Soviet Union==== 
Iran and North Korean prolif causes extinction- comparatively biggest risk
Miller, 10-17-11, Paul, assistant professor of international security studies at the National Defense University. Prior to stepping behind a lectern, he served as director for Afghanistan on the National Security Council staff from September 2007 to September 2009. Before working as a policymaker, he previously served as a political analyst in the U.S. intelligence community, specializing in South Asia. He also serves as an officer in the U.S. Army Reserve and was deployed to Afghanistan in 2002. “This is no time to cut defense,” http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/10/17/this_is_no_time_to_cut_defense, KHaze

The threats are equally apocalyptic…. to avert disaster this time.


====EMP==== 
Iran nuclear weapons cause EMP attacks on the US
Pry, 2010, Peter Vincent, served on the staffs of the Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States from Electromagnetic Pulse Attack, the U.S. House Armed Services Committee, and the Central Intelligence Agency. He currently is director of the U.S. Nuclear Strategy Forum and president of EMPACT America. “What America Needs to Know About EMPs,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/03/17/the_truth_about_emps?page=full, KHaze

In 2008, the congressionally mandated… as if practicing an EMP attack.



Iran EMP kills everyone
Graham et al., 2008, <span style="font-size: 4pt;">Dr. William R. Graham is Chairman of the Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States from Electromagnetic Pulse Attack. He is also Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of National Security Research Inc. (NSR), a Washington-based company that conducts technical, operational, and policy research and analysis related to US national security. In the recent past he has served as a member of several high-level study groups, including the Department of Defense Transformation Study Group, the Commission to Assess United States National Security Space Management and Organization (the Rumsfeld Commission on Space), and the Commission to Assess the Ballistic Missile Threat to the United States (also led by Hon. Donald Rumsfeld). From 1986–89 Dr. Graham was the director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy while he served concurrently as Science Advisor to President Reagan, Chairman of the Federal Joint Telecommunications Resources Board, and member of the Arms Control Experts Group. For 11 years he served as a member of the Board of Directors of the Watkins-Johnson Company. Dr. John S. Foster, Jr., is Chairman of the Board of GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, chairman of Technology Strategies and Alliances, and consultant to Northrop Grumman Corporation, Sikorsky Aircraft Corp., Ninesigma, and Defense Group. He retired from TRW as Vice President, Science and Technology, in 1988 and continued to serve on the Board of Directors of TRW from 1988 to 1994. Dr. Foster was Director of Defense Research and Engineering for the Department of Defense from 1965–1973, serving under both Democratic and Republican administrations. In other distinguished service, Dr. Foster has been on the Air Force Scientific Advisory Board, the Army Scientific Advisory Panel, and the Ballistic Missile Defense Advisory Committee, Advanced Research Projects Agency. Until 1965, he was a panel consultant to the President’s Science Advisory Committee, and from 1973–1990 he was a member of the President’s Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board. He is a member of the Defense Science Board, which he chaired from January 1990–June 1993. From 1952–1962, Dr. Foster was with Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLL), where he began as a Division Leader in experimental physics, became Associate Director in 1958, and became Director of LLL and Associate Director of the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in 1961. Mr. Earl Gjelde is the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Summit Group International, Ltd.; Summit Energy Group, Ltd.; Summit Energy International 2000, LLC; and Summit Power NW, LLC, primary participants in the development of over 5,000 megawatts of natural gas fired electric and wind generating plants within the United States. He has also held a number of government posts, serving as President George Herbert Walker Bush’s Under (now called Deputy) Secretary and Chief Operating Officer of the US Department of the Interior (1989) and as President Ronald Reagan’s Under Secretary and Chief Operating Officer of the US Department of the Interior (1985–1988). While in the Reagan administration he served concurrently as Special Envoy to China (1987), Deputy Chief of Mission for the US-Japan Science and Technology Treaty (1987–1988), and Counselor for Policy to the Director of the National Critical Materials Council (1986–1988); the Counselor to the Secretary and Chief Operating Officer of the US Department of Energy (1982-1985); and Deputy Administrator, Chief Operating Officer, and Power Manager of the Bonneville Power Administration (19801982). Prior to 1980, he was a principal officer of the Bonneville Power Administration. Dr. Robert J. Hermann is a senior partner of Global Technology Partners, LLC, a Boston-based investment firm that focuses on technology, defense aerospace, and related businesses worldwide. In 1998, Dr. Hermann retired from United Technologies Corporation, where he was Senior Vice President, Science and Technology. Prior to joining UTC in 1982, Dr. Hermann served 20 years with the National Security Agency with assignments in research and development, operations, and NATO. In 1977, he was appointed Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Communications, Command, Control, and Intelligence. In 1979, he was named Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Research, Development, and Logistics and concurrently was Director of the National Reconnaissance Office. Mr. Henry (Hank) M. Kluepfel is a Corporate Vice President for Corporate Development and Chief Scientist in the Enterprise Security Solutions Group of SAIC. He is the company’s leading cyberspace security advisor to the President’s National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committeel (NSTAC) and the Network Reliability and Interoperability Council (NRIC). Mr. Kluepfel is widely recognized for his 30-plus years of experience in security technology research, design, tools, forensics, risk reduction, education, and awareness, and he is the author of industry’s de facto standard security base guideline for the Signaling System Number 7(SS7) networks connecting and controlling the world’s public telecommunications networks. In past affiliations with Telcordia Technologies (formerly Bellcore), AT&T, BellSouth and Bell Labs, he led industry efforts to protect, detect, contain, and mitigate electronic and physical intrusions and led the industry’s understanding of the need to balance technical, legal, and policy-based countermeasures to the then emerging hacker threat. He is recognized as a Certified Protection Professional by the American Society of Industrial Security and is a Senior Member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). General (USAF, Ret.) Richard L. Lawson is Chairman of Energy, Environment and Security Group, Ltd., and former President and CEO of the National Mining Association. He also serves as Vice Chairman of the Atlantic Council of the U.S; Chairman of the Energy Policy Committee of the US Energy Association; Chairman of the United States delegation to the World Mining Congress; and Chairman of the International Committee for Coal Research. Active duty positions included serving as Military Assistant to the President; Chief of Staff, Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe; Director for Plans and Policy, Joint Chiefs of Staff; Deputy Director of Operations, Headquarters US Air Force; and Deputy Commander in Chief, US European Command. Dr. Gordon K. Soper is Group Vice President of Defense Group Inc., responsible for broad direction of corporate goals relating to company support of government customers in areas of countering the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, chemical/biological defense and domestic preparedness, treaty verification research, nuclear arms control and development of new business areas and growth of technical staff. He provides senior-level technical support on a range of task areas to the Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA), the Chemical and Biological National Security Program of National Nuclear Security Administration, and the Counterproliferation and Chem/Bio Defense Office of the Office of the Secretary of Defense. Previously, Dr. Soper was Principal Deputy to the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Nuclear, Chemical and Biological Defense Programs (ATSD (NCB); Director, Office of Strategic and Theater Nuclear Forces Command, Control and Communications (C3) of the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (C3I); and Associate Director for Engineering and Technology/Chief Scientist at the Defense Communications Agency. Dr. Lowell L. Wood, Jr., is a member of the Technical Advisory Group, US Senate Select Committee on Intelligence; a member of the Undersea Warfare Experts Group, US House of Representatives Committee on Armed Services; a visiting fellow at the Hoover Institution and Stanford University; and an officer and member of the Board of Directors of the Fannie and John Hertz Foundation. He is also a member of the Director’s technical staff, University of California Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, where he has held numerous positions since 1972. Dr. Joan Woodard is Executive Vice President and Deputy Director of Sandia National Laboratories, responsible for all of Sandia’s programs, operations, staff, and facilities. She is also responsible for the laboratory’s strategic planning. Prior to her current appointment, Dr. Woodard was Vice President of the Energy, Information and Infrastructure Technology Division, where her responsibilities included energy-related projects in fossil energy, solar, wind, geothermal, geosciences, fusion, nuclear power safety and severe accident analysis, and medical isotope processing; environment-related programs in remediation, nuclear waste management and repository certification, and waste minimization; information technology programs in information surety, command and control systems, and distributed information systems; and programs responsible for security of the transportation of nuclear weapons and special nuclear materials, and safety of commercial aviation. Over 80% of the programs included industrial or academic partners, and the nature of the work ranged from basic research to prototype systems evaluation</span>. “COMMISSION TO ASSESS THE THREAT TO THE UNITED STATES FROM ELECTROMAGNETIC PULSE (EMP) ATTACK STATEMENT BEFORE THE HOUSE ARMED SERVICES COMMITTEE,” http://www.empcommission.org/docs/GRAHAMtestimony10JULY2008.pdf, KHaze

Several potential adversaries have… and difficult to deter.

=====AT: EMP Nay-sayers===== 
The EMP commission is the most objective and informative basis for EMP policy
Pry, 2010, Peter Vincent, served on the staffs of the Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States from Electromagnetic Pulse Attack, the U.S. House Armed Services Committee, and the Central Intelligence Agency. He currently is director of the U.S. Nuclear Strategy Forum and president of EMPACT America. “What America Needs to Know About EMPs,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/03/17/the_truth_about_emps?page=full, KHaze

Weinberger accuses the EMP… Congress are working together.


====AT: No Miscalc==== 
Iran threat is real and escalates rapidly
Limbert, 2-7-12, John, a former hostage in Iran, is professor of Middle Eastern studies at the U.S. Naval Academy. In August 2010 he left the U.S. State Department, where he had served as deputy assistant secretary of state for Near Eastern affairs. “We Need to Talk to Iran, But How?” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/02/07/we_need_to_talk_to_iran_but_how?page=full, KHaze

1. DON'T UNDERESTIMATE THE… military and political disaster.

====AT: Deterrence==== 
Iran prolif causes global nuclear war- can’t deter Iran or check other actors from miscalculating
WSJ, 11-14-11, Wall Street Journal, “If Iran Gets the Bomb,” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970204224604577027842025797760.html, KHaze

Yet these risks need… during the early Cold War.


===Korean Prolif Bad=== 
====Korea > Soviet Union==== 
Iran and North Korean prolif causes extinction- comparatively biggest risk
Miller, 10-17-11, Paul, assistant professor of international security studies at the National Defense University. Prior to stepping behind a lectern, he served as director for Afghanistan on the National Security Council staff from September 2007 to September 2009. Before working as a policymaker, he previously served as a political analyst in the U.S. intelligence community, specializing in South Asia. He also serves as an officer in the U.S. Army Reserve and was deployed to Afghanistan in 2002. “This is no time to cut defense,” http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/10/17/this_is_no_time_to_cut_defense, KHaze

The threats are equally apocalyptic…. to avert disaster this time.


====Turns EVERYTHING==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">North Korean prolif outweighs- causes every impact</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hayes and Hamel-Green 9</span> (Peter, Professor of International Relations, RMIT University, Melbourne; and Director, Nautilus Institute, and Michael, Dean of and Professor in the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development, Victoria University, “The path not taken, the way still open: Denuclearizing the Korean peninsula and Northeast Asia”, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://gc.nautilus.org/Nautilus/australia/apsnet/reports/2009/hayes-hamel-green.pdf]]</span>, AV)

The consequences of failing... American nuclear hegemony.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">”</span>


==Nuclear War Bad== 
===Turns Agriculture=== 
<span class="Underline">Even a small nuclear war would collapse American agricultural production</span>
<span class="Underline">Carl Sagan, B.A., B.S., and PhD University of Chicago, former professor of biology and genetics at Stanford and professor of astronomy and astrophysics at Harvard, former Director of the Laboratory for Planetary Studies at Cornell, two-time winner of the NASA medal for scientific achievement, Peabody award recipient, and Pulitzer prize winning author, 1984 (Foreign Affairs, “Nuclear War and Climatic Catastrophe” p. Lexis)</span>

<span class="Underline">The pyrotoxins, low light levels,… for years after the war.</span>



===Ozone=== 
Nuclear war destroys the ozone layer and results in extinction
Fred C. Ikle, Director of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, 6-1998 “Worldwide Effects of a Nuclear War: Some Perspectives” [[http://www.worldwideschool.org/|http://www.worldwideschool.org]]

More worrisome is the possible… recovery of postwar society.


Even a small nuclear war causes this
Carl Sagan, B.A., B.S., and PhD University of Chicago, former professor of biology and genetics at Stanford and professor of astronomy and astrophysics at Harvard, former Director of the Laboratory for Planetary Studies at Cornell, two-time winner of the NASA medal for scientific achievement, Peabody award recipient, and Pulitzer prize winning author, 1984 (Foreign Affairs, “Nuclear War and Climatic Catastrophe” p. Lexis)

As the fine particles… rapidly increase in severity.n13

===Ocean=== 
Nuclear war collapses ocean ecosystems
Carl Sagan, B.A., B.S., and PhD University of Chicago, former professor of biology and genetics at Stanford and professor of astronomy and astrophysics at Harvard, former Director of the Laboratory for Planetary Studies at Cornell, two-time winner of the NASA medal for scientific achievement, Peabody award recipient, and Pulitzer prize winning author, 1984 (Foreign Affairs, “Nuclear War and Climatic Catastrophe” p. Lexis)

The darkness alone may… and other ecosystems. n17


The impact is extinction
Davidson, founder of the Turtle House Foundation and award-winning Journalist, 2003
(Fire in the Turtle House, p.47-51)

But surely the Athenians had… just twelve on land.


===Winter=== 
<span class="Underline">Nuclear war causes nuclear winter and extinction</span>
<span class="Underline">Carl Sagan, B.A., B.S., and PhD University of Chicago, former professor of biology and genetics at Stanford and professor of astronomy and astrophysics at Harvard, former Director of the Laboratory for Planetary Studies at Cornell, two-time winner of the NASA medal for scientific achievement, Peabody award recipient, and Pulitzer prize winning author 1983 [[http://www.cooperativeindividualism.org/sagan_nuclear_winter.html]]</span>

<span class="Underline">But what if nuclear wars… extinction of the human species.</span>


===AT: Survivability=== 
Nuclear war will escalate
Dean Babst, former government scientist and coordinator of the Accidental Nuclear War Studies program at the Nuclear Age Peace Foundation, and David Krieger, President of the NAPF, 1997 “Consequences of Using Nuclear Weapons” [[http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/1997/00/00_babst_consequences.htm]]

We have looked at… and in distribution lines.


Even without escalation, nuclear war causes extinction
Carl Sagan, B.A., B.S., and PhD University of Chicago, former professor of biology and genetics at Stanford and professor of astronomy and astrophysics at Harvard, former Director of the Laboratory for Planetary Studies at Cornell, two-time winner of the NASA medal for scientific achievement, Peabody award recipient, and Pulitzer prize winning author, 1984 (Foreign Affairs, “Nuclear War and Climatic Catastrophe” p. Lexis)

In summary, cold, dark,… nuclear war break out.


The multiplier effect of nuclear war causes extinction
Alan F. Phillips, PhD in physics from Cambridge, former military researcher specializing in radiation and extensive author and researcher in the field of nuclear weapons and nuclear war, November, 2001 (Peace Research)

The combination of all… time in those cities.''


==Growth Good== 
===War=== 
<span class="Underline">Growth prevents nuclear war</span>
<span class="Underline">Friedberg and Schoenfeld 8</span>
<span class="Underline">Aaron, professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School, Gabriel, Visiting Scholar @ Witherspoon Institute, The Dangers of a Diminished America, WSJ, 10/21, Proquest</span>

<span class="Underline">Pressures to cut… with external adventures.</span>

===Overpopulation=== 
<span class="Underline">Economic growth solves population growth</span>
<span class="Underline">Hollander 3</span>
<span class="Underline">Jack, professor emeritus of Energy and Resources at the University of California, Berkeley, Oakland Tribune, ln</span>

<span class="Underline">The picture is very… at replacement level.</span>


<span class="Underline">And global wars</span>
<span class="Underline">Ehrlich and Ehrlich 6</span>
<span class="Underline">Paul Ehrlich and Anne Ehrlich, faculty at Stanford University, 9-30-2006, New Scientist</span>

<span class="Underline">Much of today's… have to imagine.</span>


===Poverty=== 
<span class="Underline">Growth helps the poor—historical stats prove.</span>
<span class="Underline">Deaton 5 (Angus, Woodrow Wilson School @ Princeton, “Measuring Poverty In A Growing World” The Review of Economics and Statistics 87.1 February 2005 accessed 6/21/11 JF)</span>

<span class="Underline">Yet the controversies are… the goal was announced.</span>


<span class="Underline">Ongoing global poverty outweighs nuclear war- only our ev is comparative.</span>
<span class="Underline">Spina 2k (Stephanie Urso, Ph.D. candidate in social/personality psychology at the Graduate School of the City University of New York, Smoke and Mirrors: The Hidden Context of Violence in Schools and Society, p. 201)</span>

<span class="Underline">This sad fact is not… throughout the world.</span>


===Warming=== 
<span class="Underline">Growth leads to tech and lower population rates – that solves for the environment</span>
<span class="Underline">Hayward et al 2k (Steven, Ph.D. in American studies, M.A. in gov from Claremont U, Elizabeth Fowler, public policy fellow with the center for environmental and regulatory reform at the Pacific Research Institute (PRI), and Laura Steadman, research assistant with the center for environmental and regulatory reform and the center for enterprise and opporunity @ PRI, Apr 4, [www.mackinac.org/2841] AD: 6-21-11, jm)</span>

<span class="Underline">Even when more exacting… sustainable industrial society.69</span>


<span class="Underline">Warming magnifies every impact and causes extinction</span>
<span class="Underline">Burke '8 (Sharon, sr fellow and dir of the energy security project at the Center for a New American Security, Chapter 6 of Climatic Cataclysm: The Foreign Policy and National Security Implications of Climate Change, edited by Kurt Campbell, p 157-165)</span>

<span class="Underline">At the same time,… will compromise agricultural productivity.</span>



=Impact Turns= 
==Heg Bad== 
===Offense=== 
====Terror==== 
=====1NC===== 
<span class="Underline">Aggressive posture causes terrorism- offshore balancing empirically has been better at preventing it- simply withdrawing isn’t enough</span>
<span class="Underline">Mearsheimer, 2011, January, John J., Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago. He is on the Advisory Council of The National Interest, “Imperial by Design,”http://nationalinterest.org/article/imperial-by-design-4576?page=1, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Specifically, offshore balancing... the foreseeable future.</span>


<span class="Underline">Terrorism causes extinction</span>
<span class="Underline">Mohammed Sid-Ahmed, Political analyst for Al-Ahram Newspaper for more than 20 years and author of several books on Middle East issues, 8-1-04 [http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]</span>

<span class="Underline">A nuclear attack... all be losers.</span>


=====<span class="Underline">2NC</span>===== 
<span class="Underline">Aggressive intervention leads to terror—empirical studies prove</span>
<span class="Underline">Eland, 2008 (Ivan. Senior Fellow and Director of the Center on Peace & Liberty at The Independent Institute. Ph.D. in Public Policy from George Washington University and Director of Defense Policy Studies at the Cato Institute. “Reverend Wright Is Not Totally Wrong.” May 5. http://www.independent.org/newsroom/article.asp?id=2182)</span>

<span class="Underline">But what about Wright’s… wacky and bigoted ravings.</span>


<span class="Underline">Heg causes terrorism – US presence in the Middle East and 9/11 proves</span>
<span class="Underline">Layne 9 (Christopher, Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University and Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute, literary and national editor of the Atlantic, Review of International Studies (2009), 5/25/9, “America’s Middle East grand strategy after Iraq: the moment for offshore balancing has arrived”, Cambridge Journals,)</span>

<span class="Underline">Terrorist organisations like Al-Qaeda… in Iraq will exacerbate it.</span>



====China==== 
=====1NC===== 
<span class="Underline">Primacy wears down our economic and military power making efforts to contain China fail- alternative better at preventing conflict</span>
<span class="Underline">Mearsheimer, 2011, January, John J., Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago. He is on the Advisory Council of The National Interest, “Imperial by Design,”http://nationalinterest.org/article/imperial-by-design-4576?page=1, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Oddly enough, before... checking Beijing’s ambitions.</span>


<span class="Underline">US-China war goes global</span>
<span class="Underline">Hunkovic, American Military University 2k9 [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]</span>

<span class="Underline">A war between China,...in this study.</span>

=====<span class="Underline">2NC</span>===== 
<span class="Underline">Primacy puts us on a collision course with China – absent a shift in grand strategy, conflict is certain.</span>
<span class="Underline">Christopher Layne 2007, [Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University and Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute,"The Case Against the American Empire," American Empire: A Debate, p. 64-65]</span>

<span class="Underline">To be sure, the United States… is virtually certain.</span>



====Disease==== 
=====1NC===== 
<span class="Underline">Heg makes solving diseases impossible</span>
<span class="Underline">Weber et. al 7, (Steven, Professor of Political Science at UC-Berkeley and Director of the Institute of International Studies, Naazneen Barma, Matthew Kroenig, Ely Ratner, “How Globalization Went Bad”, January-February 2007, Foreign Policy,)</span>
<span class="Underline">The same is true... change that alone.</span>


<span class="Underline">Disease causes extinction</span>
<span class="Underline">Yu 9 - (5/22/09, Victoria, Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science Writer, “Human Extinction: The Uncertainty of Our Fate,” http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate)</span>

<span class="Underline">A pandemic will kill... human-viable strain (10).</span>


====Russia-China==== 
=====1NC===== 
<span class="Underline">Heg leads to a Sino-Russia Alliance that culminates in superpower nuclear conflict</span>
<span class="Underline">Roberts 07 Economist and Former Assistant Secretary of the Treasury (Paul Craig, “US Hegemony Spawns Russian-Chinese Military Alliance”, http://www.antiwar.com/roberts/?articleid=11422)</span>

<span class="Underline">This week the Russian... seen since Hitler's.</span>


====Prolif==== 
=====1NC===== 
<span class="Underline">Aggression stokes fears of intervention- causes global prolif</span>
<span class="Underline">Mearsheimer, 2011, January, John J., Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago. He is on the Advisory Council of The National Interest, “Imperial by Design,”http://nationalinterest.org/article/imperial-by-design-4576?page=1, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">IF ALL of this... follow Washington’s orders.</span>


<span class="Underline">Prolif causes extinction</span>
<span class="Underline">Utgoff, 2002 (Victor, Deputy Director of the Strategy, Forces, and Resources Division of the</span>
<span class="Underline">Institute for Defense Analyses, Survival, v44, n2)</span>

<span class="Underline">‘No sane person.. even whole nations.</span>


====<span class="Underline">Iran</span>==== 
=====1NC===== 
<span class="Underline">Primacy causes conflict with Iran.</span>
<span class="Underline">Christopher Layne 2007, [Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University and Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute,"The Case Against the American Empire," American Empire: A Debate, p. 64-65]</span>

<span class="Underline">Iran Because of the strategy… assumptions are correct.</span>


<span class="Underline">Global nuclear war</span>
<span class="Underline">Jorge HIRSCH, Professor of Physics at the University of California--San Diego, 2006</span>
<span class="Underline">[“Nuking Iran,” ZNet, April 10 [[http://www.zmag.org/content/showarticle.cfm?ItemID=10071]]]</span>

<span class="Underline">Iran is likely to respond to… before anybody has prevailed.</span>


====<span class="Underline">Civil Liberties</span>==== 
=====<span class="Underline">1NC</span>===== 
<span class="Underline">Aggressive primacy causes a rollback of civil liberties- shift in grand strategy key to solve</span>
<span class="Underline">Mearsheimer, 2011, January, John J., Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago. He is on the Advisory Council of The National Interest, “Imperial by Design,”http://nationalinterest.org/article/imperial-by-design-4576?page=1, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Perhaps most importantly,… strategy of offshore balancing.</span>


<span class="Underline">Civil liberties outweigh everything- causes war and genocide</span>
<span class="Underline">D’Souza, 96 [Frances D’Souza, Prof of anthropology @ Oxford, European Parliament Hearing on Free Speech, http://www.europarl.eu.int/hearings/speech/freedom_en.htm]</span>

<span class="Underline">In the absence of freedom… and intentions at every turn.</span>


===<span class="Underline">Defense</span>=== 
====No Impact==== 
=====1NC===== 
<span class="Underline">Regional military alliances solves the reasons primacy is good- your offense is empirically denied</span>
<span class="Underline">Mearsheimer, 2011, January, John J., Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago. He is on the Advisory Council of The National Interest, “Imperial by Design,”http://nationalinterest.org/article/imperial-by-design-4576?page=1, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Offshore balancing, which...hegemon is checked.</span>

=====2NC- Offshore Balancing Solves===== 
<span class="Underline">Utilizing regional alliances is the most effective means to resolve conflict- checks terrorism, prolif, and great power rivalry</span>
<span class="Underline">Mearsheimer, 2011, January, John J., Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago. He is on the Advisory Council of The National Interest, “Imperial by Design,”http://nationalinterest.org/article/imperial-by-design-4576?page=1, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">THE UNITED States needs… to no end of trouble.</span>


====Doesnt Solve==== 
=====1NC===== 
Aggressive foreign policy fails to deter or coerce- multiple crises prove
<span class="Underline">Mearsheimer, 2011, January, John J., Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago. He is on the Advisory Council of The National Interest, “Imperial by Design,”http://nationalinterest.org/article/imperial-by-design-4576, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">The results, however,... to a pronounced pessimism.</span>

=====2NC===== 
No impact to decline- forward deployments not key, empirically denied, and they misdiagnose the alternative
Parent, 2011, November/December, Foreign Affairs, Joseph M. Parent is Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Miami. Paul K. MacDonald is Assistant Professor of Political Science at Wellesley College, “The Wisdom of Retrenchment: America Must Cut Back to Move Forward,” http://www.ihavenet.com/World-United-States-The-Wisdom-of-Retrenchment-America-Must-Cut-Back-to-Move-Forward-Foreign-Affairs.html, KHaze

Despite the erosion… ideological disputes remarkably mild.


<span class="Underline">No impact to decline- no state threatens the US</span>
<span class="Underline">Drezner, 7-22-11, Daniel W., professor of international politics at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University and a senior editor at The National Interest. Prior to Fletcher, he taught at the University of Chicago and the University of Colorado at Boulder. Drezner has received fellowships from the German Marshall Fund of the United States, the Council on Foreign Relations, and Harvard University. He has previously held positions with Civic Education Project, the RAND Corporation, and the Treasury Department, “Neoconservatives don't scare me,” http://drezner.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/07/21/max_boot_doesnt_scare_me, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">It's hard to deny Boot's assertion… or possible security rivals.</span>


<span class="Underline">Reject their threats as overblown propaganda- fear mongering leads to excessive interventions that undermine the reasons heg is good</span>
<span class="Underline">Glain, 8-16-11, Stephen, author of State vs. Defense: The Battle to Define America's Empire, Crown Publishers, “The Empire at Dusk,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/08/16/the_empire_at_dusk, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">American relations with the… as an American vassal.</span>


=====AT: Asian War===== 
Heg decline won’t cause Asian instability
Parent, 2011, November/December, Foreign Affairs, Joseph M. Parent is Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Miami. Paul K. MacDonald is Assistant Professor of Political Science at Wellesley College, “The Wisdom of Retrenchment: America Must Cut Back to Move Forward,” http://www.ihavenet.com/World-United-States-The-Wisdom-of-Retrenchment-America-Must-Cut-Back-to-Move-Forward-Foreign-Affairs.html, KHaze

Asia is also ready for… results more efficiently.


=====AT: European War===== 
Heg decline wont trigger European war
Parent, 2011, November/December, Foreign Affairs, Joseph M. Parent is Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Miami. Paul K. MacDonald is Assistant Professor of Political Science at Wellesley College, “The Wisdom of Retrenchment: America Must Cut Back to Move Forward,” http://www.ihavenet.com/World-United-States-The-Wisdom-of-Retrenchment-America-Must-Cut-Back-to-Move-Forward-Foreign-Affairs.html, KHaze

Although Russia continues to… without compromising European security.


=====<span class="Underline">AT: Bandwagoning</span>===== 
<span class="Underline">Bandwagoning is false- Cold War and Iraq prove</span>
<span class="Underline">Mearsheimer, 2011, May 5, John J., Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago. He is on the Advisory Council of The National Interest, “Kissing Cousins: Nationalism and Realism,”http://irworkshop.sites.yale.edu/sites/default/files/Mearsheimer_IRW.PDF, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">This same dispute has also… but as a threat.</span>


<span class="Underline">Primacy not key to security bandwagoning and transition wars are empirically denied- 4 reasons</span>
<span class="Underline">a. Rising economies gain influence</span>
<span class="Underline">b. Military primacy doesn’t create support/bandwagoning</span>
<span class="Underline">c. Gulf states, Turkey-Brazil, G-20 prove</span>
<span class="Underline">d. International aid groups prop up security groups</span>
<span class="Underline">Khanna, 2010, December, Parag, Foreign Policy, senior research fellow at the New America Foundation and author of the forthcoming How to Run theWorld: Charting a Course to the Next Renaissance and The Second World: How Emerging Powers Are Redefining Global Competition in the Twenty-First Century. “How's That New World Order Working Out?,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/11/29/hows_that_new_world_order_working_out, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Looking for a sign… than the top down.</span>



=====<span class="Underline">AT: Transition Wars</span>===== 
<span class="Underline">Historically, declining power don`t go to war – when they do, wars aren’t global</span>
<span class="Underline">MacDonald and Parent 11 (Paul, Assistant Professor of Political Science at Williams College, and Joseph, Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Miami. “Graceful Decline? The Surprising Success of Great Power Retrenchment”. International Security Spring 2011, Vol. 35, No. 4, Pages 7-44.) AK</span>

<span class="Underline">Based on our… the benefit of hindsight.</span>


<span class="Underline">Retrenchment is preferable – empirically averages fewer wars than unipolar world</span>
<span class="Underline">MacDonald and Parent 11 (Paul, Assistant Professor of Political Science at Williams College, and Joseph, Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Miami. “Graceful Decline? The Surprising Success of Great Power Retrenchment”. International Security Spring 2011, Vol. 35, No. 4, Pages 7-44.) AK</span>

<span class="Underline">With regard to militarized disputes,…—set of commitments.</span>

=====<span class="Underline">AT: Heg Deters</span>===== 
<span class="Underline">States will inevitably be able to asymmetrically balance against us- prevents deterrence</span>
<span class="Underline">Krepinevich, 2011, September, president of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments and author of 7 Deadly Scenarios: A Military Futurist Explores War in the 21st Century, “Get Ready for the Democratization of Destruction,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/08/15/get_ready_for_the_democratization_of_destruction, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">As Niels Bohr famously… "You ain't seen nothin' yet."</span>


====Unsustainable==== 
=====1NC===== 
<span class="Underline">China’s economic influence and regional alliances ensure our foreign policy goals are obstructed</span>
<span class="Underline">Rachman, 2011, Gideon, chief foreign-affairs commentator for the Financial Times and author of Zero-Sum Future: American Power in an Age of Anxiety. Foreign Policy, “ Think Again: American Decline,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/01/02/think_again_american_decline, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">"We've Heard All... things to come.</span>


=====<span class="Underline">2NC</span>===== 
China will overtake the US economically
Rachman, 2-14-12, Gideon, chief foreign-affairs commentator for the Financial Times and author of Zero-Sum Future: American Power in an Age of Anxiety. Foreign Policy “The Rise or Fall of the American Empire,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/02/14/the_rise_or_fall_of_the_american_empire?page=full, KHaze

You are right that Bob and… can the United States still lead?


<span class="Underline">Public opposition makes Heg unsustainable</span>
<span class="Underline">Drezner, 2011, August, Daniel W., Professor of International Politics at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University and the editor of Avoiding Trivia: The Role of Strategic Planning in American Foreign Policy. “Does Obama Have a Grand Strategy?” Foreign Affairs, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">But whereas the new counterpunching… is a politically disastrous wording.</span>


<span class="Underline">Defense cuts are inevitable and will undermine sustainability</span>
<span class="Underline">O’Hanlon, 7-21-11, Michael, Director of Research and a Senior Fellow on Foreign Policy at the Brookings Institution, “The real defense budget questions,” http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0711/59565.html, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">As Washington tries… to the 2012 election.</span>



=<span class="Underline">Impact Defense</span>= 
==Asteroids== 
===No Extinction=== 
<span class="Underline">Asteroid strike won’t cause extinction—even if they did we have 40 million years to prepare</span>
<span class="Underline">BENNETT 2010 (James, Prof of Economics at George Mason, The Doomsday Lobby: Hype and Panic from Sputniks, Martians, and Marauding Meteors, p. 144-145)</span>

<span class="Underline">It should be… We have time.</span>


===Bias=== 
<span class="Underline">Asteroids have never killed anyone- reject there evidence as alarmism fabricated for funding</span>
<span class="Underline">BENNETT 2010 (James, Prof of Economics at George Mason, The Doomsday Lobby: Hype and Panic from Sputniks, Martians, and Marauding Meteors, p. 157-158</span>

<span class="Underline">We should here… of recorded time.</span>


===<span class="Underline">No Deflection</span>=== 
Asteroid deflection is impossible
BENNETT 2010 (James, Prof of Economics at George Mason, The Doomsday Lobby: Hype and Panic from Sputniks, Martians, and Marauding Meteors, p. 155

Absent a panic, the lack of any… to lose much sleep over them.


==Africa== 
===Inevitable=== 
<span class="Underline">Lack of border control makes African instability inevitable</span>
<span class="Underline">Daily Graphic, 7, march 23</span>

<span class="Underline">The Director of Ghana.. from intra-state conflicts.</span>

===Empirically Denied=== 
<span class="Underline">Empirically denied – Somalia conflict should have started a regional war</span>
<span class="Underline">BBC, 6 “Ethiopia Admits Somalia Offensive”</span>

<span class="Underline">Ethiopia has confirmed… deployed in Somalia.</span>



==Air Power== 
===Decline Inevitable=== 
Air power decline inevitable
Auslin 10—former associate history professor @ Yale, AEI's director of Japan Studies (Michael, 19 August 2010, Make No Mistake, Air Power Keeps Us Safe, http://www.aei.org/article/102438, RBatra)

Yet since the fall… South Korea and Japan.


Air power won’t deter- other states are catching us
Flamerich, 1-14-11, Ryan, The Crimson White, local newspaper, cites Robert Gates and US defense officials, “Chinese aircraft threaten U.S.,” http://www.cw.ua.edu/2011/01/14/chinese-aircraft-threaten-u-s/, KHaze

This past Monday,… allies in the region.


China’s airpower surpasses ours
Flamerich, 1-14-11, Ryan, The Crimson White, local newspaper, cites Robert Gates and US defense officials, “Chinese aircraft threaten U.S.,” http://www.cw.ua.edu/2011/01/14/chinese-aircraft-threaten-u-s/, KHaze

Even though the… for the J-20.


Air decline inevitable- proliferating tech
Moseley, 2007, 18th Chief of Staff @ US Air Force, General T. Michael Moseley, “The Nation’s Guardians; America’s 21st Century Air Force,” CSAF White Paper, 29 Dec 2007, pg. http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA477488&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf, KHaze

Meanwhile, ascendant powers—… systems, and disruptive technologies.


More investment doesn’t cause better airpower
Moseley, your author, 2007, 18th Chief of Staff @ US Air Force, General T. Michael Moseley, “The Nation’s Guardians; America’s 21st Century Air Force,” CSAF White Paper, 29 Dec 2007, pg. http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA477488&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf, KHaze

From this point forward,… training, or technological prowess.


===Investments Now=== 
Airpower investments now
Moseley, 2007, 18th Chief of Staff @ US Air Force, General T. Michael Moseley, “The Nation’s Guardians; America’s 21st Century Air Force,” CSAF White Paper, 29 Dec 2007, pg. http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA477488&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf, KHaze

We are committed… to operational timelines.



No impact to lower forward forces- Air Force is modernizing enough to deter
Moseley, 2007, 18th Chief of Staff @ US Air Force, General T. Michael Moseley, “The Nation’s Guardians; America’s 21st Century Air Force,” CSAF White Paper, 29 Dec 2007, pg. http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA477488&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf, KHaze

In September 2007, the Air… minimizing forward presence.



==Blackouts== 
<span class="Underline">Squo solves root cause – the NERC regulates transmission now</span>
<span class="Underline">Kaplan, 7 – Associated Editor at the Council of Foreign Relations (Eben, “America’s Vulnerable Energy Grid,” 4-27-2007, http://www.cfr.org/publication/13153/americas_vulnerable_energy_grid.html)</span>

<span class="Underline">Managing Risk Overgrown trees… a massive system failure.</span>


<span class="Underline">Blackouts are being solved by utility self-discipline and audits</span>
<span class="Underline">Washington Post, 4 (Justin Blum, “Bandaged Grid Still Vulnerable - 2003 Blackout Shed Light on Weaknesses, But Power System Fixes Fall Short of Need ,” 8-10-2004, p. E01, http://www.washingtonpost.com/ac2/wp-dyn/A52858-2004Aug9?language=printer)</span>

<span class="Underline">The problems extended beyond… those intentions will last."</span>


==China== 
===War=== 
No Chinese aggression in the squo
Zenko, 2012, March/April issue of Foreign Affairs, Micah, Fellow in the Center for Preventive Action at the Council on Foreign Relations. Michael A Cohen, Fellow at the Century Foundation, “Clear and Present Safety,” KHaze

As the threat from… legitimate regional interests.”


No motive or threshold for China war
Goldstein, 2011, October, Joshua A., Professor emeritus of international relations at American University and author of Winning the War on War: The Decline of Armed Conflict Worldwide, “Think Again: War,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/08/15/think_again_war?page=0,1, KHaze

What about China, the most… in battle in 25 years.


===Taiwan=== 
<span class="Underline">China doesn’t want Taiwan</span>
<span class="Underline">Thompson, 2010, Drew, director of China studies and Starr senior fellow at the Nixon Center. “Think Again: China's Military ,”http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/02/22/think_again_chinas_military, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Although simulating a Chinese D-Day… -- much as the British did in the 1800s.</span>



==Colonization== 
===Impossible=== 
====<span class="Underline">Tech</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">All previous human spaceflight is insignificant – long term colonization is still infeasible.</span>
<span class="Underline">Launius 10 – (2010, Roger, PhD, Curator, Planetary Exploration Programs, National Air and Space Museum, expert on Aerospace history, fellow and board member of the American Astronautical Society, “Can we colonize the solar system? Human biology and survival in the extreme space environment,” Endeavour Volume 34, Issue 3, September 2010, Pages 122-129, science direct, DH)</span>

<span class="Underline">Although microbial life… engaged in space colonization (Figure 4).</span>

====Offspring==== 
<span class="Underline">Can’t produce offspring in space- means no future generation</span>
<span class="Underline">Bacal 9 – PhD in molecular biology and biophysics, MD, Assistant Professor, Section of Emergency Medicine (1/2/2009, Kira, “Complicating Factors: Issues Relating to Romance and Reproduction During Space Missions”, Medscape Internal Medicine, http://www.medscape.com/viewarticle/585644) MGM</span>

<span class="Underline">Gravity's effect on mammalian… pup development as well.</span>

====Fuel==== 
<span class="Underline">Low plutonium reserves means we cant transport enough to make colonies</span>
<span class="Underline">Dillow 9 – (Clay, staff writer for Popular Science, 9/29/09, “Plutonium Shortage Threatens Future Deep Space Missions”, http://www.popsci.com/military-aviation-amp-space/article/2009-09/nasas-plutonium-shortage-threatens-deep-space-exploration, MH)</span>

<span class="Underline">Imagine you’re driving across… deep space missions.</span>



==Cyberwar== 
===War Outweighs=== 
War outweighs cyber-war- death toll and probability
Maurer, 10-19-11, Tim, affiliated with Harvard University's Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs Science, Technology, and Public Policy program and the Global Public Policy Institute in Berlin. “The Case for Cyberwarfare,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/10/19/the_case_for_cyberwar?page=full, KHaze

Senior officials such as… that's good news.


===No Impact=== 
No impact to cyber war-
Rid, 2012, Thomas, March/April issue of Foreign Policy, reader in war studies at King's College London, is author of "Cyber War Will Not Take Place." “Think Again: Cyberwar,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/02/27/cyberwar?page=full, KHaze

Time for a reality check:… do kill people.


Cyber war won’t happen and there’s no impact
Anderson, 1-18-11, Senior editor at Ars Technica, where he covers technology law, politics, and culture. He holds an MA in English literature from the University of North Carolina, “Pure cyberwar? Not gonna happen ,” http://arstechnica.com/security/news/2011/01/pure-cyberwar-not-gonna-happen.ars, KHaze

A pure "cyberwar" is never going to happen…. "unlikely to be effective."


===SQ Solves=== 
Cyber space borders check rogue attacks
Demchak, 2011, Spring, Chris, a former Army Reserve officer, received her PhD in political science from UC Berkeley and holds an MPA in economic development from Princeton and an MA in energy engineering from Berkeley. Dr. Peter Dombrowski is a professor of strategy at the Naval War College and chair of the Strategic Research Department. Previous positions include director of the Naval War College Press, editor of the Naval War College Review, co-editor of International Studies Quarterly, associate professor of political science at Iowa State University, and defense analyst at ANSER, Inc. “Rise of a Cybered Westphalian Age,” http://www.au.af.mil/au/ssq/2011/spring/demchak-dombrowski.pdf, KHaze

With the establishment of… hack outwardly only.60


==Debris== 
===Inevitable=== 
<span class="Underline">Impact inevitable- no means to remove debris</span>
<span class="Underline">Matson, 8-31-11, John, Scientific American, “U.S. Taking Initial Steps to Grapple with Space Debris Problem,” http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=orbital-debris-space-fence, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">The U.S. is now… Johnson Space Center.</span>


===<span class="Underline">No Impact</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">Space debris naturally self-cleansing, burns up during periods of hyperactive solar activity</span>
<span class="Underline">Ker Than, freelance science reporter for National Geographic News, and staff writer for both LiveScience.com and Space.com, 1/27/12, “Hyperactive Sun Helping to Clear Out Space Junk,” DA: 1//28/12, http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2012/01/120127-active-sun-solar-flares-space-junk-cleaning-earth-science/?source=hp_dl2_news_sun20120128</span>

<span class="Underline">The recent uptick in… decrease soon after that.</span>


Debris will burn up in the atmosphere
Dolman and Cooper 11 (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, and Henry, Former Deputy for the Strategic and Space Systems of the DOD and Chairman of High Fronteir, a non-profit organization studying issues of missile defense and space, “Chapter 19: Increasing the Military Uses of Space,” Part of “Toward a of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf, EMM)

Weaponization of space… be in space, occurs below).


===Cooperation Now=== 
International debris mitigation and awareness now
SSI, 2010 – Space Security Index published by a group of aerospace experts at spacesecurity.org (August 2010, Governance Group and Advisory Group, “Space Security 2010”, spacesecurity.org,http://www.spacesecurity.org/space.security.2010.reduced.pdf), KHaze

Growing awareness of space… by the Coordination Committee.”40


No risk of space debris- current tracking solves
Butterworth, 11-7-11, Bob, member of the AOL Board of Contributors, is a consultant and expert on intelligence, especially spy satellites and the policies governing them. He is former senior advisor to leader of Space Command. “Obama Administration's 'Three Cs' Means a Failing Space Policy,” http://defense.aol.com/2011/11/07/obama-administrations-three-cs-means-a-failing-space-policy/, KHaze

But are those "three Cs"… in this domain.


Squo solves international debris co-op- our evidence assumes your indicts
SSI, 2010 – Space Security Index published by a group of aerospace experts at spacesecurity.org (August 2010, Governance Group and Advisory Group, “Space Security 2010”, spacesecurity.org,http://www.spacesecurity.org/space.security.2010.reduced.pdf), KHaze

While there are differences… this area continues.


Anti-debris action/awareness now
SSI, 2010 – Space Security Index published by a group of aerospace experts at spacesecurity.org (August 2010, Governance Group and Advisory Group, “Space Security 2010”, spacesecurity.org,http://www.spacesecurity.org/space.security.2010.reduced.pdf), KHaze

The 48th Session of the COPUOS… the danger of collisions



==Disease== 
===No Impact=== 
<span class="Underline">Disease won’t cause extinction</span>
<span class="Underline">Posner 5 – Court of Appeals Judge; Professor, Chicago School of Law (Richard, Catastrophe, http://goliath.ecnext.com/coms2/gi_0199-4150331/Catastrophe-the-dozen-most-significant.html, AG)</span>

<span class="Underline">Yet the fact that… an infectious disease.</span>

===Intervening Actors=== 
<span class="Underline">Intervening actors check disease</span>
<span class="Underline">Zakaria 9—Editor of Newsweek, BA from Yale, PhD in pol sci, Harvard (Fareed, “The Sky Isn’t Falling,” 16 May 2009, http://www.newsweek.com/id/197922, AMiles)</span>
<span class="Underline">Note—Laurie Garrett=science and health writer, winner of the Pulitzer, Polk, and Peabody Prize</span>

<span class="Underline">It certainly looks like… the early 20th century.</span>


==Disease (Space)== 
===No Impact=== 
Space viruses won’t cause extinction
Britt, Senior Space Writer, 2001 (Robert Roy, “Survival of the Elitist: BIoterrorism May Spur Space Colonies,” October 30, http://www.space.com/scienceastronomy/generalscience/)

Are we doomed?... always permeated their plans.


No Mars diseases
Netea et al. 2010—all 4 have PhD’s in medicine or biology (Mihai G. Netea, Ph.D.1,2, Frank L. van de Veerdonk, Ph.D.1,2, Marc Strous, Ph.D.2,3, and Jos W.M. van der Meer, Ph.D., Journal of Cosmology, 2010, Vol 12, 3846-3854. JournalofCosmology.com, October-November, 2010, Infection Risk of a Human Mission to Mars, http://journalofcosmology.com/Mars129.html)

Therefore, the most likely… second 'vulnerable' host.


==Economy== 
===Decline Inevitable=== 
<span class="Underline">European bank collapse makes economic collapse inevitable</span>
<span class="Underline">El-Erian, 9-21-11, Mohamed, CEO and co-chief investment officer of investment management firm Pimco and author of When Markets Collide. “Bank Shot,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/09/21/bank_shot, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">As policymakers from around… and recurrent balance sheet concerns.</span>


Global economic decline now- multiple scenarios
Rothkopf, 9-8-11, blogs for Foreign Policy and is the author of Running the World: The Inside Story of the National Security Council and the Architects of American Power. His next book, due out in early 2012, is Power, Inc.: The Epic Rivalry Between Big Business and Government -- and the Reckoning That Lies Ahead. David, “Does Obama Have His Eye on the Right Economic Crisis?” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/09/08/does_obama_have_his_eye_on_the_right_economic_crisis, KHaze

But as urgent as the… or managing it effectively.


<span class="Underline">Economic shocks inevitable- multiple reasons</span>
<span class="Underline">a. Global imbalances</span>
<span class="Underline">b. Currency manipulation</span>
<span class="Underline">c. Political unrest</span>
<span class="Underline">d. Inflation</span>
<span class="Underline">e. Counter-productive economy management in rising countries</span>
<span class="Underline">Suominen, 4-19-11, Kati, resident fellow at the Washington-based German Marshall Fund of the United States. Her latest books are the forthcoming Peerless and Periled: The Future of America's World Economic Order and, with Gary Hufbauer, Globalization of Risk: Challenges to Finance and Trade. “Emerging Hangover,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/04/19/emerging_hangover, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">As the economic crisis… global imbalances last week.</span>


<span class="Underline">No growth for 20 years- top economists agree</span>
<span class="Underline">Lowrey, 10-5-10, Annie, The Washington Independent, cites Northwestern economist Robert Gordon, “A Decade of Slow Growth, Followed by Two Decades of Slow Growth,” http://washingtonindependent.com/99657/a-decade-of-slow-growth-followed-by-two-decades-of-slow-growth, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Northwestern economist Robert Gordon… to the very, very well-off.</span>


<span class="Underline">US economy will remain low for the long term</span>
<span class="Underline">Burtless, 1-7-11, Gary, Senior Fellow, Economic Studies, The Brookings Institution, “Discouraging Gains in the Job Market,” http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2011/0107_jan_jobs_report_burtless.aspx, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">In spite of the… the long-term unemployed.</span>


===No Decline=== 
Job market is growing
Burtless, 3-9-12, Gary, Senior Fellow, Economic Studies The Brookings Institution. “Gangbuster Month for Temp Employment,” http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2012/0309_jobs_burtless.aspx, KHaze

Both the household survey… back to full employment.


===US Not Key=== 
<span class="Underline">US not key to the global economy</span>
<span class="Underline">VOA News 9 (“Global Economic Recovery Underway – IMF,” 8 July 2009, http://www.voanews.com/english/2009-07-08-voa32.cfm)</span>

<span class="Underline">The International Monetary Fund… in advanced economies.</span>


===<span class="Underline">No War</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">Economic collapse doesn’t cause war - their WWII example oversimplifies</span>
<span class="Underline">Ferguson 6—prof of history, Harvard and Senior Fellow at Stanford’s Hoover Institution (Niall, “The Next War of the World,” September/October 2006, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2006/09/the_next_war_of_the_world.html)</span>

<span class="Underline">Nor can economic crises… not followed by wars.</span>


===<span class="Underline">Resilient</span>=== 
Economy resilient
Washington Times 2008 - chief political correspondent of The Washington Times (7/28/08, Donald Lambro, The Washington Times, "Always darkest before dawn", lexis, WEA)

Wall Street economist David… economy's long-term prospects.


===AT: Stimulus=== 
====Stimulus Now==== 
Massive deficit spending now
Knudsen, 2-13-12, Patrick Louis, Heritage Foundation, “President Obama’s Budget Proposal: Running on Empty,” http://blog.heritage.org/2012/02/13/reaction-roundup-heritage-responds-to-obamas-2013-budget-proposal/, KHaze

Coming from a President whose… savings cited above.


====Fails==== 
Stimulus fails – three reasons
Cochrane, 9 Myron S. Scholes Professor of Finance @ U Chicago Booth School of Business, 2/27/’9 (John H, “Fiscal Stimulus, Fiscal Inflation, or Fiscal Fallacies?” http://faculty.chicagobooth.edu/john.cochrane/research/Papers/fiscal2.htm)

Most fiscal stimulus… systematically fool people.


All empirics flow neg
Riedl, 10 Senior Policy Analyst and Grover Hermann Fellow in Federal Budgetary Affairs, Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies, B.A. Economics and Poli Sci @ U Wisconsin, M.A. Public Affairs @ Princeton, 1/5/’10 (Brian M, “Why Government Spending Does Not Stimulate Economic Growth: Answering the Critics,” http://www.heritage.org/Research/Economy/bg2354.cfm)

Proponents of President Barack… bury the nation deeper in debt.


Best models
J.D. Foster, 9, Ph.D, Norman B. Ture Senior Fellow in the Economics of Fiscal Policy @ Heritage, ‘9 (“Keynesian Fiscal Stimulus Policies Stimulate Debt--Not the Economy,” [[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Economy/bg2302.cfm]])

In contrast, John Cogan… investment are crowded out.



==EMP== 
===No Impact=== 
No impact to EMP
Farley 9 – Robert Farley, assistant professor at the University of Kentucky’s Patterson School of Diplomacy and International Commerce, 10-22-09, “Neocons Salivating Over Their Next Great Exaggerated "Threat": Electromagnetic Pulse Attack” http://www.alternet.org/media/143455/neocons_salivating_over_their_next_great_exaggerated_%22threat%22%3A_electromagnetic_pulse_attack/?page=entire

Many weapons experts doubt… even we can't do right now.”


<span class="Underline">No impact to EMP</span>
<span class="Underline">Schwellenbach, 2005, Nick, AlterNet, cites individuals on the Council of Foreign Relations, “The Next Fake Threat,” http://www.alternet.org/story/25738/, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Perhaps the most… experience studying EMP.</span>

===Cant Deliver=== 
Rogue states can’t deliver an EMP attack
Broad, 12-11-11, William J., New York Times, “Among Gingrich’s Passions, a Doomsday Vision,” http://www.nytimes.com/2011/12/12/us/politics/gingrichs-electromagnetic-pulse-warning-has-skeptics.html?pagewanted=all, KHaze

As the alarms grew,… spring into action.


<span class="Underline">No EMP delivery mechanism</span>
<span class="Underline">Butt, 2010, Yousaf Butt is a staff scientist at the Center for Astrophysics at Harvard University, where he worked on NASA’s orbiting Chandra X-ray Observatory project from 1999–2004. He was a research fellow at the Union of Concerned Scientists’ Global Security Program from 2005–2007. He holds BSc degrees in physics and in mechanical engineering from MIT and a PhD in experimental nuclear astrophysics from Yale University. “The EMP threat: fact, fiction, and response (part 2),” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1553/2, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">What appears to be… high-altitude burst like that.”</span>



===Bias=== 
Their authors are politically motivated to lie
Farley 2009 – Robert Farley, assistant professor at the University of Kentucky’s Patterson School of Diplomacy and International Commerce, 10-22-09, “Neocons Salivating Over Their Next Great Exaggerated "Threat": Electromagnetic Pulse Attack” http://www.alternet.org/media/143455/neocons_salivating_over_their_next_great_exaggerated_%22threat%22%3A_electromagnetic_pulse_attack/?page=entire

The central political… on their launching pads


===Squo Solves=== 
BMD solves EMP- government consensus
Broad, 12-11-11, William J., New York Times, “Among Gingrich’s Passions, a Doomsday Vision,” http://www.nytimes.com/2011/12/12/us/politics/gingrichs-electromagnetic-pulse-warning-has-skeptics.html?pagewanted=all, KHaze

But it is to the… pulse attack “pretty theoretical.”


==Global warming== 
===No War=== 
<span class="Underline">Climate change doesn’t lead to war- empirics, growth, cooperation, structural factors</span>
<span class="Underline">Kenny, 8-29-11, Charles, Senior fellow at the Center for Global Development, a Schwartz fellow at the New America Foundation, and author, most recently, of Getting Better: Why Global Development Is Succeeding and How We Can Improve the World Even More. "The Optimist," his column for ForeignPolicy.com, runs weekly. “Cloudy with a Chance of Insurgency,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/08/29/cloudy_with_a_chance_of_insurgency, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Given that climate change… yet to be demonstrated.</span>


<span class="Underline">War is worse than warming</span>
<span class="Underline">Shaefer 7—and Lieberman, – Jay Kingham Fellow in International Regulatory Affairs. Senior Policy Analyst, Energy and Environment. 2007 (Brett D. Shaefer and Ben Lieberman. “Discussing Global Warming in the Security Council: Premature and a Distraction from More Pressing Crises.” http://www.heritage.org/Research/InternationalOrganizations/wm1425.cfm)</span>

<span class="Underline">The United Kingdom is wrong… peace and security.</span>


===Cuts Now=== 
Developing countries are cutting emissions now despite US inaction
Rosenthal, 10-15-11, Elisabeth, New York Times, cites Bill Clinton, “Where Did Global Warming Go?” http://www.nytimes.com/2011/10/16/sunday-review/whatever-happened-to-global-warming.html, KHaze

MEANWHILE, in the developing world,… addressing the issue.


US not key- other states can push us to act- CTBT proves
Bell, 10-30-11, RUTH GREENSPAN BELL is a Public Policy Scholar at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. BARRY M. BLECHMAN is the co-founder of the Stimson Center, and a distinguished fellow focused on nuclear disarmament. MICAH S. ZIEGLER is a graduate student at the University of California, Berkeley. “Beyond the Durban Climate Talks,” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/136627/ruth-greenspan-bell-barry-blechman-and-micah-ziegler/beyond-the-durban-climate-talks?page=show, KHaze

Climate negotiators might… neat bow on them.


International action on warming happening now
Rosenthal, 10-15-11, Elisabeth, New York Times, cites Bill Clinton, “Where Did Global Warming Go?” http://www.nytimes.com/2011/10/16/sunday-review/whatever-happened-to-global-warming.html, KHaze

This fading of global… for excess pollution.


<span class="Underline">Other nations are cutting emissions now- US isn’t key</span>
<span class="Underline">Kenny, 8-1-11, Charles, senior fellow at the Center for Global Development, a Schwartz fellow at the New America Foundation, and author, most recently, of Getting Better: Why Global Development Is Succeeding and How We Can Improve the World Even More. "The Optimist," his column for ForeignPolicy.com, runs weekly. “Greening It Alone,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/08/01/greening_it_alone, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">I'm speaking about climate change,… it meant to be uncompetitive.</span>


===No Action=== 
<span class="Underline">More science and knowledge won’t translate to the political will for the US to ACT to curb the problem – history proves.</span>
<span class="Underline">O’Keefe ’97 [William, USA Today, March, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m1272/is_n2622_v125/ai_19217194/]</span>

<span class="Underline">Richard Lindzen of the… on their own merits.</span>

<span class="Underline">Climate leadership doesn’t create policies</span>
<span class="Underline">McKibben, 11-22-10, Bill, Foreign Policy, author, environmentalist, and activist. In 1988, he wrote The End of Nature, the first book for a common audience about global warming. He is the co-founder of 350.org, an international climate campaign. “Sipping Margaritas While the Climate Burns,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/11/22/sipping_margaritas_while_the_climate_burns, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Careful observers may recall… "collective suicide" pact.</span>


===<span class="Underline">Natural</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">Sunspots have been linked to climate change since 1550</span>
<span class="Underline">Lomborg 01; (Bjørn, director of the Copenhagen Consensus Center, Danish author, academic, “The Skeptical Environmentalist: Measuring the Real State of the World,” Cambridge University Press, originally published in Danish in 1998)</span>

<span class="Underline">It has been known… different temperature measurements.</span>


===Inevitable=== 
<span class="Underline">Warming is irreversible – their impacts are inevitable</span>
<span class="Underline">Harris 09;, (Richard, science reporter for NPR, Peabody Award winner, American Association for the Advancement of Science Journalism Award, “Global Warming Irreversible, Study Says,” 1.26.09, NPR, http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=99888903)</span>

<span class="Underline">Climate change is essentially irreversible,… deal with climate change.</span>


Plan cant stop irreversible warming
Guardian Weekly, 8 (Andrew Simms, “Guardian Weekly: Just 100 months left to save Earth: Andrew Simms on a New Green Deal that could forestall the climate change tipping point”, 8/15, L/N)

In just 100 months' time,… those environmental feedbacks.


===Bias=== 
<span class="Underline">Warming scientists are paid to specifically make up warming scenarios</span>
<span class="Underline">Morner 07; (Nils-Axel Mörner, “Sea-Level Expert: It’s not Rising”, studied sea level and its effects on coastal areas for some 35 years, Mörner is past president (1999-2003) of the INQUA Commission on Sea Level Changes and Coastal Evolution, and leader of the Maldives Sea Level Project, 6.22.07, http://www.ourcivilisation.com/aginatur/sealevel.htm)</span>

<span class="Underline">Question: These scare stories… that we have to do it.</span>


===International Pollution=== 
<span class="Underline">China emits five times as much CO2</span>
<span class="Underline">Business Week, 8</span>
<span class="Underline">[“China’s Carbon Explosion,” http://www.businessweek.com/magazine/content/08_12/c4076scitech286781.htm?chan=magazine+channel_what's+next]</span>

<span class="Underline">The U.S. is expected… under the Kyoto Protocol.</span>


===Alt Cause=== 
<span class="Underline">Alt cause - methane gas</span>
<span class="Underline">LA Times, 9</span>
<span class="Underline">[“Under ice, a threat bubbles; methane pockets locked in the Arctic could change Earth's climate,” lexis]</span>

<span class="Underline">International experts are… for predicting global warming.</span>




==India== 
===India-Pakistan War=== 
No risk of Indo-Pak war
Khan, 11-4-11, Mohsin, Senior Fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. “India-Pakistan trade: The MFN breakthrough,” http://afpak.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/11/04/india_pakistan_trade_the_mfn_breakthrough, KHaze

On November 2, 2011, the Pakistan government announced… point for this objective.


<span class="Underline">Peace talks solve Indo-Pak war</span>
<span class="Underline">Shankar 09, Jay. India, “Pakistan, Lack Trust in Their Relations, Gilani Says” http://www.bloomberg.com/apps/news?pid=20601091&sid=a2KDs9w_m4zs</span>

<span class="Underline">At present we have… “as often as necessary.”</span>


<span class="Underline">Political and economic pressure solves</span>
<span class="Underline">Chu 8, Henry. “India-Pakistan conflict called unlikely: Economy, politics discourage war, analysts say” Los Angeles Times / December 7, 2008 http://www.boston.com/news/world/asia/articles/2008/12/07/india_pakistan_conflict_called_unlikely/</span>

<span class="Underline">Hostility between India and Pakistan… happen." Dec 26, 2008</span>

<span class="Underline">Nuclear use impossible</span>
<span class="Underline">Enders, 2 (David, Daily News Editor for the Michigan Daily, “Experts say nuclear war still unlikely,”</span>
<span class="Underline">http://media.www.michigandaily.com/media/storage/paper851/news/2002/01/30/News/Experts.Say.Nuclear.War.Still.Unlikely-1404620.shtml)</span>

<span class="Underline">University political science Prof…. the current tension," Lieberthal said.</span>


===India-China War=== 
<span class="Underline">Recent negotiations created a framework to stop Sino-Indian border disputes</span>
<span class="Underline">China Daily, 11-30-10, “China, India conclude border talks to boost ties,” http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/china/2010-11/30/content_11632416.htm, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">BEIJING - China and India Tuesday… partnership to a new level.</span>


India can’t credibly deter China
Kapila, 3-15-12, Dr Subhash, Eurasia Review, “China’s Defence Budget 2012: Implication’s For India’s Security – Analysis,” http://www.eurasiareview.com/15032012-chinas-defence-budget-2012-implications-for-indias-security-analysis/, KHaze

Introductory Observations China’s Defence… China’s rise is a ‘peaceful rise’.



===<span class="Underline">India Economy</span>=== 
India econ Collapse Inevitable- Food prices and bureaucratic inefficiencies
Schuman 11- American author and journalist who specializes in Asian economics, politics and history. Asia business correspondent for TIME Magazine
(Michael, “India’s economy: Headed for trouble?” 1/18/11, http://curiouscapitalist.blogs.time.com/2011/01/18/india%E2%80%99s-economy-headed-for-trouble/, CJC)

Just look at the mess… quickly dropping competitiveness.


===India-US Relations=== 
====Resilient==== 
US-India relations are resilient
Fernandes and Marks, 2 (India's Defense Minister and Special Correspondent, News Hour with Jim Lehrer, August 29th, lexis)

Our relations with the… trust one another.


Despite small incidents, overall US-India relations can only improve
Hindustan Times 6/30 – quoting the chief US ambassador to India
(Hindustan Times, “India-US ties on right track,” 6/30/11, http://www.hindustantimes.com/News-Feed/newdelhi/India-US-ties-on-right-track/Article1-715745.aspx, CJC)

The US Ambassador… this great relationship."


Relations resilient- common interests
The Economic Times 6/25
(The Economic Times, “It’s in US interest to support India’s rise: cong committee,” 6/25/11, http://articles.economictimes.indiatimes.com/2011-06-25/news/29702959_1_naval-exercises-arms-sales-c-130j-military-transport-aircraft, CJC)

WASHINGTON: Asserting that it is… 10 C-17 Globemaster III aircraft.


====Too low==== 
Indo-US trade tensions prove no cooperation
Bosco, 4-10-12, David, Foreign Policy, “India prepares WTO offensive against the United States,” http://bosco.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2012/04/10/india_prepares_wto_offensive_against_the_united_states, KHaze

News reports today… as it responds to complaints.


Trade war proves relations are too low to save
Rediff, 4-10-12, “India, US head to WTO on visa, poultry issues,” http://www.rediff.com/business/report/india-us-head-to-wto-on-visa-poultry-issues/20120410.htm, KHaze

India and the US have… trade war," the official said.



==Iran== 
===US Won't Strike Iran=== 
US won’t first strike Iran, ever
Haddick, 10-14-11, Robert, managing editor of Small Wars Journal, “This Week at War: Waiting for the First Punch,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/10/14/this_week_at_war?page=full, KHaze


===Israel Won't Strike Iran=== 
Israel won’t strike Iran
FP, 12/9/11 (“Fear, speculation in Iran over military strike”, http://www.firstpost.com/world/fear-speculation-in-iran-over-military-strike-151612.html), KHaze

Israelis less preoccupied Iran… in the Haaretz newspaper.


===Japan-US Alliance=== 
<span class="Underline">US-Japan alliance doesn’t preserve stability- empirics prove</span>
<span class="Underline">DiFilippo, Sociology Prof, @ Lincoln U, 2002 p. 13 (Anthony, The Challenges of the US-Japan Military Arrangement)</span>

<span class="Underline">One thing that has… other nuclear powers.</span>


==Korean War== 
===No War=== 
<span class="Underline">No Korean war</span>
<span class="Underline">Gelb, 11-23-10, Leslie H., a former New York Times columnist and senior government official, is author of Power Rules: How Common Sense Can Rescue American Foreign Policy (HarperCollins 2009), a book that shows how to think about and use power in the 21st century. He is president emeritus of the Council on Foreign Relations. “The Next Korean War?” http://www.thedailybeast.com/blogs-and-stories/2010-11-23/north-koreas-attack-on-south-korea-leslie-h-gelb-on-the-prospects-for-war/?cid=hp:mainpromo1, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">First, North and South Korea… expect war either.</span>


===No Escalation=== 
<span class="Underline">Korean war wont escalate</span>
<span class="Underline">Tisdall, 11-30-10, Simon, the Guardian, “WikiLeaks row: China wants Korean reunification, officials confirm,” http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2010/nov/30/china-wants-korean-reunification, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">China supports the… to China's patience.</span>


==<span class="Underline">Middle East War</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">Won't Escalate</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">Middle East war won’t escalate- 5 reasons</span>
<span class="Underline">Cook, Takeyh, and Maloney, 7 Douglas Dillon Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, Ray, Senior Fellow For Middle Eastern Studies at the CFR, Suzanne, Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy at the Saban Center for Middle East Policy, Brookings Institution, June 28, , online: http://www.cfr.org/publication/13702/why_the_iraq_war_wont_engulf_the_mideast.html, accessed December 25, 2007</span>

<span class="Underline">Yet, the Saudis, Iranians,… the entire Middle East.</span>


==<span class="Underline">Nuclear War</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">Won't Happen</span>=== 
Assassination of commanders ensures a nuclear strike will never occur.
Walsh, Lieutenant colonel in Air Force, ’85 [Edward, “Nuclear War Opposing Viewpoints, p. 51]

No president or dictator,… a retaliatory holocaust.


===No Extinction=== 
Most objective studies agree nuclear war is easily survivable- Their cards are alarmist Cold War propaganda
Broad, 12-15-10, William J., New York Times, “U.S. Rethinks Strategy for the Unthinkable,” http://www.nytimes.com/2010/12/16/science/16terror.html?_r=3&pagewanted=1&hp, KHaze

Suppose the unthinkable happened,… no casualties from fallout.


==<span class="Underline">Ocean Acidification</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">No Impact</span>=== 
No impact to ocean acid
Ridley 2010 [Matt Ridley was educated at Eton College from 1970-1975 and then went on to Magdalen College of the University of Oxford and completed a Bachelor of Arts with first class honours in zoology and then a Doctor of Philosophy in zoology in 1983. “Threat From Ocean Acidification Greatly Exaggerated”, June 15th, 2010, http://www.thegwpf.org/the-observatory/1106-matt-ridley-threat-from-ocean-acidification-greatly-exaggerated.html, Chetan]

As part of an `interview’… at condemning fossil fuels.


==<span class="Underline">Patriarchy</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">Inevitable</span>=== 
Patriarchy is inevitable
Fukuyama, prof of IR, 98—Professor of International Political Economy and Director of the International Development Program at Johns Hopkins. BA in classics from Cornell. PhD in government from Harvard (Francis, “Women and the Evolution of World Politics,” September 1998,http://www.evoyage.com/Evolutionary%20Feminism/ForAffairWomen&Evolution.htm, AMiles)

It is clear that… culture and ideology.


==<span class="Underline">Prolif</span>== 
===Iran=== 
====No Impact==== 
No Iran prolif and no impact
Walt, 12-21-11, Stephen M., the Robert and Renée Belfer professor of international affairs at Harvard University and a blogger at ForeignPolicy.com, “The worst case for war with Iran,” http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/12/21/the_worst_case_for_war_with_iran, KHaze

Kroenig's piece follows this… future will be relatively easy.


<span class="Underline">Iran can’t develop nuclear weapons in time- their theoretical timelines are too low probability to matter</span>
<span class="Underline">Kahl, 1-17-12, Colin H., From February 2009 to December 2011, Prof. Kahl was the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for the Middle East at the Pentagon. In this capacity, he served as the senior policy advisor to the Secretary of Defense for Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Israel and the Palestinian territories, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Yemen, and six other countries in the Levant and Persian Gulf. He was responsible for strategy development and policy oversight of the responsible drawdown of U.S. forces from Iraq, the Department's efforts to counter Iran's destabilizing activities, security enhancements to support Israeli security and facilitate the Middle East Peace Process, and efforts to build an integrated regional security architecture in the Gulf. In June 2011, he was awarded the Secretary of Defense Medal for Outstanding Public Service by Secretary Robert Gates. From 2000-2004 and 2006-2007, he was an assistant professor of political science at the University of Minnesota. In 2005-2006, Prof. Kahl was a Council on Foreign Relations International Affairs Fellow in the Office of the Secretary of Defense, where he worked on issues related to counterinsurgency, counterterrorism, and responses to failed states. In 1997-1998, he was a National Security Fellow at the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard University. Associate professor in the Security Studies Program in the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University, where he teaches courses on international relations, international security, the geopolitics of the Middle East, American foreign policy, and civil and ethnic conflict. Current research projects include a study of the evolution of U.S. counterinsurgency practices in Iraq and a separate study on the emerging U.S. regional security architecture to counter Iran. He has published articles on U.S. policy and military conduct in the Middle East in Foreign Affairs, Foreign Policy, International Security, the Los Angeles Times, Middle East Policy, the National Interest, and the New York Times, and has published several reports for the Center for a New American Security, a Washington-based think tank. He is a regular consultant for the Department of Defense and the Intelligence community. “Not Time to Attack Iran,” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/137031/colin-h-kahl/not-time-to-attack-iran?page=show, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Kroenig argues that… them if they do.</span>


<span class="Underline">No Iran prolif- undermines their military</span>
<span class="Underline">Walt, 11-16-11, Stephen M., the Robert and Renée Belfer professor of international affairs at Harvard University and a blogger at ForeignPolicy.com, “Stopping an Iranian bomb,” http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/11/15/stopping_an_iranian_bomb, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">I'm against the former… Iran's conventional advantages.</span>


<span class="Underline">No impact- counter-prolif checks and nukes won’t be used to coerce</span>
<span class="Underline">Walt, 12-27-11, Stephen M., the Robert and Renée Belfer professor of international affairs at Harvard University and a blogger at ForeignPolicy.com, “Why attacking Iran is still a bad idea,” http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/12/27/why_attacking_iran_is_still_a_bad_idea, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Kroenig also misunderstands… be taken seriously.</span>


<span class="Underline">No impact to Iran or Korean prolif</span>
<span class="Underline">Mueller, 2010, February, John, professor of political science at Ohio State University and author of Atomic Obsession: Nuclear Alarmism from Hiroshima to al Qaeda. “Think Again: Nuclear Weapons,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/01/04/think_again_nuclear_weapons?page=full, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">"Iranian and North Korean Nukes… during the Cold War.</span>



====Squo Solves==== 
Computer virus crippled Iran’s nuclear abilities for years
Katz, 2010, Yaakov, Jerusalem Post, “Stuxnet may have destroyed 1,000 centrifuges at Natanz,” http://www.jpost.com/Defense/Article.aspx?id=200843, KHaze

The Stuxnet virus that has… uranium produced,” he said.


===Saudi=== 
No Saudi prolif- no tech and doesn’t want backlash
Lippman, 2008, Thomas W., Journalist and author, specializing in the Middle East and US-Saudi relations. Lippman graduated form Columbia University. Lippman spent more than 30 years with the Washington Post as a writer, editor and diplomatic correspondent, also serving as the Middle East bureau chief for the Washington Post. Lippman currently serves as an adjunct scholar at the Middle East Institute., “Nuclear Weapons and Saudi Strategy,” http://www.susris.com/articles/2008/ioi/080209-lippman-nuclear.html, KHaze

What would Saudi Arabia… free of nuclear weapons.



==<span class="Underline">Science Diplomacy</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">Doesn't Solves</span>=== 
Science diplomacy doesn’t solve anything
Dickson, 2009 [David, Direction Science & Development Network. June 2, 2009, “Science diplomacy: the case for caution”, http://scidevnet.wordpress.com/category/new- frontiers-in-science-diplomacy-2009, SM]

One of the frustrations… and thus its value.


===<span class="Underline">Inevitable</span>=== 
Recent budgets terminally destroyed science leadership
Orbach, 2011 – Energy Institute at The University of Texas at Austin and served as Under Secretary for Science in the United States DOE [Raymond L. Orbach, Director, Energy Institute at The University of Texas at Austin, “ResearchVital to Economic Growth”, http://www.energy.utexas.edu/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=100:research-vital-to-economic-growth&catid=32:editorials&Itemid=47, SM]

It was with a mixture… future generations of Americans.



==<span class="Underline">Space Weaponization</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">No Impact</span>=== 
Space weapons aren’t destabilizing
Shixiu, 2007, Bao, senior fellow of military theory studies and international relations at the Institute for Military Thought Studies, Academy of Military Sciences of the PLA of China. He formerly served as director of the Institute. He recently was a visiting scholar at the Virginia Military Institute in the United States. His research focuses on China-U.S. relations in the field of comparative security strategies and the application of deterrence theory. “Deterrence Revisited: Outer Space*,” pdf, KHaze

It is a well-known… are used as a first strike.


==<span class="Underline">Resource Wars</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">General</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">Wont Happen</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">Resource wars don’t happen- empirics and studies prove</span>
<span class="Underline">Salehyan 07 – Idean Salehyan Professor of Political Science at the University of North Texas. “The New Myth About Climate Change Corrupt, tyrannical governments—not changes in the Earth’s climate—will be to blame for the coming resource wars.” By Idean Salehyan | August 14, 2007 http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2007/08/13/the_new_myth_about_climate_change</span>

<span class="Underline">First, aside from a few… and natural disasters.</span>


<span class="Underline">Resource wars aren’t real – they are just other underlying political conflicts</span>
<span class="Underline">Victor 07 David G. Victor, Ph.D., Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1997 (political science) A.B., Harvard University, 1987 (history and science, cum laude) “What Resource Wars?” [[http://nationalinterest.org/article/what-resource-wars-1851]]</span>

<span class="Underline">Most of this is… dearth in governance.</span>



====<span class="Underline">Trade</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">Trade solves resource wars</span>
<span class="Underline">Allouche 10 Jeremy Allouche Research Fellow in water supply and sanitation. Institute of Development Studies, Brighton, U The sustainability and resilience of global water and food systems: Political analysis of the interplay between security, resource scarcity, political systems and global trade. Food Policy (2010), doi:10.1016/j.foodpol.2010.11.013</span>

<span class="Underline">Debates on resource scarcity… usually been dismissed.</span>


====Substitution==== 
<span class="Underline">Ingenuity solves</span>
<span class="Underline">Simon in 1996,Julian Simon, Former Professor of Business Administration at the University of Maryland and Former Senior Fellow at the CATO Institute, “The Ultimate Resource 2”, 1996, p. 407-408</span>

<span class="Underline">There is no persuasive reason… with all other goods.</span>



<span class="Underline">We can substitute resources- solves scarcity</span>
<span class="Underline">KRAUTKRAEMER 2005 [JEFFREY, PROFESSOR AT UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII, ECONOMICS OF NATURAL RESOURCE SCARCITY: THE STATE OF THE DEBATE, APRIL, RESOURCES FOR THE FUTURE, www.rff.org/Documents/RFF-DP-05-14.pdf]</span>

<span class="Underline">The ability to substitute… one-third since 1970 (Wernick et al. 1996).</span>


===='93 Till Infinity==== 
<span class="Underline">Resources are infinite – we’ll never run out</span>
<span class="Underline">Geddes 2004 (Marc, Writer and Libertarian Analyst, “THE MONSTER NON-SOCIALIST FAQ”, February 12, http://solohq.com/War/MonsterFAQ.shtml)</span>

<span class="Underline">Answer: A significant disruption… generates wealth the fastest.</span>

<span class="Underline">Prefer our evidence- theirs is too short term</span>
<span class="Underline">Simon in 1996, Julian Simon, Former Professor of Business Administration at the University of Maryland and Former Senior Fellow at the CATO Institute, “The Ultimate Resource 2”, 1996, p. 588</span>

<span class="Underline">So to sum up the… problems for ourselves.</span>


<span class="Underline">Long term trends all suggest infinite resources- default to empirical data</span>
<span class="Underline">Simon in 1996, Julian Simon, Former Professor of Business Administration at the University of Maryland and Former Senior Fellow at the CATO Institute, “The Ultimate Resource 2”, 1996, p. 596-597</span>

<span class="Underline">I do not say that… the assumption of finiteness.</span>


====Statistics > Rhetoric==== 
<span class="Underline">Relying on rhetoric instead of sound analysis leads to false predictions.</span>
<span class="Underline">Bjorn Lomborg, associate professor of statistics at university of Aarhus. The skeptical environmentalist; measuring the real state of the world. 2001, p. 29.</span>

<span class="Underline">Again, the problem with… are still here too.</span>


===Famine=== 
====No War==== 
<span class="Underline">No food wars</span>
<span class="Underline">Chang 2/21/11 Gordon G Chang, Graduated Cornell Law School “Global Food Wars” http://blogs.forbes.com/gordonchang/2011/02/21/global-food-wars/</span>

<span class="Underline">In any event,… of free markets.</span>

====Distribution==== 
<span class="Underline">Production isn’t the root of the problem—lack of distribution makes your impacts inevitable.</span>
<span class="Underline">Sagoff, 01</span>
<span class="Underline">[Mark, Senior Research Scholar At The Institute For Philosophy And Public Affairs, University Of Maryland 2001 Indiana Journal Of Global Legal Studies, Fall, Lexis]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">When I was a child,… wisdom many analysts accept.</span>


====Wont Happen==== 
**Long term indicators prove no food scarcity**
Sheldon <span class="UnderliningChar">**Richman**</span>, Senior Editor at the CATO Institute, Testimony on The International Population Stabilization and Reproductive Health Act (S. 1029), July 20, <span class="UnderliningChar">**1995**</span>, http://cato.org/testimony/ct-ps720.html

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Food is abundant</span><span class="UnderliningChar">….</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> help from nature.</span>

====Inevitable==== 
<span class="Underline">Food Crisis Inevitable – Laundry List – Growing Population, Climate Change, water shortage, and more demand for alternative uses</span>
<span class="Underline">Lester R. Brown, president of the Earth Policy Institute and author of World on the Edge: How to Prevent Environmental and Economic Collapse, 4/25/11, “The New Geopolitics of Food: From the Middle East to Madagascar, high prices are spawning land grabs and ousting dictators. Welcome to the 21st-century food wars”, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/04/25/the_new_geopolitics_of_food]]</span>

<span class="Underline">THE DOUBLING OF WORLD… largest wheat producers.</span>


===<span class="Underline">Oil</span>=== 
====No Oil Wars==== 
**Oil companies don’t start wars- not profitable**
**Cole, 3-27-11,** Juan, American scholar, public intellectual, and historian of the modern Middle East and South Asia. He is Richard P. Mitchell Collegiate Professor of History at the University of Michigan. “An Open Letter to the Left on Libya,” http://www.juancole.com/, KHaze

Another argument is that... any sense at all.


====No Timeframe==== 
<span class="Underline">No impact for 5000 years and technology solves</span>
<span class="Underline">Bjorn Lomborg, 2001, associate professor of statistics at university of Aarhus. The skeptical environmentalist; measuring the real state of the world. 2001, p. 135-136</span>

<span class="Underline">The evidence clearly… of superior alternatives.</span>


===Water=== 
====No Escalation==== 
<span class="Underline">Water wars don’ t escalate</span>
<span class="Underline">WWC 6 (Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, Aaron Wolf, professor in the Dept. of Geosciences at Oregon St. U and director of the Transboundary Freshwater Dispute Database, Annika Kramer, research fellow, Alexander Carius, director of Adelphi Research, Geoffrey D. Dabelko, director of the Environmental Change and Security Program at the WWIC, “Water can be pathway to peace not war”, [[http://www.wilsoncenter.org/topics/pubs/NavigatingPeaceIssue1.pdf]])</span>

<span class="Underline">“Water wars are coming!”… African Development Community (SADC).</span>

====Treaties Solve==== 
<span class="Underline">Treaties prove water shortages lead to peace</span>
<span class="Underline">Shafer, 9 Editor – Slate, 4-2</span>
<span class="Underline">http://www.slate.com/id/2215263/</span>

<span class="Underline">Attention foreign-desk editors… to Egyptian farmers."</span>


==<span class="Underline">Russia</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">War</span>=== 
====Too Weak==== 
<span class="Underline">Russia cant’ attack the US—armed forces aren’t in good condition</span>
<span class="Underline">Lieber 7 - Professor of Government and International Affairs at Georgetown University -</span>
<span class="Underline">[Robert J., "Persistent Primacy and the Future of the American Era", APSA Paper 2007, http://www.allacademic.com//meta/p_mla_apa_research_citation/2/1/1/0/5/pages211058/p211058-1.php]//</span>

<span class="Underline">Constraints on the capacity… over the long term.</span>

====Stakes Too High==== 
<span class="Underline">No US-Russia war- stakes are too high</span>
<span class="Underline">Arbatov 7 [Alexei, corresponding member of the Russian Academy of Sciences, member of the Editorial Board of Russia in Global Affairs, “Is a New Cold War Imminent,” Russia in Global Affairs, No. 2, July-September 2007, http://eng.globalaffairs.ru/numbers/20/1130.html] //</span>

<span class="Underline"><<First, the present dispute… Dagestan and Tajikistan).</span>


====<span class="Underline">AT: N</span>ationalism==== 
Zero risk of an uprising- no one in Russia cares- nihilism and government corruption has gripped the public.
Ames, 97 (Mark, Editor for The eXile, Exile No. 9, June 5-18 1997, http://www.exile.ru/ames/ames9.html)

In order to rally even… The answer was nihil.


No impact- even if Russia turns nationalist its lack of infrastructure makes it incapable of lash-out.
Cohen, 98 (Ariel, Ph.D @ Heritage Foundation, 3-6-98, http://www.heritage.org/Research/RussiaandEurasia/BG1105.cfm)

The Russian government… to early 1990s



===<span class="Underline">Relations</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">Impossible</span>==== 
US-Russian relations impossible- the US won’t genuine engage Russia
Trenin, 2-28-12, Dmitri, director of the Carnegie Moscow Center. “Putin the Peacemaker?” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/02/28/putin_the_peacemaker, KHaze

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">There is no question that,… It is hardly affordable now</span>


US-Russian relations won’t improve
Serebryany and Haoning, 3-24-11, Igor and Zheng, Xinhua News, “Gates' trip changes little in U.S.-Russian ties,” http://news.xinhuanet.com/english2010/world/2011-03/24/c_13794828.htm, KHaze

Moscow has long opposed… and this trend was "disturbing."



===<span class="Underline">Accidental Launch</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">No Launch</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">No accidental launch- Russia doesn’t rely on old systems</span>
<span class="Underline">PODVIG 3 (Pavel, Center for Arms Control Studies, Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology,</span>
<span class="Underline">FORUM ON PHYSICS & SOCIETY of The American Physical Society, January,</span>
<span class="Underline">http://www.aps.org/units/fps/newsletters/2003/january/article1.cfm)</span>

<span class="Underline">As we can see,… danger of inadvertent launch.</span>


Stringent guidelines and fear of retaliation prevent accidental launches.
Waltz, 81 (Kenneth, “The Spread of Nuclear Weapons: More May Better,” Adelphi Papers, Number 171,
http://www.mtholyoke.edu/acad/intrel/waltz1.htm)

If the survival… strikes another country.


<span class="Underline">No Russian launch on warning</span>
<span class="Underline">Blair, 2006, Bruce G., President of the World Security Institute. Mr. Blair is the author of numerous articles and books on security issues including the Logic of Accidental Nuclear War and Global Zero Alert for Nuclear Forces. He is presently completing a new book on U.S. nuclear policy. Chen Yali is the editor in chief of Washington Observer. She is also a Program Manager of Chen Shi China Research Group based in Beijing. “The Fallacy of Nuclear Primacy,” http://www.wsichina.org/cs4_4.pdf, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Launch on warning quickly… inability to launch on warning.</span>


====High Alert==== 
<span class="Underline">High alert status won’t trigger accidental launch- expert consensus</span>
<span class="Underline">Ryabikhin, Koltunov and Misanikov, 2009 (Dr. Lenoid, Executive Secretary of the Committee of Scientist for Global Security and Arms Control, Viktor, Ret. General and Deputy Director of the Institute for Strategic Stability of Rosatom, Dr. Eugene, Senior Research Scientist at the Center for Arms Control, Energy and Environmental Studies, “De-altering: Decreasing the Operational Readiness of Strategic Nuclear Forces, Discussion Paper presented at the Seminar on Reframing De-Alert: Decreasing the Operational Readiness of Nuclear Weapons Systems in the U.S.-Russia Context, June, http://www.ewi.info/system/files/RyabikhinKoltunovMiasnikov.pdf)</span>


<span class="Underline">Most of the experts… the agreed requirements.</span>


====Communication Solves==== 
<span class="Underline">Communication solve accidental launch</span>
<span class="Underline">Ford 8, (Dr. Christopher A. Senior Fellow and Director of the Center for Technology and Global Security at the Hudson Institute and previously served as U.S. Special Representative for Nuclear Nonproliferation, October 7, 2008, “Dilemmas of Nuclear Force “De-Alerting”” Presented to the International Peace Institute Policy Forum http://www.hudson.org/files/documents/De-Alerting%20FINAL2%20(2).pdf)</span>

<span class="Underline">The United States… belligerence vis-à-vis Russia.</span>


===<span class="Underline">Economy</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">Decline Now </span>==== 
Short term Russian economic decline inevitable
Goldstone, 12-2-11, Jack A., Hazel professor of public policy at George Mason University and a nonresident senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. He blogs on global trends at NewPopulationBomb. “Rise of the TIMBIs,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/12/02/rise_of_the_timbis?page=full, KHaze

Compared with much-hyped China,.. future economic growth.


====<span class="Underline">Resilient</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">Russian economy is resilient despite the 08 financial crisis</span>
<span class="Underline">Heilprin 11 – AP Report</span>
<span class="Underline">(John, “Putin says Russia economy recovering, still below pre-global financial crisis level” June 15, 2011 http://www.startribune.com/world/123913759.html)</span>

<span class="Underline">GENEVA - Russia's economy is… health problems as it recovers.</span>


==Space Cooperation== 
===Cooperation Now=== 
Space co-operation now
SSI, 2010 – Space Security Index published by a group of aerospace experts at spacesecurity.org (August 2010, Governance Group and Advisory Group, “Space Security 2010”, spacesecurity.org,http://www.spacesecurity.org/space.security.2010.reduced.pdf), KHaze

International space law has… their national space policies.


===Cooperation Fails=== 
“Space weapon” ambiguity prevents effective treaties- US won’t allow excessive restraints
DeSutter 2008 [Paula A. DeSutter has an extensive background in verification and a career focus on national security and intelligence. She served for over four years as a Professional Staff Member of the U.S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. Ms. DeSutter was professional staff liaison to Senator Jon Kyl and was responsible for legislation and oversight of intelligence collection, analysis, and activities related to proliferation, terrorism, arms control, the Persian Gulf States, India, Pakistan, China, and Afghanistan.] Is an Outer Space Arms Control Treaty Verifiable? By Paula A. DeSutter Assistant Secretary of State for Verification, Compliance, and Implementation http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/592.pdf, KHaze

There are many scope… and terrestrial-based ballistic missiles.


==<span class="Underline">Soft Power</span>== 
Soft power is irrelevant, 2 reasons
Kagan, PhD from American University, 1/15/06 (Robert, The Washington Post, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=17894&prog=zgp&proj=zusr)

The striking thing about… be invited to join NATO?


Multiple alt causes to soft power
Rubin, Inquirer Columnist, July 29, 2007, (Trudy, The Philadelphia Inquirer, “China hones a skill once used by U.S.,” TH)

China took advantage of… China to environmental standards, too.



==Solar Storms== 
<span class="Underline">A solar storm hitting Earth is extremely unlikely</span>
<span class="Underline">Centra technology inc 2011 Centra technology inc 2011 http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CBUQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.oecd.org%2Fdataoecd%2F57%2F25%2F46891645.pdf&ei=ktQkTrLjGI7AgQfwm7XoDA&usg=AFQjCNHP_5hJEVhQ4RUnbk6htgrtmBaUHg&sig2=UvrCAs2WLcQW_cWI8QPERA</span>

<span class="Underline">French (2007) notes that… the electromagnetic field (Balch, undated).</span>


==<span class="Underline">Terrorism</span>== 
===General=== 
====Declining==== 
Terrorist attack on U.S. unlikely – laundry list – enhanced security, stable Muslim population, and death of Bin-Laden
Daniel Byman, professor in the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University, Senior Fellow at the Saban Center at Brookings, and author of A High Price: The Triumphs and Failures of Israeli Counterterrorism, 7/22/11, “Norway's Oklahoma City?
The real question is: Why are big terrorist attacks so rare?”, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/07/22/norway_s_911_or_oklahoma_city]]

As the horrors of the bombing… jeopardizing the entire operation.


<span class="Underline">Terrorism declining and anti-Americanism inevitable</span>
<span class="Underline">Sageman, 9 - adjunct Associate Professor at the School of International and Public Affairs and former case officer for the CIA (Marc, “Confronting al-Qaeda: Understanding the Threat in Afghanistan,” Perspectives on Terrorism, vol. 3 n.4, http://www.terrorismanalysts.com/pt/index.php?option=com_rokzine&view=article&id=92&Itemid=54)</span>

<span class="Underline">5. Counter-terrorism is working… with a transnational agenda.</span>

====No Threatening Groups==== 
<span class="Underline">Threatening terrorist groups won’t join anti-Western movements- want to accomplish regional objectives</span>
<span class="Underline">Byman, 12-7-10, Daniel, professor in the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University and a senior fellow at the Saban Center at the Brookings Institution. His forthcoming book is A High Price: The Triumphs and Failures of Israeli Counterterrorism. “Al Qaeda's M&A Strategy,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/12/07/al_qaedas_m_and_a_strategy, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">When groups embrace al Qaeda's… rejected the organization publicly.</span>

===Specific Attacks=== 
====Nuclear==== 
Terrorism won’t go nuclear and they won’t be able to attack the US- several warrants
Mearsheimer, 2011, January, John J., Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago. He is on the Advisory Council of The National Interest, “Imperial by Design,”http://nationalinterest.org/article/imperial-by-design-4576?page=3, KHaze

The fact is that… severe allergic reactions to peanuts.”



====Bioterror==== 
No risk of a bioterror attack, and there won’t be retaliation - your evidence is hype
Matishak 10 (Martin, Global Security Newswire, “U.S. Unlikely to Respond to Biological Threat With Nuclear Strike, Experts Say,” 4-29, http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100429_7133.php)

WASHINGTON -- The United States is not… atomic bomb,'" he added.


====Cyber Terror==== 
Attacks aren’t perceived – means no terrorist motive
Conway, 11 – Lecturer in International Security in the School of Law and Government at Dublin City University [February, Maura, “Against Cyberterrorism: Why cyber-based terrorist attacks are unlikely to occur”, Communications of the ACM, Volume 54, Number 2, p. 26-28, AL]

In 2004, Howard Schmidt,… as it hit the second tower.


====EMP==== 
<span class="Underline">Terrorists can’t develop EMP</span>
<span class="Underline">Rasor 7 (Dina, Investigative Journalist, “Checking the Pulse of EMP”, Project on Government Oversight, 1-17,</span>
<span class="Underline">http://pogoblog.typepad.com/pogo/2005/11/checking_the_pu.html)</span>

<span class="Underline">The Washington Time's… at high altitude.</span>


===Specific States=== 
====Yemen==== 
<span class="Underline">Yemen violence inevitable- takes out your impact</span>
<span class="Underline">Zurulnick, 9-15-11, “Yemen sees resurgence of violence from militants, tribal fighters,” http://www.csmonitor.com/World/terrorism-security/2011/0915/Yemen-sees-resurgence-of-violence-from-militants-tribal-fighters, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">Two days after the United Nations… grip, according to CNN.</span>


====Somalia==== 
<span class="Underline">Squo solves Somalia</span>
<span class="Underline">Diarra, 2011, Boubacar, the special representative of the chairperson of the African Union Commission for Somalia and the head of the African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), “We're Winning in Somalia,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/07/26/were_winning_in_somalia, KHaze</span>

<span class="Underline">The African Union Mission… Mogadishu's southwestern neighborhoods.</span>


==<span class="Underline">Trade</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">Inevitable</span>=== 
Protectionism inevitable - Buy America proves
Malkiel, 9 your author(Burton G., “Congress Wants a Trade War:
The president should veto "Buy American" if he doesn't want to be remembered like Herbert Hoover”, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB123380102867150621.html)
As the world-wide recession... to trigger a trade war." He's right.


===No Escalation=== 
Protectionism won’t collapse trade
Guoqiang 9—director of foreign economic relations research for China's State Council (Long, “Is Protectionism a Threat to the World Economy?,” 6 March 2009, http://www.eeo.com.cn/ens/finance_investment/2009/03/06/131493.shtml)

I don't think we'll… during times of crisis.