[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
=MoonRise - NDCA= 

=Contention 1: Inherency= 


**In April 2010, NASA and India’s ISRO were set to cooperate Moonrise, a mission to collect samples from the lunar south pole**

Deccan Chronicle 4/21/2010 ([[http://www.deccanchronicle.com/node/23871]])

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">With 17 successful launches out of 18 to its credit</span>................the 2016 mission,” he said.


**Last May, the US backed out of the project, leaving India in the lurch and tanking prospects for expanded space cooperation**
Laxman 5/26/2011
Srinivas, 30 year veteran reporter from the Times of India focusing on space and nuclear issues, “US offloads India from joint unmanned Moon Mission,” [[http://m.firstpost.com/world/us-offloads-indiajoint-unmanned-moon-mission-16264.html?page=1]]


<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">In a major setback to India's lunar programme.........the</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> GSLV,'' a top Isro official said.</span>

**There’s no cooperation now**
Economic Times 12/30/11
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/news-by-industry/et-cetera/iaf-to-select-crew-for-indias-1st-manned-mission-to-space/articleshow/11306879.cms]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Joining the project for country's</span>.......<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">was launched in 2009.</span>


=Thus the plan:= 


**The United States federal government should fund and implement the lunar exploration project known**

=Observation Two: India Cooperation= 


**Two ways we solve.**

**Subpoint A is tech Transfer**

**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">1.Moonrise could be the linchpin of space cooperation because it would pave the way for removal of tech transfer barriers.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">AAAS</span> 2/16/<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">11</span>**
American Association for the Advancement of Science India May Join U.S. MoonRise
Mission by Pallava Bagla on 16 February 2011. [[http://news.sciencemag.org/scienceinsider/2011/02/india-may-join-us-moonrise-mission.html]]


<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">India hopes to join the United States</span>.................to join hands on a major space mission.


**Tech transfer barriers are a key stumbling block to space cooperation**
Center for Nonproliferation Studies 06
Date Created: July 20, 2006 U.S.-India Space Cooperation Reaches New Heights, Despite Lingering Proliferation Concerns By Jennifer Kline http://cns.miis.edu/other/kline_060720.htm

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">The Chandrayaan project notwithstanding................</span>in Indian scientific programs<span class="Underline">. [33] </span>



**Subpoint B is Confidence Building**

**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Cancelling planned missions like Moonrise guts Indian confidence in the US as a strategic partner</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Rendleman and Faulconer 10</span>**
- *Retired Air Force Colonel AND **Director of Space Exploration at Lockheed Martin (2010, Perspectives on Improving United States International Space Cooperation,” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://strategicspacesolutions.com/Public-papers/IAC-10B38-E775.pdf]]</span>)**

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Significant political good will is often generated...............</span> Indian government and its space community.**

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Actually implementing joint missions, however, boosts Indian confidence and makes future cooperation sustainable</span>
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Rendleman and Faulconer 10</span>
**James D. Rendleman is a retired Colonel of the USAF, J.Walter Faulconer is** J. Walter Faulconer is the new business area executive for civilian space at The Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory (APL) in Laurel. [<span style="color: #0000ff;">[[http://strategicspacesolutions.com/Public-papers/Intl-Space-Coop%206-5-10.pdf]]</span>, “Improving International Space Cooperation”]

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Diplomatic prestige. </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Cooperation provides opportunities..... from international agreements.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Space cooperation is the key to overall security cooperation with India- and promotes stability in Asia.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Correll 06</span>**
National security consultant with Science Applications International Company, served in the United States Air Force in a wide variety of research, development and space assignments., Ph.D in Physics from UT-Austin Randall Correll “U.S.-India Space Partnership: The Jewel in the Crown” 2006 Astropolitics Vol. 4, Iss. 2, EBSCO

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">The new strategic </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">partnership between the United States......</span>cultivate this relationship<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>


**Now is key—relations solve peace in Asia, economic growth, counterterrorism, democracy and climate cooperation**
**Burns et al 2010**
(Professor of the Practice of Diplomacy, Harvard University, “Natural Allies,” October, Center for A New American Security, [[http://www.cnas.org/|www.cnas.org]])

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Progress</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> also </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">requires vision.......</span>We urge American and Indian leaders to seize it.

**Also, Indo-US cooperation soft-balances China and improves trilateral relations.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Burns et al 2010</span>**
(Professor of the Practice of Diplomacy, Harvard University, “Natural Allies,” October, Center for A New American Security, [[http://www.cnas.org/|www.cnas.org]])

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">A strong U.S.-India strategic partnership......</span>presence in Asia.

**The alternative is nuclear war**
**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Bandow 10</span>**
[Doug, senior fellow at the Cato Institute, Vice President of Policy for Citizen Outreach, “Engaging China to Maintain Peace in East Asia” May 25, d/a: 7/15/10, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11845]

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">China's neighbors certainly</span>..............<span style="font-family: 'Garamond','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">the 21st century one of peace and stability.</span>




=Observation Three: Moon Colonies= 
**Project moonrise explores the lunar south pole and develops tech for future missions**
**Everding 1/4/2010**
Gerry, Director of Digital News, Washingotn University of Saint Louis, official press release from WUSTL http://www.eurekalert.org/pub_releases/2010-01/wuis-wmm010410.php

<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Nearly 40 years after</span>...<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">The main goal of the mission is to determine how old it is.</span>

**Cooperation with India lowers mission costs which overcomes political barriers**
**Rendleman and Faulconer, 2010**



James D. and J. Walter (USAF (Ret); is the new business area executive for civilian space at The Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory (APL)), " Improving international space cooperation: Considerations for the USA ", 16 July 2010, http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0265964610000640#sec2. 6/22/11. OTT



<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Cost motivations are the most important rationale............these strengths.</span>


**Exploring the south pole is key to lunar colonization**
**NASA 9/27/2010**

NASA web site, “Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter,” [[http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/LRO/multimedia/lroimages/lroc-20100927_southpole.html]]



<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">The lunar South Pole is................</span>sometime in the far future.

**AND – Moon colonies solve multiple extinction threats**
**Shapiro 07**
(Robert Shapiro, Professor Emeritus and Senior Research Scientist in the Chemistry Department of New York University and He has served on several NASA committees concerned with topics in astrobiology, March 19, 2007, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/832/1)
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">I am not writing here....</span>....could then lead to disease epidemics.










=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">DSCOVR AFF**</span>= 
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contention 1 Inherency</span>= 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">No initiative to launch DSCOVR</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Anderson, 07</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Mitchell, August 7, worked for eight years as a staff scientist at Sierra Legal Defence Fund and has written extensively on environmental and social policy issues for a variety of national and international publications, A DeSmogBlog exclusive investigation into NASA's DSCOVR climate station,[[http://desmogblog.com/mitchell_anderson]])</span>

Somewhere in … not your average climate satellite.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Resolved: The United States federal government should launch Deep Space Climate Observatory.</span>**

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Contention 2- Solar Storms]]Contention 2- Solar Storms</span>= 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The sun is in the low end of its cycle; big solar storms are coming</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Phillips,</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;">production editor of Science@NASA,</span> 20**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">11</span>**
(Dr. Tony, NASA “Getting Ready for the Next Big Solar Storm,” <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2011/22jun_swef2011/]]</span> , June 21, accessed 7-22-11, ASR)

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">In Sept. 1859, on the.… impact of 20 hurricane Katrinas</span>.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">There will be a catastrophic storm by 2013</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kent</span>**, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;">The Newfoundland Herald,</span> 20**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">10</span>**
(Valerie, The Newfoundland Herald, “Solar Storm Looming?” <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.nfldherald.com/features/Herald_Solar-Storm-Looming.pdf]]</span>, July 18, 2010, accessed 7-22-11, ASR)

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">“The Sun is waking… </span>detestation as Hurricane Katrina did.


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The storm will end civilization, killing more people than any war.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Unruh 10’</span>**
[Bob Unruh staff writer of WorldNet daily, august 12, 10’ <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.wnd.com/?pageId=190721]]</span>] JB

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">More horrifying than…. </span>fuel into a cargo ship?

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The effect would be global</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Brooks,</span>** PhD in Quantum Physics, 3/23/**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">09</span>**
[Michael, New Scientist, “Space storm alert: 90 seconds from catastrophe”, online, BJM]

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Such nightmare scenarios are …. </span>but occasionally it will get you."



<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**The damage is comparable to nuclear war**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Eccleston, Spring 2011**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">Chief Consultant for the Environmental Planning and NEPA Services Corporation and Stuyvenberg, Environmental Project Manager, US Nuclear Regulatory Comission, 2011 (Charles and Andrew, Environmental Quality Management, “The Perfect Electrical Storm? “ Volume 20, Issue 3, Article first published online: 14 MAR 2011, DOI 10.1002/tqem / Spring 2011 / 43 Published online in Wiley Online Library (wileyonlinelibrary.com) [[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/tqem.20288/pdf]] , accessed 7-2-11, ASR) </span>

According to Kappenman, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">power… newly deprived neighbors.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Collapse of power grids will cause nuclear meltdowns</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tabor, July 2011</span>**
[Damon, Popular Science, “SUN STROKE”, Lexis, BJM]

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">One of the biggest disasters… power for one to two years</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Extinction</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Wasserman, 01</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> - Senior Editor – Free Press (Harvey, “America's Terrorist Nuclear Threat to Itself”, October,[[http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2001/10/00_wasserman_nuclear-threat.htm]])</span>

The intense radioactive heat… <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">be shut down.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Current early warning systems fail</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Brooks</span>**, PhD in quantum physics, 3/23/**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">09</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">[Michael, New Scientist, “Space storm alert: 90 seconds from catastrophe”, online, BJM]</span>

However, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">observations… </span>fail, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">is</span> rather <span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">foolish."</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">DSCOVR gives early solar storm warning</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Scripps 2011</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">Scripps 2011 [[http://www.sio.ucsd.edu/About/Research_Overview/The_Oceans_and_Global_Change/]]</span>

Scripps is participating… general public via the Internet.



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Early warning saves the grid</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">OCIPEP</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, 4/25/</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">02</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">, “Geomagnetic Storms - Reducing the Threat to Critical Infrastructure in Canada”, [[http://www.solarstorms.org/CanadaPipelines.html]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">Preventative measures have… warning of a storm threat.</span>




=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Contention 3- Climate]]Contention 3- Climate</span>= 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Warming is real & anthropogenic – consensus of scientists are on our side</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="TagChar">__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Cook 10</span>__</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (John, Solar Physics Scientist @ University of Queensland, Adjunct Fellow at the University of Queensland, “The human fingerprint in global warming”, 29 March 2010, [[http://www.skepticalscience.com/human-fingerprint-in-global-warming.html]]) </span>

In science, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">there's only… the atmosphere and global warming</span>."




**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The status quo risks catastrophic failures in our Earth monitoring systems that are essential for managing climate change -- only US federal action solves.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lewis et al., 2010</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">[James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, </span><span class="st" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June,[[http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Satellites provide globally… can only be done from space</span>.
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">DSCOVR solves warming, climate leadership, and international relations</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Anderson, 07</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Mitchell, August 7, worked for eight years as a staff scientist at Sierra Legal Defence Fund and has written extensively on environmental and social policy issues for a variety of national and international publications, A DeSmogBlog exclusive investigation into NASA's DSCOVR climate station,[[http://desmogblog.com/mitchell_anderson]])</span>

In fact, DSCOVR is not a satellite…. DSCOVR would be a top priority.



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Information capabilities are a necessary condition for solving climate change -- the aff revitalizes US climate leadership, which is key</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lewis et al., 2010</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">[James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, </span><span class="st" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June,[[http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]], BJM]</span>

Climate change will have pervasive… <span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">capability shortfall is eliminated. </span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">DSCOVR allows for tech innovations that solve warming</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The National academies, 00</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (does in depth research in problems of engineering medicine and science, march 3,)</span>

The goals and objectives of the Triana….is on exploring the technique




**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Satellites are key to predictive models —ground, sea, and airborne observation don’t give the complete picture</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">GAO 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">(Government Accountability Office, “ENVIRONMENTAL SATELLITES Strategy Needed to Sustain Critical Climate and Space Weather Measurements,” April 2010,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[https://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&pid=gmail&attid=0.1&thid=13153eda6bd0cba7&mt=application/pdf&url=https://mail.google.com/mail/?ui%3D2%26ik%3D1d49613b60%26view%3Datt%26th%3D13153eda6bd0cba7%26attid%3D0.1%26disp%3Dsafe%26realattid%3Df_gqfpmsjd0%26zw&sig=AHIEtbTemLrr0aEGSwRmvZHYiRE3WOw2kg]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Since the 1960s, the United… coverage, and ozone coverage.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Predictions are necessary to create plans to combat warming—people can’t form effective strategies if they’re trying to fix the wrong problem</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hamre 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">(John, President and CEO of the Center for Strategic & International Studies, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June 2010,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">Slowly</span>, painfully,<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">we are… certainty into policy efforts</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Warming will cause extinction.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">Oliver </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Tickell</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">, Environmental Researcher, 8/11/</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">’**8**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">([[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]]) [Quals Added]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-decoration: none;">We need to get… a similar hothouse Earth</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Climate change is worse than all other impacts—scale and urgency ensure</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Burke__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">, Tom (former statutory advisor to the British Government on biodiversity and member of the European Environmental Bureau. Speech to the Royal College of Physicians: “Climate change and health” [[http://www.e3g.org/index.php/programmes/climate-articles/climate-change-and-health/]]) 1/29/20</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__08__</span>**

There are three ways in … Manhattan Projects look unambitious.
=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]
New Trier Tournament

Round 2 vs. Meadows KE:

T-Development vs. Asteroid Deflection
CP - Only do Ground Based
Space Mil DA
Militarism K
Case D
Heg Bad

Round 3 vs. Iowa City West HK:

LSP CP
Ozone DA
Militarism K
Space Weps Bad
Heg Bad - Terror, Prolif, Counterbalancing
Case D - SMD, Solvency

Round 6 vs. Dowling Catholic WB:

PPWT CP
China Arms Race DA - Link is Surveillance Sats
Heg Bad - Prolif, Counterbalancing
Space Weps Bad - China
Case D