[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==orion aff== 
Contention One is Impact Framing
Nuclear war doesn’t cause extinction
<span style="font-family: 'times new roman';">Seitz, 2006 </span><span style="font-size: 11px;">[Russell is a Visiting Scholar in Harvard University's Center for International Affairs, published in Nature and Foreign Affairs on the subject of nuclear winter, Dec 20, “The' Nuclear Winter ' Meltdown: Photoshopping the Apocalypse” adamant.typepad.com/seitz/2006/12/preherein_honor.html ]</span>

<span style="text-align: justify;">All that … TTAPS reception follows.</span>

Wars are inevitable because of the evolutionary drive for competition
Thayer 2k
Bradley A., Former Research Fellow, International Security Program, Associate Professor of Defense & Strategic Study, Missouri State University, International Security, 01622889, Fall2000, Vol. 25, Issue 2 “"Bringing in Darwin: Evolutionary Theory, Realism, and International Politics"
<span style="text-align: justify;">WARFARE ANDFITNESS. <span style="font-size: 13px;">.. could be irreversible."[</span>93]</span>

Evolutionary adaptations that make good authoritarian leaders also make nuclear war inevitable
<span style="font-family: 'times new roman'; font-size: 16px;">Thayer ‘7</span>
Bradley A., Missouri State University Department of Defense and Strategic Studies, Comparative Strategy, 26:311–323, July 2007 “Thinking about Nuclear Deterrence Theory: Why Evolutionary Psychology Undermines Its Rational Actor Assumptions”
<span style="text-align: justify;">Third, <span style="font-size: 13px;">the physical … to deterrence failure</span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman;">. </span></span>
Extinction is inevitable in the short term absent space colonization
<span style="font-family: 'times new roman'; font-size: 16px;">New York Times ‘7</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">(John Tierney, “A Survival Imperative for Space Colonization” July 17, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2007/07/17/science/17tier.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">)</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">In 1993, J. <span style="font-size: 13px;">…</span>, Dr. Gott says.</span>



This is because of overpopulation
<span style="font-family: 'times new roman'; font-size: 16px;">CBD ‘9</span>, Center for Biological Diversity (“Overpopulation and Extinction”, 2009 is the last date cited under the article, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.biologicaldiversity.org/campaigns/overpopulation/extinction/index.html]]</span>)
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13px;">We’re in the …</span> species to live.</span>
Asteroids, warming or a genetically engineered virus cause extinction
<span style="font-family: 'times new roman'; font-size: 16px;">Monga Bay ‘6</span>, environmental science and conservation news site, 2006 (November 30. “To avoid extinction humans must colonize space says Hawking.” http://news.mongabay.com/2006/1130-hawking.html)
<span style="text-align: justify;">As he was … recipients the award.</span>

Humanity has lots of ways of killing itself or going extinct – space colonization would solveALLof them.
<span style="font-family: 'times new roman'; font-size: 16px;">Falconi,</span> Physicist,19<span style="font-family: 'times new roman'; font-size: 16px;">81</span> (THE CASE FOR SPACE COLONIZATION, http://nutri.com/space/
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13px;">1. Genetic Manipulation - A … of space immediately. </span></span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">The key timeframe is within the next five years—otherwise space ventures will collapse </span><span style="font-family: 'times new roman'; font-size: 16px;">Cordell ‘8</span> PhD planetary and space physics, Weizmann postdoctoral fellow at Caltech, ex-physics professor at the California State University, , worked with NASA. May 11 08 (Bruce, "Nasa programs and MEPs" [[http://21stcenturyw+%0d%0daves.com/%20blog/category/perspectives/)|**Error! Hyperlink reference not valid.**]]<span style="font-size: 13px;">Currently, the most… of inestimable importance</span>**__.__**

<span style="font-family: 'times new roman'; font-size: 16px;">Magnitude outweighs – there is a categorical difference between existential and non-existential threats</span>
<span style="font-family: 'times new roman'; font-size: 16px;">Matheny ‘7 </span><span style="font-size: 11px;">(Jason G., Prof of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health at Johns Hopkins University, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, v27n5)</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13px;">Even if extinction … that threaten 100%.</span></span>

<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'times new roman'; font-size: 16px;">We have the largest magnitude - every second without going into space means a hundred trillion potential humans lost</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 9px;">Nick </span><span style="font-family: 'times new roman'; font-size: 16px;">Bostrom, 2004</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 9px;">, philosophy professor at Yale & Oxford,” </span>[[@http://www.nickbostrom.com/astronomical/waste.htm]]<span style="color: black; font-size: 9px;">[JWU]</span><span style="font-size: 13px;">"As I write …</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 9px;"> of our supercluster.[6]"</span></span>
Magnitude outweighs timeframe – not acting against potential natural threats equates moral evasion
<span style="font-family: 'times new roman'; font-size: 16px;">Oberg ’98</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">Congressional Testifier on the Russian Space Program, NASA International Space Station Contributor, Space Studies Expert / James, “ASTEROID DEFLECTION & THE FUTURE OF HUMAN INTERVENTION IN THE EARTH'S BIOSPHERE”, Futures Focus Day Symposium sponsored by the US Space Command/</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">Bluntly --<span style="font-size: 13px;">do we … soon will possess.</span></span>

Timeframe is irrelevant – in order to solve problems like space colonization, we have to take a long view of impacts.
<span style="font-family: 'times new roman'; font-size: 16px;">Brand ’99 </span>(Stewart, Futurist, President of the Long Now Foundation, “The Clock of the Long Now” )
<span style="text-align: justify;">Such debates indicate …<span style="font-size: 13px;"> the whole world. </span></span>

Plantext:
The United States federal government should utilize a substantial portion of the nuclear weapons arsenal as nuclear pulse propulsion devices for the exploration of space outside the Earth’s mesosphere.

Contention Two is Solvency
Thermonuclear weapons should be utilized for nuclear propulsion
<span style="font-family: 'times new roman'; font-size: 16px;">Matloff ‘7</span>, Physics professor at the New York City College of Technology and consultant for NASA’s Marshall Space Flight Center (Gregory, Living off the land in Space, pg 69-70
<span style="text-align: justify;">In that article, … effective the shielding!</span>

<span style="font-family: 'times new roman'; font-size: 16px;">Solves interstellar travel within 40 years because it only requires existing technology</span>
<span style="font-family: 'times new roman'; font-size: 16px;">New scientist ‘9</span><span style="font-size: 13px;"> (Michael Marshall, December, “Engage the x drive: Ten ways to traverse deep space”, </span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13px;">Nuclear pulse propulsion …</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">40 years.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'times new roman'; font-size: 16px;">No counterplan will solve space</span>
<span style="font-family: 'times new roman'; font-size: 16px;">Ragheb ‘9</span>, Associate Professor of Nuclear, Plasma, and Radiological Engineering (Magdi, “Nuclear Pulse and Plasma Space Propulsion”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[https://netfiles.uiuc.edu/mragheb/www/NPRE%20402%20ME%20405%20Nuclear%20Power%20Engineering/Nuclear%20and%20Plasma%20Space%20Propulsion.pdf]]</span>)
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13px;">This technology is … circumvent that limitation. </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'times new roman'; font-size: 16px;">Only nuclear pulse propulsion can solve for the infrastructure to colonize space</span>
<span style="font-family: 'times new roman'; font-size: 16px;">Smith ‘3</span><span style="color: black; font-family: verdana;">, </span><span style="color: black;">the founder of </span>NuclearSpace (Wayne, “The Case for Orion”, Space Daily, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.spacedaily.com/news/nuclearspace-03h.html]]</span>)
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="color: black;">Why worry about …</span> never be completely solved.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'times new roman'; font-size: 16px;">NASA would build it if they had the nukes</span>
<span style="font-family: 'times new roman'; font-size: 16px;">Bernstein ‘2</span>, Professor Emeritus at the Stevens Institute of Technology (Jeremy, “Project Orion: The True Story of the Atomic Spaceship”, Book Review, American Journal of Physics)
<span style="text-align: justify;">Is there a … the human condition.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'times new roman'; font-size: 16px;">Habitable planets are being discovered constantly – Organic molecule discoveries prove</span>
<span style="font-family: 'times new roman'; font-size: 16px;">Business Standard ‘9</span> (October 21, Press Trust of India, “NASA detects one more planet with life-supporting environment”, Google)
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 13px;">Organic molecules essential … life cannot exist.</span></span>

NASA leadership is key to space exploration and modelling
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'times new roman'; font-size: 16px;">Loureiro ’10</span> Retired Uraguayan Army Major (Luis A., “The Free World is Losing NASA’s Space Leadership”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.spacedaily.com/reports/The_Free_World_Is_Losing_NASA_Space_Leadership_999.html]]</span>)</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">Since I live … greed and gain? </span>
==asteroids== 
<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__<span style="font-size: 21px;">1AC- Inherency</span>__**</span></span>
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Observation One is the Status Quo- Near Earth Objects (or NEOs) will inevitably strike the planet, only early warning through detection can prevent catastrophe.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">The Australian Magazine, 2009</span>**,October 17, 2009, “'Roid rage - SCIENCE WATCH”, Lexis,6/27/11, CF
<span style="font-size: 11px;">It may sound … Run like hell.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Unfortunately, NASA is drastically underprepared for the inevitable NEO strike – NASA doesn’t have adequate detection to provide early warming. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Mercury, 2009 </span>**Hobart Mercury, <span style="color: black;">August 14, 2009, Nationwide News Pty Limited, “Lack of funds hampers killer asteroid hunt</span>”, Lexis Nexis,6/21/11, CF
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11px;">Top of Form</span>
<span style="font-family: 'times new roman'; font-size: 16px;"> </span>
**__NASA is supposed …__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11px;">, an advocacy group. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 17px;">And, the current NASA mission only allows for ground-based NEO detection, which will fail. Only Space-based detection can adequately solve.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">National Academies, 10 </span>**[ Over many decades, the National Academy of Sciences, National Academy of Engineering, Institute of Medicine, and National Research Council have earned a solid reputation as the nation's premier source of independent, expert advice on scientific, engineering, and medical issues, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies” http://books.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12842&page=41]

**__Congress__**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> has established … especially imminent impactors. </span>

<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__<span style="font-size: 21px;">1AC – Harms</span>__**</span></span>
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Observation Two is Harms</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Scenario One: Armageddon</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">A. Large Asteroids cause extinction of nearly all life on the planet – the dinosaurs prove.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Sunfellow ’95</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;">, David Sunfellow, a writer for the News Brief, BS in astronomy “Doomsday Asteroids”, Nov 17 1995, June 23, 2011, http://www.nhne.com/articles/saasteroids.html</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Using the moon's …</span> **__flows, were ignited__**


**<span style="font-size: 17px;">B. Medium sized Asteroid strike causes global extinction.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Sidle ‘7</span>** (Roy, Slope Conservation Section, Geohazards Division, Disaster Prevention Research Institute, Kyoto University, Chapter 23: Hazard Risk Assessment of a Near Earth Object, in //Comet/Asteroid Impacts and Human Society: An Interdisciplinary Approach//, SpringLink)
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Very large asteroids … regional coastal flooding.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"> </span>

**<span style="font-size: 17px;">C. Even Small asteroids which are undetectable from ground-telescopes cause the “Air Hammer” effect – a giant fireball that outweighs nuclear war. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Arentza et al 2010</span>** NEO Survey: An Efficient Search for Near-Earth Objects by an IR Observatory in a Venus-like Orbit Robert Arentza, Harold Reitsemaa, Jeffrey Van Cleveb and Roger Linfielda a Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. 1600 Commerce St. Boulder, CO 80301 303-939-6140; rarentz@ball.com; hreitsema@aol.com; [[mailto:rlinfiel@ball.com|rlinfiel@ball.com]] b SETI Institute NASA Ames Research Center NS 244-30, Room 107G Moffett Field, CA 94035 650-604-1370 Space, Propulsion & Energy Sciences International Forum
**__Crucial to the … catastrophic airburst vent.__**
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Scenario Two: </span>****<span style="font-size: 17px;">Broken Arrow</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Due to poor detection we wouldn’t have adequate warning for a NEO strike, Nuclear weapons would be the only option.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Betts ‘9 (</span>**Bruce, The Planetary Society, “Final Update from the Planetary Defense Conference,” 4-30, http://www.planetary.org/blog/article/00001927/)
**__Unless we have …__** __investment and work.__



**<span style="font-size: 17px;">And, Destroying NEOs with nuclear weapons fails, the NEO will hit more cities, morph into a radioactive lump of metal, and causes massive space militarization.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Trebuchet MS';">O'Neill 2008 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11px;">(IAN O'NEIL,</span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 11px;">O’Neill is a British solar physics doctor with nearly a decade of physics study and research experience, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Verdana; font-size: 11px;">November 27th, 2008, “ Apollo Astronaut Highlights Threat of Asteroid Impact”, Astroengine.com, accessed 6/22/11, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.astroengine.com/2008/11/apollo-astronaut-highlights-threat-of-asteroid-strike/]]</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">, JK)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Unfortunately, </span>__the commonly …novel deflection techniques__<span style="font-size: 11px;">.</span>




**<span style="font-size: 17px;">And, Nuclear explosions are imprecise and cause fragmentation making the impact worse</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Lu ‘4 </span>**(Statement of Dr. Ed Lu President, B612 Foundation, “Near-Earth Objects,” testimony before the Committee on Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Subcommittee on Science, Technology, and Space, Apr.7 CQ, lexis)
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Why does </span>__the …__<span style="font-size: 11px;"> of resource utilization.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 17px;">And, the resulting fragmentation causes oxygen depletion and extinction </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Verschurr ’96</span>** (Gerrit, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adjunct_professor|adjunct professor]]</span> of <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Physics|physics]]</span> for the <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Memphis|U of Memphis]]</span>, //Impact: The Threat of Asteroids and Comets//, pg. 40)
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Did consider are …</span> __and barren rock__<span style="font-size: 11px;">.</span>


<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__<span style="font-size: 21px;">1AC – Plan</span>__**</span></span>
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Plan: The </span>****<span style="font-size: 17px;">United States</span>****<span style="font-size: 17px;"> federal government should develop and deploy a space-based Near Earth Object detection system operating on a Venus-like orbit.</span>**


<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__<span style="font-size: 21px;">1AC – Solvency</span>__**</span></span>
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Observation Three is Solvency</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">The plan’s deployment of a space-based telescope is critical to solve NEO detection. The Venus-like orbit will allow adequate early warning and far greater precision.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Arentza et al 2010</span>** NEO Survey: An Efficient Search for Near-Earth Objects by an IR Observatory in a Venus-like Orbit Robert Arentza, Harold Reitsemaa, Jeffrey Van Cleveb and Roger Linfielda a Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. 1600 Commerce St. Boulder, CO 80301 303-939-6140; rarentz@ball.com; hreitsema@aol.com; [[mailto:rlinfiel@ball.com|rlinfiel@ball.com]] b SETI Institute NASA Ames Research Center NS 244-30, Room 107G Moffett Field, CA 94035 650-604-1370 Space, Propulsion & Energy Sciences International Forum

**__The key to … for future work.__**

**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Only effective detection allows for the development of adequate deflection systems. We have the technology, we’d just need the time to deploy it. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Sayanagi 08</span>**, (Kunio M. Sayanagi,4/4/08, “How to Deflect an Asteroid”, http://arstechnica.com/science/news/2008/04/how-to-deflect-an-asteroid.ars, Kunio M. Sayanagi is a postdoctoral research fellow in the Division for Geological and Planetary Sciences at the California Institute of Technology, SH)

__By now, we …__<span style="font-size: 11px;"> to deflect them.</span>




**<span style="font-size: 17px;">And, only Venus-like orbit can create adequate lead time to allow for mitigation. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Arentza et al 2010</span>** NEO Survey: An Efficient Search for Near-Earth Objects by an IR Observatory in a Venus-like Orbit Robert Arentza, Harold Reitsemaa, Jeffrey Van Cleveb and Roger Linfielda a Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp. 1600 Commerce St. Boulder, CO 80301 303-939-6140; rarentz@ball.com; hreitsema@aol.com; [[mailto:rlinfiel@ball.com|rlinfiel@ball.com]] b SETI Institute NASA Ames Research Center NS 244-30, Room 107G Moffett Field, CA 94035 650-604-1370 Space, Propulsion & Energy Sciences International Forum

**__Groundbased searches at … mission to succeed.__**

**<span style="font-size: 17px;">And, Only </span>****<span style="font-size: 17px;">US</span>****<span style="font-size: 17px;"> action solves, American leadership is essential to effective planetary defense. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Dinerman ‘9</span>** (Taylor, journalist for the Space Review “The new politics of planetary defense,” The Space Review, 7-20, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1418/1]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 11px;">While </span>__the__ __US____… for a disaster.__


**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Finally, </span>****<span style="font-size: 17px;">US</span>****<span style="font-size: 17px;"> unilateral action is best – NASA and DOD are best suited for the job </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Worden ‘2</span>** (Brigadier General Simon P., Hearings on the threat of near-Earth asteroids (NEAs) before the Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics, House Committee on Science, October 3, 2002. http://impact.arc.nasa.gov/gov_threat_2002.cfm)
__Many have suggested …__<span style="font-size: 11px;"> it becomes critical. </span>

<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__<span style="font-size: 21px;">1AC – Framework</span>__**</span></span>
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">1. Don’t consider negative impacts - Major war is obsolete</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Mandelbaum ’99 </span>**(Michael, American Foreign Policy Professor in the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins, 2-25, Council on Foreign Relations Great Debate Series, “Is Major War Obsolete?” http://www.ciaonet.org/conf/cfr10/)
<span style="font-size: 11px;">So if I … increasingly, like that.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 17px;">2. Probability and magnitude are 100 percent – our impacts far outweigh nuclear war. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">Kunich ’97</span>** (John, Lt. Colonel USAF, B.S., M.S., University of Illinois; J.D., Harvard Law School; LL.M., George Washington University School of Law, Staff Judge Advocate 50th Space Wing, Falcon Air Force Base, 41 Air Force L. Rev. 119, lexis)
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Irrespective of the … States Air Force.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 17px;">3. Extinction is categorically different from any other impact—even if they win a nuclear war kills 99 percent of the population, an asteroid strike still outweighs by an order of magnitude </span>**
Jason G. **<span style="font-size: 17px;">Matheny 2007</span>** Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction” Risk Analysis, Vol. 27, No. 5, 2007
**__Even if extinction …that threaten 100%.__**


=Negative= 
==﻿astropolitics== 
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The development and exploration of space always occurs under the rubric of militarization—the logic of sovereignty understands space as just another biopolitical possibility of security management.</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">MacDonald 2007 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11px;">[Fraser, Professor at the University of Melbourne, “Anti-Astropolitik – outer space and the orbit of geography,” in //Progress in Human Geography// 31.5]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">In post-Cold-War …normalizing geopolitical effects</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11px;">.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The production of outer space as a sphere in which the </span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">U.S.</span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> must ensure full spectrum dominance simultaneously produces a militarization of __inner space__, or domestic politics—the politics of the aff ensures a __never-ending war__ against alterity</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Orr, 4</span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;"> – Professor of Sociology at </span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;">Syracuse</span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;">University</span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px;"> (Jackie, The Militarization of Inner Space, Critical Sociology, Sage Journals)</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">“[E]very American is …**production of violence.**</span>__</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Securitization is a precondition to genocide- their advantage descriptions will be used to justify massive violence</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Friis</span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2k</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11px;">[</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">Karsten , </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11px;">Peace and Conflict Studies 7.2, “From Liminars to Others: Securitization Through Myths,” [[http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=2|http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=2]]UN Sector @ the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs,]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 15px;">The problem with …is never questioned. </span>__</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The alt is to reject astropolitical discourse which will allow for a new paradigm which offers a more critical approach to space </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Mcdonald 2k7 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11px;">(Fraser. Lecturer in Human Geography, School of Anthropology, Geography & Environmental StudiesUniversity of Melbourne. “Anti-//Astropolitik//: outer space and the orbit of geography” Pgs. 21-22)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11px;">For all its clunky …</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">this wider context</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11px;">.</span></span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Representations must precede policy discussion</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Crawford </span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2002</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11px;">[Neta PhD MA MIT, BA Brown, Prof. of poli sci at boston univ. __Argument and Change in World Politics__, p. 19-21]</span>
**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 15px;">Coherent arguments</span>__**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 15px;">are …</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;"> a meta-argument</span>

==﻿cap k== 
T<span style="font-size: 12px;">he aff cannot hide behind their good intentions </span><span style="font-size: 17px;">- </span><span style="font-size: 12px;">our argument is structural</span>. T<span style="font-size: 12px;">he plan doesn</span>'<span style="font-size: 12px;">t take place in the vaccuum of space itself</span>, <span style="font-size: 12px;">but in the political economy of the status quo</span><span style="font-size: 17px;">, </span><span style="font-size: 12px;">in which </span><span style="font-size: 17px;">nasa </span><span style="font-size: 12px;">represents massive coporate interests who overdetermine the way that plan is executed</span><span style="font-size: 17px;">. t</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">hey bloat the budgets of the same space</span><span style="font-size: 17px;">-</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">industrial complex that will ensure that the aff becomes a marketing strategy or a new resource pool</span><span style="font-size: 17px;">.</span>
M<span style="font-size: 12px;">artin </span>P<span style="font-size: 12px;">arker</span>, U<span style="font-size: 12px;">niversity of </span>L<span style="font-size: 12px;">eicester</span>S<span style="font-size: 12px;">chool of </span>M<span style="font-size: 12px;">anagement</span>, <span style="font-size: 17px;">2009. </span>["C<span style="font-size: 12px;">apitalists in </span>S<span style="font-size: 12px;">pace</span>," The Sociological Review, V<span style="font-size: 12px;">olume </span><span style="font-size: 17px;">57, </span>I<span style="font-size: 12px;">ssue </span>S<span style="font-size: 12px;">upplement </span><span style="font-size: 17px;">1]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 9px;">When David Scott… of space tourism.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">C<span style="font-size: 12px;">apitalism in space makes disaster inevitable </span>- S<span style="font-size: 12px;">pace junk will prevent exploration</span>, <span style="font-size: 12px;">nuclear powered ships will cause millions of deaths</span>, <span style="font-size: 12px;">and capitalist wars over resources will make the future a violent dystopia</span>.</span>
<span style="font-size: 15px;">Dickens, </span><span style="font-size: 11px;">teaches at the Universities of Brighton and Cambridge, UK, </span><span style="font-size: 15px;">in '10</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">[Peter, "The Humanization of the Cosmos</span><span style="font-family: cambria; font-size: 11px;">—</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">To What End?", Monthly Review, Vol. 62 No. 6,</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11px;">[[http://monthlyreview.org/2010/11/01/the-humanization-of-the-cosmos-to-what-end]]</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">]</span>
<span class="FontStyle117">__<span style="font-size: 12px;">But even if …has already started</span>__</span>
CAPITALISM IS IMPERIALISM -<span style="font-size: 12px;">it fuels a genocidal foreign policy that</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 12px; text-align: left;">threatens global destruction.</span></span>
<span class="FontStyle117">__<span style="font-size: 12px;">Foster,</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 9px;">co-editor of …</span><span class="FontStyle117">__<span style="font-size: 12px;">the world's—undoing.</span>__</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">moreover, resisting the economic evaluation of populations is the ultimate ethical responsibility </span>- <span style="font-size: 12px;">the current social order guarantees social exclusion on a global scale while simultaneously anonymizing violence in a way that makes impact calculation impossible.</span>
Zizek and Daly 2k4 <span style="font-size: 15px;">(Slavoj and Glyn, Conversations with Zizek page 14-16)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9px;">For Zizek it …. </span><span class="FontStyle117">__<span style="font-size: 12px;">otherwise sound matrix.</span>__</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 12px;">our alternative is an unconditional commitment to the </span>****C****<span style="font-size: 12px;">ommunist </span>****H****<span style="font-size: 12px;">ypothesis</span>****. E****<span style="font-size: 12px;">very ethical decision </span>****-** **<span style="font-size: 12px;">up to the ballot itself </span>****-** **<span style="font-size: 12px;">should be infused with </span>****<span style="font-size: 12px;">all</span>****<span style="font-size: 12px;"> of the significance of humanity</span>****'****<span style="font-size: 12px;">s destiny</span>****. t****<span style="font-size: 12px;">he question regarding the </span>****<span style="font-size: 12px;">plan</span>****<span style="font-size: 12px;"> is </span>****"****<span style="font-size: 12px;">does it confirm or contradict the communist hypothesis</span>****." i****<span style="font-size: 12px;">f we </span>****<span style="font-size: 12px;">win</span>****<span style="font-size: 12px;"> a </span>****<span style="font-size: 12px;">link</span>****<span style="font-size: 12px;"> argument</span>****,** **<span style="font-size: 12px;">you should reject the affirmative because they reduce </span>****<span style="font-size: 12px;">life</span>****<span style="font-size: 12px;"> to a barbaric ratrace </span>****<span style="font-size: 12px;">and</span>****<span style="font-size: 12px;"> stand opposed to universal emancipation</span>****.**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**A****<span style="font-size: 12px;">lain </span>****B****<span style="font-size: 12px;">adiou</span>****,** **<span style="font-size: 12px;">former </span>****C****<span style="font-size: 12px;">hair of </span>****P****<span style="font-size: 12px;">hilosophy at </span>****E****<span style="font-size: 12px;">cole normale superieure</span>****, 2008. //[TheMeaning of Sarkozy,//** **<span style="font-size: 12px;">pp</span>****. 97-103]**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9px;">I would like …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;"> of this hypothesis</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">nuke malthus</span>== 

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17px;">Part I: The Coming Collapse</span>__**



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17px;">Total collapse of industrial civilization inevitable with the exhaustion of fossil fuels by 2050 – continuing industrial civilization only means further destruction of the biosphere and extinction</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17px;">Caldwell</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">, Economic Growth Supervisor with a PhD in Mathematical Statistics, 200</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17px;">3</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">(Joseph George, “What Oil Can Do to Tiny States – and Big Ones, Too!” February 3, http://www.foundation.bw/WhatOilCanDo.htm)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">What //The Economist// …</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">billions of years</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">. </span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17px;">The sooner civilization ends the better – the destruction of the biosphere is linear and ending civilization </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17px;">NOW</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17px;"> is the only way to prevent collapse of the ecosystem, massive resource wars and spreading plagues that will cause outright extinction</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17px;">Caldwell</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">, Economic Growth Supervisor with a PhD in Mathematical Statistics, 200</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17px;">3</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">(Joseph George, “What Oil Can Do to Tiny States – and Big Ones, Too!” February 3, http://www.foundation.bw/WhatOilCanDo.htm)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">What can be …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">the petroleum age</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">. </span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>



__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Part II: The population explosion</span>__



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17px;">DRAMATIC reductions in human population key now – the longer industrial civilization survives the more likely it will lead to total global destruction</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17px;">Caldwell</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">, Economic Growth Supervisor with a PhD in Mathematical Statistics, 19</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17px;">99</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">(Joseph George, “Can America Survive?” Vista Research Corporation, June 6 with minor corrections November 21 2000, http://www.foundationwebsite.org/canam4x.htm)</span>



__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11px;">World Resources</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11px;"> 1998-1999</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11px;"> presents …</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">is long overdue</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11px;">.</span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17px;">Cutting population to 10 million key to reverse the damage done by industrialization and prevent global destruction</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17px;">Caldwell</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">, Economic Growth Supervisor with a PhD in Mathematical Statistics, 19</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17px;">99</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">(Joseph George, “Can America Survive?” Vista Research Corporation, June 6 with minor corrections November 21 2000, http://www.foundationwebsite.org/canam4x.htm)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">The primary objective …species, including itself. </span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>



__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Part </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">III</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">: Nuclear War</span>__



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17px;">Nuclear war is inevitable – growing proliferation and lowered security</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17px;">Caldwell</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">, Economic Growth Supervisor with a PhD in Mathematical Statistics, 19</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17px;">99</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">(Joseph George, “Can America Survive?” Vista Research Corporation, June 6 with minor corrections November 21 2000, http://www.foundationwebsite.org/canam4x.htm)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">The breakup of </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">…a “terrorist” attack</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">. </span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17px;">Massive nuclear war key to achieve sustainable population levels</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17px;">Caldwell</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">, Economic Growth Supervisor with a PhD in Mathematical Statistics, 19</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17px;">99</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">(Joseph George, “Can America Survive?” Vista Research Corporation, June 6 with minor corrections November 21 2000, http://www.foundationwebsite.org/canam4x.htm)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">What would be …</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">preceding chapter</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">. </span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17px;">Nuclear war is survivable – theories for extinction have no scientific basis</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17px;">Nyquist</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17px;"> – </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17px;">99</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11px;">[J.R., “Is Nuclear War Survivable?” May 20, WorldNetDaily.com, http://www.antipas.org/protected_files/news/world/nuclear_war.html]</span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11px;">As I write about …Russia and China.</span></span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17px;">Society’s disregard for the well being of future generations is its most immoral act</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17px;">Caldwell</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">, Economic Growth Supervisor with a PhD in Mathematical Statistics, 19</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17px;">99</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">(Joseph George, “Can America Survive?” Vista Research Corporation, June 6 with minor corrections November 21 2000, http://www.foundationwebsite.org/canam4x.htm)</span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">Of course, this …</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">a poisoned atmosphere</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">.</span></span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17px;">Allowing nuclear war is more moral than allowing the destruction of the earth through overpopulation – mass nuclear war is the only way to ensure survival</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17px;">Caldwell</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">, Economic Growth Supervisor with a PhD in Mathematical Statistics, 19</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 17px;">99</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">(Joseph George, “Can America Survive?” Vista Research Corporation, June 6 with minor corrections November 21 2000, http://www.foundationwebsite.org/canam4x.htm)</span>



**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">If the morality</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> … the planet today</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">? </span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">framework</span>== 




**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A. Interpretation: the aff can only defend advantages based on the consequences of hypothetical enactment of their plan by the USFG. They should win if the topical plan is the best policy option presented. The neg should win if the plan is worse than the status quo or an alternative competitive with the plan. </span>**



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">B. Violation – the aff claims advantages independent of the enactment of a plan by the USFG</span>**



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">C. Standards</span>**



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1) Plan focus –</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">Ruth Lessl </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Shively</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">, Associate Professor of Political Science at Texas A&M, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2000</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">, Political Theory and Partisan Politics, p. 182-3</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">The point may …**__act of argumentation__**. </span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2) Judge evaluation –</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">Michael </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Ignatieff</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">, Carr Professor of Human Rights Practice, Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy at the JFK School of Government, Harvard University, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2004</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">, The Lesser Evil: Political Ethics in an Age of Terror, p. 20-1 </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">There are two …supposed to defend.</span>





**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">3) Topic education –</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">Adolf G. </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Gundersen</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">, Associate Professor of Political Science at Texas A&M, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2000</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">, Political Theory and Partisan Politics, p. 108-9</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">Will deliberation work …**__democratic deliberation.__**</span>





**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">D. Voter for fairness and education. Framework is a prerequisite to debate.</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">Ruth Lessl </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Shively</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">, Associate Professor of Political Science at Texas A&M, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2000</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">, Political Theory and Partisan Politics, p. 181-182</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px;">The requirements given …**__agreement__** or harmony. </span>




[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]