=Affirmative= 
==Project Orion 1AC== 

**__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 18.66px;">Contention 1: Inherency </span>__**
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
**Currently irrational fear is keeping Nuclear Propulsion from being used in deep space flight. If later generations are to reach the cosmos, pulse propulsion devices should be a key element in establishing life on other planets.**
**NBC News 9/28/2011** (Jay Barbree Correspondent, ‘It's time to reconsider the nuclear option for spaceflight’, <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/44691888/ns/technology_and_science-space/|__http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/44691888/ns/technology_and_science-space/__]]</span>)


**NASA would build Orion if they had the nukes**
**Bernstein 2** <span style="font-size: 9.33px;">[Professor Emeritus at the Stevens Institute of Technology (Jeremy, “Project Orion: The True Story of the Atomic Spaceship”, Book Review, American Journal of Physics]</span>

**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should reinstate Project Orion**

**Ask and we’ll clarify.**

**Contention 2: Impacts**

**Extinction is inevitable –**
**Overpopulation**

**CBD 9** <span style="font-size: 9.33px;">[Center for Biological Diversity (“Overpopulation and Extinction”, 2009 is the last date cited under the article, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33px;">[[http://www.biologicaldiversity.org/campaigns/overpopulation/extinction/index.html|__http://www.biologicaldiversity.org/campaigns/overpopulation/extinction/index.html__]]</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">]</span>

**Asteroids, warming and super-viruses**
**Monga Bay 6** <span style="font-size: 9.33px;">[environmental science and conservation news site, 2006 (November 30. “To avoid extinction humans must colonize space says Hawking.” [[http://news.mongabay.com/2006/1130-hawking.html]]]</span>

**Gamma ray bursts**
**Ottawa Citizen 2k**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> [December 30, “Apocalypse how: Hollywood and doomsday cults have long envisioned the end of the world. On the eve of 2001, Corey S. Powell looks at 20 ways Armageddon could really happen.”, Lexis/]</span>

**Rogue black holes**
**Ottawa Citizen continues**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> [December 30, “Apocalypse how: Hollywood and doomsday cults have long envisioned the end of the world. On the eve of 2001, Corey S. Powell looks at 20 ways Armageddon could really happen.”, Lexis/]</span>

**Ocean storage means it’s too late for warming—it’s inevitable**
**NPR 9 (**1/26, Global Warming Is Irreversible, Study Says, All Things Considered, <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=99888903|__http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=99888903__]]</span>)

**And, war is inevitable – evolution**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Thayer 2k</span>** <span style="font-size: 9.33px;">[Bradley A., Former Research Fellow, International Security Program, Associate Professor of Defense & Strategic Study, Missouri State University, International Security, 01622889, Fall2000, Vol. 25, Issue 2 “"Bringing in Darwin: Evolutionary Theory, Realism, and International Politics"]</span>

**Humanity has lots of ways of killing itself or going extinct – space colonization would solve ALL of them.**
**Falconi****,** Physicist,19**81** (THE CASE FOR SPACE COLONIZATION, http://nutri.com/space/ )

**And, key timeframe is the next five years—otherwise space ventures will collapse**
**Cordell 8**[PhD planetary and space physics, Weizmann postdoctoral fellow at Caltech, ex-physics professor at the California State University, , worked with NASA. May 11 08 (Bruce, "Nasa programs and MEPs" [[http://21stcenturyw+%0d%0daves.com/%20blog/category/perspectives/)|**__Error! Hyperlink reference not valid.__**]]]



**And, Overview Effect solves environmental degradation**
**The Economist 7** (September 29, “Spacemen are from Mars; Sputnik”, L/N, accessed on 7/14/08)


**And, plan solves asteroids**
**Dyson 5** (Science Historian and Son of Freeman Dyson, who was one of the original three scientists who worked on Project Orion (George, “The Grandest Rocket Ever.”, February, Volume. 26, Issue 2, Academic Search Complete)


**And, even small asteroids devastate the Ozone layer**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bekey 9 </span>**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">(Ivan, International Academy of Astronautics, “Dealing with the THREAT TO EARTH From ASTEROIDS and COMETS”,</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33px;">[[http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups/SG%20Commission%203/sg35/sg35finalreport.pdf|__http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups/SG%20Commission%203/sg35/sg35finalreport.pdf__]]</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">) </span>



**Extinction**
**Williams 96** <span style="font-size: 9.33px;">[David Crockett Williams, Jr., author of Tetron Natural Unified Field Theory, Chemist, Personal and Financial Agent. February 7, 1996 THE SCIENTIFIC SPIRITUAL REVOLUTION </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33px;">[[http://www.angelfire.com/on/GEAR2000/video96.html|__http://www.angelfire.com/on/GEAR2000/video96.html__]]</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">]</span>



**No risk of defense – asteroids cause mass extinctions – over 1000 potential collisions**
**Easterbrook 5** **<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">[Gregg, Senior editor at The New Republic, Daily Express, “Elements of Surprise”, 1/7/5, </span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33px;">[[http://www.tnr.com/doc.mhtml?i=express&s=easterbrook010705|__http://www.tnr.com/doc.mhtml?i=express&s=easterbrook010705__]]</span>**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">, [CL]</span>**
**We have an ethical obligation to spend the money to colonize space – even if extinction is not probable, the minute possibility makes space colonies a requirement**
**Shapiro 2k7**<span style="color: #000000;"> (Robert Shapiro is Professor Emeritus and Senior Research Scientist in the Chemistry Department of New York University. March 19, 2007, "Why the moon? Human survival!”, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/832/1]])</span>



**Timeframe is irrelevant – in order to solve problems like space colonization, we have to take a long view of impacts.**
**Brand 99** (Stewart, Futurist, President of the Long Now Foundation, “The Clock of the Long Now” )



**Magnitude outweighs timeframe with asteroids – not acting against potential threats equates moral evasion**
**Oberg 98**<span style="color: #000000;">[</span>Congressional Testifier on the Russian Space Program, NASA International Space Station Contributor, Space Studies Expert / James, “ASTEROID DEFLECTION & THE FUTURE OF HUMAN INTERVENTION IN THE EARTH'S BIOSPHERE”, Futures Focus Day Symposium sponsored by the US Space Command/]



**Extinction first – there is a categorical difference between existential and non-existential threats**
**Matheny 7** [Jason G., Prof of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health at Johns Hopkins University, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, v27n5]



**And, nuclear war doesn’t cause extinction**
**Seitz 6**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> [Russell is a Visiting Scholar in Harvard University's Center for International Affairs, published in Nature and Foreign Affairs on the subject of nuclear winter, Dec 20, “The Nuclear Winter Meltdown: Photoshopping the Apocalypse” adamant.typepad.com/seitz/2006/12/preherein_honor.html ]</span>



**Contention 3: Solvency**
**Only nuclear pulse propulsion solves space colonization**
**Andrews and Andrews ‘2k**, Co-founded Andrews Space and former propulsion project engineer and K-1 Vehicle Two Project manager, and phd in aeronautics (Jason and Dana, “The MagOrion-A propulsion system for human exploration of the outer planets.” AIP Conference Proceedings; Vol. 504 Issue 1, p1533, Ebsco)



**Only nuclear pulse propulsion can solve for the infrastructure to colonize space**
**Smith 3**<span style="color: #000000;">[</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33px;">the founder of </span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">NuclearSpace (Wayne, “The Case for Orion”, Space Daily, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33px;">[[http://www.spacedaily.com/news/nuclearspace-03h.html|__http://www.spacedaily.com/news/nuclearspace-03h.html__]]</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">]</span>


**No counterplan will solve space**
**Ragheb ‘9**, Associate Professor of Nuclear, Plasma, and Radiological Engineering (Magdi, “Nuclear Pulse and Plasma Space Propulsion”, <span style="color: #000000;">[[https://netfiles.uiuc.edu/mragheb/www/NPRE%20402%20ME%20405%20Nuclear%20Power%20Engineering/Nuclear%20and%20Plasma%20Space%20Propulsion.pdf|__https://netfiles.uiuc.edu/mragheb/www/NPRE%20402%20ME%20405%20Nuclear%20Power%20Engineering/Nuclear%20and%20Plasma%20Space%20Propulsion.pdf__]]</span>)



**Habitable planets are being discovered constantly – Organic molecule discoveries prove**
**Business Standard 9**[October 21, Press Trust of India, “NASA detects one more planet with life-supporting environment”, Google]


===Bataille 1AC Advantage=== 

**Irrational fear of nuclear propulsion is preventing its use in deep-space travel. We must overcome this fear to traverse our astral waters.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Barbree 9/28 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">(Jay, NBC Correspondent, ‘It's time to reconsider the nuclear option for spaceflight’, [[http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/44691888/ns/technology_and_science-space/]])</span>



**This fear represents the securitizing will of the nuclear – we have an ethical responsibility to sacrifice energy intimately. The nature of the nuclear as a bomb/energy binary should be opposed as a sovereign instance of life that refuses to be afraid of nuclear propulsion.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Batallie 47</span>**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">[Georges, Writer and Librarian at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biblioth%C3%A8que_Nationale|Bibliothèque Nationale]], Residents of Hiroshima, Trauma: Explorations in memory, pg 227-234]</span>



**The nature of expenditure is infinite glory – to close off our economy of energy to astral wonder is to bring the system of accumulation to critical mass. We must be open to the sovereign infinity of nuclear propulsion.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bataille 38</span>**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">[Georges, Writer and Librarian at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biblioth%C3%A8que_Nationale|Bibliothèque Nationale]] Annette Michelson, October, Vol. 36, Georges Bataille: Writings on Laughter, Sacrifice, Nietzsche, Un- Knowing (Spring, 1986), pp. 75-78]</span>



**Utility overdetermines our relationship to the nuclear – if it were to ever experience detonation the delirium of the nuclear anti-economy would implode. The idol of the bomb saturates society and freezes it in global violence.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Critical Art Ensemble 94 </span>**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">[An award-winning collective of five [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tactical_media|tactical media]] practitioners of various specializations including computer graphics and web design, film/video, photography, text art, book art, and performance, The Technology of Uselessness, CTheory, [[http://www.ctheory.net/articles.aspx?id=59|http://www.ctheory.net/ articles.aspx?id=59]]]</span>
**This violence is the burial of excess – we musn’t allow our nuclear excrement to fester in silos. Instead, we choose to open ourselves to the glory of nuclear detonation as the sacrifice of detritus.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Foltz 9</span>**
[MAY 5TH 2009Mary Catherine, AN ETHICS OF WASTE: TWENTIETH-CENTURY AMERICAN LITERATURE AND EXCREMENTAL CULTURE, dissertation submitted to the Faculty of the Graduate School of the University at Buffalo, State University of New York, [[http://ubir.buffalo.edu/jspui/bitstream/10477/363/1/Foltz_buffalo_0656A_10287.pdf|http://ubir.buffalo.edu/jspui/ bitstream/10477/363/1/Foltz_ buffalo_0656A_10287.pdf]]]






=Negative= 
==CPs== 
===Consult the EU=== 
**Counterplan Text: The United States federal government should engage in prior and binding consultation with the countries in the European Union over a policy to** (whatever the aff does)

**Says yes—US commitment is key to preventing the complete collapse of an EU space program**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">WSJ 11</span>** (“Europe Ends Independent Pursuit of Manned Space Travel”; http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052702 304569504576403810498723484.html?mod=googlenews_wsj; June 23, 2011<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">)</span>
**<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Prior and binding consultation with a Veto power is key to revamping the alliance</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Costigliola 95</span>** (Frank; is professor of history at the University of Rhode Island. His most recent book is France and the United States: The Cold Alliance Since World War II. He is presently writing a history of the Western alliance; “Kennedy, the European Allies, and the Failure to Consult” Spring 95; Jstor<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">)</span>

===<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">'The' PIC</span>=== 


**<span style="color: #000000;">Text: United States federal government should</span>** (insert plan text)


**The Net Benefit is Geopower.**
**Use of ‘The’ before United States federal government inscribes nationalistic geopolitics, creating us-them dichotomies**
===Thrift 0=== 
(Nigel | University of Warwick Vice Chancellor, University of Bristol Professor of Geography | “It’s the Little Things” | Geopolitical Traditions: A Century of Geopolitical Thought p.383-385)


**And - Geopolitical borders breed racism - this must always be rejected**
**__Dikeç 2__**
(Mustafa | University of London Royal Holloway Geography Dept. Human Geography Lecturer | “Pera Peras Poros: Longing for Spaces of Hospitality” | Theory Culture Society)


==Kritiks== 
===Heidegger=== 

**<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Space exploration and development represents an ontological position that assumes complete mastery over the Earth and transports that ideology into the cosmos, annihilating meaning throughout the universe.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Thiele ’95 </span>**<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">(Leslie, Professor of Political Science at the University of Florida, Timely Meditations: Martin Heidegger and Postmodern Politics, pg 201-203)</span>



**The desire to experience the cosmos is nothing more than a symptom of technicity. Attempts to measure and control the universe constantly encounter the limits of modernity’s attempt to grasp being. Technological thinking becomes our only frame for thinking and humanity is reduced to nothing more than standing reserve.**
**<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Soccio ’09 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">(Douglas, Writes textbooks for philosophy at Wadsworths Cengage Learning and was professor of philosophy at Shasta College, __Archetypes of Wisdom: An Introduction to Philosophy__, pg 514-516)</span>



**The loss of being leads to ontological damnation, an existential meaninglessness that is more destructive than any other impact.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Zimmerman 93</span>** (Michael E., Professor of Philosophy at University of Tulane, __Contesting Earth's Future: Radical Ecology and Postmodernity__, Pg. 119-120. 1993)


**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Thus the alternative is to rethink and reject the ontology of the 1AC</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The role of the ballot is a focus on Ontological questioning – this focus precedes politics proper because Ontology determines action</span>**
**Dillon, ’99** <span style="font-size: 10.66px;">(Lancaster Politics Lecturer, Moral Spaces, pp. 97-8)</span>
===<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Speaking Evil</span>=== 

**We disagree with the aff on the status of good and evil – they say good and evil are moral or polemic terms, descriptive of two qualitatively different acts. We say that such claim are naïve. Evil is a real part of our existence but not the will to exterminate. That desire is of the objective force of good, the will to sameness, the view of the revisionist, and the condemning and whitewashing of history. The attempt to eradicate the evils of the world is responsible for the most atrocious acts of history. The aff will say we’ll go extinct; such claims are only expressive of the psychosis and fantasy of the collective ‘good’. This is simply a nihilistic denial of the most intense form of reality.**
**Baudrillard and L’yvonnet in 04** [Jean, dead french dude, Interview with Francois L’yvonnet, Fragments, p. 105-111]
**Our alternative isn’t one action to advocate but a strategy or process whereby we can come to an understanding with evil. We’ll call this strategy “speaking evil” – not an act one and done. But a way of thinking and action, even in our attempts to overcome some forms of violence, that always respects that evil is an inevitable force in our world. Their death threats are just a mirror of the suicidal violence of the good. Within the debate round we can let a theater of cruelty be splayed across the screen of our bodies in order to fully play out and make a drama of the perverse. Only by positioning ourselves as our own agon can we begin to understand the convulsion of the world order. This is the intelligence of evil.**
**Baudrillard in 05** [Jean, dead french dude, The Intelligence of Evil, p. 159-164]

===Allegory of the Squirell=== 
***The 1NC for the Allegory is NEVER the same, but it's usually something like this***
**1. When** **problems overwhelm, us and sadness smothers us, where do we find the will and the courage to continue? Well, the answer may come in the caring voice of a friend, a chance encounter with a book, or from a personal faith. For Jane thelp came from her faith, but it also from a squirrel. Shortly after her divorce, Janet lost her father, then she lost her job. She had mounting money problems. But Janet not only survived, she worked her way out of despondency and now she says, life is good again. How could this happen? She told me that late one Autumn day when she was at her lowest she watched a squirrel storing up nuts for the winter, one at a time he would take them to the nest. And she thought, if that squirrel can take care of himself with the harsh winter coming along, then so can I. Once I broke my problems into small pieces I was able to carry them, just like those acorns, one at a time. – That was in a White Stripes song (Little Acorns)**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">2. The universe is expanding, but we do not know what it is expanding into. This makes the universe simultaneously all-encompassing and incomplete. The universe is therefore both all and none. This makes life itself an unanswerable paradox, and you should default to the only logical explanation: the universe does not even exist. Vote negative on presumption because the expansion of the universe is the foremost metaphysical question and until that question is answered there is no value to the 1AC.</span>**
**Man, the universe is expanding at an alarming rate! Like we could just be one little atom or some shit.**
**The Onion ’99**(July 22, 1999 | <span style="color: #333333;">[[http://www.theonion.com/issue/3525/|__ISSUE 35•25__]]</span>, World's Top Scientists Ponder: What If The Whole Universe Is, Like, One Huge Atom?, [[http://www.theonion.com/articles/worlds-top-scientists-ponder-what-if-the-whole-uni,712/]])

**3. NASA is just a bunch of selfish jerks who just sneak around doing bad things. I know this because an article told me, so it has to be true! Right?**
**The Onion ’02** (April 24, 2002 | ISSUE 38•15, “According To The Economist, NASA Is An Industrial Subsidy In Disguise,”- [[http://www.theonion.com/articles/according-to-the-economist-nasa-is-an-industrial-s,11532/]])

**4. NASA equipment is insufficient and can be destroyed really easily**
**The Onion ’97** (August 5, 1997 | ISSUE 32•01, //Mars Probe Destroyed By Orbiting Spielberg-Gates Space Palace,-// [[http://www.theonion.com/articles/mars-probe-destroyed-by-orbiting-spielberggates-sp,4473/]])

**5. The affirmative’s obsession with detail really just annoys everyone**
**The Onion ’09** (February 6, 2009 | ISSUE 45•06, //Annoying Stickler Insists On Every Detail Of Space Mission Being Exactly Right,-// [[http://www.theonion.com/articles/annoying-stickler-insists-on-every-detail-of-space,2654/]])

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">6. None of it matters in the grand scheme of geological time</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Justin Bieber 2011</span>** (The Onion, "Your Obsessive Love Or Hatred Of Me Means Nothing In The Grand Scheme Of Geological Time" [[http://www.theonion.com/articles/your-obsessive-love-or-hatred-of-me-means-nothing,19707/]])

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">7. The impact is that listening to their bullshit will waste your life</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The Onion 2011</span>** ("Open-Minded Man Grimly Realizes How Much Life He's Wasted Listening To Bullshit" [[http://www.theonion.com/articles/openminded-man-grimly-realizes-how-much-life-hes-w,19273/?utm_source=recentnews]])

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">8. Laugh, don’t cry</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Holcomb 2009</span>** (Justine Schuchard, "In the Culture of Truthiness: Comic Criticism and the Performative Politics of Stephen Colbert" (2009). Communication Theses. Paper 51.)

===K Debate Checklist=== 

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">1. They read the 1AC and nothing has changed, this empirically denies their solvency.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">2. Inherency double bind: either the affirmative would solve for extinction and actors would do the plan in the status quo OR actors are not rational and the persuasive techniques of the 1AC fail, so vote negative on presumption</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">3. No levers of power- we shouldn't talk about the state like we can change it</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Schlag in 1991</span>** (pierre, Colorado law prof. 139 u. Pa. L. Rev.801, April)

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">4. There is no Truth – we did not experience in real terms the events of the 1AC which means we can never be sure of the truth of their authorship. Preference personal experience over the claims of so-called “Experts”.</span>**

**<span class="Underline">5. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Fiat double bind – Either the harms to the 1AC are true and they cannot solve for extinction before they control the levers of power OR their harms are constructed for the purpose of alarmism which makes them symbolic terrorists.</span>**

**6. Their alarmist predictions create a culture of fear that destroys existing public engagement—causes global catastrophe and justifies structural violence in the name of probabilistic scenarios.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Kurasawa 4 </span>**– Professor of Sociology, York University of Toronto, Fuyuki, “Cautionary Tales: The Global Culture of Prevention and the Work of Foresight”, Constellations Volume 11, No 4, [[http://www.yorku.ca/kurasawa/Kurasawa%20Articles/Constellations%20Article.pdf]]

**7. The impact is biopower**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Coviello 00</span>** - Assistant Professor of English @ the Bowdoin College [Peter, Queer Frontiers: Millennial Geographies, Genders, and Generations. "Apocalypse from Now On."]

===Deleuze and Guattari=== 
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The affirmatives fixation with events outside of our control contributes to a culture of guilt feeding which turns life against itself. Your death is inevitable and the actions of a federal government you have no agency over will not save you. The alternative to the 1ACs approach to politics is to affirm a rhizomatic politics which invigorates personal agency.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Deleuze and Guattari 1972</span>****,** Anti-Oedipus, 330-39, Murray

**It’s not the destination that matters, but the journey. It’s not about where you go but how you get there.” I Don’t have time to reference that quote. Also; “One day we reach our goal, and now point with pride to the long travels we undertook to reach it. In fact, we were not even aware of traveling. But we got so far because we fancied at every point that we were at home.” Nietzsche in the Gay Science.**

**Politics is not about the endpoint but the process. We are adrift amidst an ocean of political options. We can sail between one of two poles: the paranoic pole or the schizophrenic. The paranoiac pole is marked by its demand for purpose, teleogical end, the security of self and state, and the containment of revolutionary energy. The Schizophrenic pole lies as it’s opposite, marked by its willingness to experiment, its freeness disconnected from pre-determined conclusion.**

**We propose they are headed towards the paranoiac pole. Their plan and goals and ends and organizations are all too paranoid.**

**The benefit to voting negative is the ability to willingly lose control. The wind will take you where you need to go. Slide.**
**Deleuze and Guattari 1972** (Anti-Oedipus)

==DAs== 
===EU Relations=== 

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">US-EU space relations are on the brink because of previous space program disputes – the EU expects cooperation over the plan, it’s part of the agenda</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Peter, 7</span>** – Research Fellow at the European Space Policy Institute; Space Policy Institute at George Washington University(Nicolas. “The EU's emergent space diplomacy.” Space Policy. Volume 23, Issue 2. May. Science Direct)

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Unilaterialism kills long term relations</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">**ESPI & SPI, August 2008** – </span>European Space Policy Institute and the Space Policy Institute
(“Reinvigorating transatlantic space relations: The joint ESPI–SPI memorandum.” Space Policy: 24 (2008) 119–123. Science Direct)

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">EU-US space cooperation is key to overall relations</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">ESPI & SPI, August 2008</span>** – European Space Policy Institute and the Space Policy Institute
(“Reinvigorating transatlantic space relations: The joint ESPI–SPI memorandum.” Space Policy: 24 (2008) 119–123. Science Direct)

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">US-EU cooperation key to Central Asian stability</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs</span>**, 2-17-**<span style="font-size: 16px;">2005</span>**, U.S.-EU Cooperation on Reform in Eurasia, [[http://www.state.gov/p/eur/rls/fs/42562.htm]]

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Central Asian instability leads to global nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17.32px;">Tsepkalo</span>** 19**<span style="font-size: 17.32px;">98</span>** (Valery V., Belarussian Ambassador to the U.S., Foreign Affairs, March/April, Lexis)

===SKFTA=== 
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">SKFTA will pass but political capital is key and increased spending will collapse the deal</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">ABC News September 8</span>** ("Commerce Confident Trade Agreements Will Pass" [[http://abcnews.go.com/blogs/politics/2011/09/commerce-confident-trade-agreements-will-pass/]])

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">SKFTA solves Korean war</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wharton,</span> 1-12-**<span style="font-size: 16px;">**11**.</span> “U.S.-South Korea Trade Pact: A Turning Point for American Exports?” Wharton – Knowledge (UPenn), <span style="color: #0000ff;">[[http://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article.cfm?articleid=2671]]</span>.

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hayes and Green 2009</span>** (Peter <span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Hayes &</span> Michael Hamel-<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Green</span> on December 14, 200<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">9</span> (Professor of International Relations at RMIT University; Dean of and Professor in the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development at Victoria University, “Denuclearizing The Korean Peninsula And Northeast Asia,” Asian Pacific Journal)

==Specific Round Report== 
===UT=== 
Round 1:
2nr- Heidegger

Round 3:
2nr- Allegory of the Squirell

Round 5:
2nr- Allegory of the Squirell