[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
My affirmative cites can be found here:
http://dl.dropbox.com/u/36016120/Mountain%20View%20NN%20Affirmative%20Cites.docx
==Negative== 
My negative cites can be found here:
http://dl.dropbox.com/u/36016120/Mountain%20View%20NN%20Negative%20Cites%20%28Greenhill%29.docx

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Gohan AC**</span>

My value is Plato's conception of justice.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The Simple View is dumb.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Korfmacher, Carsten (Linacre College, Oxford). “Personal Identity”. 2006. [[http://www.iep.utm.edu/person-i/]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nowadays, the Simple…viewing the matter.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">All that matters are connectedness and continuity.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Parfit, Derek. “Later Selves and Moral Principles”. //Philosophy and personal relations, an Anglo-French Study// (ed. Alan Montefiore). 1973. pp. 139-141.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">“The identity of…an earlier self’.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">If time doesn’t matter, neither does the person the action affects.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Parfit, Derek. “Later Selves and Moral Principles”. //Philosophy and personal relations, an Anglo-French Study// (ed. Alan Montefiore). 1973. pp. 157.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“This reply might…itself no importance’.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Sacrificing one for many doesn’t sacrifice the one’s unconditional worth.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cummiskey, David. Kantian Consequentialism. Oxford University Press. 2000.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“In such a…to save many.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Intuitions support rule consequentialism.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hooker, Brad. Ideal Code, Real World: A Rule-Consequentialist Theory of Morality. Oxford University Press. Pg. 29.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">“Does rule-consequentialism…duties are plausible.)”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Giving people what they need produces a net good.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Singer, Peter. One World: The Ethics of Globalization. Yale University Press. 2004. Pg. 42.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“In practice, utilitarians…have the least.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">There’s no act/omission distinction.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Persson, Ingmar (Department of Philosophy, Lund University, Kungshuset), “Two Act-Omission Paradoxes”. Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society. Vol. 104. 2004.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“There are two…be killed permissible.”</span>

==Negative== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cell NC</span>**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Charaterization of permissibility and impermissibility.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Glannon, Walter. __Bioethics and the Brain.__ Oxford University Press. 5.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">“An action is…or overriding ones.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Definition of decisive reasons.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Parfit, Derek. __On What Matters__. Unpublished.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; vertical-align: baseline;">“When we have…reason to do.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; vertical-align: baseline;">There’s no impersonal way to weigh between reasons</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Taurek, John. “Should the Numbers Count?”. //Philosophy and Public Affairs//. Vol. 6, No. 4. 1977. pp. 307-309.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">“My way of…one of us.”</span>

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]