== == 
=Affirmative-SETI= 

=Negative= 
===Aff SETI=== 

Adv 1. 
**Lack of US funding ends SETI searches**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Wenatchee World 4/27, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Wenatchee World News, April 27 2011, (Wenatchee World News is a paper located in Washington state.) </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">SETI Institute to shut down alien-seeking radio dishes</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;"> http://www.wenatcheeworld.com/news/2011/apr/27/seti-institute-to-shut-down-alien-seeking-radio/ </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">If E.T. phones ... funds to listen.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">..</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">
</span>
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Adv 2</span>=== 

**We view Extraterrestrial Life in this anthropocentric manner as the other and while denying the existence without scientific basis** 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Wendt and Duvall 08</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Alexander Wendt and Raymond Duvall, August 2008, [Wendt is a prominent scholar in the field of IR. He has taught at Yale, Dartmouth and The University of Chicago][Duvall is a professor at the University of Minnesota. He received his PhD from Northwestern University and specializes in the field of social and political relations] Sovereignty and the UFO, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://ptx.sagepub.com/content/36/4/607.full.pdf+html]]</span>, Sage Journal Online</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Unlike some objects, however... </span>nowhere to be found. ...



**Our acknowledgement of the possibility of extraterrestrial existence disrupts the entire conception of sovereignty. Only by opening ourselves up and forcing embracement solves for status quo demonization of research.**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wendt and Duvall 2008</span> (Alexander Wendt, Professor of International Relations at the Ohio State University. Raymond Duvall, Professor of Political Sciences at the University of Minnesota. August 2008. Political Theory. “Sovereignty and the UFO.” http://ptx.sagepub.com/content/36/4/607.full.pdf+html)

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">We have called ... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">but for us all ...</span>


**Anthropocentrism causes __extinction__—it divorces our relationship with the natural world and makes __omnicide__ on a __cosmic scale__ inevitable.**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Gottlieb 94</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Here I will ... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">but for us all</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>





===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">adv 3 </span>=== 

**Modern states construct this fear of the unidentifiable—SETI key to change space politics**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Wendt & Duvall ’08 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">[</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Professor Wendt has research and teaching interests in international relations theory, global governance, political theory, and the philosophy of social science at Ohio State University. Raymond Duvall is Professor of Political Science at the University of Minnesota. He regularly teaches courses on international relations theory, global governance, productions and performances of international hierarchy, and critical international political economy.] ‘Sovereignty and the UFO.//’// Political Theory. Volume 36 Number 4. </span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">In this light... </span>they might be. ...

**Predictions of disaster creates otherization and discrimination- turns their DA.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Yaszeck 06 </span>(Lisa Yaszek, Associate Professor and Director of Undergraduate Studies, President of the Science Fiction Research Association, November 2006, [[http://sdonline.org/42/afrofuturism-science-fiction-and-the-history-of-the-future/]])

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">I end this... </span>cultural imaginary today...

**Securitization is a precondition for genocide. The inherent fear of otherness will be used to justify massive violence**
**Friis 00** (Karseten, UN Sector – Norwegian Institute of International Affairs, “From Liminars to Others: Securitization Through Myths”, Peace and Conflict Studies, 7(2), <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.p%20df#page=2|http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.p df#page=2]]</span>)

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The problem with ... </span>is never questioned...

===adv 4=== 



**The government demonizes research while also using the possibility of “evil” alien life as a means of consolidating sovereignty**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Wendt & Duvall ’08 </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">[</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Professor Wendt has research and teaching interests in international relations theory, global governance, political theory, and the philosophy of social science at Ohio State University. Raymond Duvall is Professor of Political Science at the University of Minnesota. He regularly teaches courses on international relations theory, global governance, productions and performances of international hierarchy, and critical international political economy.] ‘Sovereignty and the UFO.//’// Political Theory. Volume 36 Number 4. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">It might be argued that ... </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">are not sufficient...</span>__



**Exploration of ET life is key to subvert the government’s monopoly on ET knowledge**

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Lyne</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">,96</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [“M.F.A. in Studio Arts from the University of Texas at Austin in 1969, and too good turned down the CIA. ”<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.hiddenmysteries.org/conspiracy/research/ufo-pent.html|Space Aliens From The Pentagon ]]</span>,”(</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/ciencia/pentagonaliens/pentagonalie</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The magnitude by. . . </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">and anyone else...</span>__**


**Modern governmentality makes mass killing inevitable—ensuring all life can and should be destroyed to protect the state.**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Mitchell </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Dean</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Professor of Sociology at Macquarie University, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">2k1 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(“Demonic Societies: Liberalism, biopolitics, and sovereignty.” __Ethnographic Explorations of the Postcolonial State__, ed. Hanson and Stepputat, p. 55-58)</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Consider again the . . . </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">the modern state</span>__**

**When the state has the ability to dictate what is and is not truth, all value and ontology is lost.**
**<span style="font-family: Times-Roman; font-size: 12pt;">Liberman 89(</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Kenneth B. Liberman, PhD., University of California, San Diego, Professor, University of Oregon The Question of the Other Essays in Contemporary Continental Philosophy “Decentering the Self: Two Perspectives from Philosophical Anthropology” p. 129-130)</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hobbes demonstrates the . . . </span>to call Reason...

===Adv 5=== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Change outside the state is temporary --- only engaging institutions produces lasting remedies</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Milbrath ’96</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> (Lester W., Professor Emeritus of Political Science and Sociology – SUNY Buffalo, Building Sustainable Societies, Ed. Pirages, p. 289)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">In some respects. . .to be effective. . . </span>


**The United States is the only country that can take the initiative in SETI. US is key to global cooperation.** 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">NASA 1977</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">. (The Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence [[http://history.nasa.gov/SP-419/s1.htm]] 1977 NASA) </span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The United States ... </span>__US in SETI...


**SETI’s search for ETI makes it uniquely key to disprove our human uniqueness**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Harrison et. al 2000</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Albert Harrison, (Harrison works at the Department of Psychology at the University of California Davis campus. Dr. Harrison is a social psychologist whose interests include organizational and environmental psychology and works at the University of California Davis), “When SETI Succeeds: The Impact of High-Information Contact”, Foundation for the Future, edited by Allen Tough, Section V, pdf pg. 71</span>


__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Successive discoveries that ... </span>__**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">or superior intelligence.</span>__**



**SETI research is the only way to break down the inherent scientific basis for anthropocentrism.** 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Wendt & Duvall ’08 [</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Professor Wendt has research and teaching interests in international relations theory, global governance, political theory, and the philosophy of social science at Ohio State University. Raymond Duvall is Professor of Political Science at the University of Minnesota. He regularly teaches courses on international relations theory, global governance, productions and performances of international hierarchy, and critical international political economy.] ‘Sovereignty and the UFO.//’// Political Theory. Volume 36 Number 4. </span>


__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The UFO threat... </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">contrary comes along.</span>__


**Recorded testimonies prove non-human aliens exist**
**GREER AND WEBRE 2001** [Dr, Steven, may 2001, and Alfred, MILITARY, GOVERNMENT WITNESSES TO PROVIDE TESTIMONY ON UFO/EXTRATERRESTRIAL PRESENCE CONGRESSIONAL LEGISLATION SOUGHT, The Disclosure Project, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.gewo.cz/util/pressreleases&briefingpts.doc]]</span>]

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The recorded testimony ... </span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">to speak out</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>












<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">
</span>