<span style="color: #000000;">[[toc]]

Aff cites: [[mailto:mfiero@thecollegepreparatoryschool.org|mfiero@thecollegepreparatoryschool.org]]</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">Neg cites: [[mailto:olivergivan@gmail.com|olivergivan@gmail.com]]</span>
=<span style="color: #000000;">Affirmative</span>= 
==<span style="color: #000000;">Note:</span>== 
<span style="color: #000000;">Oliver and Mollie have not debated together since the Sophomore hoedown. Mollie went to Meadows and the Glenbrooks debating with different partners, for those cites please email mfiero@thecollegepreparatoryschool.org.</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">Additionally, for Blake & Alta if you're looking for Mollie and Jacob, this is the wiki you should defer too, OR look at Joel and Jordan and Elsa and Nick. Thanks, and sorry for any confusion.</span>
==<span style="color: #000000;">St. Mark's 1AC</span>== 
===<span style="color: #000000;">Plan Text:</span>=== 
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its missions to the International Space Station with the People’s Republic of China.</span>

===<span style="color: #000000;">Warming Advantage</span>=== 
<span style="color: #000000;">China is the only country that the U.S. excludes in space cooperation</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">Denny 2008(Bart L., retired U.S. Naval Officer, Master of Arts in National Security Studies, “International Cooperation in Human Spaceflight: Lessons Learned from Russian Participation in the International Space Station Project”, bartdenny.com, http://www.bartdenny.com/iss-lessons-learned.html)</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">There are two puzzles ... review of these issues.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Status quo fails – Global Warming will lead to extinction of over one million species by 2050 if no action is taken, now is key.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">National Geographic 2004(John Roach, “By 2050 Warming to Doom Million Species, Study Says”, http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/pf/3106384.html)</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">By 2050, rising temperatures...sequestration programs," he said.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Global warming is real and anthropogenic - thousands of studies prove our point, and human energy production is the problem.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Rahmstorf 08 (Stefan Rahmstorf, Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, 2008, “Anthropegenic Climate Change: Revisiting the Facts”)</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">It is time to turn to statement B...self-restoration of the ecological environment.</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">And, we’re nearing the point of no return—holding the line on current emissions while transitioning to solar power key to check feedback cycles</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Biello 10 (David Biello, award winning journalist and associate editor for Scientific American, 9/9/10, Scientific American, “How Much Global Warming Is Guaranteed Even If We Stopped Building Coal-Fired Plants Today?”, http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=guaranteed-global-warming-with-existing-fossil-fuel-infrastructure)</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">Humanity has yet to reach the...perhaps 30 [terawatts] by 2050."</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Global warming will kill 6 billion humans by 2100.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Cummins and Allen 2010, [Ronnie, Int’l. Dir. – Organic Consumers Association, and Will, Policy Advisor – Organic Consumers Association, February 14. “Climate Catastrophe: Surviving the 21st Century”, 2-14, http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/02/14-6. Accessed 7/17/11//AG]</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">The hour is late...disease, war, and starvation.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">China and the US are the top contributors to global warming and have no concrete plans to solve – China looks to U.S. action.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Wall Street Journal 2009(Jeffrey Ball covers environmental and energy issues for The Wall Street Journal. He also edits and contributes to The Journal's blog on the business of the environment, Environmental Capital. He joined the paper in 1996 as a reporter in Atlanta for the Southeast Journal, a regional section of the paper. He moved in 1999 to the paper's Detroit bureau, where he began covering the auto industry and environmental issues affecting industry. In 2004, he moved to the paper's Dallas bureau. There, he has continued to write about environmental matters, particularly global warming, with a deepening focus on the viability of various efforts to address it by changing the way the world consumes fossil fuels. His reporting has taken him around the United States and to Europe, South America and Africa. Amid a global-warming debate that's often superficial and polarized, his reporting has sought to shine a light on substantive attempts to reckon with the environmental problem, assessing what it would take to roll out those efforts on a scale that would be both economically plausible and environmentally meaningful. Before coming to the Journal, Mr. Ball worked for the Charlotte (N.C.) Observer and for the Corpus Christi (TX) Caller-Times. He graduated from Yale University and lives in Dallas with his wife and two daughters.Shai Oshter, He has won several awards in more than a decade as a journalist in China, Europe, and the U.S., writing about a broad range of economic, business and social issues. Before joining the Journal’s China Bureau, Oster covered OPEC for Dow Jones Newswires in London. He previously served as Beijing bureau chief for Asiaweek magazine and as Beijing correspondent for the Bureau of National Affairs and the San Francisco Chronicle. The recipient of the George Polk Award for environmental reporting and Asia Society's Osborn Elliott Award in 2008, he was also part of a team of Wall Street Journal reporters that won a Pulitzer Prize in 2007 for International Reporting on China. Shai received his undergraduate degree in history from Columbia University in 1994 and a Masters in Journalism from the Columbia University School of Journalism, in 1998.[2] “China, US, Square off on Climate Proposals”, Wall Street Journal, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB125924462719965247.html)</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">The world's top two ...promises, Chinese officials said.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Cooperation with China key to solve global warming – U.S. government cooperation is key</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">Jinnette, Lieutenant Colonel, 9</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">(James G., Strategy Research Project, “US China Policy: Time for Robust Engagement”, p. 13-14, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA497538)</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Hand in hand with the shared global...would strengthen both nations.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">US-China cooperation limits CO2 emissions—both lead in clean energy—Other countries will follow</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">Yang 09</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">[Weng, staff writer, 11/18/09, Zhongguo Xinwen She News Agency, "Consensus Increases, Bright Spots Are Conspicuous - Experts Analyse Economic and Trade Accomplishments of 'Hu-Obama Meeting”,” accessed 7/12/11HK]</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">He Weiwen, president of the...success of the Copenhagen conference.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">U.S.-China relations are needed to solve warming – they’re the largest emitters</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">Hachigian 09 [senior fellow of the Center for American Progress, 1/28/09. “The Importance of U.S.-China Relations.” The American Center for Progress. Accessed 7/12/11. http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2009/01/importance_china.htmlTD]</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">In the long run...epic challenge of our era.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Space cooperation spills over to environmental coop</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">Beringer, No Date (Daniel, Chief Executive Officer of the Berigner Group, TED, “Does space exploration encourage international cooperation?”No Date. http://www.ted.com/conversations/748/does_space_exploration_encoura.html)</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">Pardon the brevity of this..bolstered by the shared international qualities of science.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Historical models prove warming causes extinction and outweighs nuclear war.</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">Lynas 7 (Mark, winner of the Royal Society Prize for Science Books, advisor on climate change to the President of the Maldives, Visiting Research Associate at Oxford University’s School of Geography and the Environment, The Guardian, “Six Steps to Hell,” http://www.guardian.co.uk/books/2007/apr/23/scienceandnature.climatechange)</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Scientists estimate that we..times the world's stockpile of nuclear weapons.</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">Defer aff on irreversibility- even if the chance of solvency or warming existing is low, not being able to come back is means you vote aff anyway</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">Cass R Sunstein, Professor in the Department of Political Science and at the Law School of the University of Chicago, 2007, “Worst-Case Scenarios”</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Most worst-case scenarios...measures than would otherwise seem justified.</span>

===<span style="color: #000000;">Miscalc Advantage</span>=== 
<span style="color: #000000;">China’s current space weaponization is a reaction to U.S. exclusionary space policies that triggers a space race.</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">Zhang 2008 (Hui, Research Associate in the Project on Managing the Atom in the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard and received his Ph.D. in nuclear physics from Beijing University. Areas of expertise are on nuclear arms control, nonproliferation, and China’s nuclear policy, “Russian and Chinese Responses to U.S. Military Plans in Space” American Academy of Arts and Sciences, http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/militarySpace.pdf, p.31, accessed 9/21/11)</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Chinese officials have expressed...of outer space would be severely interrupted.1</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">A space race makes miscalculation inevitable, and would spiral into a global nuclear war</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">Mitchell 01 (Gordon R., Associate Professor of Communication at the University of Pittsburgh, “Japan-U.S. Missile Defense Collaboration: Rhetorically Delicious, Deceptively Dangerous”, Fletcher Forum of World Affairs, Volume 25, Winter 2001,http://www.pitt.edu/~gordonm/JPubs/JapanTMD.pdf, p. 97-98, accessed 9/21/11)</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">A buildup of space weapons...destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">China war escalates and goes nuclear</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Lee J. Hunkovic – professor at American Military University, (“The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, American Military University, 2009, p.54)</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">A war between China..considered in this study.</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">Only cooperating with China in space creates transparency – this solves space race and miscommunication.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Dr. Joan Johnson-Freese -- serves as Chair, Department of National Security Studies, at the U.S. Naval War College. Previously, she was on the faculty at the Asia Pacific Center for Security Studies in Honolulu, Hawaii; at the Air War College in Montgomery, Alabama; and the Director of the Center for Space Policy & Law at the University of Central Florida. Dr. Johnson-Freese has testified before the U.S. Congress on several occasions regarding Chinese space activities and space security issues generally. She is on the editorial board of China Security and a member of the International Academy of Astronautics. Dr. Johnson-Freese’s most recent book is entitled ‘Space as a Strategic Asset’, released in March 2007 by Columbia University Press, (November 9, 2005, “Maintaining US leadership in human spaceflight" Science Direct)</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">China is already working...remains the world's leader into the future.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">ISS cooperation with China is key to peaceful use of space</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Abbey and Lane 2009(George and Neal, former head of the Johnson Space Center and former Assistant to the President on Science and Technology Policy, “United States Space Policy: Challenges and Oppurtunities Gone Astray”, http://carnegie.org/fileadmin/Media/Publications/PDF/spaceUS.pdf, p.34-35 accessed 9/21/11)</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">Encourage participation..and challenging frontiers in space.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">The brink is now - the U.S. must initiate Sino-U.S. cooperation to demonstrate a multilateral policy and stop the space race</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Imran, Masters candidate at Universidade Nova de Lisboa, 10</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">(Mara, “China's space program : a new tool for PRC "soft power" in international relations?” accessed:7-01-11, http://run.unl.pt/handle/10362/5473 pg 102-103)</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">America has shown the rest of...the sidelines is not an option.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">ISS cooperation is the only way to solve and directly addresses China’s concerns</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Houpt, Master of Security Studies Georgetown University, 11</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">(Daniel M., “Does China have a comprehensive, coordinated, and consistent space policy? Implications for U.S. policymakers,” ProQuest, accessed 7/1/11, p. 58-59)</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">Finally, the U.S. could..actions to build communication and trust.</span>


===<span style="color: #000000;">Solvency</span>=== 
<span style="color: #000000;">China will say yes to cooperation</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Hoffman 2007(Michael, staff editor at Daily Tech, Daily Tech, “China wants to join International Space Station Project”, 10/16/7, http://www.dailytech.com/article.aspx?newsid=9290, accessed 9/21/11)</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">Chinese space officials...has only peaceful plans for space.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">And the ISS is the best way to co-operate with China – solves for ISS, relations and it won’t fail.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Chiao, former NASA astronaut, 9/1/11 (Leroy, former NASA astronaut from 1990 to 2005 and flew four missions into space, including flights aboard the space shuttles Columbia, Endeavour and Discovery, “Make China our new partner in space”, http://edition.cnn.com/2011/OPINION/09/01/chiao.space.program.china/, CNN, accessed 9/15/11)</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">What is certain is that...new members with emerging spaceflight programs.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Now is key, the U.S. still has influence over China but will lose it if no action is taken</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Logsdon and Krolikowski 2011 (John M. and Alanna, Professor Emeritus at the Space Policy Institute at George Washington University and Visiting scholar at the Space Policy Institute, “Enhancing US-China Relations in Space”, China US Focus, http://www.chinausfocus.com/peace-security/enhancing-us-china-relations-in-space/, 9/20/11, accessed 9/21/11)</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">The time is now. The United..European and other countries already share.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Plan is key to ensure cooperation not only in space but on earth – serves as a model for other space powers.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Hitchens and Chen 8</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">(Theresa, Center for Defense Information, World Security Institute and David, CENTRA Technology, Inc, “Forging a Sino-US ‘‘grand bargain’’ in space” Space Policy 24 (2008) pg. 128–131, Available Online at Sciencedirect.com)</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">In Washington’s space security..international stability in the Pacific region.</span>






























=<span style="color: #000000;">Negative</span>= 
==<span style="color: #000000;">DA</span>== 
===<span style="color: #000000;">1NC China Bashing (St. Mark's)</span>=== 
<span style="color: #000000;">Boehner is blocking the plan now, but he needs all his PC to stop rank and file GOP from overwhelming him</span>
<span style="color: #000000;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Tonelson 10/26 </span>(Alan, Writer at American Economic Alert, Currency Manipulation as Political Football, [[http://americaneconomicalert.org/view_art.asp?Prod_ID=4891]])</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10pt;">Hatch’s plea<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';"> also resurrected...signing the currency bill.</span></span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">The China Currency Bill causes a trade war</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">Khor 10/13 </span>
<span style="color: #000000;">(Martin, executive director of the South Centre, a research centre of 51 developing countries, based in Geneva., China bashing won't save US, http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/opinion/2011-10/13/content_13881848_2.htm)</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">Nevertheless, the passage of the Senate bill has heightened US-China tensions...Thus a trade war may be unleashed.</span>


<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">That triggers a nuclear war</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">Landy 07 </span>
<span style="color: #000000;">(Ben Landy, Ben Landy, Director of Research and Strategy at the Atlantic Media Company, publisher of the Atlantic Monthly, National Journal, and Government Executive magazines. Landy served in various research and project management positions at the Brookings Institution and Center for Strategic and International Studies, two leading public policy think tanks in Washington, D.C. Ben holds a bachelor of arts degree from Yale University. April 3, 2007, http://chinaredux.com/2007/04/03/protectionism-and-war/#comments)</span>


<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">The greatest threat for the 21st century...increase the likelihood of conflict far more than increase in military budgets and anti satellite threats.</span>

===<span style="color: #000000;">1NC Militarization DA</span>=== 

<span style="color: #000000;">Space has been militarized but not weaponized</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Estabrooks 3 (Sarah Estabrooks, Project Manager of Space Security research at the Belfer Center, hub of the Harvard Kennedy School's research, teaching, and training in international security affairs, environmental and resource issues, and science and technology policy. Jul-Sep 2003 proquest)</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Space has been "militarized"... development of unanticipated technologies.</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">That causes a space arms race with India, Pakistan, Japan, China, and causes nuclear war with Russia</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Hitchens 8 (Theresa, author of “Future Security In Space: Charting a Cooperative Course,” continues to write on space and nuclear arms control issues for a number of outside publications, March, “Space Wars”, http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=bth&AN=31334623&site=bsi-live)</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Perhaps of even greater concern... would be highly problematic.</span>



==<span style="color: #000000;">K</span>== 
===<span style="color: #000000;">1NC Security K</span>=== 

<span style="color: #000000;">The affirmative operates within a framework of nation-state security that leads to serial policy failure.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Burke 7 (Anthony Burke, Int'l Studies @ U of New South Wales, “Ontologies of War,” in Theory & Event, Vol. 10, Iss. 2)</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">This tells us much...dysfunctional or chaotic.</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">The drive to control space is indistinct from the drive to control history—their pursuit of omnipotence makes killing excursions inevitable, culminates in extinction.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Lifton 3(Robert Jay, Visiting Prof. Psychiatry @ Harvard Medical School, “Superpower Syndrome: America’s Apocalyptic Confrontation With the World,” p. 174-178)</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">The Bush Administration's projection... the ownership of death.</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">Insecurity is inevitable – their ontological commitment to global order renders all life calculable and is the root cause of violent conflict.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Burke 7 (Anthony Burke, Int'l Studies @ U of New South Wales, “Ontologies of War,” in Theory & Event, Vol. 10, Iss. 2)</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">By itself, such an account...useful or obstinate matter.</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">The alternative is to refuse security – use your ballot to rip open the aporias within language.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Burke 2 (Anthony, Int'l Studies @ U of New South Wales, “Aporias of Security,” in Alternatives 27, p. 18-23)</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">It is perhaps to become despondent... shimmering possibilities might be.</span>


===<span style="color: #000000;">1NC Dialectical Materialism</span>=== 

<span style="color: #000000;">Theory cannot bring liberation.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">The affirmative is a reincarnation of the descent into discourse that Marx criticized as a turn away from material change in systems of economic oppression. The affirmative’s shallow belief in the power of discourse and transformative potential of their performance obfuscates the fact that we must revolutionize the existing world, not the mental one, if we are to see any improvement.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Marx 1845, Karl, philosopher and revolutionary, “The German Ideology” http://www.marxists.org/archive/marx/works/1845/german-ideology/ch01b.htm</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">We shall, of course... “sensuous certainty” for Feuerbach.</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">Focus on discourse does nothing and makes invisible the harms of capital.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Mas'ud Zavarzadeh, Department of English, Syracuse University, editor of Transformation: Marxist Boundary Work in Theory, Economics, Politics and Culture—a biquarterly published by the not-for-profit Maisonneuve Press, College Literature Vol 21 Issue 3, 1994, “The Stupidity That Consumption is Just as Productive as Production: In the Shopping Mall of the Post-Al Left” Questia</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">The unsurpassable objectivity which is not open to rhetorical interpretation... tolerable, justifiable, and naturalized.</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">This turns the affirmative into a new elite with exclusive privilege to determine what struggles are truly worth our time—this marginalizes those that are truly oppressed and turns case.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Rene Francisco Poitevin, Doctoral Candidate in Sociology at UC Davis, member of the SR [Socialist Review], 2001, Socialist Review, “The end of anti-capitalism as we knew it: Reflections on postmodern Marxism,” http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_qa3952/is_200101/ai_n8932891/</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">First, in the postmodern/post-Marxist world, it is the (white, middleclass) postmodern intellectual... vanguardism on post-structuralist steroids.</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">Denial of object facts makes all violence possible.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Sherry 96(Suzanna, Professor of Civil Rights and Civil Liberties and the University of Minnesota, “The Sleep of Reason”)</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">Some, however, have suggested that the historical era of the Enlightenment... speaking such a truth to power.</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">Unrestrained capitalism leads to extinction</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Harman 97, Editor of the Socialst Worker (Chris, Economics of the madhouse, Pg 90-1) The system may have entered a new phase. But the way it operates is not new. It is, in its essentials exactly the way described by Marx</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">The only sense in which Marx is “outdated” is not that the system is more rational... fertile regions in a desert.</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">And, capitalism destroys the environment and is the root cause of oppression</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Latin America Solidarity Coalition 3 (“Getting to the Roots: Ecology and Environmental Justice”, http://www.lasolidarity.org/papers/enviro.htm)</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">The globalization of capital and the interweaving of financial... degradation and suffering.</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">And, our kritik short circuits their impacts—Discourse and performance can never transform structures of oppression—the effectiveness of this political strategy is disproven by the failure of the left in the status quo</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Poitevin 1(Rene Francisco, PhD Cand Sociol @ UC-Davis, “The end of anti-capitalism as we knew it: Reflections on postmodern Marxism”, The Socialist Review, http://www.findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_qa3952/is_200101/ai_n8932891) From Radical Democracy to Revolutionary Democracy</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Let my finish by addressing... not going to do it either.</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">Our alternative is to reject the affirmative for their focus on <insert> in favor of a Marxist analysis of <insert>. This round should be an educational exercise—that empowers us to recognize inequality and take action rather than just changing the way we think.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Cole 3(Mike, Senior Lecturer and Research and Publications Mentor in the School of Education, University of Brighton, Global Capital, Postmodern/Poststructural Deconstruction and Social Change: a Marxist Critique, pages 17-20, http://www.nodo50.org/cubasigloXXI/congreso/cole_05abr03.pdf)</span>


<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 13.3333px;">Atkinson's main argument seems to be... political strategy for human betterment.</span>
==<span style="color: #000000;">T</span>== 
===<span style="color: #000000;">1NC T-substantial</span>=== 

<span style="color: #000000;">A. Interpretation – the affirmative must substantially increase space exploration and/or development</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">A substantial increase for space is at least 2.6 billion</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Alexander, 8 (Amir, writer for the Planetary Society, “President signs NASA Authorization Deal,” October 16, 2008 from http://www.planetary.org/programs/projects/space_advocacy/20081016.html)</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">On Wednesday, October 15, 2008, President Bush signed into law the NASA Authorization Bill passed by Congress last month. By authorizing NASA to spend $20.21 billion in fiscal year 2009, the bill represents a substantial increase of $2.6 billionover the administration's budget request for NASA earlier this year. $4.9 billion of the bill's total is directed towards science operations, and another $4.9 billion is authorized for exploration. An authorization bill, unlike an appropriations bill, does not actually fund programs, and the spending levels it cites are not binding on NASA. Nevertheless it does provide the agency with spending guidelines and indicates Congress's priorities.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">B. Violation-they don’t meet the 20.21, prefer our definition that cites the word substantial in the context of NASA.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">C. Vote Neg</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">1. Limits—they justify reading a ton of small affs that are unpredictable and are impossible to cut answers too which destroys negative research burden and makes it impossible to debate.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Topicality is necessary to preserve debate</span>

===<span style="color: #000000;">1NC T-development</span>=== 

<span style="color: #000000;">A. Interpretation – the development of space must be peaceful</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Vuillemot 01 [Ward W. Vuillemot, Aerospace Engineering, Masters of Science Computational Fluid Dynamics, Research Assistant; Professor Uri Shumlak • NASA Graduate Fellow, Masters of Science Technical Japanese “Japan’s Space Development: Past, Present, and Future”, http://web.mac.com/wwv/docs/japanese.space.development.pdf, Caplan]</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">To begin, we will examine how its members perceive the development of outer space within an international and globally inclusive framework. Congruent with other world nations, the commission definedthe development of outer space as, “In order to contribute to the continual prosperity of life on Earth, we should strive to effectively maximize the utilization of the limitless possibilities of unknown outer space through mankind’s shared assets.” [11]</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">B. Violation – military developments are not peaceful</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">C. Vote neg</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">1. Limits – allowing the aff to increase any non-peaceful equipment into space explodes limits – justifies putting every known weapon into space which makes it impossible for the negative to ever be prepared</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Topicality is necessary to preserve debate</span>

==<span style="color: #000000;">CP</span>== 
===<span style="color: #000000;">1NC Tax Incentives CP</span>=== 


<span style="color: #000000;">Text: The United States federal government should offer a 25 year exemption from all deferral taxes on operations of 12 fully developed and launched Solar Power Satellites.</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">Tax exemptions solve moon activity – catalyze the private sector and spurs economic growth</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Hudgins 4 (Edward, director of The Objectivist Center, is the editor of the Cato Institute book, Space: The Free-Market Frontier, “Move Aside, NASA”, January 28, The CATO Institute, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=2514)</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">NASA will also need to do business in new, innovative ways... will make us a truly space-faring civilization.</span>



<span style="color: #000000;">CPS solves SPS without overspending</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">SHSG 11 (Solar High Study Group, a think tank dedicated to space based solar power, “Solar High: Energy for the 21st Century”, March, http://solarhigh.org/resources/16KwordBrief.pdf)</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Serious studies of SBSP are under way in several countries... system studies or power satellite development programs..</span>


===<span style="color: #000000;">1NC Boost-Phase CP</span>=== 

<span style="color: #000000;">Text: The United States federal government should deploy the “Brilliant Pebbles” space-based BMD system beyond the Earth’s mesosphere and develop and deploy a surface-based boost-phase missile defense system. And not develop additional layers to the defense.</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">Tech and placement are ready to go – makes the CP more effective than space systems</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Kosiak 7 (Steven M. Kosiak is Vice President, Budget Studies, at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, where he performs research and analysis of defense spending trends, force structure and weapon system costs, and the budgetary consequences of arms control measures, among other related defense budget issues. Prior to joining CSBA in 1991, Mr. Kosiak was senior analyst at the Center for Defense Information. He has worked on Capitol Hill and in the Office of the Defense Advisor at the U.S. Mission to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Mr. Kosiak is the author of CSBA's annual budget analysis and contributes significantly to other publications on defense and security issues. His most recent publications include "Analysis of the FY 2008 Defense Budget Request," "US Fighter Modernization Plans: Near-Term Choices," "Spending on US Strategic Nuclear Forces: Plans and Options for the 21st Century," and "Military Compensation: Requirements, Trends and Options." Mr. Kosiak is frequently cited in major national news articles and appears on network television and radio news programs. His work has been published in The New York Times and The Washington Post, and professional and public policy journals, including The Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, Aviation Week & Space Technology, Armed Forces Journal, and Defense News. Mr. Kosiak received his J.D. from Georgetown University Law Center, and holds a master's degree in public affairs from the Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton University, and a bachelor of arts from the University of Minnesota., 2007, “Arming the Heavens: A Preliminary Assessment of the Potential Cost and Cost-Effectiveness of Space-Based Weapons” http://www.csbaonline.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/02/2007.10.31-Spaced-Based-Weapons.pdf)</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">In its 2004... considered by CBO.</span>



<span style="color: #000000;">Boost-phase interception is the only way to solve the aff</span>


<span style="color: #000000;">Pfaltzgraff 9 (Dr. Robert L. Pfaltzgraff is president of the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, Inc., which he cofounded in 1976. He is also Shelby Cullom Davis Professor of International Security Studies at the Fletcher School, Tufts University. He is an authority on issues of U.S. national security policy, including homeland security; proliferation and counterproliferation; alliance relationships with a focus on Europe and the Asia-Pacific area; regional security issues; crisis management; force planning; military transformation; the interrelationships of political, economic, and security policies; technology transfer; missile defense; international relations theory; U.S. foreign policy; and the implications of emerging trends in both regional and global security environments. He has held visiting appointments as George C. Marshall Professor at the College of Europe, Bruges, Belgium; as professor at the National Defense College, Tokyo, Japan; and as honorary professor at the University of St. Andrews in Scotland. He has advised key U.S. officials on such topics as military strategy, modernization, and arms control policy, and has contributed as a management consultant to industry clients in the United States and abroad. He serves on the International Security Advisory Board (ISAB), U.S. Department of State. He serves as co-chairman of the Independent Working Group on Missile Defense, which produced the 2009 report, Missile Defense, the Space Relationship, and the 21st Century. Dr. Pfaltzgraff has lectured widely at government, industry, and academic forums in the United States and overseas, including at the National Defense University, the NATO Defense College, the Army War College, the Naval War College, the Armed Forces Staff College, the Air Command Staff College, and the United States Military Academy at West Point. He holds an M.A. in international relations, a Ph.D. in political science from the University of Pennsylvania, and an M.B.A. in international business from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. Boost Phase Missile Defense: Present Challenges, Future Prospects The Capitol Hill Club 300 First Street, SE Washington, DC 20003 April 3, 2009 Boost-Phase Missile Defense. http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/Pfaltzgraff_Boost-Phase.Missile.Defense_Capitol.Hill-Marshall.Inst_3.April.09.pdf</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Let me first address... come in boostphase.</span>

==<span style="color: #000000;">Framework</span>== 
===<span style="color: #000000;">1NC Plan Good</span>=== 

<span style="color: #000000;">Gotta have a plan—failure to have a concrete option we can debate against guarantees that oppression continues and efforts for change backfire.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Steve 7 (Anonymous member of Black Block and Active Transformation who lives in East Lansing, MI, Date Last Mod. Feb 8, http://www.nadir.org/nadir/initiativ/agp/free/global/a16dcdiscussion.htm)</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">What follows is not... build up the state or a new state.</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Third, it undermines clash—it’s impossible to engage their ideas if we don’t know what they are—that clash is critical to develop strategies and test ideas which eventually result in social change</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">Branham 95 (Robert, Professor of Rhetoric at Bates College, Argumentation and Advocacy, Winter)</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">In the years following... generated by confrontation.</span>