<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">__<span style="font-family: 'AR DARLING'; font-size: 21pt;">Internal Colonialism</span>__</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Way back in 1619, begins this tragic story
Throw into slavery, the crime was the color of skin
Never to see the light of the past again
I wanna go to where the mountains are high enough to echo my song
I wanna go to where the rivers run deep enough to drown my shame
I wanna go to where the stars shine enough to show me the way
I wanna go where the wind calls my name. Indie Arie, Indie’s song.</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Play Indie Arie, Ghetto</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ghetto, might as well be another country
Hurry oh oh might as well be another country
When you look around
You live in another country too, too, too
To be hungry in LA is just like starving in Bombay homeless in Morrocco
Is a shelter in Chicago
Right around the corner
Just down the road right before your eyes, right under your nose.
The ghetto might as well be another another country.</span>
</span>






**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">The ghetto is filled with poverty, violence, and despair. The space the resolution tells us to develop and explore is the wrong one. Our communities are underdeveloped due to internal colonialism. This space is what matters the most to us is the space of the ghetto.</span>**
**__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Simspon, 02</span>__**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">"Several Nations Under God": Urban Space, Race, and Religion A paper presented by Tyrone R. Simpson II of the Carter G. Woodson Institute for African and African American Studies, University of Virginia, at the 2002 Annual Conference for Society for the Scientific Study of Religion, Salt Lake City, Utah, November 2, 2002</span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Let’s talk about the space that we live in. Black people are enduring colonialism inside this country and catching unmitigated hell.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10.5pt;">Ervin, 2001</span>__**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10.5pt;">Lorenzo Komboa Ervin , a former Black Panther " Anarchism and the Black Revolution - Lorenzo Komboa Ervin ." LIB COM,. http://libcom.org/library/anarchism-black-revolution-lorenzo-ervin</span>
__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10.5pt;">Blacks (</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10.5pt;">or Africans in __America) are colonised. America is a mother country with an internal colony__.</span> __In America, our situation is one of total oppression__


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Space exploration reinforces the same manifest destiny doctrine that allowed whites to colonize blacks and other people of color. It operates within the trajectory of western expansion and imperialism.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Young 87 </span>__**





<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In the inner-city, the crying need for decent housing, school, and health care exist side by side with black youth who haunt the street corners unable to find any type of employment so they turn to crime.— Tupac, my block.</span>**</span></span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The topic selection committee chose the “Space’ that isn’t relevant to our social location. This is due to the homogenous privilege that comprises that population.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Warner, 02</span>__**
(Ede Jr. ,Director of the Malcolm X Debate Society at University of Louisville "GO HOMERS, MAKEOVERS OR TAKEOVERS? A PRIVILEGE ANALYSIS OF DEBATE AS A GAMING SIMULATION" Pg 70-80

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Strict adherence to the flow in the evaluation styles can’t capture the emotion, passion, and aesthetic that was born out of Africa, out of the hearts of our enslaved ancestors. We support some form of note taking but reject the manner in which it is used in the evaluation style. It is logocentric and privileges the white communication style at the expense of the black one.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">HILL Biola University 97</span>__**



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Debate reifies internal colonialism that privileges white participants. The image of the successful national level debater is signified by a white male economically privileged body and all others are judged relative to this norm. </span>****<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">Reid-Brinkley, 08</span>**<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;"> (</span>Assistant Professor<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> PhD and Debate Coach at University of Pittsburgh "THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE" </span>






<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Traditional knowledge production within the debate community privileges those with institutional and economic power while excluding those internal colonies. The three tier process which includes organic intellectual, academic intellectuals, and personal experiences within debate makes alternative forms of knowledge production legitimate and checks the homogenizing function of 'expert' discourse.</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Shanara Reid, 08, [Dr. Shanara Reid-Brinkley, "THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE" pages 81-83] </span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Advocacy</span>__**</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-align: center;">We refuse to work within the bounds of this state-centered resolution and embrace the debate community as a site to expose the workings of white supremacy in our community. **<span style="background-color: white;">We advocate that the</span>****<span style="background-color: white;">resolution is a metaphor</span>**for oppressed groups to move beyond the mesosphere or limits that white supremacy has placed upon them, grow and demolish the traditional, policed system of education in the debate space. We must break through the mesosphere, fly past the sky, and create a new space free of white supremacy so we can create real social change. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The Role of the ballot</span>__**</span></span>


<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The role of the ballot is to affirm the team that performatively and methodologically carves out a space for the voices of those who have experienced oppression and been silenced by a society that has different priorities.</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> We have to challenge white supremacist structure right here in this community so we can get the education and momentum to challenge internal colonialism within our own community. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Our peformative pedagogy is a counter hegemonic aesthetic that expresses our black culture. THIS is key to dismantle colonialism. No matter how many framework arguments you run, you cannot kill OUR SPIRIT TO BE FREE! </span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Warren and Fassett, 2004</span>__**
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The Johns Hopkins University Press. All rights reserved //Theatre Topics// 14.2 (2004) 411-430</span>
<span class="Hyperlink1">[[http://ezproxy.bgc.bard.edu:2053/journals/theatre_topics/v014/14.2warren.html#top|//John T. Warren//]]</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> is an assistant professor in the School of Communication Studies at Bowling Green State University, where he </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Just as the people of Egypt, Tunisia, Libya and people throughout the Middle East have the right to resist their oppression at the hands of U.S.-backed regimes, so do Black people in the U.S. have the right to resist and revolt against their oppression!</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Lauryn Hil Rebel </span>**


<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10.5pt; text-align: center;">Rebel, rebel, rebel, rebel, rebel</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10.5pt; text-align: center;">Repent, the day is far too spent, rebel... rebel!</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10.5pt; text-align: center;">Wake up, wake up, wake up, wake up, wake up, wake up, wake up...</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10.5pt; text-align: center;">Wake up and rebel</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10.5pt; text-align: center;">We must destroy in order to rebuild</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10.5pt; text-align: center;">Wake up, you might as well</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10.5pt; text-align: center;">Oh are you... oh are you satisfied</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10.5pt; text-align: center;">Oh are you satisfied</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10.5pt; text-align: center;">Rebel... ohhh rebel</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10.5pt; text-align: center;">Why don't you rebel, why don't you rebel?</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10.5pt; text-align: center;">Why don't you rebel?</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Ervin, 2001.</span>__**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10.5pt;">Lorenzo Komboa Ervin , a former Black Panther </span>"Black People have a right to rebel” //LIB COM,//. <libcom.org/library/black-people-have-a-right-to-rebel

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]