[[toc]]
Aff cites: email [[mailto:cthorpie@gmail.com|cthorpie@gmail.com]]
Neg cites: email [[mailto:jake3111@gmail.com|jake3111@gmail.com]]
=Affirmative= 
=Wake 1AC= 
==Contention 1 is inherency:== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">JWST will be launched by 2018</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NASA 8/9</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(National Aeronautics and Space Administration, world space program, “James Webb Space Telescope”, August 9, 2011, http://www.jwst.nasa.gov/about.html)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The James Webb Space Telescope </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">.......</span>__who was a staunch supporter of space science__
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Cutting this program would only disappoint global partners. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">**<span style="color: black;">States News Service 8/5</span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">[“MAJOR SCIENTIFIC PROGRAMS COULD BE SLASHED OR ELIMINATED UNDER DEBT-REDUCTION DEAL”, August 5, 2011 Friday, Lexis]</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Under the debt-reduction deal, ........ </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">as a reliable international partner.</span>

**PLAN: The United States Federal Government should invest in the development for the James Webb Space Telescope.**

==**Contention 2 is harms:**== 
==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Advantage 1 is Science Leadership</span>== 

**James Webb is on the chopping block in Congress – only reviving it can preserve US science leadership**
**Overbye, 7/6/11** – the Deputy Science Editor of The New York Times, and the author of //Einstein in Love// [July 6, 2011, <span style="color: black;">Dennis Overbye</span>, “Panel Proposes Killing Webb Space Telescope,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.nytimes.com/2011/07/07/science/07webb.html?_r=1</span>, SM]
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The House Appropriations Committee proposed Wednesday .... </span>would bring it home in full living color<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.”</span>

**Abandoning the James Webb will crush U.S. science leadership – the plan is key to revive our international leadership**
**Illingworth, 11** – Ph.D., Australian National University, chairs a relatively new committee, the Astronomy and Astrophysics Advisory Committee, that offers advice to Congress and NSF, NASA and DOE on the implementation of the science program developed by the astronomy science community through studies carried out by the National Academy of Sciences [January 21, 2011, Garth Illingworth, letter to Dr. John P. Holdren, [[http://www.stsci.edu/jwst/community-advice/JSTAC_Holdren_JWST.pdf]]<span style="color: black;">]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The James Webb Space Telescope is a project of astonishing scientific capability.....</span>on the importance of the JWST science mission from the perspective of the JSTAC.

**Science leadership bolsters international cooperation- key to hegemony and asteroid deflection**
**Friedman, 11** – recently stepped down after 30 years as Executive Director of The Planetary Society. He continues as Director of the Society's LightSail Program and remains involved in space programs and policy. Before co-founding the Society with Carl Sagan and Bruce Murray, Lou was a Navigation and Mission Analysis Engineer and Manager of Advanced Projects at JPL. [Feb 14, 2011, Lou Friedman, The Space Review, “American leadership,” [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1778/1]]]

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">American Leadership</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">” </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">is a phrase we hear ......on the national and international political agenda</span>

==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Scenario 1 is NEO strikes</span>== 

**Huge numbers of NEOs could hit at any time without warning and cause extinction --- lack of detection technology leaves us helpless**

**NRC 10** (National Research Council, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies”, Committee to Review Near-Earth-Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, http://www.nap.ed u/catalog.php?record_id=12842)
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">2. In December 2004..... </span>to have a high probability of occurrence in the relatively near future.

**The impact is __extinction__ --- //high magnitude// and //aperiodic strikes// shatter traditional considerations of “timeframe” and mean we should treat NEO threats as __immanent__**
**Brownfield 4** (Roger, Gaishiled Project, “A Million Miles a Day”, Presentation at the Planetary Defense Conference: Protecting Earth From Asteroids, 2-26, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.aiaa.org/content.cfm?pageid=406&gTable=%20Paper&g|http://www.aiaa.org/content.cfm?pageid=406&gTable= Paper&g]]</span> ID=17092)
Once upon a time there was a Big Bang.....in favor of rational random inevitable expectation... and its attendant fear.

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Advantage 2 is tradeoff</span>
**First – JWST is stuck in logjam – funding is key**
**Svitak, 11** – staff writer for Space News [Feb 18, 2011, Amy Svitak, Space News, “Budget Request Offers No Immediate Relief for JWST,” http://www.spacenews.com/civil/budget-request-jwst.html]
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">WASHINGTON — </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">NASA’s</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">James Webb Space Telescope ........ </span>year if a bill introduced in February by House Republicans gets adopted in its current form.

**And cost overruns for the James Webb decks NASA’s budget**

**Klamper, 10** – staff writer for Space News [November 12,2010,<span style="color: black;"> Amy </span>Klamper,<span style="color: black;"> “</span>JWST's Latest $1.5B Cost Overrun Imperils Other High-priority Projects,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.spacenews.com/civil/101112-jwst-cost-imperils-priority-projects.html</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">WASHINGTON — </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Massive cost growth on......</span><span style="color: black;">continue to spend about $100 million per year on more modestly priced missions</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**Specifically it’s blocking WFIRST**

**Smith, 10** – President of the Space and Technology Policy Group, LLC, which specializes in news, information and analysis of civil, military and commercial space programs and other technology areas [Sept 16, 2010, Marcia Smith, “Dark Energy Top Priority, But Astronomers Ask if Both US and European Space Missions Are Needed,” [[http://spacepolicyonline.com/pages/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1109:dark-energy-top-priority-but-astronomers-ask-if-both-us-and-european-space-missions-are-needed-&catid=67:news&Itemid=27|http://spacepolicyonline.com/pages/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1109:dark-energy-top-priority-but-astronomers-ask-if-both-us-and-european-space-__missions-are-needed-&catid=67:news&Itemid=27__]]]
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Discovering the nature of dark energy ..... </span>__who chairs the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds NASA.

===**There are 2 Impacts – first is Dark Energy:**=== 
**WFIRST would massively contribute to our understanding of dark energy**
**Blandford, et. al, 10** – a Pehong and Adele Chen Professor of Physics and director of the Kavli Institute for Astrophysics and Cosmology at Stanford University [Roger D. Blandford, Chair, Committee for a Decadal Survey of Astronomy and Astrophysics National Research Council, //New Worlds, New Horizons in Astronomy and Astrophysics//, 2010, ISBN: 9780309158008, pg. 195-7]
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Astronomy has made many contributions .....</span>__telescopes would also play an important role.

**Dark energy research key to depleted Argon neutrino detectors – solves port security and non-proliferation efforts.**
**Acosta-Kane et. al. 07** – Department of Physics, Princeton University [12/3/07, D., “Discovery of underground argon with low level of radioactive 39Ar and possible applications to WIMP dark matter detectors,” <span style="color: black;">http://arxiv.org/PS_cache/arxiv/pdf/0712/0712.0381v1.pdf</span> DH]
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The existence of dark matter is well established,......</span>could also be used to develop neutron detectors for port security.

**And neutrino detectors solves the political causes of rogue proliferation, enables enforcement of the NPT and prevents nuclear war**
**Guillain, 06** – PhD, Department of Physics, University of Hawaii, [9/27/06, Eugene, “Far Field Monitoring of Rogue Nuclear Activity with an Array of Large anti-neutrino Detectors,” <span style="color: black;">http://arxiv.org/PS_cache/hep-ph/pdf/0607/0607095v2.pdf</span> DH] ***note: neutrino detectors monitor anti-neutrinos**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The human race ﬁrst tapped into nuclear energy .......</span>____they can be reliably detected__**

The impact is nuclear war
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Utgoff, 02 – Deputy Director of Strategy, Forces, and Resources at the Institute for Defense Analyses</span> [summer 2002, Victor, Survival, “Proliferation, Missile Defense and American Ambitions”, 44:2, p. 87-90]**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Many readers are probably willing to accept that nuclear..... dead cities or even </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">whole nations. </span></span>**

===Scenario 2 is Space Colonization=== 
WFIRST is key to finding exoplanets

NASA, 11 **[“Exoplanets – Microlensing”, April 1st, 2011, <span style="color: black;">http://wfirst.gsfc.nasa.gov/science/exoplanets/</span>, Chetan]**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">The discovery of >500 extrasolar planets has..... </span>to understand planet formation and habitability.**

And that sparks a new era of space colonization.
Harrold, 08 **– staff writer for the Gazette [July 18, 2008, Max Harrold, The Gazette, “Earth's twin coming into view; Scientists believe habitable planet will be spotted soon,” Lexis]**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">"</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Everywhere we can look for planets we are finding them".... </span>____Even the Vatican's astronomer has said it's okay to look."__**

Every delay in space colonization risks a hundred trillion lives per second
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bostrum</span>, 02 **– Department of Philosophy, Yale University, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University <span style="font-size: 12pt;">[</span>Nick, “Astronomical Waste: The Opportunity Cost of Delayed Technological Development,” Preprint, Utilitas Vol. 15, No. 3, pp. 308-314, http://www.nickbostrom.com/astronomical/waste.html]**
**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">As I write these words</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">suns are illuminating ..... </span>____for every second of postponement of colonization of our supercluster__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.[6]</span>**

And the Webb is key to future discoveries and unlocking the secrets of exoplanets and dark matter

Pachal, 7/8/11** – PCMag's News Director and has been covering consumer technology in print and online for more than a decade, holds degrees in journalism and engineering [July 8, 2011, Peter Pachal, PCMag, “What We Could Lose if the James Webb Telescope Is Killed,” http://www.pcmag.com/article2/0,2817,2388293,00.asp]

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">NASA's James Webb telescope, the ......</span>__no one had even thought dark energy existed. "The discovery space is huge for this observatory."
==**Contention 3 is Solvency:**== 

**We must act now – the James Webb is on the chopping block**
**Amos, 11** – BBC science correspondent, Kennedy Space Center [July 7, 2011, Jonathan Amos, “JWST backed by Nasa amid call to scrap telescope mission,” http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/science-environment-14073222]
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The James Webb Space Telescope remains central to Nasa's mission.... </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">when it comes to the launch date</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">," he added.</span>

**And even if the Webb won’t be cut in Congress maintaining a flat budget will kill the project**

**Smith, 11**[Marcia Smith is President of the Space and Technology Policy Group, LLC, which specializes in news, information and analysis of civil, military and commercial space programs and other technology areas. “James Webb Space Telescope Needs More Money to Meet New 2018 Launch Date,” April 27, 2011, http://spacepolicyonline.com/pages/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1539:james-webb-space-telescope-needs-more-money-to-meet-new-2018-launch-date&catid=67:news&Itemid=27]
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">James Webb Space Telescope (</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">JWST</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">) </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">will launch in 2018 only if NASA receives more funding ......</span>__independent review that led to the current replanning effort (the "Casani report," after its chair, John Casani).

**And postponing the funding will only escalate costs and erode the launch schedule**
**Lobbia et al, 10** – the Aerospace Corporation (Executive Secretary), holds a BS degree in Aerospace Engineering, and MS and PhD degrees in Aeronautics and Astronautics Engineering [October 29, 2010, Marcus Lobbia, “James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) Independent Comprehensive Review Panel (ICRP),” [[http://www.scribd.com/doc/42064436/Jim-Webb-Space-Telescope-report]]]
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Managing costs on a year-to-year basis led to....... </span>the result has been a substantial impact to life cycle cost and schedule.
=New Trier 1AC= 
==Plan Text== 

Plan: The United States federal government should construct a scientific outpost on the Moon using the DIRECT launch mechanism.

==Advantage 1 is Mars Sample Return== 

**MSR’s inevitable - NASA’s cooperation with the ESA will send the Aurora mission to Mars in 2018**
LaunchBase 11 <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[“Aurora Programme Information”, September 27th, 2011, [[http://www.launchbase.net/aurora_programme/encyclopedia.htm]], Chetan] </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">In recent years ESA has increasingly </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">for future planetary exploration[4]. </span>




**NASA is contracting the re-entry mission now – however its containment system doesn’t quarantine or sterilize the soil**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Aurora Flight Sciences 11</span>** [“Aurora Flight Sciences Wins NASA Contract for a Mars Orbiting Sample Retrieval External Orbit Capture (MOSR/EXOCAP)”, March 21st, 2011, [[http://www.aurora.aero/Communications/Item.aspx?id=apr-270]], Chetan]



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Cambridge, MA, March 21, 2011 – The National Aeronautics and Space Administration </span>
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">envisioned for later this decade. </span>__**





**The current plan for MSR return is a Catchers Mit strategy to crash land the vehicle – risking planetary contamination**

DiGregorio 1 <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Barry E. DiGregorio is a research associate of the Cardiff Centre for Astrobiology in Wales and is the founder and executive director for the International Committee Against Mars Sample Return. “The Quarantine And Certification Of Martian Samples”, May 31st, 2001, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">http://www.spacedaily.com/news/mars-life-01g.html</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, Chetan] </span>



**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">NASA's sole contender for a Mars Sample Return capsule is </span>__**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, things can and do go wrong.</span>__**


**Mars samples are way too dangerous to feel safe – they must be quarantined and analyzed for potential microbial life and diseases**
DiGregorio 1 <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Barry E. DiGregorio is a research associate of the Cardiff Centre for Astrobiology in Wales and is the founder and executive director for the International Committee Against Mars Sample Return. “The dilemma of Mars sample return”, June 2001, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">http://pubs.acs.org/subscribe/journals/ci/31/special/digreg/08digregorio.html</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, Chetan] </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Several other </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">notable scientists</span>__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">whether life ever arose on Mars.</span>


**The impact is the wipe-out of Earth – we have no defenses against potential space microbes**
Butler 7 <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Jeb, “Unearthly Microbes and the Laws Designed to Resist Them” - 41 Ga. L. Rev. 1355, Summer 2007 (lexis), Chetan]</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> a. Back Contamination. </span>
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">exposure could prove deadly</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>





**A Lunar quarantine facility on the Moon solves**

Di Gregorio 6 <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Barry E. DiGregorio is a research associate of the Cardiff Centre for Astrobiology in Wales and is the founder and executive director for the International Committee Against Mars Sample Return. “A Planetary Quarantine Laboratory On The Moon” (pg. 9), Chetan]</span>



**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">In consideration of all the </span>__**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">reason to invest in a return to the Moon</span>__**.


==Advantage 2 is Lunar Science== 

**Global warming is real and undeniable, isolated incidents of cold spells don’t speak to the trend of climate change**
Jones 10 <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Jenny, Administration of Air and Water Resource and Solid Waste Management Programs, “NOAA Offers Extensive Proof of Global Warming”, Civil Engineering (08857024); Sep2010, Vol. 80 Issue 9, p36-36, 1p, Chetan]</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Global warming is undeniable</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the report says. “But, as a whole, global climate continues to warm, following a 30-year trend.</span>__**





**Two internal links -**





**First, studying lunar regolith allows us to read ‘the solar record’ – letting us understand how climate change happens on Earth and what impact the Sun has on global warming**

Spudis 11 <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Paul Spudis is a Senior Scientist at the Lunar and Planetary Institute, has a Masters Degree from Brown Univeristy in Planetary Geology. “The Moon’s Role in Climate Science”, March 22nd, 2011, [[http://blogs.airspacemag.com/moon/2011/03/the-moons-role-in-climate-science/]], Chetan] </span>



**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">A recent article</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">about the role </span>
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">– patiently waits for us on the Moon.</span>__**





**AND – the Moon is the perfect laboratory for isolating the solar effect on terrestrial warming – predicting future climate change necessitiates an understanding of solar radiation**

Huang and Pollack 10 <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Shaopeng and Henry N. - Department of Geological Sciences, University of Michigan, “The Moon - A Witness to the Anthropogenic Effect of Global Warming on Earth”, July 23rd, 2010, [[http://www.geo.lsa.umich.edu/~shaopeng/msgc01-poster.pdf]], Chetan] </span>



**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">It is widely believed that the recent global warming is driven by </span>__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">distribution of subsurface temperature versus depth. </span>


**Second, a climate observatory on the Moon gives us the observation angle to compare solar and terrestrial radiation**
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Huang 8</span>** [Shaopeng - Department of Geological Sciences, University of Michigan, “Surface temperatures at the nearside of the Moon as a record of the radiation budget of Earth’s climate system”, Advances in Space Research Volume 41, Issue 11, 2008, Pages 1853-1860, Chetan]

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Understanding the</span>__**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">of terrestrial climate change.</span>


**These views of the Earth are critical to useful climate models**
Schmitt 10 <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Dr. Harrison Schmitt is a former astronaut. He received a bachelor of science degree in science from the California Institute of Technology, a doctorate in geology from Harvard University and was the project chief at the U.S. Geological Survey's Astrogeology Center for lunar field geological methods and participated in photo and telescopic mapping of the Moon. “Observations Necessary for Useful Global Climate Models” – White Paper submitted to NASA, [[http://www.lpi.usra.edu/decadal/leag/DecadalClimate.pdf]], Chetan] </span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Critical differences</span>__**
**AND - Cap and trade legislation is inevitable – changing attitudes toward climate change**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Murray 8</span>** [James, “Despite Senate defeat, US cap-and-trade hailed as "inevitable"”, June 9th, 2008,[[@http://www.businessgreen.com/bg/news/1802154/despite-senate-defeat-us-cap-trade-hailed-inevitable]], Chetan]

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The bill was defeated </span>__**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">warming pollution is inevitable."</span>__**

**But an incomplete understanding of warming, lack of assessment data and accurate models are hurting its chances**
Lewis et al. 2010 <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, [[http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]], Chetan]</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Climate change is a global problem</span>__**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">effectively respond to the climate</span>__**


**Data is key – US is essential for global climate consensus**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lewis et al. 10</span>** [James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, [[http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]]]

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Slowly</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, painfully, </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">we are</span>__**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">and uncertain landmarks.</span>__**




**Warming is the most likely scenario for extinction**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Deibel 7</span>** (Terry L. Professor of IR @ National War College, 2007. “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Finally, </span><span class="DebateUnderline">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">there is one major existential threat </span>__**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="DebateUnderline">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">to the continued existence of life on this planet</span>__**</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span></span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>

==Solvency== 


**DIRECT’s utilization of Shuttle infrastructure reduces launch time, requires only two launches, and will have humans on the Moon within the decade**

Seedhouse 9 <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Erik Seedhouse is an aerospace scientist. He gained his Ph.D. in Physiology while working at the German Space Agency's Institute for Space Medicine in Cologne between 1996 and 1998 and recently worked as an astronaut training consultant for Bigelow Aerospace in Las Vegas. He is a Fellow of the British Interplanetary Society and a member of the Aerospace Medical Association. “Lunar Outpost – the Challenges of Establishing a Human Settlement on the Moon” (pg. 234), Chetan]</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">DIRECT architecture advantages </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The DIRECT</span>__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This will result in the first Ares I Orion flight being even further delayed.</span>


**The engine is ready to go – DIRECT’s rockets have already been built**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Seedhouse 9</span> [Erik Seedhouse is an aerospace scientist. He gained his Ph.D. in Physiology while working at the German Space Agency's Institute for Space Medicine in Cologne between 1996 and 1998 and recently worked as an astronaut training consultant for Bigelow Aerospace in Las Vegas. He is a Fellow of the British Interplanetary Society and a member of the Aerospace Medical Association. “Lunar Outpost – the Challenges of Establishing a Human Settlement on the Moon” (pg. 228), Chetan]

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The JLS US will use Rocketdyne's J-2X vacuum-optimized engine, a </span>__**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">has an engine ready to go. </span>__**


**The Jupiter launch systems have more than enough launch capacity for a lunar base**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Seedhouse 9</span> [Erik Seedhouse is an aerospace scientist. He gained his Ph.D. in Physiology while working at the German Space Agency's Institute for Space Medicine in Cologne between 1996 and 1998 and recently worked as an astronaut training consultant for Bigelow Aerospace in Las Vegas. He is a Fellow of the British Interplanetary Society and a member of the Aerospace Medical Association. “Lunar Outpost – the Challenges of Establishing a Human Settlement on the Moon” (221-222), Chetan]

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Jupiter 120 and Jupiter 232 overview </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The hardware</span>__**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">requirement by 40 tonnes!</span>__**


**The DIRECT launch method is a cost effective alternative to Constellation, it will save NASA billions in the long run**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Seedhouse 9</span> [Erik Seedhouse is an aerospace scientist. He gained his Ph.D. in Physiology while working at the German Space Agency's Institute for Space Medicine in Cologne between 1996 and 1998 and recently worked as an astronaut training consultant for Bigelow Aerospace in Las Vegas. He is a Fellow of the British Interplanetary Society and a member of the Aerospace Medical Association. “Lunar Outpost – the Challenges of Establishing a Human Settlement on the Moon” (219-220), Chetan]

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">In October 2006, an alternative to Constellation was published by a team led by Ross Tierney</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">any new launch system would be Shuttle-derived, so that much of the existing infrastructure could be used. </span>


**We’ll set up in the on the southern pole**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Seedhouse 9</span> [Erik Seedhouse is an aerospace scientist. He gained his Ph.D. in Physiology while working at the German Space Agency's Institute for Space Medicine in Cologne between 1996 and 1998 and recently worked as an astronaut training consultant for Bigelow Aerospace in Las Vegas. He is a Fellow of the British Interplanetary Society and a member of the Aerospace Medical Association. “Lunar Outpost – the Challenges of Establishing a Human Settlement on the Moon” (124-125), Chetan]

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The site of NASA's outpost has yet to be decided </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">corroborated by recent radar data. </span>


=Ohio Valley 1AC= 
Same as above but with the first two cards on MSR as an Inherency contention
and this plan text:
Plan: The United States federal government should use the DIRECT launch mechanism to construct a lunar scientific outpost which includes a quarantine facility which will receive any future United States Mars sample return missions.

=Harvard 1AC= 

==Contention 1: Things that don’t cause extinction== 
**No nuclear winter- this evidence assumes Robock’s new models**
Seitz 6 - former associate of the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard University’s Center for International Affairs (Russell, "The’ Nuclear Winter ’ Meltdown Photoshopping the Apocalypse", [[http://adamant.typepad.com/seitz/2006/12/preherein_honor.html-http://adamant.typepad.com/seitz/2006/12/preherein_honor.html]])
All that remains of Sagan’s Big Chill are curves such as this , but history
AND
nuclear winter models feature so much smoke so far aloft for so long?

**Climate change, disease, nuclear war, ozone depletion and other things don’t cause extinction.**
Muehlhauser 11 (Luke, - Researcher at Singularity Institute, "Potential Causes of Total Human Extinction in the Next 200 Years", 3/20/11 [[http://commonsenseatheism.com/?p=14936-http://commonsenseatheism.com/?p=14936]] Accessed 1/26/11 GAL)
Non-Prospects for Total Human Extinction A volcanic super-eruption ([[VEI 8-http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Volcanic_Explosivity_Index]]
AND
in, for example, mines and [[data storage facilities-http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2aou6c2MOmg%26feature=player_embedded]] and military bunkers.

**Plan: The United States federal government should covertly develop planetary defense capabilities beyond the Earth’s mesosphere, including development of advanced in-space propulsion technologies.**
==Contention 2: Things that do cause extinction== 

==Scenario 1 is Near-Earth Objects== 

**First, high risk of an asteroid strike - new research and history prove strikes happen often and a planet killer could come at any time**
Easterbrook 8 (Gregg, fellow at Brookings, June, the Atlantic Magazine, "The Sky is Falling", [[http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2008/06/the-sky-is-falling/6807/2/-http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2008/06/the-sky-is-falling/6807/2/]], 12-10-11, SRF)
Breakthrough ideas have a way of seeming obvious in retro­spect, and about
AND
rocks, it’s like the entire human race is riding on the plane."



**NEO strike causes extinction**
McGuire 2 (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain’s leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 159-168)
The Tunguska events pale into insignificance when compared to what happened off the coast of
AND
, wc could do little about a new comet heading in our direction.

**NTR propulsion is the only way to deflect a large asteroid**
Zhang et al 11 - X-L Zhang, E Ball, C Granier, L Kochmanski and S D Howe - Centre for Space Nuclear Research, Idaho National Laboratory, "Near-Earth Object Interception Using Nuclear Thermal Rocket Propulsion", Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Part G: Journal of Aerospace Engineering 2011 225: 181, Somya
Selecting the optimal thrust to weight for the interceptor, and plotting mass to LEO
AND
success of various resources and circumstances should apply to many NEO hazard scenarios.


==Scenario 2 is Invasion== 

**Conservative inputs to the Drake equation suggest we should be visited at least once every human’s lifetime. We haven’t been attacked yet because humans have only been detectable for about 100 years.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Taylor and Boan et al 11</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, __Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth,__ pg. 16-21 ]</span>
We have produced electromagnetic spectra potentially detectable by ET for less than 100 years by
AND
in Figure 1.3 and broken down into a bar graph formal.



**AND - They are more likely to be hostile than friendly**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Taylor and Boan et al 11</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, __Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth,__ pg. 108-110] **edited for gendered language** </span>

**Before we address intentions it is important to look at motivators. The human race**
**AND**
**such to our knowledge (assuming the world governments are not doing so).**



**Hostile contact would wipeout our civilization - they would be far more technologically advanced**
**Baum et al 11 -** Seth D. Baum, Department of Geography, Pennsylvania State University, Jacob D. Haqq-Misra, . Department of Meteorology, Pennsylvania State University %26 Shawn D. Domagal-Goldman, NASA Planetary Science Division, "Would Contact with Extraterrestrials Benefit or Harm Humanity? A Scenario Analysis", Acta Astronautica, 2011, 68(11-12): 2114-2129, Somya
If contact between humans and ETI is possible, then it is important to consider
AND
, then they may be able to help solve many of our problems.



**Reducing existential risk by even a tiny amount outweighs every other impact — the math is conclusively on our side.****
Bostrom 11 - <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nick </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Bostrom</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Professor in the Faculty of Philosophy %26 Oxford Martin School, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute, and Director of the Programme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, recipient of the 2009 Eugene R. Gannon Award for the Continued Pursuit of Human Advancement, holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from the London School of Economics, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">2011</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ("The Concept of Existential Risk," Draft of a Paper published on ExistentialRisk.com, Available Online at http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html, Accessed 07-04-2011)</span>
Holding probability constant, risks become more serious as we move toward the upper-
AND
the positive value of the direct benefit of such an action.~~[13~~]




==Contention 3 is Solvency== 

**The most serious deficiency in planetary defense capabilities is lack of propulsion development - only the plan solves**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Taylor and Boan et al 11</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, __Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth,__ pg. 159-161] **edited for gendered language**</span>

The Most Serious Deficiency in Man’s Planetary Defense Capabilities What is the most serious deficiency
AND
capabilities will be in any way limited by sensor and computer technology. .

**Must act now to solve extinction- and, even if the invasion never occurs, the plan solves all other impacts.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Taylor and Boan et al 11</span> **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, __Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth,__ pg. 185-186]</span>**

As far as why there is a need for an alien-invasion survival guide
AND
. We are ill prepared and should be considering our options more seriously.



**Secret unilateral action by the United States to promote space development is key- we have the best military, and multilateral or public efforts would become politicized and fail.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Taylor and Boan et al 11</span> **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, __Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth,__ pg. 139 – 145]</span>**

We must prepare as a nation. This is true even though the strength of
AND
its mission is unique and perhaps critical to longevity of the human race.

**The president has the authority to do the plan**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Taylor and Boan et al 11</span> **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, __Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth,__ pg. 147 - 148]</span>**
*DSC = director Sisth Column

Of course the DSC should have deputies with delegated authorities and various science and technical
AND
and SSCI should be determined at the onset of the Sixth Column’s birth.


**Extraterrestrial intelligent life exists – the Drake Equation predicts at least 10,000 other civilizations, and that’s an underestimate.**
Nadis 10 -<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> Steve Nadis – Editor for Astronomy Magazine, former staff researcher for the Union of Concerned Scientists, Nadis has also been a research fellow at MIT and a consultant to the World Resources Institute, the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, and WGBH/NOVA, [[astronomy-javascript/__doLinkPostBack('','mdb%7E%7Ea9h%7C%7Cjdb%7E%7Ea9hjnh%7C%7Css%7E%7EJN %22Astronomy%22%7C%7Csl%7E%7Ejh','');|Astronomy-javascript/__doLinkPostBack('','mdb%7E%7Ea9h%7C%7Cjdb%7E%7Ea9hjnh%7C%7Css%7E%7EJN %22Astronomy%22%7C%7Csl%7E%7Ejh','');]]; Apr2010, Vol. 38 Issue 4, , "How many civilizations lurk in the cosmos? (cover story)," p24-29, EBSCO, Somya </span>
To serve as an agenda, Drake devised an equation for estimating how many communicating
AND
because we may have to look at 20 million stars before finding anything.



===2AC ESA CP=== 
**The US is unquestionably the military leader and must lead the planetary defense efforts. The ESA doesn’t even have a military**
Kagan 12 - Robert Kagan - Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, Center on the United States and Europe at the Brookings Institute, January 17, 2012, "Not Fade Away: Against the Myth of American Decline," http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2012/0117_us_power_kagan.aspx, Somya

Military capacity matters, too, as early nineteenth-century China learned and Chinese
AND
battle. American naval power remains predominant in every region of the world.

**Specifically, secrecy key to solve aliens**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Taylor and Boan et al 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth,</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> pg. 121, Somya]</span>

Dr. Taylor and Dr. Boan both feel that leaking the information to the
AND
implementing an ambush on them. Letting the public know removes that capability.


**Perm do both – any deflection strategy depends on US involvement**
National Space Society 94 <span style="font-size: 10pt;">~~["Preparing for Planetary Defense: Detection and Interception of Asteroids on Collision Course with Earth" - White Paper on Planetary Defense of the Air University Spacecast 2020 Study Group - 1994, [[http://www.nss.org/resources/library/planetarydefense/1994-DetectionAndInterceptionOfAsteroidsOnCollisionCourseWithEarth.pdf-http://www.nss.org/resources/library/planetarydefense/1994-DetectionAndInterceptionOfAsteroidsOnCollisionCourseWithEarth.pdf]], Chetan~~] </span>


4. The anticipated nation-wide call for action. Were an impactor to
AND
that the DoD will form the core around which the rest could organize.
**The ESA can barely continue funding the ISS – maintaining the present spending level is critical**
Taverna 11 ~~[Michael A. Taverna, "European Space Agency Faces Spending Freeze", January 31st, 2011, [[http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_generic.jsp?channel=awst%26id=news/awst/2011/01/24/AW_01_24_2011_p40-284154.xml-http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_generic.jsp?channel=awst%26id=news/awst/2011/01/24/AW_01_24_2011_p40-284154.xml]], Chetan~~]

For the time being, Dordain says, ESA will focus on "who is
AND
each can be covered at present spending levels, the ESA chief says.

**ISS commitment and research solves for diseases**
Blakey 9 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Marion C. - President and Chief Executive Officer of the Aerospace Industries Association. Q%26A period of a hearing on "Decisions on the Future Direction and Funding for Nasa: What Will They Mean for the U.S. Aerospace Workforce and Industrial Base?" by the Committee on Science and Technology, House of Representatives December 10, 2009. pgs 41-42. http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-111hhrg54449/pdf/CHRG-111hhrg54449.pdf ps)</span>

Mr. OLSON. One other question and this is sort of about our indigenous
AND
on multi levels that you can see from this kind of international cooperation.

**Disease causes extinction**
Yu 9 - (5/22/09, Victoria, Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science Writer, "Human Extinction: The Uncertainty of Our Fate," http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate)

A pandemic will kill off all humans. In the past, humans have indeed
AND
which could only infect birds — into a human-viable strain (10


===2AC Bunker CP=== 
**Mars colonization is impossible without NTRs – solves all the barriers to space travel**
Howe and O~’Brien 10 ~~[Steven D. Howe and Robert C. O~’Brien - Center for Space Nuclear Research, "Recent Activities At The Center For Space Nuclear Research For Developing Nuclear Thermal Rockets" September 2010, [[http://www.inl.gov/technicalpublications/Documents/4731768.pdf-http://www.inl.gov/technicalpublications/Documents/4731768.pdf]], Chetan~~]

Missions to Mars In 2008, the NASA Mars Architecture Team reported ~~[15~~]
AND
the crew and also alleviates potential psychological difficulties incurred in very long missions.

**Mars can be a lifeboat allowing humans to avoid inevitable extinction**
FREEMAN 11<span style="font-size: 7pt;">—major in neuroscience/ minor in philosophy (29 June 2011, "Humanity Should Begin Efforts to Colonize Mars," [[http://www.debate.org/debates/Humanity-Should-Begin-Efforts-to-Colonize-Mars/1/-http://www.debate.org/debates/Humanity-Should-Begin-Efforts-to-Colonize-Mars/1/]])</span>

C4: Colonizing Mars helps ensure the survival of the human species. Mars offers
AND
that colonizing Mars is economically feasible, and it has numerous other benefits.

**Mars is the best place in the solar system for colonization—all necessary resources are accessible**
Zubrin 97, Ph.D., Nuclear Engingeering, M.A., Aeronautics and Astronautics, president of pioneer Astronautics and the founder of the Mars Society, former senior engineer at Lockheed Martin Astronautics (Robert, "The Economic Viability of Mars Colonization,"[[http://www.aleph.se/Trans/Tech/Space/mars.html-http://www.aleph.se/Trans/Tech/Space/mars.html]])

Among extraterrestrial bodies in our solar system, Mars is unique in that it possesses
AND
the solar system where humans will be able to grow crops for export.


=Negative= 
==T- Development== 
A. Interpretation: “Space development” is creating __hardware__ for __peaceful purposes__ --- includes satellites and launch vehicles
<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Hwang 6</span> (Chin Young, Policy and International Relations Division – Korea Aerospace Research Institute, “Space Activities in Korea—History, Current Programs and Future Plans”, Space Policy, 22(3), August, p. 199)

<span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Space development</span>__</span> __in Korea <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">has several characteristics. </span>__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">to the ISS through the international cooperation program.</span>
==T- it's== 
**Its” is possessive.**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">English Grammar 5</span> (Glossary of English Grammar Terms, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.usingenglish.com/glossary/possessive-pronoun.html]]</span>)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mine, yours, his, hers, </span>its<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, ours, theirs </span><span class="Style11ptBlackUnderline">are</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>possessive<span style="color: black;">[[http://www.usingenglish.com/glossary/pronoun.html|pronouns]]</span><span class="Style11ptBlackUnderline">used to substitute a </span><span style="color: black;">[[http://www.usingenglish.com/glossary/noun.html|noun]]</span><span class="Style11ptBlackUnderline"> and </span>to show<span class="Style11ptBlackUnderline"> possession or </span>ownership<span class="Style11ptBlackUnderline">. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">EG. This is your disk and that's mine. (Mine substitutes the word disk and shows that it belongs to me.)</span>

**USFG incentives for space activities are __distinc____t__ from “its” space development programs.**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Berger, 11 -</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Houston Chronicle's space, weather and science reporter. (“NASA still being torn between commercial space and its own rockets,” Houston Chronicle Blog, 2/14, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://blog.chron.com/sciguy/2011/02/nasa-still-being-torn-between-commercial-space-and-its-own-rockets/]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The president’s budget for NASA .....</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">but just $2.8 billion on a new NASA rocket and crew vehicle.</span>

==Politics- Highway Bill== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Highway funding passage likely but it will be a major fight – politicalcapital key to ensure clean extension</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Halsey, 9/5/</span>11 (Ashley Halsey III, The Washington Post, Democrats brace for possible next fight: highway funding, http://seattletimes.nwsource.com/html/nationworld/2016119565_highway06.html)
Democrats are preparing to wage a major Capitol Hill battle over...... , 1.8 million transportation-related jobs would be jeopardized.

**SPS requires tons of political capital**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">David 8 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Leonard, Research Associate – Secure World Foundation and Senior Space Writer – Space.com, “Space-Based Solar Power - Harvesting Energy from Space”, CleanTech, 5-15, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.azocleantech.com/article.aspx?%20ArticleId=69|http://www.azocleantech.com/article.aspx? ArticleId=69]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

Overall, pushing forward on SBSP "is a complex problem ........ political will to go forward with this," Teets said.

**Risks double dip recession and destroys US infrastructure.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Baltimore Sun, 9/6</span>/11 (Congress creates a transportation time bomb, [[http://www.baltimoresun.com/news/opinion/editorial/bs-ed-highway-impasse-20110906,0,410601.story]])
Overshadowed in this brouhaha is something...... That's the kind of anti-stimulus that could ensure a double-dip recession

**Economic collapse kills social justice, causes pollution, drug trafficking, crime, disease and famine**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Silk 96</span>
(Chair of Business Week Board, Making Capitalism Work, pp. 27-8)
Like the Great Depression,......sickness, famine, AIDS, and other plagues.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Highways are key to military readiness </span>**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">GlobalSecurity.org 11 – 5/7/11, “National Defense Highway System”, http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/facility/ndhs.htm, [Ofir]</span>


When President Eisenhower went to Kansas ...... <span style="font-size: 10pt;">to allow for mass evacuation of cities in the event of a nuclear attack</span>


**Readiness is key to prevent war with great power adversaries**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Feldstein 07 </span>**- Professor of Economics @ Harvard University [Martin Feldstein (President and CEO of the National Bureau of Economic Research.), "The Underfunded Pentagon," Foreign Affairs, March /April 2007, Volume 86 • Number 2]
Deterring other great powers, such as Russia and China,..... of the U.S. military<span class="underline"> structure.</span>
== == 
==__Spending DA__== 

**We’re on the brink of recession – biz con, financing costs, exports, energy, jobs, auto industry, unemployment and private sector debt**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">McElfresh 9/1/11</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> – [</span>“Banking leader discusses U.S. economy,” theadvertiser.com, http://www.theadvertiser.com/article/20110901/BUSINESS/109010347] – Amanda McElfresh is a Masters in Mass Communication and a Staff Writer at the Daily Advertiser. She cites Dennis Lockhart, who’s the president and CEO of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. [OStolarski]

The nation's economic recovery will continue at a modest pace
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the need for longer-term structural adjustments."</span>

**Plan’s expensive – it costs $10,000 to put anything into space**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">KAKU 09</span> professor of theoretical physics at the City University of New York [Michio Kaku, “The Cost of Space Exploration,” July 16, 2009,[[http://www.forbes.com/2009/07/16/apollo-moon-landing-anniversary-opinions-contributors-cost-money.html]]]



But after 1969, the Soviets dropped out of the race to the moon
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">to reach the space station, which is a completely circular and illogical argument. </span>

**Space spending kills the economy – empirically destroys consumer confidence and GDP**

Robert **<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Murphy</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, </span>Adjunct Scholar of the Mises Institute, **<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">05</span>** The Free Market, “A Free Market in Space”, 1/05, V. 26 N. 1



What people can’t see are the thousands of other goods and services
an alternative plan could have provided the subjects with a better outcome.
==Radio Astronomy DA== 
**The plan’s global coverage is different that status quo specific area coverage – triggers a much worse link**
<span class="s1">**OECD 04**</span>– (Jan. 2004, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Global Science Forum, members include Michael Goddard (Chair), Spectrum Policy Director UK Radiocommunications Agency, Makoto Inoue, Director, Nobeyama Radio Observatory National Astronomical Observatory of Japan, Paul A. Vanden Bout, Senior Scientist and former Director U.S. National Radio Astronomy Observatory, William Hatch (retired), Associate Administrator, Office of Spectrum Management National Telecommunications & Information Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce “Report of the Task Force on Radio Astronomy and the Radio Spectrum,” http://www.oecd.org/dataoecd/54/33/28011602.pdf)

Early commercial satellite systems were in the Fixed-Satellite Service (FSS) category
AND
large numbers of rapidly-moving satellites complicate the situation for radio astronomy.

**Radio astronomy key to NEO detection – better data to protect the Earth**

**Irvine et. al. 05**<span class="s3"> – (</span>2005, edited by William M. Irvine, PhD from Harvard, Professor of Astronomy at University of Massachusetts at Amherst, Esperanza Carrasco, PhD, researcher at INAOE, and Itziar Aretxaga, astronomer, astrophysicist, researcher at INAOE, written by joint panels and published jointly by Five College Radio Astronomy Observatory at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst and the Instituto Nacional de Astrofísica, Óptica y Electrónica (INAOE), “Planetary Science and Astrobiology,” in The Large Millimeter Telescope Book,[[http://www.lmtgtm.org/book/lmtbook.html]] )

However, such transmitters for mm wavelengths are now becoming available. With such equipment
AND
LMT would not need to cease transmitting in order to monitor the echo)

**Specifically, U.S. Arecibo Observatory is best for NEO detection**

**Fortuno 07**<span class="s3"> – (</span>2007, Luis, “H. R. 3737: To provide for National Science Foundation and National Aeronautics and Space Administration utilization of the Arecibo Observatory,” bill introduced Oct 3, [[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=25609]])

(1) Arecibo Observatory is the world's largest single-aperture telescope. It
AND
Arecibo Observatory is an outstanding resource to Congress and to the American People.

<span class="s1">**Asteroid impacts are the only scenario for extinction**</span>

<span class="s1">**Marusek 07**</span> – (James, nuclear physicist and engineer, formerly with the US Navy, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, “Comet and Asteroid Threat Impact Analysis,” <span class="s4">[[http://www.aero.org/conferences/planetarydefense/2007papers/P4-3--Marusek-Paper.pdf]]</span>)

A deep impact produces two zones of destruction: one at the point-of
AND
impacts are not random. Rather they occur with regularity in geological time.


==Space Mil DA== 
**The US is not weaponizing space now**
**Porter 11** [Charles, “EU Consider Code of Conduct for Space”; Website; June 17; <span style="color: #173694; text-decoration: none;">[[http://iipdigital.usembassy.gov/st/english/article/2011/06/20110617155237enelrahc3.353298e-03.html#ixzz1Qb7c0PBD|http://iipdigital.usembassy.gov/st/english/article/2011/06/20110617155237enelrahc3.353298e-03.html#ixzz1Qb7c0PBD]]</span>]

Coming to a shared understanding of
__and is hopeful these discussions will lead to measures that solve existing problems.__
**<span style="color: black;">Space weaponization is not certain – superpowers already abandoned their weapons</span>**
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Hardesty 05</span><span style="color: black;"> – </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">President of West Virginia University,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> J</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.D. from [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harvard_Law_School|Harvard Law School]], and a B.A./M.A. from [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oxford_University|Oxford University]], former Tax Commissioner of West Virginia (David C. Hardesty “[[http://www.nwc.navy.mil/press/review/documents/NWCRSP05.pdf|Space-Based Weapons: Long-Term Strategic Implications and Alternatives]],” Spring 2005, [[http://www.usnwc.edu/press/review/documents/NWCRSP05.pdf]]) MH</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">As </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">for the inevitability argument </span>__
<span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">soundness of the</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif;"> analogy.”</span>__

**Perception of space weaponization causes an arms race in space**
**Graham 02** President of the Lawyers Alliance for World Security (LAWS), served as Special Representative of the President for Arms Control, Non-Proliferation, and Disarmament from 1994-1997 ( Thomas, “International Law and the Military Uses of Space”, Disarmament Diplomacy, March-April, [[http://www.acronym.org.uk/dd/dd63/63op1.htm]])

The realisation of the increasing vulnerability of
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is crucial that this happen as soon as possible.</span>
==Weaponization DA== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Huntley, 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, [[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">As is well understood, the space policies of the Bush administration .....</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Many devils may lurk in these details. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The plan’s unilateralism undermines the NSP – it occurs without genuine consultation and will be __perceived__ as abandoning the commitment to international partnership</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Smith 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">-- Space and Technology Policy Group </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(February, 2011, Marcia A., Space Policy, Vol. 27, Issue 1, p. 22-23, Science Direct, FS)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Over succeeding months .....</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">at a meeting at the UN in October 2010 [5]. </span>

**Weaponization causes hair–trigger stance and accidental nuclear war**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Mitchell 1</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans–Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">A buildup of space weapons might.... </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">military conflict ever seen.</span>



==**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Elections DA</span>**== 
**Obama’s efforts to lower unemployment will allow him to win the elections**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Munro 11/28 (Neil, publisher at the daily caller, Nov. 28th 2011, Daily Caller, “Obama’s 2012 campaign builds quiet momentum” </span>[[http://dailycaller.com/2011/11/28/obamas-2012-campaign-builds-quiet-momentum/]]<span style="font-size: 13pt;">, CJD) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">While President Barack....</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to fund the Social Security retirement program. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Read more: [[http://dailycaller.com/2011/11/28/obamas-2012-campaign-builds-quiet-momentum/#ixzz1fLA8mFOi|http://dailycaller.com/2011/11/28/obamas-2012-campaign-builds-quiet-momentum/#ixzz1fLA8mFOi]]</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Romney will win the nomination</span>**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ellis 11/23 (Johnathan, writer at argus leader news, Nov. 23rd, 2011, Argus Leader.com, “Thune backs Romney: 'I think he can win”, </span>[[http://www.argusleader.com/article/20111124/NEWS/311240019/Thune-backs-Romney-think-he-can-win-]]<span style="font-size: 13pt;">, CJD)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Thune campaigned with Romney .....</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to have Thune’s support.</span>

**New spending upsets independents – makes them vote GOP.**



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gould and Walter, ’11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Martin and Kathleen, “Ed Gillespie: GOP Will Sweep 2012, Voters Now See Obama in 'Over His Head', July 12, 2011, http://www.newsmax.com/Headline/Gillespie-Obama-economy-leadership/2011/07/12/id/403350</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">“It will be very difficult for President Obama .....</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">it’s very frustrating to these voters.”</span>



**Romney will China bash**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ewing 11/30 (Kent, writer at Asia Times, Nov. 30th, 2011, Asia Times, “Obama takes early aim at China for 2012”, </span>[[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/MK30Ad01.html]]<span style="font-size: 13pt;">, CJD) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Making it even simpler ......</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, as many economists expect. </span>



**Currency pressure on China risks a trade war and crushes relations**



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Isidore 10/13 </span>

staff writer @ CNN Money (Chris, 2011, "China-U.S. trade wars: What's at stake," http://money.cnn.com/2011/10/13/news/international/china_us_trade/?source=cnn_bin)

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">NEW YORK (CNNMoney) -- </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">China and the United States.....</span>
<span class="underline">an adverse impact on bilateral relations."</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US China trade relations are key to solving for extinction</span>**



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wenzhong 4</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">2/7/4“Vigorously Pushing Forward the Constructive and Cooperative Relationship Between China and the United States --In commemoration of the 25th anniversary of China-US diplomatic relations;” Zhou Wenzhong - Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People’s Republic of China;2004/02/07; http://www.fmprc.gov.cn/eng/wjdt/zyjh/t64286.htm</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">China's development needs a .....</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, we will see even greater accomplishments in China-US relations.</span>











==**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Pan K</span>**== 
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The aff’s portrayal of China as a knowable object and a threat to the United States legitimates otherizing power politics which transforms our conceptions of China into a social reality</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Pan, 2004 [Lecturer in International Relations, School of International and Political Studies at Deakin University (Chengxin, “The "China Threat" in American Self-Imagination”, Alternatives 29 (2004), 305-331, Galileo) Chetan</span>
__<span style="color: black;">China and its relationship with the United States ...</span>__
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">.^ It is in this context that this article seeks to make a contribution.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Representations form the foundation of our relationship with China – the symbols and images advanced by the 1ac are more influential than official, state to state interactions</span>**

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Liss, 2003 MA Student in Asian Studies at the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University (Alexander, “Images of China in the American Print Media: a survey from 2000 to 2002”, Journal of Contemporary China, May2003, Vol. 12 Issue 35, p299, 20p)</span>

__<span style="color: black;">The relationship between the United States and China</span>__
__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">the international relations between two countries.</span>__
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The alternative - vote negative as a refusal of rendering China knowable and as a vital step in allowing alternative, less dangerous ways of viewing China to emerge</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The affirmative’s discursive construction of China as a “threatening other” makes arms races and armed conflict between the US and China inevitable – merely tinkering with current ways of viewing China is inadequate</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Pan, 2004 Lecturer in International Relations, School of International and Political Studies at Deakin University (Chengxin, “The "China Threat" in American Self-Imagination”, Alternatives 29 (2004), 305-331, Galileo) Chetan</span>

<span style="color: black;">I have argued above that</span>__<span style="color: black;">the "China threat" ....</span>__
__<span style="color: black;">interpreting and debating China might become possible.</span>__
==**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Heg K</span>**== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Their depiction of United States “benevolent hegemony” is massively ignorant of history and legitimizes the third American holocaust. Extension of hegemony promotes a framework of American universal history which terminates the being of all others. </span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sardar & Wyn Davies 4</span>** [Ziauddin, Visiting Professor, the School of Arts, The City University, London, Chair – Muslim Institute; Merryl, Welsh Muslim anthropologist; American Terminator: Myths, Movies, and Global Power p211]

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Consider, for example, Michael ......</span>
<span class="Heading3CharCharChar">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Indeed, they are not people at all!</span>__</span>




**AND - There are two models for public intellectuals: We can either emulate expert pundits like Kagan who aim their advice at centers of power or we can be intellectuals like Chomsky- exposing lies and providing the toolkit needed to mobilize for change – this is the role of the ballot**
**Our alternative is not a fiated advocacy to be implemented by policy elites, but a way to lay bare the lies and propaganda advanced by the 1ac, which is an ethically superior approach that provides ordinary citizens with the agency to pursue alternatives.**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Guerlain 6</span>** (Pierre, Professor at Paris West University Nanterre La Défense, “Robert Kagan and Noam Chomsky: Two ways of being a political intellectual”, Comparative International Studies, Vol 4(4): 446-458 GAL)



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Although the word 'intellectual' is more ......</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Chomsky than the nation-state while the princes of the nation are Kagan's main focus.</span>



==**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">"Cripple" K</span>**== 
**Their rhetorical choice perpetuates ableist oppression** 
<span class="s1">**Kuusisto ‘9** </span>[Steve, Lit Prof, U of Iowa, “Ableism Cast a Library Pallor Yet Again,” Planet of the Blind, [[http://www.planet-of-the-blind.com/2009/01/ableism-casts-a-libray-pallor-yet-again.html|www.planet-of-the-blind.com/2009/01/ableism-casts-a-libray-pallor-yet-again.html]]]

Perhaps this is funny stuff, a privileged absentia of empathy rendered as aesthetic judgment
AND
even vaguely aware of the way language is implicated in discrimination and exclusion." 

**Voting Issue – Ableist Speech strengthens oppression and destroys the purposes of public debate – the impacts trump the other warrants in their arguments**
<span class="s2">**Wheelchair Dancer 8**</span> (“On Making Argument: Disability and Language”, 4/28/8 [[http://cripwheels.blogspot.com/2008/04/on-making-argument-disability-and.html]] Accessed: 2/10/11 GAL)

If you are feeling a little bit of resistance, here, I'd ask 
AND
systems of oppression that motivated us to speak out in the first place. 

==**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Cape Canaveral DA</span>**== 

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Cape Canaveral is normal means for launches – closest to the equator and its on the east coast</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Primer 9</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Magazine, 11/17/9, http://www.primermagazine.com/2009/field-manual/know-it-all-why-does-nasa-launch-their-shuttles-from-florida) JPG</span>
<span style="color: black;">It seems like before every __space shuttle launch from Cape Canaveral......__</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(not the case with more southern American locations like Hawaii or Puerto Rico).</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Cape Canaveral is home to the Florida Scrub Jay – expanded launches kill its habitat</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">George 11</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Donald, staff sergeant U.S. Air Force, Spring, Endangered Species Bulletin, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0ASV/is_1_36/ai_n57586307/) JPG</span>
__<span style="color: black;">Cape Canaveral</span>__<span style="color: black;"> Air Force Station __is the only U.S. space launch ......__</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">and all activities that impact scrub habitat on the base incur a 4:1 mitigation requirement to offset the habitat loss.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Florida scrub jays are a keystone species – protecting their habitat is key to preserve the Florida ecosystem – every animal counts for biodiversity</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">SUSF 2009</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (State Univeristy System of Florida, Publication of Archival Library & Museum Materials, http://palmm.fcla.edu/lfnh/currmat/Biodiversityinfo.shtml) JPG</span>
<span style="color: black;">Most efforts to restore endangered species .....</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">What would Florida be without herons, eagles, or zebra long-wing butterflies?</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Florida is key to global biodiversity</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Whitney, Means and Rudloe 2004</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Eleanor Noss Whitney – Ph.D. in Bio @ Washington U, D. Bruce Means – President and Executive Director of the Coastal Plains Institute and Land Conservancy & starred in 8 documentary films, Anne Rudloe – PhD in biology @ Florida State U, “Priceless Florida: natural ecosystems and native species”, pp. 97, google books) JPG</span>
<span style="color: black;">The single 35-mile stretch of ravines on the east side .....</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">is owned by the state and managed as Torreya State Park.4</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Loss of biodiversity leads to extinction</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Diner</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Major, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">94</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Major David N.; Instructor, Administrative and Civil Law Division, The Judge Advocate General's School, United States Army) "The Army and the Endangered Species Act: Who's Endangering Whom?" 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161l/n WBW</span>

__<span style="color: black;">Biologically diverse ecosystems are .....</span>__
__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">may be edging closer to the abyss</span>____<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7.5pt;">.</span>__
==**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Ozone DA</span>**== 
Increased rocket launches crush the ozone – the status quo is sustainable
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ross et. al. 9</span> (Martin – environmental Systems Directorate @ Aerospace, Ph.D. @ UCLA in Earth and planetary sciences, Darin Toohey, Manfred Peinemann and Patrick Ross, January, http://www.makealeap.org/node/41204) JPG
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The global market for </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">rocket launches..... </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">rockets could become significant.</span>



That causes extinction

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Smith and Daniel 99</span>** (Tyrrel W. Smith, Jr., Ph.D. TRW Space & Electronics Group and John R. Edwards Daniel Pilson Environmental Management Branch “Summary of the Impact of Launch Vehicle Exhaust and Deorbiting Space and Meteorite Debris on Stratospheric Ozone” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA414306]])



__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The ozone layer ....</span>__
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">ecosystems also may occur</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Martin [1998], WMO [1998]).</span>


==**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">EIS CP</span>**== 
**Plan: The United States federal government should [insert plan] subject to completion of a binding environmental impact assessment.**



**CP competes – Avoids environment DA and any permutation severs “resolved”**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Which means - Firm in purpose or intent</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dictionary.com [http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/resolved]</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">firm in purpose or intent</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">; determined.</span>

**Severance permutations should be rejected, stable aff plan is the basis of neg predictability and competitive equity.**

**And, impact statement ensures plan does not have devastating effect on environment**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wexler 8</span> (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lesley, Professor of Law – Florida State University and Former Debater – University of Michigan, “Human Rights Impact Assessments: An Immigration Case Study”, Georgetown Immigration Law Journal, 22 Geo. Immigr. L.J. 285, Winter, Lexis)sbl</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Under the National Environmental Protection Act .... </span>__
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">of reasonable alternatives</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. n104</span>

==**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Code of Conduct CP</span>**== 
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Text: The United States Federal Government should sign and ratify the Code of Conduct for outer space activities.</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A Code of Conduct Treaty is the stepping stone for space exploration</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Krepon 7 </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">[ Michael, co-founder of the Henry L. Stimson Center., Summer 2007, Disarmament Times, Assuring Space Security: A Code of Conduct for Space, Summer 2007, http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=76%3Adt2007summerKrepon&catid=60%3Adt2007summer&Itemid=2, Azimi]</span>

<span style="color: black;">Support is growing for a Code of Conduct</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">likely necessary to promulgate a treaty.</span>
==**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Arms Race DA</span>**== 
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Weaponization causes global insecurity and arms races, increasing space debris and risking rapid nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hoey, 6</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – Research Associate at the Institute for Defense and Disarmament Studies, writer for the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, [Mathew, Space Review, “Military Space Systems: The Road Ahead” February 26, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/563/1]</span>

<span style="color: black;">Many people believe that </span>__<span style="color: black;">a deployed anti</span>__
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">to ban weapons in space is long overdue. Within a very few years, this potential development could become a reality.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">It escalates and draws in every major power, including China, Russia, India, Pakistan, Iran, and Israel</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hitchens, 7</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> –– director of the World Security Institute’s Center for Defense Information (Theresa, Disarmament Times, “An ASAT Arms Race: The Slippery Slope to Space Weaponization?.” http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?view=article&catid=60%3Adt2007summer&id=51%3Adt2007summerHitchens&option=com_content&Itemid=2\)</span>

<span style="color: black;">Russia. </span>__<span style="color: black;">Like the US</span>__

__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Israeli officials have been eyeing Iran’s efforts to become a space power with alarm.</span>__
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">That would kill heg and destroy US space leadership, outweighing any short–term boost from the plan</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hitchens, 2</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> –CDI Vice President, (Theresa, April 18 “Weapons in Space: Silver Bullet or Russian Roulette? The Policy Implications of U.S. Pursuit of Space–Based Weapons”, http://www.cdi.org/missile–defense/spaceweapons.cfm)</span>

<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">China and Russia long have been worried about</span>
<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">a unique advantage of being a military superpower.</span>
==**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Space Debris DA</span>**== 
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Space debris has increased and ANY new exploration or developments in space makes collisions more likely, which creates more space debris</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">DUNCAN 6-3-2010(ROWE GRAHAM: a freelance science and technology journalist:Junk in space; Our world is surrounded by debris - and doing nothing is not an option: http://www.lexisnexis.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/lnacui2api/results /docview /docview.do?docLinkInd=true&risb=21_T12363130625&format=GNBFI&sort=RELEVANCE&startDocNo=1&resultsUrlKey=29_T12363128982&cisb=22_T12363130627&treeMax=true&treeWidth=0&csi=10939&docNo=1)</span>
<span style="color: black;">The curvature of the Earth, the deep, blackness of space and a peaceful, unfettered</span>
__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">If we wait too long while doing nothing, then we get to the point where we can't do anything."</span>__



**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Space debris makes space unusable and destroys our satellite network: Turns the case</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Jeremy 10</span>**

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(8-25-10: Keep space tidy: the space debris problem: http://makewealthhistory.org /2010/08/25/keep-space-tidy-the-space-debris-problem/)</span>

<span style="color: black;">Having written about the Atlantic trash</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">we need to lie awake worrying about space debris, but I think it symbolises our careless attitude to the earth rather well.</span></span>
==Heg Defense 1NC== 
Heg doesn’t solve war
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Preble 10</span>** [Christopher Preble (director of foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute) August 2010 “U.S. Military Power: Preeminence for What Purpose?” [[http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/u-s-military-power-preeminence-for-what-purpose/]]]

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Most in Washington still embraces ......</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">pick up the tab.</span>



==Warming Defense 1NC== 
warming isn’t a doomsday scenario—historical evidence and recent studies all prove there’s only a risk it stops famine and leads to better climates
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stampf 07</span>** [Olaf Stampf, “Global Warming: Not the End of the World as We Know It”, Spiegel International 5-7-07, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.spiegel.de/international/germany/0,1518,481684,00.html]]</span>]x`

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">How bad is climate change really? ..... </span>__
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">stretches of land depopulated</span>__.
==Resource Wars Defense 1NC== 
No resource wars - Globalization
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Seng, 2k</span>**[MAJ Ronnie Lim Gek Seng, “Globalisation and Its Impact on Security in Southeast Asia,” Journal of the Singapor Armed Forces, Journal V26 N3 (Jul - Sep 2000), <span style="font-size: 5pt;">[[http://www.mindef.gov.sg/safti/pointer/back/journals/2000/Vol26_3/3.htm]]</span>]
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The resource motivations for conquest.... </span>__
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">even more remote</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
==Warming CO2 agr. 1NC== 
I**ncreased CO2 is key to crop fertilization that sustains biodiversity and prevents famine**
**Idso & Idso 07** Research Physicist with the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Agricultural Research Service, Vice President of the Center for the Study of Carbon Dioxide and Global Change with a PhD in Botany, former Director of Environmental Science at Peabody Energy in St. Louis, Missouri and is a member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, American Geophysical Union, American Meteorological Society, Arizona-Nevada Academy of Sciences, Association of American Geographers, Ecological Society of America, and The Honor Society of Phi Kappa Phi
[Sherwood & Craig, Carbon Dioxide and Global Change: Separating Scientific Fact from Personal Opinion, __The Center for the Study of Carbon Dioxide and Global Change__ (<span style="color: blue;">[[http://co2science.org/education/reports/hansen/HansenTestimonyCritique.pdf]]</span>) p. 17-19]

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">How much land can ten billion people .....</span>__
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the biosphere in the process</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**Famine sparks World War 3**

Calvin 98 Professor of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences at the University of Washington

[William H., January, The Great Climate Flip-Flop, The Atlantic Monthly, Ebsco Host]



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The population-crash ...... </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">warming from the North Atlantic.</span>


==SPS Solvency 1NC== 
**Multiple tech issues make SPS not feasible now**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mankins 8</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(John, pres of Artemis Innovation Management Solutions, adAstra, Spring, pg. 20, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf]]</span>, accessed: 25 June 2011, JT)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">A handful of the technical ......</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">at higher than ambient temperatures. </span>


**SPS fails:**
**1. High Launch costs and number of launches**
**2. Radiation and debris ruin effectiveness and prevent assembly in-orbit**
**3. It would violate international law**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rapp 7</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Donald, Research Professor @ Viterbi School of Engineering @ USC with 50 years of post-doctoral experience, PhD in Chemical Physics @ Berkeley, formerly employed at the NASA JPL in Pasadena, expert in requirements, architectures and transportation systems for space missions, with particular emphasis on impact of in situ resource utilization, “Solar Power Beamed from Space”, Astropolitics 5: 63-86 GAL) </span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">A multitude of issues hang over the SPS ..... </span>__
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">military uses of space.</span>__

**Transmission fails - ionosphere blocks**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Bansal, 5/23</span> <span class="CitesChar">(Gauray Bansal is a writer for EcoFriend, a news agency about green energy, “The Good, the bad and the ugly: Space based solar energy,” May 23 2011, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ecofriend.com/entry/the-good-the-bad-and-the-ugly-space-based-solar-energy/]]</span> )</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">2.Laser beam penetration: .....</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">a significant barrier to transmission.</span>


**SPS can only be done through international cooperation**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Collins et al 2k </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Patrick, co-founder Space Future Consulting, Elsevier, 5/16, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.spacecanada.org/docs/report-of-workshop-on-clean-and-inexhaustible-sbsp.pdf]]</span>, accessed 6-26-11, CH)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Many previous studies ......</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">of engineering and demonstration projects.</span>

==SPS Econ 1NC== 
The Plan will lead to a loss of jobs from oil and other such industries
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Schulz ’09 [Max Schulz, Senior fellow at Manhattan’s institute for Energy Policy and the Environment, “Don’t Count on ‘Countless’ Green Jobs’ http://online.wsj.com/article/SB123509599682529113.html]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">What about jobs in the traditional ......</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">the economy isn't one of them.</span>



==A2: Inflatable== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14pt;">Inflatable SPS faces multiple tech barriers, including space debris - your author </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14pt;">Brown 9</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – Masters in Science; Trevor, MSc from Nanyang Technological University, 2009, “SSP: a spherical architecture,” The Space Review, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1383/1]]</span>, Somya</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The key to the concept’s feasibility is .....</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">with micrometeorites and space debris.</span>__



==Neg Strat (Wake Forest)== 

**Round 1: Montgomery Bell MR (SPS)**
-T "peace"
-Cape Canaveral DA
-Pan K
-Highway Bill DA
-Spending DA

**Round 3: Mountain Brook RG (Brilliant Pebbles-Space weap)**
-T "peace"
**-**Weaponization DA
-Pan K
-Arms Race DA
-Code-of-Conduct CP

**Round 6: Milton DP (SPS)**
-T "peace"
-Space Debris DA
-Spending DA
-Highway bill
-Cape Canaveral DA


==Ohio Valley== 
**Round 1: Marshfield** **(Space tourism)**
T- it's
Weaponization DA
Elections DA
EIS CP(2NR)
Ozone DA(2NR)
**Round 4: Mountain Brook** **(SPS)**
Heg K
EIS CP
Elections DA
Ozone DA(2NR)
**Round 6: Carrolton Sacred Heart** **(SPS)**
Heg K(2NR)
EIS CP
Elections DA
Ozone DA


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: 0px; overflow-x: hidden; overflow-y: hidden; position: absolute; top: -25px; width: 1px;">Overshadowed in this brouhaha is something</span>