[[toc]]
For Aff cites/questions, e-mail: [[mailto:chrismoxley05@gmail.com|chrismoxley05@gmail.com]]
For Neg cites/questions, repeatedly e-mail: [[mailto:n.karusala@gmail.com|n.karusala@gmail.com]]
[[media type="custom" key="11682214"]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC -Wake Forest&Hooch== 
===SPS=== 
===Plan Text=== 

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">The United States federal government should fund the launch and development of Solar Powered Satellites.</span>

===**India**=== 

The plan dramatically boosts US soft power allowing for US-India cooperation on SPS
NSSO 7– report by the National Security Space Office, a branch of the DOD
(“Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security,” __http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf__, dml)
The SBSP Study…a framework immediately.

Soft Power incentivizes cooperation through diplomatic measures.
Nye 5/30 -- University Distinguished Service Professor at Harvard Universityand former dean of the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard (“Power and foreign policy.” Journal of Political Power 4:1, 5/30 2011, http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1080/2158379X.2011.555960)
Some analysts regard...the hill’ effect.

**Scenario 1: ASATs**

India’s space policy is at a watershed moment – cooperation with India allows us to define the partnership and prevent an arms buildup – treaties don’t solve
Johnson-Freese 11– professor of national security affairs at the Naval War College
(Joan,“The US-India Space Partnership: Who Gets What?”, May 17, __http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8839/the-u-s-India-space-partnership-who-gets-what?page=1__, dml)
India is adamant...sides later on.

Cooperation prevents Indian ASAT development
O'Donnell 11Frank, O’Donnell, is a Researcher at the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies. He holds an MSc (Distinction) in Strategic Studies from the University of Aberdeen and an MA (Honors) in International Relations and Middle East Studies from the University of St Andrews., May 11, 2011, India’s Space Ascent Gains New Boosthttp://www.isn.ethz.ch/isn/Current-Affairs/ISN-Insights/Detail?lng=en&id=129060&contextid734=129060&contextid735=128603&tabid=128603
New Delhi is…not be squandered.

ASATs cause Indo-China conflict
Samson 10– Washington director of the Secure World Foundation
(Victoria, “India’s missile defense/anti-satellite nexus,” __http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1621/1__, dml)
Part of why...as able ASATs.

That causes miscalc and escalation to nuclear war – defense doesn’t apply
Sethi 9– Fellow, International Relations at the Centre de Sciences Humaines, New Delhi
(Manpreet Sethi, December 2009, NUCLEAR DETERRENCE IN SECOND TIER NUCLEAR WEAPON STATES: A CASE STUDY OF INDIA, http://www.csh-delhi.com/publications/downloads/ops/OP25.pdf)
The first factor…mindless nuclear exchange.

**Scenario 2: Relations**

Cooperation brings momentum back to fading relations
Garretson 10– Lt Col, on the Board of Directors of the National Space Society
(Peter, “Sky’s No Limit: Space-Based Solar Power, the Next Major Step in the Indo-US Strategic Partnership?,” http://www.idsa.in/sites/default/files/OP_SkysNoLimit.pdf, dml)
This researcher sees…of technical capabilities.

Ties Prevent A South Asian Nuclear War
Dugger 02, (Celia W., journalist, “Wider Military Ties with India Offer U.S. Diplomatic Leverage,” THE NEW YORK TIMES, June 10, 2002, p. A1, LN)
Military cooperation between...Delhi in February.

Indo-Pak war causes extinction
Fai 1 – (Dr. Ghulam Nabi, Executive Director of the Washington-based Kashmiri American Council, “India Pakistan Summit and the Issue of Kashmir,” 7/8, Washington Times, http://www.pakistanlink.com/Letters/2001/July/13/05.html)
The foreign policy ……… Material/Cut-off Convention.

===**Leadership**=== 

First, investment to space technology
Mankins 9– Former NASA Scientist, managed numerous advanced space technology programs during his 25 years at NASA Headquarters and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and is widely known as an expert in space solar power
John, “To boldly go: the urgent need for a revitalized investment in space technology,” 5-18-2009, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1377/1
Unfortunately, the US investment in …….. public, the nation, and the world.

Second, Only SPS investment revitalizes the aerospace sector.
NSSO 7 (National Security Space Office ,10/10, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf, ,p. 15, accessed 6-23-11, CH)
FINDING: The SBSP Study Group …….. powerful expression of this imperative.

And, Aerospace competiveness is key to Hegemony
Walker et al, 02 - Chair of the Commission on the Future of the US Aerospace Industry Commissioners
(Robert, Final Report of the Commission on the Futureof the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners, November, http://www.trade.gov/td/aerospace/aerospacecommission/AeroCommissionFinalReport.pdf)
Defending our nation... the world’s preeminent military power.

The alternative to us Hegemony is a chaotic power vacuum –collapse leads to great power wars.
Thayer 6—professor of security studies at Missouri State—(Bradley, “In Defense of Primacy”, November/December, The National Interest, p. 32-37)
A grand strategy…so many allies.

Collapse leads to nuke wars everywhere, only Hegemony solves.
Kagan, 7 - senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html)
This is a... an easier path.

Development and funding of SPS satellites is key to an effective market and US space leadership
Karen Cramer Shea, ’10,Masters in Science Technology and Public Policy with Specialty in Space Policy from the George Washington University, Attendee of the International Space University Summer Session, Winter 2010, (Online Journal of Space Communication, Issue No. 16: Solar Power Satellites, Why Has SPS R&D Received So Little Funding? http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/shea.html)
Space solar power...needs are met.

Plan solves – catalyzes private action
NSSO, 2007, SBSP Study Group, 2007, 10 October 2007, (National Security Space Office, Space-Based Solar Power, As an Opportunity for Strategic Security, Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study, http://www.acq.osd.mil/nsso/solar/SBSPInterimAssesment0.1.pdf)
Finding: The SBSP...advanced energy technologies.”

The commitment to SSP alone is enough to bolster aerospace – it doesn’t depend upon completion
Nansen, 95 - led the Boeing team of engineers in the Satellite Power System Concept Development and Evaluation Program for the Department of Energy and NASA, andPresident Solar Space Industries (Ralph, Sun Power, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/sunpower/sunpower09.html)
The Case for...to our economy.

==1AC Johns Creek== 
===Risk=== 
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Extinction is inevitable from expanding sun, asteroids, warming, or disease if we don’t get off the rock</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Austen, 11</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">[Ben Austen, contributing editor of Harper’s Magazine, “After Earth: Why, Where, How, and When We Might Leave Our Home Planet,” popular science, </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.popsci.com/science/article/2011-02/after-earth-why-where-how-and-when-we-might-leave-our-home-planet?page=3]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">] WZ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Earth won’t always be fit for occupation. ... </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Earth than on it.”</span>

<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Space colonization is key to reduce the risk of extinction.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Jason G. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Matheny</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">Research Associate at the Future of Human Institute at Oxford University, Ph.D. Candidate in Applied Economics at Johns Hopkins University, holds a Master’s in Public Health from the Bloomberg School of Public Health at Johns Hopkins University and an M.B.A. from the Fuqua School of Business at Duke University, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2007</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">(“Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” //Risk Analysis//, Volume 27, Issue 5, October, Available Online at http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htm, Accessed 07-04-2011)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">As for astronomical risks, ....about the survival of the species."</span>

<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The capacity for life-sustaining ecosystems in space exists now – powering them is the only problem</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">BARRY</span>**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">01</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Patrick L.: Master's degree in science journalism from Boston University, NASA staff writer</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[“Leafy Green Astronauts,” http://science.nasa.gov/headlines/y2001/ast09apr_1.htm]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">"In order to have affordable -- ..... is energy in the form of light. </span>

<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Space Based Solar Power is key</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Globus 8</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">7/8, Al, “Where Should We Build Space Colonies?”, Globus is on the National Space Society Board of Directors and is a senior research associate for Human Factors Research and Technology at San Jose State University at NASA Ames Research Center, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">http://space.alglobus.net/Basics/where.html)</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">That leaves Mars and the Moon. ....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> it could be used for Martian colonization.</span>**


<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Reducing existential risk __by even a tiny amount__ outweighs __every other impact__ — the math is conclusively on our side. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Nick </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Bostrom</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">, Professor in the Faculty of Philosophy & Oxford Martin School, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute, and Director of the Programme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, recipient of the 2009 Eugene R. Gannon Award for the Continued Pursuit of Human Advancement, holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from the London School of Economics, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2011</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> (“The Concept of Existential Risk,” Draft of a Paper published on ExistentialRisk.com, Available Online at </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html, Accessed 07-04-2011)</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Holding probability constant, right ......</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">of the direct benefit of such an action</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">.[13]</span>**
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Catastrophic impacts pale in comparison to existential ones — their impacts are recoverable setbacks while ours end the game. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">Nick </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Bostrom, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">Professor in the Faculty of Philosophy & Oxford Martin School, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute, and Director of the Programme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, recipient of the 2009 Eugene R. Gannon Award for the Continued Pursuit of Human Advancement, holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from the London School of Economics</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2009</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">(“The Future of Humanity,” //Geopolitics, History and International Relations//, Volume 9, Issue 2, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via ProQuest Research Library, Reprinted Online at http://www.nickbostrom.com/papers/future.pdf, Accessed 07-06-2011, p. 11)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Extinction risks constitute </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">an especially.....</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">r man, a small misstep for mankind</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>

<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Existence outweighs other impacts. It is necessary for the “I” that can behave ethically or create meaning.</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Gelven ’94</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(Michael, Prof. Phil. – Northern Illinois U., “War and Existence: A Philosophical Inquiry”, p. 136-137)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The personal pronouns, like "I"....</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> It is beyond human appeal or persuasion</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>


===Plan=== 
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The United States Federal Government should develop and demonstrate inflatable space based solar power.</span>

===Leadership=== 
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The Plan is Key-</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The U.S. is losing its space superiority – other countries are gaining on the U.S. space sector.</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Kaufman, 08 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(Mark, “US Finds It’s Getting Crowded Out There: Dominance in Space Slips as Other Nations Step Up Efforts”, Washington Post, 7/9, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.globalpolicy.org/empire/challenges/competitors/2008/0709space.htm]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Although the United States remains ....</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">__will have huge strategic implications,"__ </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 4pt;">she said.</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">We have 3 scenarios:</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1 – First, investment to space technology</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Mankins 9–</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> Former NASA Scientist, managed numerous advanced space technology programs during his 25 years at NASA Headquarters and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and is widely known as an expert in space solar power</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">John, “To boldly go: the urgent need for a revitalized investment in space technology,” 5-18-2009, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1377/1</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Unfortunately</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">, __the US investment .....__</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> for the public, the nation, and the world</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2 – Only SSP investment revitalizes the aerospace sector.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">NSSO 7</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;"> (National Security Space Office ,10/10, [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf]], ,p. 15, accessed 6-23-11, CH)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The SBSP Study Group found that SBSP ....be a powerful expression of this imperative.</span>

<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A. Aerospace competiveness is the vital internal link to U.S. global hegemony </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Walker et al, 02</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> - </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Chair of the Commission on the Futureof the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners (Robert, Final Report of the Commission on the Futureof the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners, November, [[http://www.trade.gov/td/aerospace/aerospacecommission/AeroCommissionFinalReport.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Defending our nation against its e.....</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">position as the world’s preeminent military power</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">. </span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">B. Heg is good</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Kagan 07 Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">[Robert “End of Dreams, Return of History” //Policy Review// (</span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 6pt;">http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10)</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">]</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Finally, there is the United States itself. .....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> involving the large powers may erupt.</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">3 – Independently, Transition from US dominance causes conflict. </span>
<span class="cite">Friedberg 2011</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">(July/August, Aaron L., professor of politics and international affairs at the Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton University, Hegemony with Chinese Characteristics, The National Interest, lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">THE UNITED States and</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">**....**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">overtake the previously dominant state, have so often been marked by war</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>**
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">And, the US will inevitably pursue global dominance. </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Shalmon and Horowitz ’09</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Dan, total badass, Mike, less of a badass, Orbis, Spring)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">It is important to recognize at ,,,,</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;"> given America’s role in the global order.24</span>

===Solvency=== 
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">SPS is ready to roll but a federal demonstration is a necessary prerequisite </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">IAA 11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">International Academy of Astronautics, Academy that brings together the world's foremost experts in the disciplines of astronautics on a regular basis to recognize the accomplishments of their peers, and explores and discuss cutting-edge issues in space research and technology, 4-2011, “The First International Assessment of Space Solar Power: Opportunities, Issues and Potential Pathways Forward,” Green Energy From Space Solar Power, http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups/SG%20Commission%203/sg311/sg311finalreport.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Finding 1: </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 10pt;">Fundamentally new energy technologies ....technology in-space tests and demonstrations</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span>


<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Inflatable SSP overcomes solvency takeouts</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Brown 9</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 5pt;">Scientists at the Technion - Israel Institute of Technology have already made certain strides in spherical photovoltaic technology with the development of photovoltaic balloons. While the Israeli development is of terrestrial photovoltaic balloon technology</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">, __the basic premise of crafting an ....__</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 5pt;">, scientific, or military endeavors in the medium of space</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 4pt;">. </span>

<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">SPS pilot projects can be up and running within one year</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Costa, 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">-</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">sociobiologist whose unique expertise is to spot and explain emerging trends in relationship to human evolution, global markets, and new technologies</span>//**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">. </span>**//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A popular speaker at thought-leader and technology conferences as well as major universities, Costa is the former CEO of Silicon Valley start-up Dazai Advertising, Inc. Costa’s clients included technology giants such as Apple Computer, Hewlett- Packard, Oracle Corporation, 3M, Amdahl, Seibel Systems and General Electric</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">(Rebecca, “Can NASA Save a Struggling America?” Clean Technica, 11/1, </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">[[http://cleantechnica.com/2010/11/01/can-nasa-save-struggling-america/]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">If we took a moment to rank....</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> other energy solution here on earth.</span>__

<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Plan solves – catalyzes private action</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">NSSO, 2007</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">SBSP Study Group, 2007, 10 October 2007, (National Security Space Office, Space-Based Solar Power, As an Opportunity for Strategic Security, Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.acq.osd.mil/nsso/solar/SBSPInterimAssesment0.1.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 5pt;">Finding: The SBSP Study Group found tha.....</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> energy technologies</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 5pt;">.” </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">No technological barriers, operational power in 2 years, neg authors mishandle the facts.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Ashworth ‘08 </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">- </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Fellow of the British Interplanetary Society (Stephen, The Space Review, “In defense of the knights”, 6/23, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1153/1)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Usually, Day’s articles are among .....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 20px;"> __contents of the NSSO study report.__</span>

<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The commitment to SSP alone is enough to bolster aerospace – it doesn’t depend upon completion</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Nansen, 95 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">- </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">led the Boeing team of engineers in the [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/doe.htm|Satellite Power System Concept Development and Evaluation Program]] for the Department of Energy and NASA, andPresident Solar Space Industries (Ralph, __Sun Power__, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/sunpower/sunpower09.html]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">The Case for Developing Solar Power....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 20px;"> __bring growth to our economy.__</span>

==1AC Northview== 
===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Warming</span>=== 
**Warming is occurring rapidly -- it’s real and anthropogenic -- consensus of qualified experts.**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Braganza 6/14/</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Karl, Manager, Climate Monitor at the Bureau of Meteorology in Australia, The Bureau presently operates under the authority of the Meteorology Act 1955, which requires it to report on the state of the atmosphere and oceans in support of Australia's social, economic, cultural and environmental goals. His salary is not funded from any external sources or dependent on specially funded government climate change projects. Karl Braganza does not consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organisation that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations “The greenhouse effect is real: here’s why ,” </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">http://theconversation.edu.au/the-greenhouse-effect-is-real-heres-why-1515</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">,)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">In public discussions of climate change … in greenhouse gases will cause rapid future warming is irrefutable</span>

**We need to act now to prevent positive feedbacks from taking over and causing runaway warming**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">James E. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Hanson. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">Head of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York City and adjunct professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Science at Columbia University. Al Gore’s science advisor. Introductory chapter for the book State of the Wild. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">2008, “</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Tipping point: Perspective of a Scientist.” April, http://www.columbia.edu/~jeh1/2008/StateOfWild_20080428.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Fast feedbacks—changes that … A major casualty in all this will be wildlife.</span>

**And the Impacts,**

**A. Warming is the most likely scenario for extinction.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Deibel ‘7</span>(Terry L. Professor of IR @ National War College, 2007. “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Finally, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">there is one major ... the continued existence of life on this planet</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span></span></span>

**B. Independently, CO2 emissions will destroy the ocean - causes extinction**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Sify, 10</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> – </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">Sydney newspaper citing Ove Hoegh-Guldberg, professor at University of Queensland and Director of the Global Change Institute, and John Bruno, associate professor of Marine Science at UNC [Sify News, “Could unbridled climate changes lead to human extinction?” http://www.sify.com/news/could-unbridled-climate-changes-lead-to-human-extinction-news-international-kgtrOhdaahc.html]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The findings of the comprehensive report….. release. These findings were published in Science.</span>

**C. We have a nuke war impact too.**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Campbell et al 2007</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">[Kurt, “The Age of Consequences: The Foreign Policy and National Security Implications of Global Climate Change,” CSIS, November, p. 3, http://www.csis.org/media/csis/pubs/071105_ageofconsequences.pdf] </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">• In the case of severe climate ……relationship of humankind to nature </span>

**SSP leads to mass displacement of fossil fuels – solves warming**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Mankins 8</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">– Former Manager of Concept Studies @ NASA</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">John Mankins, President of ARTEMIS Innovation Management Solutions LLC and Co-founder and Chief Operating Officer (COO) of Managed Energy Technologies LLC, MBA in Public Policy Analysis, authored or co-authored more than 70 published papers, reports and other technical documents, and has testified before Congress on several occasions, and has been consulted on R&D management and space issues with organizations in the U.S. and internationally, “Inexhaustible Energy from Orbit” Spring 2008, Ad Astra, http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">At an altitude of 22,240 miles above Earth…..</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">populations separated by thousands of miles.</span>

**Timeframe isn’t a question- irreversibility makes action now key**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Mongabay 2009</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">(“Many global warming impacts may be irreversible in next 1000 years,” Byline Rhett Butler, January 27th [[http://www.climateark.org/shared/reader/welcome.aspx?linkid=116603]], Accessed 07-22-2010)</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">"It is sometimes imagined that slow ….level of carbon dioxide reached."</span></span>
**Try or die – 2012 is the deadline for us to get the only energy option off the ground**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Peter J. </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Schubert, ’10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">Ph.D., P.E. Packer Engineering, Inc., Winter 2010, (Online Journal of Space Communication, Issue No. 16: Solar Power SatellitesCosts, Organization, and Roadmap for SSP, [[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/schubert.html]])</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Therefore, SSP needs to become a.. US nation to act accordingly will probably require a miracle.</span></span>
===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Leadership</span>=== 
**The U.S. is losing its space superiority – other countries are gaining on the U.S. space sector.**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Kaufman, 08 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">(Mark, “US Finds It’s Getting Crowded Out There: Dominance in Space Slips as Other Nations Step Up Efforts”, Washington Post, 7/9, [[http://www.globalpolicy.org/empire/challenges/competitors/2008/0709space.htm]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Although the United States remains dominant.. think will have huge strategic implications," she said.</span>

**We have 2 scenarios:**

**1 – First, Only SSP investment revitalizes the aerospace sector.**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">NSSO 7</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;"> (National Security Space Office ,10/10, [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf]], ,p. 15, accessed 6-23-11, CH)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">FINDING: </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">The SBSP Study Group …. be a powerful expression of this imperative.</span>

**A. Aerospace competiveness is the vital internal link to U.S. global hegemony**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Walker et al, 02</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> - Chair of the Commission on the Futureof the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners (Robert, Final Report of the Commission on the Futureof the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners, November, [[http://www.trade.gov/td/aerospace/aerospacecommission/AeroCommissionFinalReport.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Defending our nation against its ….. as the world’s preeminent military power. </span>

**B. And hegemony solves all impacts**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Zhang and Shi, 11</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> ­– </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">both MA candidates at Columbia University, *researcher at Carnegie Endowment for international peace AND **consultant for the World Bank [January 22, 2011, Yuhan Zhang and Lin Shi, “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry,” http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]**</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Paul Kennedy was probably right: the …..</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;"> that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.</span>**

2 – Independently, Transition from US dominance causes conflict.**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Friedberg 2011</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">(July/August, Aaron L., professor of politics and international affairs at the Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton University, Hegemony with Chinese Characteristics, The National Interest, lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">THE UNITED States and</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> the People’s ….. role in the global order.24</span>
===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan</span>=== 
**The United States Federal Government should develop and demonstrate inflatable space based solar power.**

===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Solvency</span>=== 
**SPS is ready to roll but a federal demonstration is a necessary prerequisite**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">IAA 11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">International Academy of Astronautics, Academy that brings together the world's foremost experts in the disciplines of astronautics on a regular basis to recognize the accomplishments of their peers, and explores and discuss cutting-edge issues in space research and technology, 4-2011, “The First International Assessment of Space Solar Power: Opportunities, Issues and Potential Pathways Forward,” Green Energy From Space Solar Power, http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups/SG%20Commission%203/sg311/sg311finalreport.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Finding 1: </span><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Fundamentally new energy ….related technology in-space tests and demonstrations</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>

**Inflatable SSP overcomes solvency takeouts**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Brown 9</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">MS from Rajaratnam School of International Studies and Specialist on Strategy in Space, 9 (Trevor, " SSP: a spherical architecture," June 1st, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1383/1]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Israel Institute of… or military endeavors in the medium of space</span>


**SPS pilot projects can be up and running within one year**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Costa, 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">- </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">sociobiologist whose unique expertise is to spot and explain emerging trends in relationship to human evolution, global markets, and new technologies</span>//**//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>//**//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A popular speaker at thought-leader and technology conferences as well as major universities, Costa is the former CEO of Silicon Valley start-up Dazai Advertising, Inc. Costa’s clients included technology giants such as Apple Computer, Hewlett- Packard, Oracle Corporation, 3M, Amdahl, Seibel Systems and General Electric</span>////<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Rebecca, “Can NASA Save a Struggling America?” Clean Technica, 11/1, </span>////<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://cleantechnica.com/2010/11/01/can-nasa-save-struggling-america/]])</span>//
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">If we took a moment to rank every …. other energy solution here on earth.</span>

**Plan solves – catalyzes private action**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">NSSO, 2007</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">, SBSP Study Group, 2007, 10 October 2007, (National Security Space Office, Space-Based Solar Power, As an Opportunity for Strategic Security, Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study, [[http://www.acq.osd.mil/nsso/solar/SBSPInterimAssesment0.1.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Finding: The SBSP Study Group found that…..of advanced energy technologies.” </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">No technological barriers, operational power in 2 years, neg authors mishandle the facts.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Ashworth ‘08 </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">- </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Fellow of the British Interplanetary Society (Stephen, The Space Review, “In defense of the knights”, 6/23, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1153/1)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Usually, Day’s articles are among the … is completely contradicted by the actual contents of the NSSO study report.</span>

**The commitment to SSP alone is enough to bolster aerospace – it doesn’t depend upon completion**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Nansen, 95 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">- led the Boeing team of engineers in the [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/doe.htm|Satellite Power System Concept Development and Evaluation Program]] for the Department of Energy and NASA, and President Solar Space Industries (Ralph, Sun Power, [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/sunpower/sunpower09.html]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The Case for Developing Solar ….bring growth to our economy.</span>





==2AC Add Ons== 
===Genocide=== 

**Primacy fills in for powerless institutions—key to solve genocide and mass violence globally**
**Lieber 2005**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– PhD from Harvard, Professor of Government and International Affairs at Georgetown, former consultant to the State Department and for National Intelligence Estimates (Robert, “The American Era”, pages 51-52, WEA)</span>
The United States possesses the<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> military….Sudan </span>provides a more recent example<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

===Existential Risk Add On=== 

Space colonization is key to reduce the risk of extinction.
Jason G. Matheny,Research Associate at the Future of Human Institute at Oxford University, Ph.D. Candidate in Applied Economics at Johns Hopkins University, holds a Master’s in Public Health from the Bloomberg School of Public Health at Johns Hopkins University and an M.B.A. from the Fuqua School of Business at Duke University, 2007 (“Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, Volume 27, Issue 5, October, Available Online at http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htm, Accessed 07-04-2011)
As for astronomical...of the species."

Space based solar tech is key to lunar, orbital, and Martian colonization.
Globus 8 [7/8, Al, “Where Should We Build Space Colonies?”, Globus is on the National Space Society Board of Directors and is a senior research associate for Human Factors Research and Technology at San Jose State University at NASA Ames Research Center, http://space.alglobus.net/Basics/where.html, )
That leaves Mars...for Martian colonization.

Reducing existential risk by even a tiny amount outweighs every other impact — the math is conclusively on our side.
Nick Bostrom, Professor in the Faculty of Philosophy & Oxford Martin School, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute, and Director of the Programme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, recipient of the 2009 Eugene R. Gannon Award for the Continued Pursuit of Human Advancement, holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from the London School of Economics, 2011(“The Concept of Existential Risk,” Draft of a Paper published on ExistentialRisk.com, Available Online at http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html, Accessed 07-04-2011)
Holding probability constant...such an action.

=Negative= 
==Negative Strategy== 
===Wake Forest=== 

Round 2 vs. Niles West AP (Ufology)
1NC: T-USFG, T-Resolved, Heidegger K, Case
2NC: T-Resolved
1NR: K, case
2NR: T-Resolved

Round 3 vs. Pace Academy LS (SPS)
1NC: ESA CP, Ptx (TAA), Space weaponization, Case
2NC: CP, Case
1NR: Ptx
2NR: CP, Ptx, Case

Round 5 vs. Broad Run CS (Moon colonization)
1NC: ESA CP, Ptx (TAA), Space weaponization, Case
2NC: CP, Case
1NR: Ptx
2NR: CP, Ptx, Case

Octofinals vs. Centennial LR (Racism)
1NC: T- Resolved, Racial Binary CP, Racial Binary K, Case, Framework
2NC: Framework, CP
1NR: K
2NR: K

Quarterfinals vs. John's Creek FS (Females in Space)
1NC: T- Of Space, Clinton CP, Disease DA, Case
2NC: T, CP, DA
1NR: Case
2NR: CP, DA, Case

===Hooch=== 

Round 2 vs. Grady DH (Space Marines)
1NC: ESA, Privitzation, Politics, T, Taoism, Case
2NC: Case, Ptx
1NR: Taoism
2AR: Taoism

Round 4 vs. Hooch PS (Nanosats)
1NC: T-Of Space, Heidegger, ESA, Ptx, Case
2NC: Case
1NR: PTX and T
2NR: T

===Johns Creek=== 

Round 1 vs. Milton?? (SSA)
1NC: T - Of Space, ESA CP, PTX, Case
2NC: CP, Case
1NR: PTX
2NR: CP, PTX

Round 3 vs. Vestavia ?? (Asteroid Mining)
1NC: Militarization, PTX, ESA,Cap K, Case
2NC: Cap K
1NR: Militarization, Case
2NR: Cap K

===Northview=== 

Round 2 vs. Westminster AK (Constellation)
1NC: T - Mesosphere, T - Its, Private CP, Coercion, Obama Good, Case
2NC: T - Mesosphere, Private CP, Case
1NR: Obama Good, Coercion
2NR: Private CP, Coercion

Round 3 vs. Johns Creek PA (Lunar Quarantine Aff)
1NC: ESA CP, Obama Good, Ban MSR CP, OST DA, Weather Channel K, Case
2NC: Obama Good, Weather Channel, Case
1NR: Ban CP, OST DA
2NR: Ban CP, OST DA

===Ohio Valley=== 

Round 1 vs. duPont Manuel DN (Debate Bad)
1NC: Right Wing Takeover K, Author PIC, Framework, Case (Fiat good)
2NC: Author PIC, Case
1NR: Framework
2NR: Framework

Round 4 vs. Sylvania Northview HZ (Landsats)
1NC: Weather K, Obama Good, ESA CP, USSAID CP, Case
2NC: ESA, Obama
1NR: K, Case
2NR: K, Case

Round 5 vs. Carrolton GR (Inflatable SPS)
1NC: T - Mesosphere (Inflatable Specific), ESA CP, Obama Good, Space Mil, Case(Heg Bad)
2NC: ESA, Obama
1NR: Case
2NR: ESA, Obama, Heg Bad
===Milton=== 
Round 1 vs Johns Creek SS (Females in Space/Heternormativity)
1NC: T, Candace Parker CP(Female Basketball Player), Politics, Intersectionality, Disease DA, Case
2NC: CP, T
1NR: Politics, Case
2NR: T

Round 4 vs Westminster (SPS)
1NC: T-Human, Elections, Privatization, Coercion, Case
2NC: Elections, Coercion
1NR: Case
2NR: Elections + Case

Round 5 vs Hooch (Nanosats)
1NC: T-Human, NATO CP, China CP, Elections, China Relations, Case
2NC: NATO CP, China CP, Elections, China Relations
1NR: Case
2NR: NATO CP and Elections
==Counterplans== 
===European Space Agency CP=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**CP text: The European Space Agency, in a Ministerial Council, should approve a proposal mandating __.**</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The European Approach makes the EU the most qualified to engage in space R&D</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">EC 10(European Commission, “European Space Technology Platform,” EC, 201</span>0, ftp://ftp.cordis.lu/pub/era/docs/18_euspace_tp_en.pdf)
Taking into account...R&D related areas.

**<Aff-specific solvency card>**

===Clinton CP=== 

**CP Text – President Barack Obama, Vice President Joseph Biden, Speaker of the House John Boehner, and President pro tempore of the Senate Daniel Inouye should resign from their respective offices.**

**That would make Hillary Rodham Clinton President of the United States**
InfoPlease 9-10 2011 [http://www.infoplease.com/ipa/A0101032.html, “Order of Presidential Succession” ]
According to the...Security Janet Napolitano

**Female President would break down social norms**
Hough 1999 [Lori, “A Woman in the White House What's taking so long?” http://www.hks.harvard.edu/ksgpress/bulletin/winter_spring1999/white_house.html]
Not everyone, however...of her gender.

**Clinton is good for feminism – foreign policy proves**
Bunting 2011 [Madeline “Clinton is proving that feminist foreign policy is possible – and works” guardian.co.uk]
Back in the...such a thing.

===Ban MSR CP=== 

**Text: The United States federal government in multilateral agreement should add an Article to the Outer Space Treaty banning Mars Sample Return Missions. The United States federal govnerment should not construct lunar scientific outposts on the Moon. The United States federal government should increase its Earth observation capabilities.**

**Climate satellites are the ONLY technology for effective studies – their author**
Lewis et al ’10 [James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]
Satellites provide globally consistent observations...replace its climate-monitoring satellites.

===Disad=== 
===Politics (TAA)=== 

===Space Weaponization=== 

===Elections=== 

**<Uniqueness here>**

**Obama is hinging the election on REDUCING spending – the plan causes independents to vote Republican.**
Kirchgaessner, '11 (Stephanie, "Obama looks to independent voters," April 15 2011, http://www/ft/com/cms/s/0/7dd54d5c-678c-11e0-9138-00144feab49a.html#axzz1T844vB9m
Barack Obama is betting that his...the deficit required immediate action.

**In the current budget climate new space programs are uniquely unpopular and politically divisive**
Nandberg 7-25-11 (Roger Handberg is Professor and Chair of the Department of Political Science at the University of Central Florida. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1890/1]])</span>
The space shuttle era ended...be done no one knows.

**Terrorists are seeking nuclear materials to use against the US- GOP would undermine policies that are key to prevent proliferation**
Seip 11- retired lieutenant general of the U.S. Air Force (Norman, “Anti-terror programs worth the cost to avoid loose nukes” March 31, 2011, http://blog.nj.com/njv_guest_blog/2011/03/anti-terror_programs_worth_the.html)
Osama bin Laden has said...of the US Air Force.

**Terrorism causes extinction**
Sid-Ahmed, political analyst 04 (Mohamed, Managing editor for Al-Ahali, "Extinction!" August 26- September 1, Issue no. 705, http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm
What would be the consequences...planet,we will all be losers.
==Kritik== 
===Heidegger=== 

**The exploration, exploitation, and colonization of space engages in a process of Enframing that reduces the world to standing reserve and destroys humanity’s connection with Being**
Jerkins Professor 09 (Jae, Florida State University, Professor of religion, writes for Florida Philosophical review. Heidegger’s Bridge: The Social and Phenomenological Construction of Mars. Technology as Revealer—the problem of enframing http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:http ://www.philosophy.ucf.edu/fpr/files/9_2/jerkins.pdf&safe=active)
Martin Heidegger also...of place-making.

**Loss of Being outweighs nuclear war – the enslavement of humans to technological thought destroys human dignity and freedom**
Rojcewicz Prof, 06 (Richard- [Profof philosophy at Pont Park University, translator of 3 Heidegger books], The Gods and Technology; A Reading of Heidegger p.141-142)
Heidegger now launches...make them slaves.

**Rejecting the affirmative’s technological thinking in favor of meditative thought allows unconcealment of alternate ways of being**
Joseph, 00 ( Duquesne University, and editor for the Janus Head, Speaking Differently: Deconstruction/Meditative
Thinking as the...be spoken about.

===Taoism=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Living according to the Tao, or the way of the universe, precludes taking action to prevent death and suffering, even the extinction of all life on earth. As participants in the course of the universe, we are blind to its overarching meaning and thus any action we take will be misguided, unproductive, and immoral.</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Kirkland, Ph.D. in East Asian Languages and Cultures, specialist in Asian Religions, Associate Professor of Religion at UGA, 98 - (1996, Russell Kirkland, "’RESPONSIBLE NON-ACTION’ IN A NATURAL WORLD : PERSPECTIVES FROM THE NEI-YEH, CHUANG-TZU, AND TAO-TE CHING" HARVARD CONFERENCE ON TAOISM AND ECOLOGY)</span>
When Chuang-tzu's wife died….. mislead us into a foolish course of action.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This applies equally to both individual suffering and the extinction of all life on earth – their calls to save humanity are based on a flawed fear of death and a misunderstanding of the continuous nature of the universe.</span>**
Kirkland 98 - (1996, Russell Kirkland, Ph.D. in East Asian Languages and Cultures, specialist in Asian Religions, Associate Professor of Religion at UGA, "’RESPONSIBLE NON-ACTION’ IN A NATURAL WORLD : PERSPECTIVES FROM THE NEI-YEH, CHUANG-TZU, AND TAO-TE CHING" HARVARD CONFERENCE ON TAOISM AND ECOLOGY)
But by this definition….. more like that of the Tao.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The alternative is to embrace the practice of Wu Wei, or “doing nothing” in order to appreciate the flow of the Tao – only through appreciating the natural order of life can we live according to Taoism.</span>**
Kirkland 96 – (1996, Russell Kirkland, Ph.D. in East Asian Languages and Cultures, specialist in Asian Religions, Associate Professor of Religion at UGA, "The Book of the Way," 24-29)
Specifically, the Tao is humble, <span style="color: black;">,….. and nothing can thwart its unceasing operation</span>

===Racial Binary=== 

===Weather Channel=== 
**The affirmative’s call for disaster preparedness deploys a techno-scientific discourse to conceal material inequalities—this framing is intrinsic to their policy proposal.**
**Bankoff 1** — Gregory Bankoff, Senior Lecturer at the University of Auckland and Research Fellow in Disaster Studies at Wageningen University, 2001 (“Rendering the World Unsafe: ‘Vulnerability’ as Western Discourse,” Disasters, Volume 25, Issue 1, Available Online at<span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.geo.mtu.edu/volcanoes/06upgrade/Social-KateG/Attachments%20Used/Vulnerability.WesternDiscourse.pdf]]</span>, Accessed 08-02-2011, p. 27-28)
The emergence of natural disasters … extensive colonial structures.

**Their call for improved weather prediction is a product of their ideological blinders—failure to foreground questions of class and economics screens out root causes and makes the impact of disasters worse.**
**Sturken 6** — Marita Sturken, Professor of Media, Culture, and Communication at New York University, 2006 (“Weather Media and Homeland Security: Selling Preparedness in a Volatile World,” Understanding Katrina: Perspectives from the Social Sciences, June 11th, Available Online at <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://understandingkatrina.ssrc.org/Sturken/]]</span>, Accessed 08-02-2011)
However, prediction is limited … screen out the politics of disaster.

==Topicality== 
==="Of Space"=== 

**The phrase “OF SPACE” in the resolution means the activity must occur IN space – not simply develop for USE in space.**
Bocksteigel 95 Ph D., Director of the Institute of Air and Space Law, Chair Space Law Committee of the International Law Association; Chair of Council of the National German Space Agency (Dr. Karl-Heinz, 1995, “Research and invention in outer space: liability and intellectual property rights” pg 4.)
The official title...'use' of space

**Of creates precision – the OBJECT of the development/exploration must be SPACE**.
Collins 09 [Collins World English Dictionary, dictionary.com]
of (ɒv, ( unstressed ) əv) -- prep 1. used with a verbal noun or gerund to link it with a following noun that is either the subject or the object of the verb embedded in the gerund: the breathing of a fine swimmer(subject) ; the breathing of clean air (object)

==="Resolved"=== 

**Resolved means to express by formal vote—this is the only definition that’s in the context of the resolution**
Webster’s Revised Unabridged Dictionary, 1998(dictionary.com)
Resolved: To express, as an opinion or determination, by resolution and vote; to declare or decide by a formal vote; -- followed by a clause; as, the house resolved (or, it was resolved by the house) that no money should be apropriated (or, to appropriate no money)

==="United States Federal Government"=== 

**Federal government is the national government that expresses power**
Black’s Law Dictionary, 8th Edition, June 1, 2004, pg.716.
Federal government. 1. A national government that exercises some degree of control over smaller political units that have surrendered some degree of power in exchange for the right to participate in national politics matters – Also termed (in federal states) central government. 2. the U.S. government – Also termed national government. [Cases: United States -1 C.J.S. United States - - 2-3] "

**Federal means relating to the national government of the United States**
Black’s Law Dictionary, 99
federal, adj. Of or relating to a system of associated governments with a vertical division of governments into national and regional components having different responsibilities; esp., of or relating to the national government of the United States.






[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]