=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Affirmative</span>= 

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Status quo space awareness development will fail</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">GAO 11</span>-<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Space Acquisitions Development and Oversight Challenges in Delivering Improved Space Situational Awareness Capabilities” May 2011 Report to the Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, Committee on Armed Services, House of Representatives </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-11-545]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> __<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">DOD has significantly...</span>__resources earlier than its stated intent.</span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Current US space awareness is inefficient and incomplete</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Turnbull 08</span> – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Maj, USAF, Lead, Simulation Engineering, Plans and Integration, Joint Functional Component Command for Global Strike, US Strategic Command, Offutt AFB (Wallace ‘Rhett’, “Moving Beyond SSA: An Attribution Architecture for Space Control,” November, The High Frontier Journal, Vol. 5, No. 1, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-081117-032.pdf]],)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">The United States collects SSA data ...</span>__space debris before maneuvering to a target.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase space situational awareness above Earth’s mesosphere by applying evolutionary acquisition.**</span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Miscalculation with Russia is inevitable</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Finlay 7</span> - <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(12/11, Brian, MA in International Relations, Weapons of Mass Destruction Reference Guide, “U.S.-Russian Ballistic-Missile Early-Warning Cooperation,” http://www.veteransforameric</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">a.org/wp-content/uploads/2008/01/22-early-warning-final.pdf, mat)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">The United States’ combination of space-based...</span>whether to launch a retaliatory response.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Chinese miscalculation and escalation is inevitable</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Tellis, 7</span> –<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(2007, Ashley, a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “Punching the U.S. Military’s “Soft Ribs”: China’s Antisatellite Weapon Test in Strategic Perspective”, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/pb_51_tellis_final.pdf)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Second, </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">the successful Chinese ASAT...</span>__complications of accidents and misperception.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The plan provides verifiability for space weapons</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Baines ’05</span> – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Senior Advisor, Science and Technology, Non-Proliferation, Arms Control and Disarmament Division, Department of Foreign Affairs, United Nations Institute of Disarmament Research (Philip J, “Safeguarding Space Security: Prevention of an Arms Race in Outer Space,” March 21-22, kms1.isn.ethz.ch/.../Files/.../2005_SafeguardingSpaceSecurity-full.pdf)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">At first, space-based weapons could...</span>forces and other military assets on the Earth</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, that triggers support for weapon bans</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Baines ’05</span> – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Senior Advisor, Science and Technology, Non-Proliferation, Arms Control and Disarmament Division, Department of Foreign Affairs, United Nations Institute of Disarmament Research (Philip J, “Safeguarding Space Security: Prevention of an Arms Race in Outer Space,” March 21-22, kms1.isn.ethz.ch/.../Files/.../2005_SafeguardingSpaceSecurity-full.pdf)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">It now becomes possible ...</span>__calculus became expressed as “Trust, but verify”. </span>

===**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Awareness gaps in awareness data make first strike from miscalculation inevitable</span>**=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Morgan 10 – </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Forrest E. Morgan, PhD in policy studies, defense policy researcher working in RAND Corporation. Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space. RAND.</span></span>
<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">First-strike instability is ...</span>escalation of the crisis



















=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Negative</span>=