ill upload case args and ptx by request and all cards for everything else

not doing full text for logistical purposes but will provide by requset

[[mailto:andrewjones232@gmail.com|andrewjones232@gmail.com]]
[[toc]]
=Case Negs= 
==SSP Neg== 
===Solvency=== 
SPS is tech doesnt exist--the NSSO study is atrocious
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Day, 8</span> (Dwayne A., 6/9/20008, Writer for the Space Review, Member of the Space Studies Board of the National Research Council/National Academy of Sciences, Doctorate in political science from The George Washington University, Knights in shining armor, accessed online, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://thespacereview.com/article/1147/1]]</span>)
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">With all of this attention, AND study was viewed by the Pentagon leadership</span>

SSP would have to meet an absurd set of requirements to succeed—launch costs, efficiency problems, terrestrial competition, and maintenance costs make success improbable
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Fetter 04</span>—PhD in energy and resources from UC Berkley and professor at the University of Maryland
(Fetter, Steve “Space Solar Power: An Idea Whose Time Will Never Come?”, [[http://drum.lib.umd.edu/bitstream/1903/3992/1/2004-P&S-SSP.pdf]] , FS)
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">In summary, SSP could compete AND concept would be unwise and unwarranted. </span>



SPS tech fails—makes it inefficient and prevents private sector spill over
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Wegeng and Mankins 7</span> - * Pacific Northwest National Laboratory AND **Artemis Innovation Management Solutions (5 December 2009, Robert S. Wegeng and John C. Mankins, “Space power systems: Producing transportation (and other chemical) fuels as an alternative to electricity generation,” ScienceDirect)**
**5.1. Technology development AND <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">hardware in orbit at reasonable costs.</span>**



**No SPS for 30 years**
**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Fan et al, 6/2</span> – MAs from Caltech**
**[*William Fan,** Harold Martin, ***James Wu,** **Brian Mok, “Space Based Solar Power: Industry and Technology Assessment”, [[http://www.pickar.caltech.edu/e103/Final%20Exams/Space%20Based%20Solar%20Power.pdf]], AL]
While hard to estimate, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">we AND disruptions within the next 30 years.</span>


Inefficient transfer of energy
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Mankins 6</span> - Artemis Innovation Management Solutions LLC (22 December 2006, “New directions for space solar power,” ScienceDirect)
5.5. Thermal management <span style="font-size: 14px;">AND the other advantages of the approach.</span>

Prefer our evidence- aff Authors are Biased.
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Day, 9</span><span style="color: #000000;"> - space policy analyst and historian who lives in Northern Virginia (Dwayne, “</span>Space fetishism: space activism’s obsession with technological and ideological saviors,” 12/21, The Space Review, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1534/1]])
<span style="font-size: 14px;">You don’t have to spend much AND </span>technologies the activists are excited about.

===AT: Demonstration Project=== 
Demonstration projects only prove the tech works – not the economics – risk is too high
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Livingston 2k, -</span> Dr. David M. Livingston, founder of the Mars society, lecturer on space business, doctorate in business administration, 2001 (“$pace: The Final Financial Frontier,” Space Future, Accessed online at http://www.spacefuture.com/archive/space_the_final_financial_frontier.shtml, Accessed on 6/29/11)
Conclusion <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Financiers pay attention to the AND before most NSI development can commence.</span>


Securing investment capital is impossible – economic risk is perceived to be too high and the expected returns are too long
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Hickman 9</span>**9** - Associate Professor of Government Department of Government and International Relations Berry College (John, “The Political Economy of Very Large Space Projects,” <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.transhumanist.com/|JOURNAL OF EVOLUTION AND TECHNOLOGY]]</span>, Volume 4, November 1999, <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.transhumanist.com/volume4/space.htm]]</span>
**Why Capitalization is the Principle Problem** <span style="font-size: 14px;">AND </span>because this increases their opportunity costs.



Demonstration projects empirically fail – unforeseen technological problems
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">PopSci</span>3 – 11 – <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">09</span> (Popular science – science and technology news site, “ The Top 10 Failed NASA Missions”, [[http://www.popsci.com/military-aviation-amp-space/gallery/2009-03/top-10-nasa-probe-failures?image=9]])
The Mission: <span style="font-size: 14px;">NASA intended the AND a number of components</span>. Whoops!


===Energy Frontline=== 
SPS can’t solve climate change – would require 400 satellites and 1000 years
Mark <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Hempsell</span>, senior lecturer in space technology at the University of Bristol, Acta Astronautica, Volume 59, Issue 7, October <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">2006</span>, http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0094576506001755//jchen
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The key contributor to global warming</span> AND <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">dependence on</span> energy from <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">fossil fuels</span>.


Turn- Ozone
A) Launches destroy the Ozone
M.N. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Ross and D. Toohey</span>, The Aerospace Corporation and University of Colorado 12/<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">2008</span> “Ozone Depletion Caused by Rocket Engine Emissions: A Fundamental Limit on the Scale and Viability of Space-Based Geoengineering Schemes,
American Geophysical Union, Fall Meeting 2008, abstract #U43A-0039
Emissions from solid and liquid propellant AND and ozone impacts of aircraft emissions.


b) Ozone depletion causes extinction
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Greenpeace, 1995</span>. “Full of Homes: The Montreal Protocol and the Continuing Destruction of the Ozone Layer,” [[http://archive.greenpeace.org/ozone/holes/holebg.html|//http://archive.greenpeace.org/ozone/holes/holebg.html//]].
When chemists Sherwood Rowland and Mario AND <span class="underlinedChar">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the continuation of life on earth</span>**</span>.


SPS will never replace fossil fuels
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Mankins, 2007</span>, October 12, 2007 (John C., former manager of NASA’s Advanced Concepts Studies Office of Space Flight,, 10-12-07, “Leading Scientists and Thinkers on Energy,” from an interview with Mankins conducted by David Houle, an analyst who advises companies on new developing technology, http://www.evolutionshift.com/blog/2007/10/12/leading-scientists-and-thinkers-on-energy-–-john-c-mankins/ )
Mankins: Solar power satellites will AND is needed to support human civilization.


SPS can’t compete with other energy
David <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Boswell, 2004</span>, speaker at the 1991 ISDC, International Space Development Conference, August 30, 2004, (The Space Review, Whatever happened to solar power satellites?, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/214/1]])
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Competing with other options Even if AND for all emerging renewable energy solutions</span>.

===EU CP=== 
The European Union should develop and demonstrate space based solar power. The European Union should enter into a joint partnership with American businesses over the feasibility of this project.



Solves the aff-

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Edwards 10,</span> (1/21/10, Lin, PhsyOrg, “European Space Company wants Space Power Plant in Space” <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.physorg.com/news183278937.html</span>)



Chief executive officer of AstriumAND <span style="font-size: 14px;">be possible within the present decade.</span>



And the EU can partner with American Businesses to boost commercial innovation
Maxtalen <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Aranzamendi</span>, European Space Policy Institute, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">2009</span>. “Economic and Policy Aspects of Space Regulations in Europe,” http://www.espi.or.at/images/stories/dokumente/studies/espi%20report%2021.pdf
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The time seems ripe for action AND its own by the Lisbon Treaty</span>**.**

===Anchor Tenant CP=== 


<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The Department of Defense should agree to replace its current energy spending on fossil fuels with power produced from space based solar power upon private sector development as long as it does not exceed $1 per kilowatt hour.</span>



<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">CP solves—DoD as anchor tenant is the only way to get the private sector on board</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">NSSO 7</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(October 2007, National Security Space Office, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security,” [[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/.../final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf|www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/.../final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf]] , FS)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">FINDING: </span><span class="Underline">The SBSP Study Group AND </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">the National GeoSpatial</span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">‐</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">imaging Agency. </span>



<span class="Underline">**SSP will be equal to current energy costs for the DoD—it must begin with the DoD before costs are low enough for private sector spillover**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Betancourt 10**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Kiatar Betancourt, Online Journal of Space Communication, “Legal Challenges Facing Solar Power Satellites”, [[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/betancourt.html]] , FS)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Military Interest: </span><span class="Underline">The U.AND costs of SBSP lower over time.</span>

==<span class="Underline">SSA/Space Guard Neg</span>== 
<span class="Underline">most of the rest is in the generic military section</span>

===<span class="Underline">Space Guard CP</span>=== 
The United States federal government should create a Space Guard without deploying new space situational awareness capabilities beyond the earth’s mesosphere

Solves--dont need new capabilities
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Bennett 2011</span> ([[http://www.thenewatlantis.com/authors/james-bennett|James C. Bennett]], the author of [[https://www.amazon.com/dp/0742533336/ref=as_li_qf_sp_asin_til?tag=the-new-atlantis-20&camp=0&creative=0&linkCode=as1&creativeASIN=0742533336&adid=140GFPWVJ5PEGR98QAFS&|The Anglosphere Challenge]] (Rowman and Littlefield, 2004), has been involved in space entrepreneurship, consulting, and advocacy for more than three decades. This essay is based in part on a paper prepared for the George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute. [[http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/proposing-a-coast-guard-for-space]], Proposing a ‘Coast Guard’ for Space Winter)
1. General organization and formationAND <span style="font-size: 14px;">the needs of the Space Guard.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 14px;">Squo Solves/Solvency</span>=== 

SSA is improving and the DOD is increasing data-sharing

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Schulte, 11 -</span> Deputy Assistance Secretary Defense For Space Policy (Gregory, CQ Congressional Testimony, “DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION MILITARY SPACE PROGRAMS”, 5/11, lexis)





The United States will AND operators, to improve spaceflight safety.





US SSA is improving

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Jaramillo et al, 11</span> – Project Ploughshares (Cesar, Space Security 2011, Executive Summary, May,

[[http://www.spacesecurity.org/executive.summary.2011.PDF]]



TREND 2.1: U<span style="font-size: 14px;">AND </span>S. SSA and space security.





The DOD has already entered into formal SSA data sharing agreements

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Schulte, 11</span> - Deputy Assistance Secretary Defense For Space Policy (Gregory, CQ Congressional Testimony, “DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION MILITARY SPACE PROGRAMS”, 5/11, lexis)



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> The United States will pursue AND in a degraded space environment.</span>


Status quo r&d and funding solve

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Houghton 10</span> (Carl, Vice President Strategic Planning at Intelligent Software Solutions, “ISS Awarded Space Situational Awareness Research and Development Contract,” http://www.prweb.com/releases/air_force/ssa_iss/prweb3918484.htm)

<span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.issinc.com/|Intelligent Software Solutions]]</span> has been awarded AND <span style="font-size: 14px;">to meet requirements for improved SSA</span>."







**<span style="font-family: 'Garamond','serif';">US sharing will deter countries from investing in their own space surveillance upgrades </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Garamond','serif';">Bowers et al 08 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Garamond','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">– Dual BA in Computer Science and Management Information Systems @ University of Nebraska-Omaha [ , Stephanie M. Cook (Master’s candidate in the Political Science @ University of Nebraska-Omaha, Edward James Dale (BA in Electronic Engineering @ University of Nebraska-Omaha, Josh Koch (Dual BA in Physics and Mathematics @ University of Nebraska-Omaha), John James Miller ( BA in Computer Engineering @ University of Nebraska-Omaha), Stephanie D. Silva (Master’s candidate in Public Administration @ University of Nebraska-Omaha) __Space Debris: Applied Technology and Policy Prescriptions__, USSTRATCOM Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Intern Pogram, Fall 2007 – Project 07-02, January 2008//edlee]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Garamond','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">CFR program goals including </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Garamond','serif';">providing orbital AND </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Garamond','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">not all obviated by these services</span>



Other nations would have to develop data sharing—their ev

Weeden 2k9

(Brian Weeden, is a technical consultant for the Secure World Foundation and former U.S. Air Force officer with a background in space surveillance and ICBM operations. “FEATURE: Space Sustainability: To Preserve And Protect...,” SAT Magazine, pg online @ http://www.satmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=1415465455 ghs-ef)

As they currently stand, both AND had exclusive control over the system.

==Generic Military Neg== 
===Deterrence By Punishment Frontline=== 
1. No attribution destroys deterrence
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Keuter et al 8/3/11</span> - Jeff Kueter President, The George C. Marshall Institute *AND Dr. Robert Butterworth, Marshall Institute’s Board of Directors**AND Peter Marquez, Fellow at the George C. Marshall Institute.** *AND Dr. John B. Sheldon, Marshall Institute Fellow. AND Eric R. Sterner, Fellow at the George C. Marshall Institute
(“Returning to Fundamentals: Deterrence and U.S. National Security in the 21st Century” The George C. Marshall Institute http://www.marshall.org/article.php?id=980&print=1 Ajones)
There are two elements of deterrence AND <span style="font-size: 14px;">policy makers, why an attack occurred</span>


2. Even if they win deterrence works in theory, lack of clear doctrine decks solvency
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Keuter et al 8/3/11</span> - Jeff Kueter President, The George C. Marshall Institute *AND Dr. Robert Butterworth, Marshall Institute’s Board of Directors**AND Peter Marquez, Fellow at the George C. Marshall Institute.** *AND Dr. John B. Sheldon, Marshall Institute Fellow. AND Eric R. Sterner, Fellow at the George C. Marshall Institute
(“Returning to Fundamentals: Deterrence and U.S. National Security in the 21st Century” The George C. Marshall Institute http://www.marshall.org/article.php?id=980&print=1 Ajones)
With the actors to be deterred AND <span style="font-size: 14px;">, and credible response plan.32</span>

3. Deterrence solvency takeouts are offense—would destroy credibility and turn the aff
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Keuter et al 8/3/11</span> - Jeff Kueter President, The George C. Marshall Institute *AND Dr. Robert Butterworth, Marshall Institute’s Board of Directors**AND Peter Marquez, Fellow at the George C. Marshall Institute.** *AND Dr. John B. Sheldon, Marshall Institute Fellow. AND Eric R. Sterner, Fellow at the George C. Marshall Institute
(“Returning to Fundamentals: Deterrence and U.S. National Security in the 21st Century” The George C. Marshall Institute http://www.marshall.org/article.php?id=980&print=1 Ajones)
The U.S. has AND <span class="underlinedChar">**<span style="font-size: 14px;">zero and actually becomes an encouragement.;</span>**</span>


Specifically
Can’t deter regional or rogue actors—means the aff wont be a credible threat
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Keuter et al 8/3/11</span> - Jeff Kueter President, The George C. Marshall Institute *AND Dr. Robert Butterworth, Marshall Institute’s Board of Directors**AND Peter Marquez, Fellow at the George C. Marshall Institute.** *AND Dr. John B. Sheldon, Marshall Institute Fellow. AND Eric R. Sterner, Fellow at the George C. Marshall Institute
(“Returning to Fundamentals: Deterrence and U.S. National Security in the 21st Century” The George C. Marshall Institute http://www.marshall.org/article.php?id=980&print=1 Ajones)
The <span style="font-size: 14px;">regionalists are more concerned with AND </span>seek to achieve through their actions.

China and russia could act through rogue actors—both have alliances with iran and north korea

Too late to deter china and russia
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Keuter et al 8/3/11</span> - Jeff Kueter President, The George C. Marshall Institute *AND Dr. Robert Butterworth, Marshall Institute’s Board of Directors**AND Peter Marquez, Fellow at the George C. Marshall Institute.** *AND Dr. John B. Sheldon, Marshall Institute Fellow. AND Eric R. Sterner, Fellow at the George C. Marshall Institute
(“Returning to Fundamentals: Deterrence and U.S. National Security in the 21st Century” The George C. Marshall Institute http://www.marshall.org/article.php?id=980&print=1 Ajones)
As previously stated, <span style="font-size: 14px;">China and AND </span>is described in the next section.

**2NC**
deterrence not falsifiable/bad methodology
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Keuter et al 8/3/11</span> - Jeff Kueter President, The George C. Marshall Institute *AND Dr. Robert Butterworth, Marshall Institute’s Board of Directors**AND Peter Marquez, Fellow at the George C. Marshall Institute.** *AND Dr. John B. Sheldon, Marshall Institute Fellow. AND Eric R. Sterner, Fellow at the George C. Marshall Institute (“Returning to Fundamentals: Deterrence and U.S. National Security in the 21st Century” The George C. Marshall Institute http://www.marshall.org/article.php?id=980&print=1 Ajones)
It should also be noted that AND <span style="font-size: 14px;">makers operating in nonexistent environments.”</span>17


generic deterrence theory doesn’t apply to space
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Keuter et al 8/3/11</span> - Jeff Kueter President, The George C. Marshall Institute *AND Dr. Robert Butterworth, Marshall Institute’s Board of Directors**AND Peter Marquez, Fellow at the George C. Marshall Institute.** *AND Dr. John B. Sheldon, Marshall Institute Fellow. AND Eric R. Sterner, Fellow at the George C. Marshall Institute (“Returning to Fundamentals: Deterrence and U.S. National Security in the 21st Century” The George C. Marshall Institute http://www.marshall.org/article.php?id=980&print=1 Ajones)
Coercion and, by extensionAND <span style="font-size: 14px;">those faced in the Cold War.</span>


Theres no such thing as “space deterrence” – make them present specific evidence about specific actors
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Keuter et al 8/3/11</span> - Jeff Kueter President, The George C. Marshall Institute *AND Dr. Robert Butterworth, Marshall Institute’s Board of Directors**AND Peter Marquez, Fellow at the George C. Marshall Institute.** *AND Dr. John B. Sheldon, Marshall Institute Fellow. AND Eric R. Sterner, Fellow at the George C. Marshall Institute (“Returning to Fundamentals: Deterrence and U.S. National Security in the 21st Century” The George C. Marshall Institute http://www.marshall.org/article.php?id=980&print=1 Ajones)

First, coercion, <span style="font-size: 14px;">deterrence</span>, AND <span class="underlinedChar">**<span style="font-size: 14px;">not a domain</span>**</span>.21, 22



Deterrence by punishment fails – too many conflicting strategic actors and possible competitors
**<span style="color: #000000;">Rendleman, 10</span>**<span style="color: #000000;"> - </span>Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)

<span style="font-size: 8px;">The 11 January 2007 test of AND new 21st Century adversary attack capabilities.</span>


Their asymmetry arguments are the reason that punishment based deterrence can never work—lack of understanding also short circuits
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Butterworth & Sheldon, 8</span> - President of Aries Analytics, a company which provides market analyses and program development services to government, commercial and non-profit clients concerning space and space-related research and development. He has served on the staff of the President’s Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board, the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and at the Department of Defense; Marshall Institute Fellow and a visiting professor at the School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, Air University, Maxwell AFB, Alabama (11/13, Robert and John, “Deterrence in Space: Responding to Challenges to the U.S. in Outer Space,” Washington Roundtable on Science & Public Policy, http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/622.pdf Ajones)
The chief problems that we have AND take into account our overall context.




Deterrence by punishment fails – threats of retaliation aren’t credible
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Morgan, 10</span> - <span style="color: #000000;">defense policy researcher working in RAND Corporation's Pittsburgh Office. Prior to joining RAND in January 2003, Dr. Morgan served a 27-year career in the U.S. Air Force (Forrest, “</span>Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space,”
[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]

Moreover, while threats of conventional AND largely irrelevant from a deterrence perspective.

===Deterrence By Denial=== 
1. Adversaries will attack even if success chances are small because the pay-off is large
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Morgan, 10</span> - <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">defense policy researcher working in RAND Corporation's Pittsburgh Office. Prior to joining RAND in January 2003, Dr. Morgan served a 27-year career in the U.S. Air Force (Forrest, “</span>Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space,”
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span>


The Difficulties of Denial-Based Deterrence in Space
<span style="font-size: 14px;">Efforts to deter would-be AND </span>all of them suffer certain limitations.

2. Even if war doesn’t escalate, desperate nations would not be deterred—takes out escalation solvency
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Morgan, 10</span> – senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation (2010, Forrest E., RAND Corporation, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space”, http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2010/RAND_MG916.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 14px;">The longer a conventional war between AND and, </span>potentially,<span style="font-size: 14px;"> their lives.</span>


3. Deterrence fails because we’re still perceived as vulnerable – depends on psychology and induces international backlash
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Sheldon 8</span> – Ph.D. Marshall Institute Fellow and Visiting Professor School of Advanced Air and Space Studies Maxwell AFB (John, November, “Space Power and Deterrence: Are We Serious?”, <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/616.pdf]]</span> WSX)
<span style="font-size: 14px;">It is commonplace, if not AND </span>deterrence proves to be less than perfect


4. Defense alone fails to deter
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Hays, Dolman, and Mueller 06</span> –* senior policy analyst with the Science Applications International Corporation, **Professor of Comparative Military Studies at Sass,** * political scientist with the RAND Corporation [Peter, Everett, Karl, March, “Toward a U.S. Grand Strategy in Space” <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/408.pdf</span> WSX]
4. Defensive counterspace operations are AND that you take this into account.



Space deterrence impossible
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Morgan, 10</span>- senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation, served on the strategy and policy staff at Headquarters, U.S. Air Force, Pentagon, and as professor of comparative military studies at the Air University School of Advanced Air and Space Studies (SAASS) (Forest E., “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space,” RAND, pdf)
<span style="font-size: 14px;">Efforts to deter would-be AND </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">all of them suffer certain limitations. </span>


Inherent instability makes deterrence ineffective
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Butterworth & Sheldon, 8</span> - President of Aries Analytics, a company which provides market analyses and program development services to government, commercial and non-profit clients concerning space and space-related research and development. He has served on the staff of the President’s Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board, the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and at the Department of Defense; Marshall Institute Fellow and a visiting professor at the School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, Air University, Maxwell AFB, Alabama (11/13, Robert and John, “Deterrence in Space: Responding to Challenges to the U.S. in Outer Space,” Washington Roundtable on Science & Public Policy, pdf)
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14px;">Given that deterrence is essentially an AND with deep skepticism and profound caution</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>


==Climate Sats Neg== 
===Environment Advantage=== 
Domestic policies block any solution to climate change or leadership

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Hale 11</span>—PhD Candidate in the Department of Politics at Princeton University and a Visiting Fellow at LSE Global Governance, London School of Economics (Thomas, © 2011 Center for Strategic and International Studies, The Washington Quarterly, 34:1 pp. 89-101, “A Climate Coalition of the Willing,” http://www.twq.com/11winter/docs/11winter_Hale.pdf, Ajones)

<span style="font-size: 14px;">Intergovernmental efforts to limit the gases AND </span>. Therefore, the international community should

Sufficient data now proves inaction is political not scientific.
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">PBS </span>3/15/<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">11</span> (Sal Gentile, “House Republicans now officially on record denying science behind climate change”, [[http://www.pbs.org/wnet/need-to-know/the-daily-need/house-republicans-now-officially-on-record-denying-science-behind-climate-change/7980/]], Hemanth)

<span style="font-size: 14px;">House Republicans rejected several measures</span> Tuesday <span style="font-size: 14px;">AND </span>The facts above remain unchallenged among the


climate denial is not based on skepticism but on ideology, and the plan doesn’t overcome the main reason data is rejected
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Dr </span>Peter <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Christoff 07</span> - professor of climate policy at the University of Melbourne (July 9, 2007 “Climate change is another grim tale to be treated with respect” The Age http://www.theage.com.au/news/opinion/climate-change-is-another-grim-tale-to-be-treated-with-respect/2007/07/08/1183833338608.html Ajones)
<span style="font-size: 14px;">Climate change deniers should be distinguished AND </span>forget to "remember the future".

GOP opposition takes out solvency—Copenhagen proves
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Black 2009</span> (Richard, BBC Environment Correspondent, “Why did Copenhagen fail to deliver a climate deal?”, [[http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/8426835.stm]], Hemanth)

<span style="font-size: 14px;">Just about every other country involved AND a nightmare for other countries' negotiators</span>.

==Asteroids Neg== 
===Large Asteroids=== 
Asteroids are not an existential risk- dont cause extinction
Bennett, 10
[James, Eminent Scholar and William P. Snavely Professor of Political Economy and Public Policy at George Mason University, and Director of The John M. Olin Institute for Employment Practice and Policy, “The Chicken Littles of Big Science; or, Here Come the Killer Asteroids!” THE DOOMSDAY LOBBY 2010, 139-185, DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4419-6685-8_6]
<span style="font-size: 14px;">The smallest falling bodies</span>, those AND exactly what the NEO lobby wants.



Low probability events like Asteroids do NOT justify public expenditures – prefer our high probability scenarios.
James T. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Bennett 2010</span> Eminent Scholar and William P. Snavely Professor of Political Economy and Public Policy at George Mason University, and Director of The John M. Olin Institute for Employment Practice and Policy “The Chicken Littles of Big Science; or, Here Come the Killer Asteroids!” The Doomsday Lobby: Hype and Panic from Sputniks, Martians, and Marauding Meteors Springerlink
Chapman and Morrison have pondered NEOs AND <span style="font-size: 14px;">rockiest chunks in the Asteroid Belt.</span>



Asteroids won’t hit the earth- data, empirics and low odds prove.
Robert Roy <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Britt</span>, Senior Science writer, 27 December <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">2004</span>, Whew! Asteroid Won't Hit Earth in 2029, Scientists Now Say, http://www.space.com/628-whew-asteroid-won-hit-earth-2029-scientists.html
The world can exhale a collective AND <span style="font-size: 14px;">data showed it would pass harmlessly. </span>



Short timeframe turns the impact-- we can only die once
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">BOSTROM 2011</span> (Nick, Prof. of Philosophy at Oxford, The Concept of Existential Risk (Draft), http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html)
Finally, when considering existential-AND <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">we can only be eradicated once</span>.



Timeframe turns probability -- the more distant the prediction, the more likely it is to be wrong
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">POSNER 2004</span> (Richard, US Court of Appeals judge and Senior Lecturer at the University of Chicago Law School, <span style="font-size: 14px;">Catastrophe: Risk and Response</span> 17)
<span style="font-size: 14px;">A compelling reason for not giving AND even likely, on that timescale</span>.


You should err negative- their authors exaggerate the magnitude of their impacts
Bennett, 10
[James, Eminent Scholar and William P. Snavely Professor of Political Economy and Public Policy at George Mason University, and Director of The John M. Olin Institute for Employment Practice and Policy, “The Chicken Littles of Big Science; or, Here Come the Killer Asteroids!” THE DOOMSDAY LOBBY 2010, 139-185, DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4419-6685-8_6]
<span style="font-size: 14px;">We should</span> here <span style="font-size: 14px;">acknowledg</span>e, AND <span style="font-size: 14px;">constant since the dawn of recorded time </span>

===Accidental War / Small Asteroids=== 
No impact to small asteroid strike
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Dore ‘7</span> (Mohammed, Climate Change Laboratory, Department of Economics, Brock University, Ch. 29: The Economic Consequences of Disasters due to Asteroid and Comet Impacts, Small and Large, in //Comet/Asteroid Impacts and Human Society: An Interdisciplinary Approach//, SpringLink)
With the NOAA classification of natural AND and damage of $ 27 billion.


Small asteroid will strike over water and cause negligible damage
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Gusiakov ‘7</span> (V. K., Tsunami Laboratory, Institute of Computational Mathematics and Mathematical Geophysics Siberian Division, Russian Academy of Sciences, Ch.14: Tsunami as a Destructive Aftermath of Oceanic Impacts, in Comet/Asteroid Impacts and Human Society: An Interdisciplinary Approach, SpringLink)
Since evidence for asteroid impact on AND <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">than an equivalent explosion above land.</span>


Small asteroid impact would mobilize the world to prevent larger collisions
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">VERSCHUUR 1996</span> (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 163)
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">A Tunguska type event may be AND something to prevent such a catastrophe</span>.


No nuclear accidents
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Perrow 99</span> (Charles, Professor of Sociology at Yale, Normal Accidents: Living with High-Risk Technology, p 257-258)
No such encouraging lessons come from AND . It just may collapse in confusion


CTBT verification solves asteroid strikes and accidental war
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Nature News 2002</span> (“Microphones tell asteroids from A-bombs,” July 17, http://www.nature.com/news/1998/020715/full/news020715-4.html)
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Ground-based groups of microphones</span><span style="font-size: 8px; text-decoration: none;">AND </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">just how many Tunguskas we can expect</span>

Russia is developing radar now—means no miscalc
Voice of Russia 11
(The Voice of Russia was the first radio station to broadcast internationally. On the air since October 29th 1929, VOR has been shaping Russia’s image worldwide and introducing Russia to the world and highlighting its opinions on global events, 7-9-11, “Russia to monitor orbit for junk”, <span style="color: #0000ff;">[[http://english.ruvr.ru/2011/07/09/53000350.html]]</span>)
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Russia is building four high-AND </span>on a popular Moscow radio station.

===Solvency=== 
Detection //decreases// chances to deflect- false alarms mean nobody pays attention
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">IAA 2009</span> (International Academy of Astronautics, Dealing with the THREAT TO EARTH From ASTEROIDS and COMETS, http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups/SG%20Commission%203/sg35/sg35finalreport.pdf)
False Alarms <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">False alarms</span>, often AND <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">] </span>credible<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> of the NEO community</span>.


Can’t solve strikes --- too many objects
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Lewis 96 -</span> professor of planetary science at the University of Arizona's Lunar and Planetary Laboratory (John S., Rain of Iron and Ice, p. 183-222)
About <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">a quarter of the</span> total <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">AND </span>a thousand or so square kilometers.


Nuclear deflection //works-// fragmented pieces miss Earth or burn up in the atmosphere
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Zhang et al 2010</span> (XL, E Ball,C Granier, L Kochmanski, and S D Howe, Centre for Space Nuclear Research, Idaho National Laboratory, Near-Earth object interception using nuclear thermal rocket propulsion, SPECIAL ISSUE PAPER 181, http://journals.pepublishing.com/content/x225kt32h67735w8/fulltext.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Deflection and destruction of the approaching AND </span>discussed in section 5.2).

===War Yes/No=== 
Nuclear war would create a dust-induced winter that causes extinction
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Phillips</span>, PhD, Physics, Cambridge, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">2000</span>
(Alan, , Nuclear Winter Revisited, Oct, www.peace.ca/nuclearwinterrevisited.htm)
Altogether, <span style="font-size: 14px;">nuclear winter would be AND but **it may not include us**</span>.)

Human extinction likely – even if people survive mass inbreeding wipes them out
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Bochkov</span>, Member of the Medical Academy of Sciences and Director of the Institute of Genetics at the USSR Academy of Sciences, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">1984</span>
(Academician, , “The Cold and the Dark: The World After Nuclear War”, p. 141-142)
Academician Bochkov: When we talk AND <span style="font-size: 14px;">to reproduce itself as a species</span>.

Organizations lack full deterrence capabilities—Lack of civilian control means states are more likely to strike preemptively or abandon nuclear discipline
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Clark</span>, associate professor of political science and director of the national security studies program at California State University, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">1997</span> (Mark T., “Deterrence in the Second Nuclear Age-book reviews: Neorealism versus Organizational Theory,” http://www.findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0365/is_n1_v41/ai_19238111)
Sagan's critique is a healthy antidote AND treasure into <span style="font-size: 14px;">developing its nuclear program.</span>

Great power conflict still possible – could go nuclear.
Harald <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Muller</span>, director of the Peace Research Institute Frankfurt in Gerniany and a profcssor of international relations at Frankfurt University, Spring <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">2008</span>, Washington Quarterly, p.68
<span style="font-size: 14px;">A power transition creates dangerous times</span>AND an essential contribution to this management.
Seriously, there will be wars: economics, security dilemma, nationalism
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Mearsheimer</span>, Distinguished Professor of Political Science, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">1999</span>.
(John Mearsheimer, “Is Major War Obsolete?” 1999, http://www.ciaonet.org/conf/cfr10/index.html)
<span style="font-size: 14px;">A</span> second <span style="font-size: 14px;">reason that states go AND to produce peace, do you?</span>
Even Mandelbaum thinks you should default to war
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Mandelbaum</span>, Professor of American Foreign Policy at Johns Hopkins University <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">1999</span>
Michael, Christian A. Herter AND -American view of the world.

Nuclear peace theory oversimplifies state behavior and can’t predict specific cases – prefer the specificity of our war scenarios
Nathan E. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Busch</span>, assistant professor of political science at Christopher Newport University, 10/8/<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">04</span>, “No End in Sight: The continuing menace of nuclear proliferation”, p. 313
<span style="font-size: 14px;">While abstract theorizing can be found AND policy recommendations that are more sound.</span>


==D&G Neg== 
against edina LM
===Case=== 
**Even if a political strategy can form from the alt its immediate adoption destroys the chance for politics to occur**
**Garo 8** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Isabelle, French philosopher, “Molecular Revolutions: The Paradox of Politics in the Work of Gilles Deleuze,” //Deleuze and Politics// pg 71, dml)</span>

The political dimension of Deleuze’s work AND <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">philosophy and also to escape it.</span>


**Extinction**
**Boggs 97**
[Carl, National University, Los Angeles, Theory and Society, “The great retreat: Decline of the public sphere in late

twentieth-century America”, December, Volume 26, Number 6, [[http://www.springerlink.com.proxy.library.emory.edu/content/m7254768m63h16r0/fulltext.pdf]]]
<span style="font-size: 8px; text-align: justify;">The decline of the public sphere AND had vanished from civil society. 75</span>


**Turn – an affirmation of lines of flight is catastrophic and destructive**
**Diken and Laustsen 01**
[Bülent, lecturer in Sociology at Lancaster University, and Carsten Bagge Laustsen, Ph.D. student at the University of Copenhagen, Department of Political Sciences, “Enjoy your fight!” – “Fight Club” as a symptom of the Network Society, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lancs.ac.uk/fass/sociology/papers/diken-laustsen-enjoy-your-fight.pdf]]</span>]
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The first danger is that </span>__a AND__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">the cut works in the film.</span></span>

Space exploration will cause environmental exploitation, nuclear annihilation, arms races, and epidemics
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Gagnon</span>**__,__** Coordinator of the Global Network Against Weapons & Nuclear Power in Space, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">1999</span> (Bruce K., “Space Exploration and Exploitation,” http://www.space4peace.org/articles/scandm.htm)
<span style="font-size: 14px;">We are now poised to take</span> AND <span style="font-size: 14px;">create new global conflicts and confrontations.</span>

Mutated disease cause extinction
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Discover 2000</span> (“Twenty Ways the World Could End” by Corey Powell in Discover Magazine, October 2000, http://discovermagazine.com/2000/oct/featworld)
<span style="font-size: 14px;">If Earth doesn't do us inAND </span>they migrated into the New World.


The world’s worst atrocities were a result of rejecting Enlightenment thought.
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Chirot and McCauley</span>—Prof. of International Studies and Sociology & Prof. of Psychology—<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">2006</span> (Daniel and Clark, Princeton University Press, print)
<span style="font-size: 14px;">When the United States, or AND </span>Naimark 2001, 85-138).



Case D
**The right to life is the greatest and most overriding liberty**

**Gluckman ’99**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> Vasil Gluckman, staff at Preson University, Humanity and Moral Rights, 1999, [[http://www.bu.edu/wcp/Papers/Huma/HumaGluc.htm]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">I accept the idea that human AND of harms to the individuals' rights.</span>

**People need to be able to decide whether to live or die themselves**

**Goodin ‘95**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> (Robert, professor of social sciences and philosopher at the Research School of Social Sciences at Australian National University, “Utilitarianism as a Public Philosophy”, p. 39) </span>

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">The rather more grand way of AND </span>**__moral agency that is being undermined."__**

**Lack of an objective truth doesn’t justify inaction – their philosophy is based on equally unverifiable assumptions and results in nihilism and political paralysis – we should act based on empirical knowledge.**
**Loewy – 91** Erich, associate professor of medicine at the University of Illinois and associate professor of humanities, “Suffering and the Beneficent Community: Beyond Libertarianism,” p. 17-21

__All of our judgments and decisions AND experience, learn, and grow.__
Life is a pre-requisite to everything
Seeley, ‘86
(Central Committee for Conscientious Objectors, The Handbook of Non-Violence, p. 269-70)
In moral reasoning <span style="font-size: 14px;">prediction of consequences AND impermissible **under any sane moral code****.**</span>
Non-violence can’t solve violence – it’s just wishful thinking
Richard J. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Regan</span>, Prof of Poly Sci @ Fordham, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">1996</span>, Just War: Principles and Causes, p 6
<span style="font-size: 14px;">Pacifists generally argue that nonviolence and AND oppression in the</span><span style="font-family: 'TimesNewRomanPSMT','serif';"> intervening </span><span style="font-size: 14px;">short run</span><span style="font-family: 'TimesNewRomanPSMT','serif';">? </span>
====2NC AT: Lanza / Death is meaningless==== 
**People are not particles – death is real!**

**MYERS ‘9** (PZ, biologist and associate professor at the University of Minnesota – Morris, “The dead are dead”, Pharyngula, Dec 10, http://scienceblogs.com/pharyngula/2009/12/the_dead_are_dead.php)

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">This is the kind of idiocy AND energies patterned usefully a little longer.</span>



**No scientific basis for their consciousness arguments**

**SCIENCEBLOGS ’10** [“Dr. Robert Lanza and "biocentrism": Time to get out the paper bag again”, June 15, 2010, [[@http://scienceblogs.com/insolence/2010/06/dr_lanza_and_biocentrism_time_to_get_out.php]]]

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> Here's what I mean. AND (HuffPo) </span>__with more wretched nonsens__

===Heg Good=== 
The Affirmative’s criticism of American policy is dangerous – it contributes to isolationism and the eventual collapse of U.S. primacy
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Kagan, 98</span>(Robert, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and PhD in American History from American University, “The Benevolent Empire,” Foreign Policy. Summer, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=275 AFM)
<span style="font-size: 14px;">Those contributing to the growing chorus AND </span>celebration of the next American humbling.


The result is wars around globe—there is simply no alternative
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Rosen, 3</span> (Stephen Peter Rosen, Beton Michael Kaneb Professor of National Security and Military Affairs at Harvard University, The National Interest. “An Empire, if You Can Keep It.” March 22. http://www.encyclopedia.com/doc/1G1-99377575.html AFM)

Rather than wrestle with such difficult AND <span style="font-size: 14px;">alternatives are that much more attractive. </span>


The failure to embrace violent solutions guarantees foreign aggression from Iran and other violent regimes
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Sowell, 7</span> (Thomas Sowell, Senior fellow at Stanford University’s Hoover Institution, “Morally Paralyzed,” 7-24-2007, http://jewishworldreview.com/cols/sowell072407.php3 AFM)


<span style="font-size: 14px;">"Moral paralysis" is a term that has been used to describe the inaction of</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> France, England and other </span><span style="font-size: 14px;">European democracies</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> in the 1930s,</span><span style="font-size: 14px;">as they watched Hitler build up the military</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> forces that he later used to attack them. </span>
<span style="font-size: 14px;">It is a term that may AND we morally paralyzed, perhaps fatally?</span>


Their alternative can’t solve international structure, so there’s only a risk that their criticism destroys national security

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Nyquist ‘5</span> (J. R. Renowned expert in geopolitics and international relations, received his B.A. from the University of California at Irvine where he also attended graduate school, working in the Politics and Society Group. Since leaving the program Mr. Nyquist has continued research in Soviet strategy, Cold War history, and social theory. Mr. Nyquist was contracted with the U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency from 1988 until 1992 in the Soviet / Russian analysis group. June 17, “NATIONAL SECURITY VS. SPECIAL INTERESTS”, http://www.financialsensearchive.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2005/0617.html)

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">After the response from last week</span><span style="font-family: 'Tahoma','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">’</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">s AND : economic liberty or national security?</span>
====<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">2NC Business</span>==== 
The role of the ballot is to sustain American society – that is critical to preserving international stability

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Kristol & Kagan ‘96</span> (William Kristol – visiting professor in government at Harvard University and Robert Kagan – senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and PhD in American History, “Toward a Neo-Reganite Foreign Policy,” Foreign Affairs. July/August, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=276 )

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">TWENTY YEARS later</span><span style="font-size: 14px;">, it is AND </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">of military supremacy and moral confidence.</span>


Their evidence is one-sided and biased – it refuses to investigate the overwhelming number of historical examples where mass murder did not result in biopolitical societies
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Dickinson</span>, University of Cincinnati, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">2004</span> (Edward Ross, “Biopolitics, Fascism, Democracy: Some Reflections on Our Discourse About “Modernity,” Central European History, vol. 37, no. 1, March)
A second example is Geoff Eley’s AND <span style="font-size: 14px;">need to be investigated or explained.</span>


Biopolitics is an empty term that is deployed in the place of actual analysis of material conditions—their impact representations block critical thought
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Virno</span>, professor of linguistic philsophy, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">2k2</span> (Paolo, University of Cosenza, 'General intellect, exodus, multitude. Interview with Paolo Virno', Archipélago **number 54, published in English at http://www.generation-online.org/p/fpvirno2.htm)**
Agamben is a problem. Agamben AND <span style="font-size: 14px;">of work and not progaganda words.</span>





Loyalty is critical to preservation of rights and American hegemony - Criticizing US imperialism focuses only on the bad and undermines our faith in the US

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Hanson, 3</span> (Victor Davis, Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution, Professor Emeritus at California University, Fresno, Ph.D. from Stanford, “Loyalty, How Quaint.” National Review Online. Novem.ber 24. <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[[http://www.victorhanson.com/articles/hanson112403v55iss.html]]</span> [ca])

<span style="font-size: 14px;">Critical to this cynicism is</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> the AND </span><span style="font-size: 14px;">point we will most certainly not.</span>


Hardt and Negri reject political action and representation, dooming their revolution
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Passavant ’04</span> (Paul, Professor of Political Science – Hobart and William Smith Colleges, __Empire’s New Clothes__, p. 115-6)
What <span style="font-size: 14px;">if there was a revolutionAND </span>total justice will elude our time.

Resistance can only succeed by working within the conditions of the Empire.
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Foster, 2001 </span>(John Bellamy, editor of Monthly Review and author of Marx’s Ecology: Materialism and Nature and The Vulnerable Planet, “Imperialism and ‘Empire’” Monthly Review, http://www.monthlyreview.org/1201jbf.htm)
Empire, the name they give AND <span style="font-size: 14px;">the ontological conditions that Empire presents”</span>

===<span style="font-size: 14px;">Falsifiability</span>=== 
Focus on the 1AC story of narration, instead of the specifics of policy proposals is functionally a new religion that gets hijacked by the far right, making the left ineffectively complacent and justifies all wars in history
Volk 2007
Joe, executive secretary of the Friends committee on National Legislation and a contributor to Foreign Policy in Focus, “the story of Religions”, 11-14, www.fpif.org/fpiftxt/4732
A former member of Congress and AND <span style="font-size: 14px;">over the power of civil society</span>.

Their methodology fails and destroys objective method of evidence evaluation. Falsification is the only correct methodology to prevent inevitable extinction.
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Coyne, 06</span> – Author and Writer for the Times (Jerry A., “A plea for empiricism”, FOLLIES OF THE WISE, Dissenting essays, 405pp. Emeryville, CA: Shoemaker and Hoard, 1 59376 101 5)
<span style="font-size: 14px;">My discomfort with</span> Freud’s <span style="font-size: 14px;">lack of AND to heed Crews’s plea for empiricism**.**</span>


Reject the 1AC: the aff confuses claims to truth and assertions of fact with truth and facts—it has no way to establish these. the best policy is to the remember and support victims of oppression w/o uncritically supporting all of their claims. Otherwise, we act in a condescending manner and lack respect.
Sokol 00
Alan, Professor of Physics, NYU, The Sokal Hoax: The Sham that Shook Academia, 251-252
Now, perhaps Dr. Anyon AND ), not in spite of it.

====1NR Yes Truth / Falsifiability good==== 
Turns case - Only claims that survive the test of falsifiability can be the basis of sound policy decision – they are the only basis of emancipatory action
Benson and Stangroom 06
Ophelia and Jeremy, authors of many philosophy books, Why truth matters, 63-64
<span style="font-size: 14px;">Science and other forms of empirical AND and mistakes than anyone else has</span>.


Truth exists – The methodology to defend truth claims depends upon specific deployments of reason, evidence and logic. rejecting truth claims on the basis of constructionism destroys the left and affirms prejudice
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Sokal, 97 </span>(Alan, professor of physics at New York University, “A Plea for Reason, Evidence and Logic”, [[http://www.physics.nyu.edu/faculty/sokal/nyu_forum.html]])
This affair has brought up an AND it will have served its purpose.

Their predictions K is simply dated – predictions research has improved and is vital.
Ruud <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">van der Helm</span> is a Dutch policy officer on instrument development in the Aid Effectiveness and Policy Department. Futures – Volume 41, Issue 2, Pages 67-116 (March <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">2009</span>) – obtained via Science Direct
These major traits of the Futures AND are likely to be found wanting.



==Disads== 
===Continuing Rez Da - Umich=== 
Spending compromise happening now, but plan would delay it, which would shut the government down
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">HELDERMAN 11/3</span>/11 (Rosalind S. Helderman, “Congress holds rare appropriations conference”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/2chambers/post/congress-holds-rare-appropriations-conference/2011/11/03/gIQAN1dajM_blog.html)

<span style="font-size: 14px;">House and Senate ... over previous years</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.” </span>

Failure to reach a deal guarantees government shutdown. – empirics prove
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Farry, </span>1-19-<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">2011</span>
[Yanira, Junior Editor – Veterans Today, Military & Foreign Affairs Journal, “GOP-Tea Party Play Chicken With U.S. Credit, Courting Catastrophe,” http://www.veteranstoday.com/2011/01/19/gop-tea-party-play-chicken-with-u-s-credit-courting-catastrophe/]
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">SHUTTING DOWN … </span>lt in history caused purely by insanity.”

That causes cyberattacks.
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Sideman, 2-23</span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria','serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">-</span>2011
[Alysha, Federal Computer Week Contributor, “Agencies must determine computer security teams in face of potential federal shutdown” http://fcw.com/Articles/2011/02/23/Agencies-must-determine-computer-security-teams-in-face-of-shutdown.aspx?Page=1]
<span style="font-size: 14px;">With</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the WikiLeaks ….</span><span style="font-size: 14px;">,</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> reports Federal Computer Week. </span>

Great power escalation.
Fritz, 2009
[Jason, researcher for International Commission on Nuclear Nonproliferation and Disarmament, former Army officer and consultant, and has a master of international relations at Bond University, “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control,” July, http://www.icnnd.org/latest/research/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.pdf]
This paper will analyse the threat of cyber terrorism in regard to nuclear weapons. Specifically, this research will use open source knowledge to identify the structure of nuclear command and control centres, how those structures might be compromised through …<span style="font-size: 14px;"> and control centres directly.</span>


===Space Weaponization=== 
====1NC==== 
New multilateral initiatives prevent space mil
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Huntley, 11</span> - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, [[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]])

As is well understood, the AND devils may lurk in these details.



Pursuing space cooperation prevents crisis escalation even if weaponization is inevitable
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Hayes, 9</span> **-** Lt Col, USAF, paper submitted to the Faculty of the Joint Advanced Warfighting School in partial satisfaction of the requirements of a Master of Science Degree in Joint Campaign Planning and Strategy (Tracey, “PROPOSAL FOR A COOPERATIVE SPACE STRATEGY WITH CHINA”, [[http://dodreports.com/pdf/ada530117.pdf]])

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14px;">Cooperation can prevent conflict escalation, AND , thus preventing potential crisis escalation</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">**<<INSERT LINK>>**</span>


Decreased cooperation makes war and first strike incentives inevitable

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Hitchens, 8</span> – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]]</span>)



<span style="font-size: 14px;">Perhaps of even greater concern is AND </span>alternative would be unacceptable to all.





Space control is impossible, countermeasures override deterrence and risk nuclear escalation

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Krepon et al, 11</span> – President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, also Theresa Hitchens, Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and Michael Katz-Hyman, Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space

Security and South Asia Projects (Michael, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]])



While some have compared space to AND the use of force in space.





Escalation is guaranteed, causes extinction

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Mitchell, et al 1 </span>-Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh

(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span>)



<span style="font-size: 14px;">A buildup of space weapons might AND most destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>

====<span style="font-size: 14px;">2NC Impact Calc - ASATS</span>==== 
Plan short circuits MAD—preemption precedes solvency
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Englehart, 8</span> – patent litigation attorney (Alex, “COMMON GROUND IN THE SKY: EXTENDING THE 1967 OUTER SPACE TREATY TO RECONCILE U.S. AND CHINESE SECURITY INTERESTS,” 17 Pac. Rim L. & Pol'y J. 133, lexis)
D. An Effective U.S. Space Weapons Deployment Would Neutralize the Effectiveness of ICBMs and Create a Powerful Incentive for Nuclear Preemptive Strikes
In addition to the strategic interplay AND further away from the United States.


Space weapons lead to uncertainty which uniquely enables accidental war and preemption
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Hardesty 5</span> – Captain David C. Hardesty, U.S. Navy, member of the faculty of theNaval War College’s Strategy and Policy Department, "Space-Based Weapons: Long-Term Strategic Implications and Alternatives," 2005, www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA521114&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf

<span style="font-size: 14px;">Space-based weapons, like AND </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">chances of suffering disproportionate losses oneself. </span>



====2NC Impact Calc - SPS==== 
SPS would be the first target of an attack
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Pop, 2k</span> – PhD Student, University of Glasgow Law School (Virgiliu, “SECURITY IMPLICATIONS OF NON-TERRESTRIAL RESOURCE EXPLOITATION”, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.geocities.com/virgiliu_pop/publications/security.pdf]]</span>)

2.5. Self Defence AND <span style="color: #000000;">complexes or powerplants”42.</span>

heres comparative timeframe ev--turns private sector solvency
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Dinerman, 08</span> (Taylor, The Space Review, “Financial risk analysis for the space industry”, 6/16, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1151/1]]</span>)

Finally, there is the time AND <span style="font-size: 14px;">can be financed by ordinary investors</span>.


No external impact – a space war will render all of space unusable for thousands of years
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Forden, 8</span> - Massachusetts Institute of Technology (Geoffrey, Astropolitics, 6:138–153, “VIEWPOINT: CHINA AND SPACE WAR,” Ebsco Political Science)
If the short-term military AND <span style="font-size: 14px;">hundreds to thousands of years</span>.14

Cooperation is a prerequisite to resource acquisition
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Huntley et al 10</span> – US Naval Postgraduate School (Wade L. Huntley, Joseph G. Bock (Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, Notre Dame) & Miranda Weingartner (Weingartner Consulting), “Planning the unplannable: Scenarios on the future of space,” <span style="font-size: 14px;">Space Policy</span>, Volume 26, Issue 1, February 2010, Science Direct)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">4.3. Scenario AAND of weapons not to be used.</span>



====2NC Cooperation Uniqueness==== 
The US is pursuing cooperation in space now—solves conflict
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Rose, 11</span> –Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Bureau of Arms Control, Verification and Compliance (Frank, “STRENGTHENING STABILITY IN SPACE,” REGULATORY INTELLIGENCE DATA, 4/4, lexis)

Why is SSA important to space AND <span style="font-size: 14px;">mishaps, misperceptions, and mistrust</span>.

realism guarantees it works
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Huntley et al 10</span> – US Naval Postgraduate School (Wade L. Huntley, Joseph G. Bock (Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, Notre Dame) & Miranda Weingartner (Weingartner Consulting), “Planning the unplannable: Scenarios on the future of space,” <span style="font-size: 14px;">Space Policy</span>, Volume 26, Issue 1, February 2010, Science Direct)

This observation casts light on the AND <span style="font-size: 14px;">seeking to constrain those forces.</span>24

We’ve already started talks with China—solves weaponization and miscalc
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Reed 7/19</span>- Washington, DC-based editor of Military.com’s Defense Tech blog and the associate editor of DoDBuzz, Former Defense News writer and reporter (John Reed July 19th 2011, DOD Buzz, “U.S., China set to discuss space security” http://www.dodbuzz.com/2011/07/19/u-s-china-set-to-discuss-space-security/ Ajones)

<span style="font-size: 14px;">Pentagon officials and their Chinese counterparts AND </span>S. has enjoyed for decades.

China has incentives for sustained cooperation but will watch the US for deviations
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Gargasz, 10</span> - Major, United States Air Force (Michael, “We’ve Rattled Our Sabers…Now What?
The Future of US/China Space Relations,” https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_49078f96-46d1-4c32-a692-4cb4002bd775/display.aspx?rs=enginespage)

Much like a negotiated ban on AND much angst in the space community.



Increasing space cooperation deters China from using weapons by reinforcing Chinese dependence on space
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Hayes, 9</span> - Lt Col, USAF, paper submitted to the Faculty of the Joint Advanced Warfighting School in partial satisfaction of the requirements of a Master of Science Degree in Joint Campaign Planning and Strategy (Tracey, “PROPOSAL FOR A COOPERATIVE SPACE STRATEGY WITH CHINA”, [[http://dodreports.com/pdf/ada530117.pdf]])

<span style="font-size: 14px;">An unanticipated benefit of a cooperative AND rudimentary deterrence against satellites exist</span>…”152

====AT: Inevitable - Generic==== 
Their inevitability arguments are empirically wrong
Scott <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Lowery 09</span> - University of Colorado (6/17/09 University of Colorado “Why the Weaponization of Space Should Not Be Pursued” http://www.colorado.edu/pwr/occasions/articles/Lowery_Why%20the%20Weaponization%20of%20Space%20Should%20Not%20Be%20Pursued.pdf Ajones
Deficiencies in the Arguments for Inevitability AND <span style="font-size: 14px;">is falling mentality</span>” (Belote).


It’s not inevitable – leaders are risk averse and capabilities don’t signify intent to deploy weapons
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Krepon et al, 1</span>1 – President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, also Theresa Hitchens, Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and Michael Katz-Hyman, Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space
Security and South Asia Projects (Michael, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]])
These dilemmas are widely, but AND that would be difficult to close.

====Link - SPS==== 
Unilateral SSP causes backlash—their evidence assumes we give countries an equal partnership
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Glaser, 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> - aerospace engineer, vice president at Arthur D. Little, consulting on consulting projects in aerospace, solar energy, and materials science (Peter, Ad Astra, Interview, “An energy pioneer looks back”, Spring, </span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d;">))</span>
Glaser: Since it would be AND <span style="color: #0d0d0d;">satellites built by an international effort. </span>



And it is perceived as a weapons deployment
**<span style="color: #000000;">Pop, 2k</span>**<span style="color: #000000;"> – PhD Student, University of Glasgow Law School (Virgiliu, “SECURITY IMPLICATIONS OF NON-TERRESTRIAL RESOURCE EXPLOITATION”, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.geocities.com/virgiliu_pop/publications/security.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-size: 14px;">The SPS system</span><span style="color: #000000;">, although not AND would hence bebanned”24.</span>



Unilateral SSP development increases perceptions of U.S. unilateralism
**<span style="color: #000000;">Schwab, 2</span>**<span style="color: #000000;"> – director of the Homeland Defense Institute, former fellow with the Space Security Working Group of the Eisenhower Institute, and currently serves on the steering committee of the International Association of Space Entrepreneurs </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Martin, “The New Viability of Space Solar Power: Global Mobilization for a Common Human Endeavor” 4/15, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://web.archive.org/web/20060102081311/www.homeplanetdefense.org/Space+Solar+Power1.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">) (**Note – while this link works, a text search in google won’t - you will need a web archive search on homeplanetdefense.org to find this)**</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">With regard to Ridges’s call for //AND// __in developing secure energy for planet Earth__</span>


SSP causes space weaponization
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Ramos 2k</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> – US Air Force Major, Thesis submitted for the AIR COMMAND AND STAFF COLL MAXWELL Air Force Base (Kim, “Solar Power Constellations: Implications for the United States Air Force,” April, </span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; text-decoration: none;">[[http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA394928]]</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d;">)</span>

**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Force Application</span>**
<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">United States Space Command developed four AND **__space__**</span><span style="font-size: 14px;"> to energize the RF beam</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d;">.</span>



===Financial DA- Ghill RR=== 

**First is Uniqueness- Credit downgrade jump started a movement towards deficit reduction-**

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Powell 8-18</span> //(Scott S, a visiting fellow at the Hoover Institution and a managing partner at RemingtonRand Corp. “//Standard & Poor’s may be late to the party,” 2011 http://www.signonsandiego.com/news/2011/aug/18/standard-poors-may-be-late-to-the-party/)

The [[http://topics.signonsandiego.com/topics/Credit_rating_agency|credit rating agencies]] are generally late to the party. By the time they take ….. were made public in December 2010 – would make sense right now.





**And the government is looking to cut Space funding now- plan is a step in the opposite direction**

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Handberg 2011</span> (Roger, Professor and Chair of the Department of Political Science at the University of Central Florida. “The beginning of the end or the end of the beginning? Facing the shuttle’s demise and the future,” The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1890/1)

The more recent events surrounding the US …. is likely to happen until after the 2012 presidential and congressional elections.



**Fiscal Discipline key to keeping Moody’s Rating**

Bloomberg 8/2

(Bloomberg, "US Credit Rating Affirmed as Moody's Fitch warn of Downgrade on Defecit," 8/2/2011 pg online @ www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-02/u-s-aaa-rating-faces-moody-s-downgrade-on-debt-economic-slowdown-concern.html//arjun)

Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings affirmed their AAA credit ratings for the U.S. while …. 2012 level of 73 percent by the middle of the decade, followed by a decline.

Downgrade Kills the Global Economy – Higher Interest Rates– Increase inflation – kills consumer confidence

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Foster 2011</span> (JD PHD is Norman B. Ture Senior Fellow in the Economics of Fiscal Policy in the Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation. U.S. Credit Rating Downgraded: Now They’ve Done It April 6th The Heritage Foundation, http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2011/08/US-Credit-Rating-Downgraded-Now-Theyve-Done-It)

Taken in isolation, a credit … markedly as the U.S. credit rating has been marked down.



**The impact is nuclear war**

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Royal 10 (</span>Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)

Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase … and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention.




===SKFTA DA- Ghill RR=== 

**SKFTA will pass and is at the top of the docket—assumes TAA and GSP**

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">REUTERS 9/13</span>/11 (“Momentum builds for U.S. action on trade deals”, http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/13/us-usa-trade-deals-idUSTRE78C7QW20110913?feedType=RSS&feedName=domesticNews)

Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid on … be passed in tandem with the trade pacts.



**B. Link—(Insert plan decreases capital link)**



**Capital key to SKFTA**

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">McLarty and Cunningham 1/24</span> (1/24/2011, Thomas - chief of staff to Clinton, and Nelson - aide to Clinton, Obama’s free trade opportunity, Wall Street Journal, p. http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703954004576090290103169526.html?mod=googlenews_wsj)

In the first two years of President Obama's …. something they probably still understand in Chicago.



**SKFTA is key to US heg in Asia, the alliance, and free trade**

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Cha 9</span> (Victor, Senior Advisor and Korea Chair @ CSIS, “What’s at Stake in the KORUS FTA,” Nov 5th, <span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://csis.org/files/publication/KPlatform2.Final.pdf]]</span>)

Third, U.S. support for … other public goods and diminished amounts of foreign assistance



**The impact is dozens of scenarios for nulclear war and collapse of overall leadership**

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Goh, 08</span> – Lecturer in International Relations in the Department of Politics and International Relations at the Univ of Oxford (Evelyn, International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, “Hierarchy and the role of the United States in the East Asian security order,” 2008 8(3):353-377, Oxford Journals Database, Ajones)

The centrality of these mutual processes of assurance and … result of not doing so would appear to be much worse.

===China Politics (St. Marks)=== 
**China bill won’t pass __for now__: Boehner’s blocking it. Bipartisanship will force him to reverse course**

**REUTERS 10/13**/11 (“Analysis: Boehner stands firm against yuan bill”, http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/10/13/us-china-usa-yuan-idUSTRE79B07M20111013)

A <span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">controversial U.S</span>__. AND will build up__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">," Reinsch added. </span>

**Causes trade war and spills over into broader China war**

**REUTERS 10/13**/11 (“Analysis: Obama to challenge China on trade as election nears”, http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/10/13/us-usa-china-trade-idUSTRE79C72820111013)

Analysts cautioned the highly charged political AND <span class="Underline-Highlighted">**warfare**</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">that could be mutually harmful." </span>

==Virilio K== 

**Acceleration into space creates the global accident – culminates in the extinction of all living matter.**

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Adams</span>**,** Masters Political Science, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">03</span> (Jason, Popular Defense in the Empire of Speed: Paul Virilio and the Phenomenology of the Political Body,” November 2003)

It certainly is true that the content of the … of matter that is exterminated”.



**Our alternative is to engage in eschatology of the accident – when faced with catastrophe, we should step back and acknowledge our powerlessness, breaking the endless cycle of invention and destruction that has characterized the 21st century.**

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Virilio 07</span> – (Paul, Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, Switzerland, “The original accident,” trans. by Julie Rose, Polity, available online DH)

Faced with this state of ….. eschatology.






==Specific Strategies== 
===Greenhill Round Robin=== 

====Round 1 vs Carrolton VU - SPS==== 

1NC

-EU CP

-Weaponization DA

-Spending Budget DA

-virilio K

-SKFTA

-Case

2NR: Space mil , case



====Round 3 vs Juan Diego- SPS==== 

1NC

-DOD Anchor Tenant CP

-SKFTA

-Virilio K
-Spending DA
-Space mil DA

-Case

2NR: Spending, CP, Case



====Round 6 vs Greenhill SU - SSA Space Guard==== 

1NC

-On the ground CP

-T

-Politics

-Spending

-Virilio

-Case

2NR: Spending, cp, case

===Greenhill=== 
====Round 2 vs Juan Diego EC - SPS==== 
1NC:
-Anchor Tenant CP
-SKFTA
-Spending turns
-Space mil DA

2NR: Space mil, spending turns

====Round 4 vs Kinkaid MR - Nanotech==== 
1NC:
-SKFTA
-Spending
-Space Mil
-EU CP

2NR: Skfta, case

====Round 6 vs Winston Churchill BL - Asteroid Mining==== 
1NC:
-SKFTA
-Spending
-Virilio
-REE Adv CP (domestic mining)

2NR: Virilio, 1AR was mostly condo

====Octas vs GBS HJ - Climate Sats==== 
-EU CP
-SKFTA
-Virilio
-Spending

2NR: Spending, case

===Samford=== 
====Round 2 Vs Houston County - ASATs==== 
1NC:
-COC CP
-Space mil
-skfta
-spending

2NR: space mil, cp, case

====Round 4 vs Westminster - Asteroids==== 
1NC:
-SKFTA
-Russia CP
-spending
-T substantial

2NR: spending and russia CP

====Round 6 vs USN - ITAR==== 
1NC:
-T - basically every word in the rez
-skfta
-spending
-EU CP

Block: T, case, skfta

2NR: skfta, case

====Semis vs Marist - Space Corps==== 
1NC :
skfta
spending
create a doctrine CP
space mil
T substantial/ effects T

block: effects T, space mil, case (RMA impact turns)

2NR: space mil, cp, case