[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==EOS 1AC - Connally== 

===Plan Text:=== 
**The United States federal government should establish a sustained comprehensive space-based Earth observation mission line.**

===Contention 1 is Inherency=== 

**Cuts now**
David <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Biello</span>, associate editor, environment and energy, Scientific American, NPR, Ira Flatow, NPR reporter, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">8/26</span>/2011, “NOAA Warns Of Gap In Future Forecasting Abilities,” http://www.npr.org/2011/08/26/139972671/noaa-warns-of-gap-in-future-forecasting-abilities //vkoneru//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">IRA FLATOW, host: </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">It's been a ....</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">change that are</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, perhaps, </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">politically sensitive.</span>//

**At a minimum, uncertainty creates data continuity problems – revitalization of Earth Observation satellites is necessary to get the most out of collected data. No current satellites can replace specific system failures.**
Mark <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Williamson</span>, space technology consultant, “Knowledge, ,Data and Global Sustainability: The Role of Space-Based Assets,” THREATS, RISKS AND SUSTAINABILITY – ANSWERS BY SPACE, ed. K.Schrog, C.Mathieu & A.Lukaszczyk, 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span>, p. 56-57.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although this is also the case for the ....</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">no long-term plan for data continuity</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


===Advantage 1 is the Environment=== 

**Overwhelming scientific consensus shows climate change is an existential risk, no matter the cause—doing nothing guarantees extinction.**
Dr. Feng <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hsu</span>, Senior Vice President, Systems Engineering & Risk Management, Space Energy Group, "Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap," ONLINE JOURNAL OF SPACE COMMUNICATION n. 16, Winter 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span>, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html, accessed 4-8-11.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The evidence of global warming is alarming. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">....</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">consumption), I believe </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the choice is clear</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Warming is inevitable—adaptation strategies are key to survival**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Greenwise</span>, 3/21/20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span>, “Global Warming Is Inevitable: Should We Prepare To Adapt?,” <span style="color: black;">http://livinggreenandsavingenergy.com/global-warming-is-inevitable-should-we-prepare-to-adapt.html, gender modified</span> //vkoneru//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Slowly </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">rising global temperatures have been widely reported ....</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">inevitable, [hu]mankind must adapt.</span>

//**Mitigation strategies are inevitable, but NASA capabilities will make or break them for the next century. Success is critical to US environmental leadership.**//
//NASA Aeronautics Support Team (<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NAST</span>), “NASA’s Role in the 21st Century,” White Paper, Fall 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">08</span>, p. 8-9.//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2) Monitoring and predicting climate change and ....</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">our civilization for the remainder of the century</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">8.</span>//

//**Environmental leadership checks extinction—key to biodiversity, oceans, and soil**//
//Ashok <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Khosla</span>, IUCN President, International Union for Conservation of Nature, “A new President for the United States: We have a dream” 27 January 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span> http://www.iucn.org/knowledge/news/opinion/?2595/new-President-for-the-United-States-We-have-a-dream//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A rejuvenated America, with a renewed purpose</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">....industries, construction, agriculture and transport systems.</span>//




//**The consequences of warming are locked-in – climate induced mass migrations are inevitable**//
//Kara K. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Moberg</span>, Student Researcher @ Climate Legacy Initiative – Vermont Law School, J.D. Candidate, The University of Iowa College of Law, March, 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span>, “Extending Refugee Definitions to Cover Environmentally Displaced Persons Displaces Necessary Protection ,” 94 Iowa L. Rev. 1107, lexis//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is clear that climate change and environmental </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">....2100, causing further depletion</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of our environment.</span>//

//**Sudden onset migration increasingly likely – it risks resource wars which are highly likely to escalate**//
//Bahati Ntama <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jacques</span>, Policy Analyst @ Africa Faith and Social Justice Network, Originally published in the Jan-Feb edition of Around Africa, 2/9/20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span>, “Climate Change: What About the Displaced?,” http://afjn.org/focus-campaigns/other/other-continental-issues/82-general/792-climate-change-what-about-the-displaced.html//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Already, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">as a result of climate change</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">....</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the violence will end up in armed conflict.</span>//

//**Environmental stress is now the main cause of conflict – massive migration flows is highly likely to cause war – adaptation is key**//
//Sumudu <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Atapattu</span>, Associate Director, Global Legal Studies Center, University of Wisconsin Law School, Senior Lecturer, Faculty of Law, University of Colombo, Sri Lanka, Fall, 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">08</span>, “Global Climate Change: Can Human Rights (and Human Beings) Survive this Onslaught?,” Colorado Journal of International Environmental Law and Policy, 20 COLO. J. INT'L ENVTL. L. & POL'Y 35, lexis//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">environmental stress has</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> rarely </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">been the sole ....essential task to reduce the risks of conflict.</span>//

//**Bangladesh is uniquely vulnerable—instability causes migrations to India**//
//Paul <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Smith</span>, associate professor of national security affairs at the United States Naval War College in Newport, Rhode Island, Fall 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">07</span>, “Climate Change, Mass Migration and the Military Response,” <span style="color: black;">https://transnet.act.nato.int/WISE/FSE/FuturesPap/ClimateCha0/file/_WFS/%20Orbis2--climate%20change%20and%20mass%20migration.pdf</span>// vkoneru
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Simultaneously, however, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bangladesh suffers from state ....and stimulate tensions and conflict with neighboring states.</span>

**That causes border conflicts with India**
Michael <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Werz</span>, Senior Fellow at the Center for American Progress where his work as member of the National Security Team focuses on the nexus of climate change, migration, and security and emerging democracies, especially Turkey, Mexico, and Brazil, adjunct professor at Georgetown University's BMW Center for German and European Studies, senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund where his work focused on transatlantic foreign policy and the European Union, held appointments as a public policy scholar at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington, D.C., and as a John F. Kennedy Memorial Fellow at Harvard's Minda de Gunzburg Center for European Studies, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">and</span> Kari <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Manlove</span>, Working Group Manager at Clinton Global Initiative, Senior Policy Associate at Clean Economy Network, Research Associate for the Energy Opportunity team, where she does research and writes on global energy poverty alleviation and a range of issues related to the international climate negotiations, 12/8/20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span>, “Climate Change on the Move,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2009/12/on_the_move.html</span> //vkoneru//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Within the next few decades </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">India’s role </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">as ....</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">from greater autonomy within India to complete independence.</span>//

//**This conflict escalates—more data is key to effective response**//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Washington Post</span>, Malathi Nayak, graduate student in Northwestern University's Medill School of Journalism, 1/10/20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span>, “Climate-induced mayhem likely to start in Bangladesh,” http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2011/02/05/AR2011020500183.html// vkoneru
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">RAJENDRAPUR, Bangladesh — Nowhere is </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> potential </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">....adequately addressed given the existing missions and capabilities."</span>

**Failure to adapt leads to global unrest escalating to nuclear war.**
Peter <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schwartz</span>, Global Business Network, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">and</span> Doug <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Randall</span>, “An Abrupt Climate Change Scenario and Its Implications for United States National Security” October, 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">03</span>, http://www.climate.org/PDF/clim_change_scenario.pdf
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The United States and Australia are likely to ....</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">faced with new challenges that today seem unimaginable.</span>

**Remote sensing solves EVERY internal link to mass migrations—increased data is key to accurate models and effective policy**
Mary D. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dysart</span>, DAFC, AIR WAR COLLEGE, AIR UNIVERSITY, 2/16/20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span>, “REMOTE SENSING AND MASS MIGRATION POLICY DEVELOPMENT,” <span style="color: black;">https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/display.aspx?rs=publishedsearch&ModuleID=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&Action=downloadpaper&ObjectID=0d6a76f8-cd94-4fda-a1de-cee1ac3e4c9e</span> //vkoneru
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Many </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">indicators that mass migration is imminent</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> or ....</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">large regions measured by satellite-based instruments</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>




===Advantage 2 is the Research Base=== 

**Funding shortfalls makes it difficult to attract and retain talent necessary to develop new technology and exacerbated by cancellations. Sacrificing small sensing components risks the effectiveness of the entire system.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Committee on Earth Science</span> and Applications from Space, EARTH SCIENCE AND APPLICATIONS FROM SPACE: NATIONAL IMPERATIVES FOR THE NEXT DECADE AND BEYOND, National Academy of Sciences, 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">07</span>, p. xii-xiii.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At the request of agency sponsors and Congress....by NOAA in the new NPOESS program.10</span>

**NASA is critical to the earth science research base – budget shortfalls siphon their ability**
Dr. Timothy L. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Killeen</span>, Director, National Center for Atmospheric Research, “NASA Earth Science,” Hearing Before the House Science Committee, 4—28—<span style="font-size: 12pt;">05</span>, p. 43.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In closing, I hope that my short ....guide NASA in the coming decade and beyond.</span>

**Federal action is critical – a decline in monitoring infrastructure destroys university innovation.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">SSB 05</span> – Space Studies Board (National Academic Press, “Earth Science and Application from Space: Urgent Needs and Opportunities to Serve the Nation,” Earth Observations and Presidential Initiatives, [[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11281&page=13]], AP
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Infusion of new technology and ideas into Earth ....</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">D.C., 26 pp., 1995.</span>

**Even small NASA cuts have a huge impact on university research – ongoing support is key to retain human capital for earth science**
Dr. Timothy L. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Killeen</span>, Director, National Center for Atmospheric Research, “NASA Earth Science,” Hearing Before the House Science Committee, 4—28—<span style="font-size: 12pt;">05</span>, p. 38-39.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In fact, leaving spacecraft and data system ....understanding of the Earth’s atmosphere and its variations.</span>

**That’s key to the biotech industry**
Howard H. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Garrison et. Al, Federation of American Societies</span> for Experimental Biology, Bethesda, Maryland, USA, Andrea L. Stith, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Chevy Chase, Maryland, USA, and Susan A. Gerbi, Division of Biology and Medicine, Brown University, 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">05</span>, “Foreign postdocs: the changing face of biomedical science in the U.S.” <span style="color: black;">http://www.faseb.org/portals/0/pdfs/opa/Foreign_postdocs.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Progress in biomedical research depends upon theintellectual ....</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">reaching, negative consequences for our research enterprise.</span>

**Massive decline in global yields are inevitable – investment in biotech now is key to prevent billions from starving to death.**
Katherine <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Noyes</span>, staff writer, 2/11/20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span>, “Biotech Push Needed to Avert Global Food Crisis, Scientists Warn” Tech News World, [[http://www.technewsworld.com/rsstory/69321.html?wlc=1284092034]]
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">World leaders must embrace agricultural biotech</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nology if they ....</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">-- yields will go down, and soon."</span>


**U.S. leadership key to global biotech adoption, which prevents global starvation and wars over food supplies**
Richard <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lugar</span>, Senator, 2/25/20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span>, Capitol Hill Press Releases, “Lugar Calls for Deeper Understanding of Food Shortage”, lexis
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally, the </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">agricultural policies of both developed ....</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">in the areas of energy and scientific cooperation.</span>

===Contention 2 is Solvency=== 

**Properly funded, NASA drives the intellectual fabric of the nation and is the only agency in the world that can coordinate all the benefits of Earth Observation research.**
Dr. Timothy L. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Killeen</span>, Director, National Center for Atmospheric Research, “NASA Earth Science,” Hearing Before the House Science Committee, 4—28—<span style="font-size: 12pt;">05</span>, p. 65.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NASA plays a crucial role in the</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> fabric....</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">locally, regionally, and globally</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as well.</span>

**Substantial, stable increases in funding are critical to the effectiveness of earth observation.**
James A. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lewis et. Al</span>, Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span>, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Until this year, America’s civil space policies....</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Earth observation system has been put in orbit</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

==2ACs== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]