=Jan/Feb= 

Imminence Aff

**Contention 1: The logic of immanence is flawed**

**A. Current understandings of self defense require the victim to prove they reasonably thought their life was in "imminent" danger- that they would soon be killed. This legal doctrine takes an excessively narrow focus and excludes the context of relationships that are unique to the domestic sphere. Traditional moral and legal analysis fails to take into account the gendered context of domestic violence making it inadequate.**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Jane </span>**Campbell**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Moriarty Associate Professor, University of Akron School of Law Review of Law and Social Change 200</span>**5**
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Many battered women who kill their abusers are charged with murder and</span>...
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">actions and the defendant's lethal response. n115</span>

**B. Gendered analysis reveals the biased nature of current moral reasoning. Morality must take context into account. Situational factors like different physical abilities, social leverage, unresponsiveness of the legal system, and the concept of "reason" make domestic violence uniquely different from other instances of self defense. This requires a different notion of what is morally permissible in response.**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Jane </span>**Campbell**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Moriarty Associate Professor, University of Akron School of Law Review of Law and Social Change 200</span>**5**
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Another problem in self-defense jurisprudence for battered women relates to the fact that </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">the law of self-defense</span>...
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">opposed to victims of other types of violence.</span>

<span class="Underline">**C. Analysis of lesser alternatives to violence like leaving the relationship miss the point. Domestic violence creates a unique atmosphere of intimidation and anxiety. Repeated threats of violence and loss of life alter rational cost benefit assessments for the victim. Applying traditional "objective" analysis of the morality of self defense misses this point entirely.** </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Jane </span>**Campbell**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Moriarty Associate Professor, University of Akron School of Law Review of Law and Social Change 200</span>**5**
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">A related problem is the courts' perception of a woman's role in domestic violence situations. As is clear from Professor</span>...
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Certainly, that cannot be justice.</span>

**D. Gendered analysis proves self defense is morally permissible. A wide angle view of the gender politics at work in domestic violence reveals that ASD, or anticipatory self defense, is a morally acceptable response to repeated instances of domestic violence. This is supported by international and domestic legal precedent. While lethal violence may not be "imminent", the fact that it is rationally perceived as "inevitable" makes ASD morally permissible.**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Jane </span>**Campbell**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Moriarty Associate Professor, University of Akron School of Law Review of Law and Social Change 200</span>**5**
__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">The heart</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> of this article __is whether it should be legal to permit an individual to rely on__ a theory</span>...
__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">the law needs to consider the possibility of anticipatory self-defense</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">.</span>


**E.** **Use of Deadly Force Is Justified Because the Social Contract Has Been Broken by the State**
Elisabeth **Ayyildiz** [J.D., Chicago-Kent College of Law, 19**95**]. The American University Journal of Gender & the Law, 1995. 4 Am. U. J. Gender & Law 141. When Battered Woman's Syndrome does not go far Enough: The Battered Woman as Vigilante
__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Vigilantism as a permissible mode of self-help for battered</span>__...
__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">at vigilantism is morally justified by the state's failure to uphold its end of the compact</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">. n85 </span>

**F. Use of deadly force is necessary to preserve the victims autonomy- this makes it morally permissible**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Joshua </span><span class="Underline">**Dressler** </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Professor of Law, Ohio State Univ. College of Law]. Battered Women and Sleeping Abusers: Some Reflections. 3 Ohio St. J Crim. L., 457, 200</span><span class="Underline">**6**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> I reject the forfeiture theory as morally unacceptable, although others may not. </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Is there</span>...
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">there is a less extreme way to resolve the problem.</span>


**G. Only deadly force provides the victim with sufficient safety**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Elisabeth </span><span class="Underline">**Ayyildiz**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [J.D., Chicago-Kent College of Law, 19</span><span class="Underline">**95**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">]. The American University Journal of Gender & the Law, 1995. 4 Am. U. J. Gender & Law 141. WHEN BATTERED WOMAN'S SYNDROME DOES NOT GO FAR ENOUGH: THE BATTERED WOMAN AS VIGILANTE </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">To some, </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">the death of the abuser may</span>..
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">may not be available to the battered woman</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

**Contention 2:**

**A. Traditional descriptions of self defense require an immediate threat to the victims life. Applying this to domestic violence is inadequate because it ignores that domestic violence operates throw a slow burn campaign of terror, not brilliant flash points**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Jane </span>**Campbell**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Moriarty Associate Professor, University of Akron School of Law Review of Law and Social Change 200</span>**5**
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">This article posits that many </span><span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">courts have engaged</span>...
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">imminent" fear of death or bodily harm. n10</span>



**B. This replicates a broader pattern of gendered politics in international relations. Issues of domestic violence are deemed less important that flashpoints of war on the agenda of policy makers. Gender analysis reveals that domestic violence and international violence are inextricably linked- they both operate as a result of a system of hierarchical, socially constructed gender binaries like public/private, inside/outside and self/other. Gender analysis of domestic violence is a crucial first step in shattering the global political context that makes international conflict possible.**
**Shepherd 09**<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> [Laura J. Dept of Political Science and International Studies, U of Birmingham (UK), “Gender, Violence and Global Politics: Contemporary Debates in Feminist Security Studies,” Political Studies Review, V7 I2, Apr]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 6.66667px;"> According to conventional accounts of international relations (IR), scholars focus on</span>..
<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">inform our research, with potentially profound implications. </span>


==[[#Jan/Feb-Discourse Neg]]Discourse Neg== 
**A. Domestic violence is a discourse produced to justify repressive and counterproductive crime control policies. Despite its particularly context in this debate, "domestic violence" is an apolitical tool, a "women's issue", that essentializes female identity at the exclusion of a more thorough interrogation into the way social inequality produces violence**
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">KATHLEEN J. </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">FERRARO</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">, PhD, Prof @ Arizona State Hypatia vol. 11, no. </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14px;">4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">(Fall 19</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">96</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8px;">In the 1990s, </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">"domestic violence</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8px;">" </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">represents a convoluted, contradictory discourse</span>...
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8px;">subvert the cooptation of our efforts to save our lives. </span>

**B. The affirmatives focus on domestic violence blinds us to the root cause of their impacts—defining violence in solely domestic terms obscures the broader problem of societal control which makes violence inevitable and turns the case**
**Hooks 2k**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">—distinguished prof of English, City College, City U @ NY (Bell, Feminism is for everybody: passionate politics, GoogleBooks, 62-66,)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Just as a vast majority of citizens in this nation believe in equal pay for equal work </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">most</span>__...
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">way they know to handle difficult situations.</span>

**A. Identifying someone as a victim is an attempt to dehumanize them and turn them into a political pawn. The category victim is so powerful that even rights and protections granted based on it are counterproductive**
**Elias 04**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Robert Elias, Professor of Politics, University of San Francisco, Winter, pg. 225, Lexis Nexis )</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Since victimhood and offenderhood, and victim and offender labels, are inconsistent with a capacity for autonomy, they should be viewed only as temporary descriptions. </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Claiming **rights for victims as victims**</span>__...
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">everything but respect the victim's autonomy. n37</span>

**B. Discourse shapes reality. The linguistics of the resolution are the MOST important part. This is empirically proven by past "victim" representations- failure to interrogate the language of the resolution makes debate meaningless- it is a logical prior question to all arguments contained within the AC**
**Ryan 90**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Professor of English, Northeastern University.(Michael, 43 Vand. L. Rev. 1771, *, “SYMPOSIUM: Law, Literature, and Social Change: ARTICLE AND COMMENT: Social Violence and Political Representation.”, 43 Vand. L. Rev. 1771, Lexis Law) </span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Representations signify and produce</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> different kinds of </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">attitudes and actions</span>__...
__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">images that are as much projections of desire as depictions of real things. </span>__

**C. Refusal to live a singular identity as the truth is the alternative. Deconstruction of the category "woman" provides an empirical example of the possitive effect discursive criticism can have on dangerous, static identity categories like victim. Voting negative doesn't endorse abuse, it endorses the idea that everyone should be free to express their identity in a way they see fit and not have category shackles imposed on them by the resolution**
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">VERONICA</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> VASTERLING</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Hypatia vol. 14, no. 3 (Summer 19</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">99)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Moreover</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">, it would be politically undesirable to reduce the exclusionary effects of</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> noncompulsive</span>...
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">this category enable solidarity and empower feminist politics. </span>


I affirm. First are theoretical interpretation issues. Justice cannot be evaluated as a binary; it must be a comparison between a choice and the alternatives. There are multiple reasons to prefer. A) Textuality. MacKay defines animal rights, 1997 – Animal Liberation Front ["Opinionatedly Yours" #1: July 2, 1997 What Do We Mean by Animal Rights?
http://www.animalliberationfront.com/Philosophy/Opinionatedly/What%20is%20Animal%20Rights.htm

Variants of a question often heard … society in which they occur.

Thus, The resolution questions governmental policy, because only the government can establish a law, so the only textual interpretation of justice is in the context of policy making. Anything else allows us to impose extra-resolutional normative considerations, killing predictability.

B) Reciprocity. Justice as a binary is not reciprocal because they need a risk of a link whereas I need to win 100% defense along with independent offense. Reciprocity is key to fairness cause it’s the only way to maintain equitable burdens. Also, if they ignore all of my arguments, they can still win a minimal impact, which skews time and nullifies all aff strategies.

C) Ground. Debate about desirability is key ground. Appeals to truth or falsity cut out impact turn ground by refusing to defend something as good or bad. Desirability ground is key because a major portion of the literature deals with the consequences of taking the resolutional action. Ground is key to fairness because ground determines what arguments each side of the debate can run.

D) Impact comparison. Accepting shady definitional arguments or other so called 'a priori' strategies leads to proliferation of cheap-shot overviews and underdeveloped spikes. Forcing a debate about impacts requires substantive argumentation with developed internal links. Truth-based burdens destroy meaningful weighing analysis since debate is not exempt from the principle of bivalence. This encourages generic strategies which gut topic-specific education. Topic specific education is essential because a) they deal with real world issues and b) without topic specific education there would be no reason to have a resolution in the first place.

E) Debatability. The true/false paradigm locks judges into irresolvable debates where the aff wins an argument, which makes the resolution tautological, and the neg wins a non-competitive argument that makes it contradictory. This invites intervention. Debatability is key to fairness because the only way for judges to make objective and fair decisions is if they are not put into irresolvable debates.

Fariness matters because debate is a competitive activity and anything that precludes an objective evaluation of the round ought to be put down. AND Education matters. Education is important because debate is an academic activity in which we learn about different arguments and positions in an attempt to find the best actions. This is a voting issue if contested. It has all of the elements of a theory shell, and it’s the first interpretation presented.

Second is the justice-based framework. I value justice defined as giving each their due. Justice and obligations are synonymous because if obligations exist then individuals are due to have them fulfilled, otherwise there would be no meaning behind the conception of obligation.

First, The Mackay evidence indicates animal rights must be codified in law. This can only happen through governmental action. This devolves into utility. Goodin writes,
[Robert E. Goodin. Philosopher of … argue, a uniquely defensible public philosophy.

Second, pain and pleasure are the governors of all meaningful life. Shouler writes,
Kenneth Shouler [Ph.D.]. Psychological Hedonism: Pleasure, Pain, and Value. Google. 2011.
Nature has put man under … to it all the while.
Thus, pain and pleasure directly control human action. This however is not restricted to humans; pain and pleasure are the guides of all sentient beings. The rejection of pain is an instinctive trait present in all living beings. The same way it controls human interaction, it similarly controls non-human animal life.

And, we must minimize suffering because it destroys the value of existence. Crowe writes,
Jonathan Crowe [Senior Lecturer and Fellow, Centre for Public, International and Comparative Law, T. C. Beirne School of Law, University of Queensland]. LEVINASIAN ETHICS AND ANIMAL RIGHTS. University of Windsor. 2008. Lexis Nexis.
The notion of suffering plays … our recognition and our aid. 39
Thus, the standard is minimizing suffering.

Plan Text: The US Congress will create a ban on animal cosmetic tests and the use of animal testing data in product liability suits. Lewis clarifies the advocacy.
Noah Lewis [Harvard Law School Class of 2005, LEDA at Harvard Law School]. Testing Cosmetics on Animals: An Idea Who's Time Has Gone. February 2011
The FDA lacks statutory authority … to pursue wider clinical testing.

Millions of animals suffer and die every year in sacrifice for cosmetic tests and the tests aren’t even necessary. PETA writes,
PETA [International Animal Rights Organization] Animals Used for Experimentation. 2011. Google.
More than 100 million animals every … to painful and crude tests.

The common LD50 test kills over 50% of the animals used. Meneal 2 writes,
Kelly Renz Mcneal [Lawyer for the ITSSD and affiliate with ABAE Environmental Committee Law Division] DEATH: THE PRICE OF BEAUTY: ANIMAL TESTING AND THE COSMETICS INDUSTRY. 2005. Google.
The LD50 test was originally … who die, are examined pathologically.73

And, Empirical analysis shows that animal testing has no unique benefit. Meneal 3 writes,
Kelly Renz Mcneal [Lawyer for the ITSSD and affiliate with ABAE Environmental Committee Law Division] DEATH: THE PRICE OF BEAUTY: ANIMAL TESTING AND THE COSMETICS INDUSTRY. 2005. Google.
It is important to note … success rate is this minute

There are several more beneficial and cost effective tests to be run. Meneal 4 writes,
Kelly Renz Mcneal [Lawyer for the ITSSD and affiliate with ABAE Environmental Committee Law Division] DEATH: THE PRICE OF BEAUTY: ANIMAL TESTING AND THE COSMETICS INDUSTRY. 2005. Google.
The most common types of … test substances following topical application.14

Animal testing does not account for how different species are. The IDA writes,
IDA [ an international organization on animal rights ] Cosmetic Testing: Facts. ca. 2009 Google.
Not only is animal testing … how the compound is administered.

In determining whether this is true, presume aff in the absence of offensive evidence for either side to combat social bias against animals. Degrazia writes.
David Degrazia. Taking Animals Seriously: Animal Life and Moral Status. Cambridge University Press. 1996. Book.
If animals are not due … against animals is very high. (51-52)
Therefore, even if the resolution is phrased in a way that gives permissibility ground to the negative, you affirm in the absence of any argument for or against recognition of animal status because this evidence argues we have a reason to affirm in the absence of a compelling reason not to.

And, Animals are capable of feeling pain. Degrazia writes.
David Degrazia. Taking Animals Seriously: Animal Life and Moral Status. Cambridge University Press. 1996. Book.
For the sake of argument, … escape the source of pain). (136)

Even if animals lack sentience, non-phenomenally conscious pain is still a state of moral concern. Carruthers writes.
“Suffering without subjectivity.” Peter Carruthers. 2004. http://drum.lib.umd.edu/bitstream/1903/4357/1/Suffering-without-subjectivity.pdf
The real point (and what … thought account of phenomenal consciousness.

[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
===Cosmetic Testing AC=== 
[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
===Cosmetic Testing AC=== 

I affirm. First are theoretical interpretation issues. Justice cannot be evaluated as a binary; it must be a comparison between a choice and the alternatives. There are multiple reasons to prefer. A) Textuality. MacKay defines animal rights, 1997 – Animal Liberation Front ["Opinionatedly Yours" #1: July 2, 1997 What Do We Mean by Animal Rights?
http://www.animalliberationfront.com/Philosophy/Opinionatedly/What%20is%20Animal%20Rights.htm

Variants of a question often heard … society in which they occur.

Thus, The resolution questions governmental policy, because only the government can establish a law, so the only textual interpretation of justice is in the context of policy making. Anything else allows us to impose extra-resolutional normative considerations, killing predictability.

B) Reciprocity. Justice as a binary is not reciprocal because they need a risk of a link whereas I need to win 100% defense along with independent offense. Reciprocity is key to fairness cause it’s the only way to maintain equitable burdens. Also, if they ignore all of my arguments, they can still win a minimal impact, which skews time and nullifies all aff strategies.

C) Ground. Debate about desirability is key ground. Appeals to truth or falsity cut out impact turn ground by refusing to defend something as good or bad. Desirability ground is key because a major portion of the literature deals with the consequences of taking the resolutional action. Ground is key to fairness because ground determines what arguments each side of the debate can run.

D) Impact comparison. Accepting shady definitional arguments or other so called 'a priori' strategies leads to proliferation of cheap-shot overviews and underdeveloped spikes. Forcing a debate about impacts requires substantive argumentation with developed internal links. Truth-based burdens destroy meaningful weighing analysis since debate is not exempt from the principle of bivalence. This encourages generic strategies which gut topic-specific education. Topic specific education is essential because a) they deal with real world issues and b) without topic specific education there would be no reason to have a resolution in the first place.

E) Debatability. The true/false paradigm locks judges into irresolvable debates where the aff wins an argument, which makes the resolution tautological, and the neg wins a non-competitive argument that makes it contradictory. This invites intervention. Debatability is key to fairness because the only way for judges to make objective and fair decisions is if they are not put into irresolvable debates.

Fariness matters because debate is a competitive activity and anything that precludes an objective evaluation of the round ought to be put down. AND Education matters. Education is important because debate is an academic activity in which we learn about different arguments and positions in an attempt to find the best actions. This is a voting issue if contested. It has all of the elements of a theory shell, and it’s the first interpretation presented.

Second is the justice-based framework. I value justice defined as giving each their due. Justice and obligations are synonymous because if obligations exist then individuals are due to have them fulfilled, otherwise there would be no meaning behind the conception of obligation.

First, The Mackay evidence indicates animal rights must be codified in law. This can only happen through governmental action. This devolves into utility. Goodin writes,
[Robert E. Goodin. Philosopher of … argue, a uniquely defensible public philosophy.

Second, pain and pleasure are the governors of all meaningful life. Shouler writes,
Kenneth Shouler [Ph.D.]. Psychological Hedonism: Pleasure, Pain, and Value. Google. 2011.
Nature has put man under … to it all the while.
Thus, pain and pleasure directly control human action. This however is not restricted to humans; pain and pleasure are the guides of all sentient beings. The rejection of pain is an instinctive trait present in all living beings. The same way it controls human interaction, it similarly controls non-human animal life.

And, we must minimize suffering because it destroys the value of existence. Crowe writes,
Jonathan Crowe [Senior Lecturer and Fellow, Centre for Public, International and Comparative Law, T. C. Beirne School of Law, University of Queensland]. LEVINASIAN ETHICS AND ANIMAL RIGHTS. University of Windsor. 2008. Lexis Nexis.
The notion of suffering plays … our recognition and our aid. 39
Thus, the standard is minimizing suffering.

Plan Text: The US Congress will create a ban on animal cosmetic tests and the use of animal testing data in product liability suits. Lewis clarifies the advocacy.
Noah Lewis [Harvard Law School Class of 2005, LEDA at Harvard Law School]. Testing Cosmetics on Animals: An Idea Who's Time Has Gone. February 2011
The FDA lacks statutory authority … to pursue wider clinical testing.

Millions of animals suffer and die every year in sacrifice for cosmetic tests and the tests aren’t even necessary. PETA writes,
PETA [International Animal Rights Organization] Animals Used for Experimentation. 2011. Google.
More than 100 million animals every … to painful and crude tests.

The common LD50 test kills over 50% of the animals used. Meneal 2 writes,
Kelly Renz Mcneal [Lawyer for the ITSSD and affiliate with ABAE Environmental Committee Law Division] DEATH: THE PRICE OF BEAUTY: ANIMAL TESTING AND THE COSMETICS INDUSTRY. 2005. Google.
The LD50 test was originally … who die, are examined pathologically.73

And, Empirical analysis shows that animal testing has no unique benefit. Meneal 3 writes,
Kelly Renz Mcneal [Lawyer for the ITSSD and affiliate with ABAE Environmental Committee Law Division] DEATH: THE PRICE OF BEAUTY: ANIMAL TESTING AND THE COSMETICS INDUSTRY. 2005. Google.
It is important to note … success rate is this minute

There are several more beneficial and cost effective tests to be run. Meneal 4 writes,
Kelly Renz Mcneal [Lawyer for the ITSSD and affiliate with ABAE Environmental Committee Law Division] DEATH: THE PRICE OF BEAUTY: ANIMAL TESTING AND THE COSMETICS INDUSTRY. 2005. Google.
The most common types of … test substances following topical application.14

Animal testing does not account for how different species are. The IDA writes,
IDA [ an international organization on animal rights ] Cosmetic Testing: Facts. ca. 2009 Google.
Not only is animal testing … how the compound is administered.

In determining whether this is true, presume aff in the absence of offensive evidence for either side to combat social bias against animals. Degrazia writes.
David Degrazia. Taking Animals Seriously: Animal Life and Moral Status. Cambridge University Press. 1996. Book.
If animals are not due … against animals is very high. (51-52)
Therefore, even if the resolution is phrased in a way that gives permissibility ground to the negative, you affirm in the absence of any argument for or against recognition of animal status because this evidence argues we have a reason to affirm in the absence of a compelling reason not to.

And, Animals are capable of feeling pain. Degrazia writes.
David Degrazia. Taking Animals Seriously: Animal Life and Moral Status. Cambridge University Press. 1996. Book.
For the sake of argument, … escape the source of pain). (136)

Even if animals lack sentience, non-phenomenally conscious pain is still a state of moral concern. Carruthers writes.
“Suffering without subjectivity.” Peter Carruthers. 2004. http://drum.lib.umd.edu/bitstream/1903/4357/1/Suffering-without-subjectivity.pdf
The real point (and what … thought account of phenomenal consciousness.