||   ||   ||
||   ||   ||
[[mailto:anielacatherineb@gmail.com| anielacatherineb@gmail.com]]
=Affirmative= 
==New Advantages== 
===Round 2=== 

**Contention 1 is How Things Stand**
<span class="Underline">**The CIA is increasing operations in Iraq with the goal of creating civil war**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Press Core</span> 8/12/<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">10</span>** (“CIA terrorist recruiting returns to Iraq on the heals of US troop withdrawal”, http://presscore.ca/nbg/index.php?entry=entry100812-080849)</span>
<span class="Underline">So, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">even though </span>…………………………… been the CIA.</span>
**The CIA is committing constant violence- Secret Service members are pretending to be insurgents and attacking civilians**
<span class="Underline">**Jassim, 10** – (10/19/10, Maj. Amir, Ministry of Defense, Special Forces member quoted in an interview speaking of his experiences in the Fallujah crisis, “Government Death Squads Ravaging Baghdad,” </span>[[http://www.ipsnews.net/news.asp?idnews=35167]]<span class="Underline">)</span>
<span class="Underline">"<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">All criminals who ………………………….. amounts of money."</span></span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Special forces commit violent atrocities against innocent civilians </span>**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Bauer, 09</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – (6/3/09, Shane, freelance journalist and Arabic speaker living in the Middle East, The Nation, “Iraq’s New Death Squad,” [[http://www.thenation.com/article/iraqs-new-death-squad]])</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in; text-align: justify;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The light is ……………………………..<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> recalls them saying.</span></span>__</span>

**Contention 2 is Intelligence Failure**
<span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="color: #333333;">The CIA’s role in Afghanistan is to go through a list of names and arbitrarily kill them- suspicion is determined by steryotypes and the crimes are prosecuted before they are even committed. </span>**</span>
<span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="color: #333333;">Floyd 09 </span>**<span style="color: #333333;">(Chris, “Unreality Check: Amnesiac Controversy Ignores CIA's Real Death Squads”, WRITTEN BY CHRIS FLOYD, WEDNESDAY, 15 JULY 2009 12:31 </span></span>[[http://www.chris-floyd.com/component/content/article/1-latest-news/1797-unreality-check-amnesiac-controversy-ignores-cias-real-death-squads.html]])
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="apple-style-span">__<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Georgia;">The unreality that ……………………… sort of hallucination.</span>__</span></span>

**The CIA is part of the global intelligence regime meant to find and collect information necessary for military action. This reduces humans to “data” manipulated for a political pupose and divides us up by social groupings** 
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Lyon 01</span>**- David, Professor of Sociology at Queen’s University, (“TERRORISM AND SURVEILLANCE: SECURITY, FREEDOM, AND JUSTICE AFTER SEPTEMBER 11 2001” November 12, [[http://privacy.openflows.org/pdf/lyon_paper.pdf]] SW)
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Both the Weberian-Orwellian ………………….. live to regret.</span></span>
**<span style="color: black;">The CIA engages in Night raids where they randomly murder civilians- they look for certain “risk groups” that might be terrorists and start shooting. This concept of pre-crime where the guilt is assumed before an actual trial is held</span>**
<span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Al-Fadhily and Jamail 06</span>**( Ali and Dahr, writers for IPS, “Government Death Squads Ravaging Baghdad”</span>, October 19, IPS News, [[http://www.ipsnews.net/news.asp?idnews=35167]])
<span class="apple-style-span">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Death squads</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from ………………………………… supporting leftist guerrillas.</span></span>


**This attempt to judge who “the terrorists” are without knowing them individually case inevitably devolves to racial profiling- the attempt to gain intelligence is not neutral but an attempt to make sense of a jumbled group of unrelated information that turns into racial categories – This concept of punisment with assumed guilt defines a certain segment of the population as necessarily “at risk” for violence**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">McCulloch and Pickering 09</span>**- Jude and Sharon, Professors of Criminology at Monash University (“<span style="color: #141413;">PRE-CRIME AND COUNTER-TERRORISM: Imagining Future Crime in the ‘War on Terror’”, British Journal of Criminology May 11, </span>[[http://bjc.oxfordjournals.org/content/early/2009/05/11/bjc.azp023.full.pdf]]<span style="color: #141413;"> SW)</span>

__<span style="color: #141413;">The terrorist organization …………………………………</span>__<span style="color: #141413; font-size: 8pt;"> and public trust.</span>

**This is flawed logic- Trying to “pre-empt” an attack just lets the state inscribe people’s idenitites based on sterytypes and creates an us-them dictomomy. It also fails to s4 vftop terrorism**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Mcculloch and Sentas 06</span>**- (Jude, Proffesor of Criminology at Monash University, AND Vicki, Part of the research staff on terrorist organizations at King’s College of London, Doctor of philosophy and lawyer, “The Killing of Jean Charles De Menezes: Hyper-Militarism in the Neoliberal Economic Free-Fire Zone.”, Social Justice Journal Volume 33 Issue 4, Winter, Questia, SW)
__In countenancing …………………………………__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Equal Opportunity Commission, 2004). </span>

**Defining certain segments of the population as “at risk” of terrorism is the key to genocidal biopolitics- Reducing**
**a certain risk for terrorism reduces people to a single homogenous identity based off of their biology and creates a state of exception where the government decides who is the faithful citizen and who is deemed to be “bare life”**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Bremridge 07</span>**- MA of International Studies and Diplomacy at the University of London (Henry, Supervised by Suthaharan Nadarajah ,“Constructing enemies, producing subjects: The threat of global terrorism and the liberal West”, Dissertation, September 14, [[http://www.cisd.soas.ac.uk/Editor/assets/constructing%20enemies,%20producing%20subjects,%20the%20threat%20of%20global%20terrorism%20and%20the%20liberal%20west.pdf]]
SW)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The first form ……………………………………….. violence within it</span>


**The impact is Extinction- The power over life also allows the power to “disqualify” it- The death of whole populations becomes necessary to purify citizens**
**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Dean</span>__** prof soc @ Macquarie U Australia **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">2k1</span>__** (Mitchell, States of Imagination eds Thomas Hansen and Finn Stepputat. Pp 41-64) 
Sovereignty and Biopolitics in Nonliberal Rule

__There are__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, of ……………………………………the modern state (232). </span>
**Contention 3 is Impact Framing**
**Representations are apriori, they shape policymaking**
**Blieker 2000** [Ronald, Contending Images if World Politics]
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">While the conceptual …………………………………….</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: Georgia;"> seeks to represent.</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> Pg. 227 – 228</span>

**The ontology of security causes endless violence**
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Karsten </span>**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Friis</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">,</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> UN Sector @ the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs, </span>**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">2k</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> [Peace and Conflict Studies 7.2, “From Liminars to Others: Securitization Through Myths,” </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=2]]</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The problem with ……………………<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;"> is never questioned. </span></span></span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"> </span>

=Negative= 

==Round 1 v. Dallas Jesuit== 
===<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Alliance Counterplan</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Text: The United States should sign a Mutual Assistance and Support Agreement in Disasters Treaty with Japan; conduct exercises to develop patterns of cooperation and shared expertise; hold annual bilateral meetings between the military and civilian authorities to update both countries on planning, disaster assessments, and response capabilities; cooperate with Japan to hold bilateral exercises in which both militaries would consider different disaster scenarios in order to test preparedness; involve the military and civilian agencies in regional disaster preparedness exercises at a prefectural level in Japan; continue to support clean up operations in Japan. The United States federal government should hold these and any other exercises and meetings in areas of Japan outside of Okinawa.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Perm Standards: They have to write out the entire text. Letting them say “do both” causes an unfair time trade-off because we had to read the entire counterplan text and it lets them shift what the perm does in the 1AR and 2AR.</span>**


**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">CP saves the alliance at the most critical point ever—and builds a broader cooperation over disaster relief</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Eldridge, 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">-</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">deputy assistant chief of staff at the community policy, planning and liaison office, widely known as G5, of the U.S. Marine Corps in Okinawa.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Robert D. , March 30, 2011, “Time for a Japan-U.S. mutual assistance treaty”, The Japan Times, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/eo20110330a4.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">, M)</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Immediately following the …………………….<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> more than ever.</span></span>__

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Holding the exercises outside of Okinawa solves the Futenma crisis</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Ennis, 1AC Author</span>** <span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">and former Dartmouth research fellow</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">, **10**, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">former member of the Council on Foreign Relations task forces regarding Japan, former Research Fellow at Dartmouth’s Dickey Center for International Understanding, long-time analyst of U.S.-Japan relations, U.S. Correspondent for Keekly Tokyo Keizai, founder of The Oriental Economist, 6-8-10 (Peter, “Jeff Bader, Mike Green hit critics of Obama Futenma policy,” Dispatch Japan, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dispatchjapan.com/blog/2010/06/jeff-bader-mike-green-hit-critics-of-obama-futenma-policy.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">It’s not too </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">………………………</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Washington and Tokyo. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Failed disaster response create political instability and escalate all regional conflicts-the impact is violent chaos</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Tay and Paungmalit 10</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> (Simon and Phir, Singapore Intitute of International Affairs, http://www.siiaonline.org/files/2.pdf, AD: 6/25/10) jl</span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The International Strategy …………………………..</span><span class="underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">in violent clashes.</span></span></span>