[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==Sun Ra 1AC - Dowling== 


Nothing
Non existent
No potential
Ignored
Forgotten
Written over
Yeah sounds like just a bunch of words but they’re not
Because these are the words you were taught

In history, in present day
In the future you’ve left us out
You’ve made your requirements and prequisites that you know we’ll never amount
Because everything written by you and yours
Is meant only for you and yours

A whole generation
A whole race
A whole continent
We are but do you know who we are?
Does anybody know who we are?
NO!


**Structural violence is the most severe form of ongoing suffering, but is always ignored by the distraction of sexier impacts**

Mumia Abu-Jamal in ‘98 [“A QUIET AND DEADLY VIOLENCE,” 9/19/98, http://www.mumia.nl/TCCDMAJ/quietdv.htm]

It has often been observed that America is a truly violent nation, as shown by the thousands of cases of social and communal violence that occurs daily in the nation. Every year, some 20,000 people are killed by others, and additional 20,000 folks kill themselves. Add to this the non lethal violence that Americans daily inflict on each other, and we begin to see the tracings of a nation immersed in a fever of violence. But, as remarkable, and harrowing as this level and degree of violence is, it is, by far, not the most violent feature of living in the midst of the American empire. We live, equally immersed, and to a deeper degree, in a nation that condones and ignores wide-ranging "structural" violence, of a kind that destroys human life with a breathtaking ruthlessness. Former Massachusetts prison official and writer, Dr. James Gilligan observes;"By `structural violence' I mean the increased rates of death and disability suffered by those who occupy the bottom rungs of society, as contrasted by those who are above them. Those excess deaths (or at least a demonstrably large proportion of them) are a function of the class structure; and that structure is itself a product of society's collective human choices, concerning how to distribute the collective wealth of the society. These are not acts of God. I am contrasting `structural' with `behavioral violence' by which I mean the non-natural deaths and injuries that are caused by specific behavioral actions of individuals against individuals, such as the deaths we attribute to homicide, suicide, soldiers in warfare, capital punishment, and so on." -- (Gilligan, J., MD, Violence: Reflections On a National Epidemic (New York: Vintage, 1996), 192.) This form of violence, not covered by any of the majoritarian, corporate, ruling-class protected media, is invisible to us and because of its invisibility, all the more insidious. How dangerous is it -- really? Gilligan notes: "[E]very fifteen years, on the average, as many people die because of relative poverty as would be killed in a nuclear war that caused 232 million deaths; and every single year, two to three times as many people die from poverty throughout the world as were killed by the Nazi genocide of the Jews over a six-year period. This is, in effect, the equivalent of an ongoing, unending, in fact accelerating, thermonuclear war, or genocide on the weak and poor every year of every decade, throughout the world." [Gilligan, p. 196]


**Therefore you should vote for whoever best performatively and methodologically challenges structural violence.**


Imagination is a magic carpet
Upon which we may soar
To distant lands and climes
And even go beyond the moon
To any planet in the sky
If we came from nowhere here
Why can’t we go somewhere there?


**That poem was written by Sun Ra, a jazz musician from the planet Saturn. In Alabama, they called him Herman Blount – but Sun Ra became very aware of his outsider status in society. The history of his culture had been written by white society. His identity had been erased and rewritten. He was now only a myth in society. So rather than be a myth produced by white society, he decided to be a myth of his own—he took on the name of Sun Ra and embraced being a myth and began to use his outsider status as a method to liberate the oppressed.**

[we play a video clip here from Space Is the Place]


**Ra’s space music offers a vision of a new future, writing a counter-discourse to the framework of domination in the status quo**

Heble 2000 (Ajay Heble, landing on the wrong note: Jazz, Dissonance, and Critical Practice, 2000, p.124-125)

But for all his interest in revising our cultural understanding of the past, Ra too, of course, was fond of blasting off into the future. If the thematic emphasis on the past functions in Ra’s art to create a space for the apprehension of alternative histories, to enable us to hear other kinds of historical rhythms, then Ra’s forward-looking vision seems to be about the creation of a genuinely independent postcolonial future for American blacks. Ra’s innovative handling of electronic (or what he was fond of calling “intergalactic”) instruments, his insistence that blacks “take advantage of new discoveries in science and technology” (Lock, Forces, 15), his participation in what some have called a secret society on the South Side of Chicago which, in Robert Campbell’s words, “preached an unusual variety of Black Nationalism, admonishing Black men to [end page 124] recognize the importance of outer space if they were to better their lot in the future” (“From Sonny Blount to Sun Ra”), and his wiggedout space themes all suggest a desire to opt out of the very codes of representation and intelligibility, the very frameworks of interpretation and assumption, which have legitimized the workings of dominant culture. Ra’s space-age futurism, I’m thinking, may well mark a shift in postcolonial struggles for identity formation: rather than critically interrogating the dominant ideology’s misrepresentation of black history (and consequently seeking to correct the historical record), Ra’s space sounds, philosophy, and paraphernalia invite us to envision new models for an aesthetic of resistance, to generate a space outside the very framework of domination. If Arthur Jafa is correct to suggest (as I think he is) that there has been a tendency in black music to “treat notes as indeterminate, inherently unstable sonic frequencies rather than . . . fixed phenomena” (254), and if, as I suggested in the previous chapter, such refusal of structures of fixity has provided African-American performing artists with purposeful alternatives to socially and institutionally constituted frameworks of intelligibility, then Ra’s patented use of the synthesizer to create futuristic bursts of sound, his manipulation of pitch, tone color, and noise (listen, for example, to “When Spaceships Appear” from a 1985 Saturn recording that has circulated under various titles), 2 can be seen as part of his attempt to remake music to his own specification. Read as postcolonial discourse, Ra’s texts, I’m suggesting, might be heard as a condensed historical resounding of the interplay between the constraints of inherited systems of history writing and knowledge production (and their concomitant representations of otherness) and the independence associated with imaginative, future-oriented processes of inquiry. “Instead of being/Nowhere here,” Ra wrote, “Let’s go/Somewhere There.”


**Tarek and I advocate the exploration of space in the 1AC from the standpoint of the oppressed as an alternative to the dominant narrative of space travel.**


**Now we turn to the jazz of Sun Ra, and begin our tour of outer space. This is Astro Black**

[we play a clip from the song Astro Black from the album of the same name. we read the next part of the aff while the music plays]

**Sun Ra pioneered the use of experimental electronic instruments like the theremin and the moog to create an ‘out there’ sound, re-appropriating technology to get the oppressed to explore outer space from their own social location.**

**Kodwo Eshun helps guide us on our journey through space**
(Kodwo Eshun, More Brilliant than the Sun: Adventures in Sonic Fiction, 1998, p. 162-163)

'72'S Astro Black uses electronics as an aerial to tune into the ionosphere until the sound spectra of the universe become audible. Electromagnetic storms, ionospheric disturbance, the doppler shift of lightning arcing through space, crashing though the geomagnetic field, generating white noise; all this Cosmic sound is materialized through the Moog. Radio transmissions, satellite signals, pulsar frequencies , quasar emissions, all these transmit through the patch bay of the Moog in an interstellar tsunami.
Astro Black throws you into the squall and squeal of horns, pitched so high they turn into emergency sirens, pied piper panic. Bass clarinet becomes a sinister sidewinder. Bass is bowed into drone textures that mirror and mutate foghorn flock and bassoon honk.
The polyrhythmaze volatizes the weightless zero of traditional space music with the perpetual motility and runaway complexity of molecular rhythm. Fields of percussion that distribute the beat into slipsliding turbulence. This agitation results from rethinking Space as polyrhythm and paradox. 'Space is a place,' Arkestral trumpeter Phil Cohran argued, 'and you had to think space.'



**Sun Ra opened the door, showing us the potential of space as an imaginal blank slate to write a future from a new standpoint. The oppressed have been written out of the past. We must now write ourselves into the future if we don’t want to be continually left out.**


I see a world where there is diversity and no discrimination
Where war and violence is dead and all people are happy with elation
Poverty, racism, and oppression won’t even be in our vocabulary
And love, unity, and liberation is necessary

Rape, molestation, and types of perversion won’t even exist
But modesty and meekness will only persist

This my vision of the future and the place where I want to live
That killing people with kindness is the only “crime” that is pervasive

Like I said before I don’t need your permission to have happiness
The least you could do is start being self-less

I am the square peg you try to fit into your circular hole

You should create your own future that’s not written by anyone else but you
But be original and start a revolution and do something new.



**While Sun Ra focused on black communities, our call does not end at one type of oppression –space is a potential site of liberation for all of the oppressed. Creating a vision of the future from our own standpoint creates a future that we want to fight for – this is a politics that everybody can engage.**

Heble 2000 (Ajay Heble, landing on the wrong note: Jazz, Dissonance, and Critical Practice, 2000, p. 136-138)

In keeping with the spirit of Ra’s lifework, I want to end with a joke—at least I think it’s a joke—that has become part of the legend that has evolved around Sun Ra and his art. It goes, at least in one of its versions, something like this: Sun Ra is stopped at the border by a customs official.
Customs official: Where are you from?
Ra: Saturn.
Customs official: Come on. Where are you from?
Ra: Saturn.
Customs official: I’ll ask you once more. Where are you from?
Ra: Okay, okay. Jupiter.
It’s true that I may be making Ra’s joke bear awfully heavy freight. But I’m wondering whether encoded somewhere in this little example might be a model for cultural listening. For isn’t Ra, in refusing to homogenize frameworks of knowledge, pushing us here, as in his music, to recognize the importance, indeed the necessity, of crossing cultural borders? Isn’t he, in effect, pushing us into a mode of thinking that not only reconceives spatial options for African Americans but also attempts to create a space for cultural resistance in general, for the apprehension of alternative histories and epistemologies? I’m aware here that such a statement appears to fly in the face of postcolonialism’s critique of universalism, that it runs the risk of suggesting that our ability to cross all boundaries enables us to transcend (or perhaps forget) differences and cultural specifics. 9 While my own commitment to postcolonial theory certainly encourages me to be critically suspicious of universalist claims and methodologies, trickster Ra, whose art and pedagogy would seem in so many ways to offer a resonant fit with some of the most pressing tasks and concerns of postcolonial thinking and stock-taking, has once again succeeding in confounding my critical assumptions. Ra’s project has always been to force us into rethinking our understanding of perspective, to broaden our focus of attention (are humans necessarily the center of the universe?), and to push us into a consideration of the ways in which forms of respect and tolerance can be achieved both within and between constituencies. Despite his nationalist inclinations, and the extreme rarity of white musicians in the Arkestra, Ra’s aims and methods were often unabashedly universal, his sermons and jeremiads addressed to Planet Earth as a whole. On his 1956 recording Super-Sonic Jazz, we are told that the compositions on the recording “are universal in scope. . . . THIS IS A UNIVERSAL MUSIC. A FREE LANGUAGE OF JOY” (Super-Sonic Jazz). Ra’s space rhetoric suggests to me that although his ideas frequently depend on and are determined by a specific set of moments in black cultural history, his vision ultimately remains more inclusive: his achievement, I think, resides precisely in what postcolonial theorist Diana Brydon has called “the search for non-repressive alternatives to the present organization of knowledge and its limiting representations of otherness” (110). Ra’s legacy, I have been suggesting, needs to be understood in the context of the social processes and institutional dynamics that have shaped (and continue to shape) the production of knowledge, his musical aspirations reconfigured as part of a broader sense of pedagogical purpose. Let’s recall here that we’re talking about someone who states flatly that he arrived on Earth from space in order to save humanity and to bring harmony to the world. Ra himself has, to use his own parlance, left the planet now, but his lifework—with its ongoing participation in the transformation and reinvention of musical and conceptual categories, its continuing efforts to put critical pressure on dominant spheres of knowledge production, its salutary commitment to enabling oppressed peoples to become subjects of their own histories and futures, and its capacity to function as bearer of the cultural desire to fly beyond possible limits—has gifted us with a jubilant choreography of mobility and social momentum.




=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]