=1AC - Gender Aff= 

**We start with some background information: the history of space travel in the United States has been based off of a model that attempts to regulate which bodies should do what, this system was used to prevent the Mercury 13, a group of females from participating in early space exploration**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sage 2009</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Daniel, BA, MA, PhD, Research Associate for Civil & Building Engineering at Loughborough University, Giant leaps and forgotten steps: NASA and the performance of gender. The Sociological Review, Winter 2009, 57: 146–163</span>

The masculine self-identity… <span class="Emphasis2">for recreational equipment</span> (from Parade Magazine Sunday Supplement, December 1962 – quoted in Kevles, 2003: 4).


**Normative gender binaries still exist within NASA due to heteronormative structures**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sage 2009</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Daniel, BA, MA, PhD, Research Associate for Civil & Building Engineering at Loughborough University, Giant leaps and forgotten steps: NASA and the performance of gender. The Sociological Review, Winter 2009, 57: 146–163</span>

It is important to note that while…‘masculine’ technical environments: the spacecraft.

**This had caused male bodies to be viewed as the norm against which female bodies are judged and sets up a heteronormative system of norms in order to conquer for the good of everyone**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Griffin 9</span>**
Penny __Griffin__, Lecturer in Politics and International Relations at the University of New South Wales, Australia, 20__09__, Securing Outer Space, ed. N. Bormann & Michael Sheehan, p. 73
Humans, suggests Crawford, 'bring…<span style="font-size: 12pt;">to conquer for the good of everyone.</span>


**NASA’s beliefs concerning sexuality shape the future of space and society**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Moore and Casper ‘95</span>**
[Casper, Monica J. and Moore, Lisa Jean, Monica J. Casper was awarded her Ph.D. in sociology in 1995 by UCSF and in 1996 completed a postdoctoral fellowship in biomedical ethics at Stanford University. She served several years as a faculty member in sociology at UC Santa Cruz, and in 2004 became director of women’s and gender studies at Vanderbilt University. Lisa Jean Moore, MPH in Epidemiology at The University of California, Berkeley, Ph.D. in Sociology at The University of California, San Francisco, BA of Sociology and English at Tufts University and a professor of Sociology and Gender Studies, at The State University of New York, School of Natural and Social Sciences. University of California Press, “Inscribing Bodies, Inscribing the Future: Gender, Sex, and Reproduction in Outer Space,” Sociological Perspectives, Vol. 38, No. 2 (Summer, 1995), pp. 311-333]
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NASA</span>, as a total institution,… and off-limits nature of human sexuality.


**The heteronormative project seeks to eliminate difference, this culminates in omnicide**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sedgewick 8</span>**
Eve __Sedgwick__, Professor of English at Duke University, __2008__, //Epistemology of the Closet//, second revised edition, California at Berkeley Press, p. 127-130
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">From at least the biblical story</span>


**Thus the plan: The United States Federal Government should send a space mission beyond the Earth’s mesosphere staffed entirely by females**

**1AC is key to analyzing and breaking down normative conceptions of gender**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sage 2009</span>**
Daniel, BA, MA, PhD, Research Associate for Civil & Building Engineering at Loughborough University, “Giant leaps and forgotten steps: NASA and the performance of gender”,
Popular portrayals of American spaceflight… NASA and (iii) female astronauts.


**The method of the 1AC is crucial to generating any real change – only by generating change in thought can we have any real change**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kritzman 88</span>**
Lawrence D. Kritzman, prof of French and Comparative Lit @ Dartmouth, “Practicing Criticism”, Foucault: Politics, Philosophy, Culture, 1988. pgs 154-156
FOUCAULT: First I’ll answer the point…<span style="font-size: 12pt;">institutions that will always be the same</span>.


**Geneology allows us to realize new modes of liberation and break out of the ethics of science**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Smart 94</span>**
Barry Smart, Prof of sociology @ U of Portsmouth, 1994,Michel Foucault. Critical Assessments, pg 174-5
<span class="Underline">While Foucault's genealogy of biopower…</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">will to live a beautiful life.</span>

=Neg Cites= 
==Disads== 
===Cap Disad 1NC=== 
**Capitalism’s contradictions make its collapse inevitable**
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Dickens 9</span> (Peter, Affiliated Lecturer in the Department of Sociology, Faculty of Politics, Psychology, Sociology and International Studies , U of Cambridge, May, //The Sociological Review//, Vol. 57, Iss. Supp. s1, p. 68-82, jam)
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Can capitalism</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">go on</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">expand</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">ing</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">forever</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">?...</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">commodities to be bought and sold</span>

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">The plan is a last ditch effort at averting crisis by making an ‘outer spatial fix’ to resolve the core contradictions of capitalism</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Dickens 10</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Peter, Affiliated Lecturer in the Department of Sociology, Faculty of Politics, Psychology, Sociology and International Studies , University of Cambridge, "The Humanization of the Cosmos—To What End?," [https://monthlyreview.org/2010/11/01/the-humanization-of-the-cosmos-to-what-end] AD: 6-29-11, jam)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The Cosmos: Capitalism’s New “Outside”...</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> make their own cosmic “fixes.” </span>__


**Turns case: The spatial fix is inevitably unstable and temporary- the expansion of capitalism into space creates inevitable crises- examples include space junk, nuclear accidents, and environmental contamination**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dickens and Ormrod 7</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Peter, Affiliated Lecturer in the Department of Sociology, Faculty of Politics, Psychology, Sociology and International Studies , U of Cambridge, and J.S., Senior Lecturer of Applied Social Science @ U of Brighton, "Cosmic society: towards a sociology of the universe," book, p. 66, jam) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The neo-liberal promise and failure...</span>These risks are discussed further in Chapter 6. 

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">The search for outer spatial fixes to capitalism causes Star Wars- whole societies will be obliterated</span>
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Dickens and Ormrod 7</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Peter, Affiliated Lecturer in the Department of Sociology, Faculty of Politics, Psychology, Sociology and International Studies , U of Cambridge, and J.S., Senior Lecturer of Applied Social Science @ U of Brighton, "Cosmic society: towards a sociology of the universe," book, p. 63-64, jam) </span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Outer spatial fixes</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">: for war or peace...</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">investment and accumulation may be started</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


Instead you should stop performing rescue missions for capitalism. The aff’s attempts to prop up capitalism will inevitably cause extinction 

**<span style="color: black;">Herod 4</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (James Herod, Faculty at the University of Massachusetts, January 2004, Getting Free 4th edition, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.jamesherod.info/Getting_Free.pdf]])</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">It is time</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> to try __to describe__, at first... __slavery and__ possibly even to __extinction__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**You have an ethical obligation to attempt to transcend capitalism-- utopian thinking is key to the value of life**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Marsh 95</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(James L., Professor of Philosophy at Fordham University, Critique, Action, and Liberation p. 331-336 GAL)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">However, such a conception...</span>interest lies in not having the veil pierced


===Social Justice Disad 1NC=== 
**Funding for the plan is an unjust use of resources. The affirmative’s choice to fund space programs trades off directly with funding for social services – leaving those homeless and starved helpless** 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Yost 10</span>** [Keith Yost, staff columnist for The Tech, MIT's oldest and largest newspaper published by the undergraduate and graduate students of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 2010 (“Point: Spaceman, go home. The U.S. should reduce spending on space exploration,” Published on April 9, 2010 (Volume 130, Issue 18) Available Online at [[http://tech.mit.edu/V130/N18/nasap.html]]]

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">The White House has announced plans...</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">than planting flags on planets.</span>__


**This failure of prioritization creates social alienation, a limiting of political solutions and options, and the possibility of total annihilation—we need to focus on social safety nets, or extinction is inevitable. Every instance of resistance is key.**
**Duarte 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Andre, Prof of Philosophy at Universidade Federal do Parana Curitiba, Brazil. “Biolopitics and the dissemination of violence: the Arendtian critique of the present.” <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.hannaharendt.net/research/biopolitics.html]]</span>]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Towards the notion of biopolitics in Arendt’s thought ...</span>welcoming, of extending hospitality and solidarity towards others.


===Ozone Disad 1NC=== 
Increased rocket launches crush the ozone – the status quo is sustainable
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ross et. al. 9</span> (Martin – environmental Systems Directorate @ Aerospace, Ph.D. @ UCLA in Earth and planetary sciences, Darin Toohey, Manfred Peinemann and Patrick Ross, January, http://www.makealeap.org/node/41204) JPG
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The global market for </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">rocket...from rockets could become significant.</span>


<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Ozone depletion means extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Festive Earth Society, 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(February 26, “The Ozone Layer,” http://festiveearth.com/content/view/96/54/index.html, JM)</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The ozone layer is essential for human life...</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">as we know it, to exist</span>__

==Counterplans== 
===Prizes CP 1NC=== 
**Prizes Solve** 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">NASA Academy ’08</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (NASA Academy, ROADMAP TO A SPACE FARING CIVILIZATION, http://www.eng.buffalo.edu/~cheetham/index_files/NA08_GSFC_RSFC_VER_1.0.pdf) JL</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">5.4 Prizes 5.4.1 Background a </span>