=Affirmative= 
==CLARREO 1AC - Golden Desert== 


===Inherency=== 

U.S. climate satellites are battered and outdated—inevitable data gaps destroy environmental monitoring
Bohan 10—Suzanne Bohan, Washington Post writer, Sept 19, 2010, “A dim view for Earth emerges” Washington Post pg. A06
The satellite, Landsat 7, is broken. And it's emblematic of the nation's battered satellite environmental monitoring program. The bad news: It's only going to get worse, unless the federal agencies criticized for their poor management of the satellite systems over the past decade stage a fast turnaround. Many, however, view that prospect as a long shot. "I would say our ability to observe the Earth from space is at grave risk of dying from neglect," said Field, director of the Department of Global Ecology at the Carnegie Institution for Science at Stanford University. Inez Fung, a noted climatologist at the University of California at Berkeley, was shocked as she scanned a recent federal report warning of impending gaps in the country's ability to monitor Earth from space. The federal document, released in May, listed cuts in climate-monitoring sensors from the next generation of Earth-observing satellites. The current satellites beam down many types of indispensable data about the planet, such as ocean currents, ozone levels and snow cover, as well as the pictures viewers see every day on TV weathercasts. But key instruments on the new satellites have been eliminated: Gone is a sensor that would relay new data about the atmosphere and environmental conditions in the ocean and along coastal areas. The movement of pollutants and greenhouse gaseswould have been under the instrument's mechanical gaze, as well. Also absent is a critical sensor that monitors temperature changes over time on Earth. "That's like if you have a sick patient, and then say, 'I have no more thermometers,' " Fung said. In all, nine new climate instruments on the next generation of satellites were canceled or their capabilities scaled back in 2006, according to the Government Accountability Office report. Combined with a five-year delay in launching these next-generation satellites, with the first scheduled to blast off in 2011, these canceled or "degraded" instruments leave the nation facing critical gaps in satellite monitoring of the planet beginning in 2015, the report stated. And a National Academy of Sciences analysis of the disarray in the satellite program stressed that because of Earth's growing population, it's more crucial than ever to monitor pollution, water quality, land use and other environmental conditions. Many blame the cuts on Bush administration policies that favored manned moon and Mars missions over shoring up aging Earth-observing satellite systems. Critics cite a 30 percent decline between 2000 and 2006 in NASA's Earth science budget - which funds environmental satellites - as evidence of the administration's lukewarm support of keeping an eye on the planet's condition. The National Academy of Sciences report, along with a chorus of experts in the field, also warns that the country is at risk of losing its worldwide technological leadership in Earth-observing satellites. Other casualties of the 2006 cuts include an instrument for tracking airborne particles such as sea spray, smog, volcanic ash and smoke - all factors contributing to the warming or cooling of the planet. The inclusion of a new instrument for monitoring soil moisture was canceled, which would have yielded information valuable to, among others, farmers and those monitoring the spread of deserts worldwide. These cuts spell a 46 percent decline in data about the Earth's conditions that these new satellites were designed to provide, and the GAO report concluded that because of the trouble-plagued satellite program, "our nation's ability to understand climate change may be limited." Those in the field use harsher language. Many Earth-monitoring satellites "are really in desperate shape," said Field, with Stanford's Carnegie Institution. In the 1960s, the United States began using satellites to observe its lands, oceans, atmosphere and the space environment near Earth. The satellites continuously monitor the planet's dynamic environment and allow humans to peer into inaccessible places. Information beamed by these spacecraft is now essential for forecasting weather, tracking conditions on Earth and in its atmosphere, and projecting long-term climate trends. With satellite data, rising sea levels can be monitored, helping communities on islands and along coastal areas plan. Satellites help farmers assess soil conditions before planting, allow foresters to examine logging activities, let water managers monitor the mountain snowpack that provides water to cities, and track the migration of wildlife such as buffalo and elephants. Satellite data are also essential for crafting international agreements for reducing global warming, said Molly Macauley, an economist with Resources for the Future, a research institute in Washington.

Data gaps impede climate risk-management—monitoring key to prevent tipping point
Government Office for Science 3/14- UK, Tipping Points meeting, London, 14 March 2011 Note prepared on behalf of the Government Office for Science by the Met Office: Peter Good, Jason Lowe, Richard Wood http://www.bis.gov.uk/assets/bispartners/goscience/docs/t/11-974-tipping-points-meeting-london-14-march-2011
There is wide acceptance in the scientific community that there are likely to be “tipping points” in the climate system, where a significant, qualitative change in state occurs in response to a small perturbation. Crossing such tipping points could lead to accelerated, committed or irreversible change. However there is substantial scientific uncertainty in quantifying the position and likelihood of passing key thresholds, and in terms of associated impacts. Current estimates of the likelihood of triggering large-scale and/or irreversible climate events are largely based on expert judgement, informed by paleo-climatic evidence, computer models and current understanding of the underlying physical processes. The high level of uncertainty, combined with the potential for very significant impacts if one or more “tipping points” were to be triggered, means that the policy response is likely to require a risk management approach. Paleo-climate reconstructions provide evidence of past rapid change events, for example the Paleocene-Eocene Thermal Maximum (PETM), which took place around 50 million years ago and involved a major climatic warming which took place over around 1000 years, possibly driven by rapid methane release. Current cumulative anthropogenic carbon release is around one third of the way towards the level that triggered such events in the past. Climate models are used to provide short term forecasts and longer term projections, to interpret recent climatic variations and paleo-climatic changes, and to understand the physical processes that may drive threshold behaviour. However several examples are known where the models used in the IPCC Fourth Assessment may not represent physical mechanisms of tipping elements correctly, due to limitations in resolution and in the processes that can currently be included in models. ‘Early warnings’ for tipping points through Earth system monitoring may be possible and may help manage the risks, although the uncertainty in modelling such events remains large. Three types of ‘health check’ approach were mentioned: (i) general statistical methods, (ii) process-based identification of key variables to monitor, and (iii) initial value prediction. Each was seen to have different advantages and disadvantages. The critical need for long-term monitoring was emphasised, while many existing observations are tied to short-term research programs. A clear set of long term monitoring priorities for tipping points has not yet been developed. It is important to be able to interpret ‘surprises’ in new observations (e.g. the 2007 dip in Arctic sea-ice), so that such observations can be put into context. These interpretations must be developed through careful application of quantitative, process-based knowledge of the climate system. After a high level review of the scientific evidence, the meeting considered how the risk of “tipping points” and system thresholds could be better included in policy development and wider public debate. There was consensus that the science in this area is particularly hard to communicate clearly. In part this is due to the danger of communicating an overly negative message; positive messages that make the public feel part of the solution are more likely to effect behaviour change. There was broad agreement on the requirement for a set of different (but self-consistent) narratives to meet the needs of individual audiences, using metaphors to aid clarity and understanding, and applying a risk-management framework.

NASA ‘s new weather monitoring technology lacks a comprehensive plan which makes data gaps inevitable and kills tech development
Schiermeier 11
Quirin Schiermeier, “Climate researchers warn of data crisis,” Nature News, 10-28-2011, http://www.nature.com/news/2011/111028/full/news.2011.616.html
Climate scientists warn that critical gaps in climate data could open up after the current generation of Earth-observation satellites comes to the end of its life, with the next generation nowhere near ready to take over. The problem is exacerbated by the lack of an adequate replacement for a pair of Earth-observation satellites, the Orbiting Carbon Observatory and Glory, which failed on launch in the past two years. Earth-observation programmes will fail to provide the data continuity required for climate science unless they are more adequately managed and supported, Kevin Trenberth, a senior researcher at the US National Center for Atmospheric Sciences in Boulder, Colorado, told the World Climate Research Programme conference in Denver, Colorado, this week. "We cannot manage what we can't measure," he says. Time gap The US Earth Observing System run by NASA comprises polar-orbiting and low-inclination satellites that make long-term global observations of the land surface, biosphere, atmosphere and oceans. The polar-orbiting satellites Terra, Aqua and Aura will probably shut down in 2015, and the next generation of polar-orbiting satellites is unlikely to be fully deployed by then. The lack of temporal overlap will have serious consequences for the homogeneity and continuity of climate data sets, Trenberth and eight co-authors state in a white paper submitted to the meeting. On 28 October, NASA is set to launch the National Polar-orbiting Operational Environmental Satellite System Preparatory Project, a prototype of the new generation of satellites, Joint Polar Satellite System (JPSS), that will be the backbone of US space-based weather and climate observations. But owing to budgetary constraints, the first fully operational satellite of the JPSS, originally planned for launch in 2015, has been delayed until later in the decade. As observing systems change from one generation of satellites to the next, adequate overlap between missions is required for testing, adjusting and calibrating new sensors. The possible two-year gap in coverage due to the delayed launch of the JPSS, says Trenberth, will cause critical discontinuity in observational records vital for monitoring global climate trends.

===Plan text=== 
The United States federal government should deploy the Climate Absolute Radiance and Refractivity Observatory.

===Migration advantage=== 
Warming is inevitable - even total emission elimination can’t check
Solomon et al ‘10 Susan Solomon et. Al, Chemical Sciences Division, Earth System Research Laboratory, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Ph.D. in Climotology University of California, Berkeley, Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Chairman of the IPCC, Gian-Kasper Plattner, Deputy Head, Director of Science, Technical Support Unit Working Group I, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Affiliated Scientist, Climate and Environmental Physics, Physics Institute, University of Bern, Switzerland, John S. Daniel, research scientist at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Ph.D. in physics from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Todd J. Sanford, Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Science, University of Colorado Daniel M. Murphy, Chemical Sciences Division, Earth System Research Laboratory, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Boulder Gian-Kasper Plattner, Deputy Head, Director of Science, Technical Support Unit Working Group I, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, Affiliated Scientist, Climate and Environmental Physics, Physics Institute, University of Bern, Switzerland Reto Knutti, Institute for Atmospheric and Climate Science, Eidgenössiche Technische Hochschule Zurich and Pierre Friedlingstein, Chair, Mathematical Modelling of Climate Systems, member of the Science Steering Committee of the Analysis Integration and Modeling of the Earth System (AIMES) programme of IGBP and of the Global Carbon Project (GCP) of the Earth System Science Partnership (ESSP) (Proceedings of the National Academy of the Sciences of the United States of America, "Persistence of climate changes due to a range of greenhouse gases", October 26, 2010 Vol 107.43: 18354-18359)
Carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, and other greenhouse gases increased over the course of the 20th century due to human activities. The human-caused increases in these gases are the primary forcing that accounts for much of the global warming of the past fifty years, with carbon dioxide being the most important single radiative forcing agent (1). Recent studies have shown that the human-caused warming linked to carbon dioxide is nearly irreversible for more than 1,000 y, even if emissions of the gas were to cease entirely (2–5). The importance of the ocean in taking up heat and slowing the response of the climate system to radiative forcing changes has been noted in many studies (e.g., refs. 6 and 7). The key role of the ocean’s thermal lag has also been highlighted by recent approaches to proposed metrics for comparing the warming of different greenhouse gases (8, 9). Among the observations attesting to the importance of these effects are those showing that climate changes caused by transient volcanic aerosol loading persist for more than 5 y (7, 10), and a portion can be expected to last more than a century in the ocean (11–13); clearly these signals persist far longer than the radiative forcing decay timescale of about 12–18 mo for the volcanic aerosol (14, 15). Thus the observed climate response to volcanic events suggests that some persistence of climate change should be expected even for quite short-lived radiative forcing perturbations. It follows that the climate changes induced by short-lived anthropogenic greenhouse gases such as methane or hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) may not decrease in concert with decreases in concentration if the anthropogenic emissions of those gases were to be eliminated. In this paper, our primary goal is to show how different processes and timescales contribute to determining how long the climate changes due to various greenhouse gases could be expected to remain if anthropogenic emissions were to cease. Advances in modeling have led to improved AtmosphereOcean General Circulation Models (AOGCMs) as well as to Earth Models of Intermediate Complexity (EMICs). Although a detailed representation of the climate system changes on regional scales can only be provided by AOGCMs, the simpler EMICs have been shown to be useful, particularly to examine phenomena on a global average basis. In this work, we use the Bern 2.5CC EMIC (see Materials and Methods and SI Text), which has been extensively intercompared to other EMICs and to complex AOGCMs (3, 4). It should be noted that, although the Bern 2.5CC EMIC includes a representation of the surface and deep ocean, it does not include processes such as ice sheet losses or changes in the Earth’s albedo linked to evolution of vegetation. However, it is noteworthy that this EMIC, although parameterized and simplified, includes 14 levels in the ocean; further, its global ocean heat uptake and climate sensitivity are near the mean of available complex models, and its computed timescales for uptake of tracers into the ocean have been shown to compare well to observations (16). A recent study (17) explored the response of one AOGCM to a sudden stop of all forcing, and the Bern 2.5CC EMIC shows broad similarities in computed warming to that study (see Fig. S1), although there are also differences in detail. The climate sensitivity (which characterizes the long-term absolute warming response to a doubling of atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations) is 3 °C for the model used here. Our results should be considered illustrative and exploratory rather than fully quantitative given the limitations of the EMIC and the uncertainties in climate sensitivity. Results One Illustrative Scenario to 2050. In the absence of mitigation policy, concentrations of the three major greenhouse gases, carbon dioxide, methane, and nitrous oxide can be expected to increase in this century. If emissions were to cease, anthropogenic CO2 would be removed from the atmosphere by a series of processes operating at different timescales (18). Over timescales of decades, both the land and upper ocean are important sinks. Over centuries to millennia, deep oceanic processes become dominant and are controlled by relatively well-understood physics and chemistry that provide broad consistency across models (see, for example, Fig. S2 showing how the removal of a pulse of carbon compares across a range of models). About 20% of the emitted anthropogenic carbon remains in the atmosphere for many thousands of years (with a range across models including the Bern 2.5CC model being about 19 4% at year 1000 after a pulse emission; see ref. 19), until much slower weathering processes affect the carbonate balance in the ocean (e.g., ref. 18). Models with stronger carbon/climate feedbacks than the one considered here could display larger and more persistent warmings due to both CO2 and non-CO2 greenhouse gases, through reduced land and ocean uptake of carbon in a warmer world. Here our focus is not on the strength of carbon/climate feedbacks that can lead to differences in the carbon concentration decay, but rather on the factors that control the climate response to a given decay. The removal processes of other anthropogenic gases including methane and nitrous oxide are much more simply described by exponential decay constants of about 10 and 114 y, respectively (1), due mainly to known chemical reactions in the atmosphere. In this illustrative study, we do not include the feedback of changes in methane upon its own lifetime (20). We also do not account for potential interactions between CO2 and other gases, such as the production of carbon dioxide from methane oxidation (21), or changes to the carbon cycle through, e.g., methane/ozone chemistry (22). Fig. 1 shows the computed future global warming contributions for carbon dioxide, methane, and nitrous oxide for a midrange scenario (23) of projected future anthropogenic emissions of these gases to 2050. Radiative forcings for all three of these gases, and their spectral overlaps, are represented in this work using the expressions assessed in ref. 24. In 2050, the anthropogenic emissions are stopped entirely for illustration purposes. The figure shows nearly irreversible warming for at least 1,000 y due to the imposed carbon dioxide increases, as in previous work. All published studies to date, which use multiple EMICs and one AOGCM, show largely irreversible warming due to future carbon dioxide increases (to within about 0.5 °C) on a timescale of at least 1,000 y (3–5, 25, 26). Fig. 1 shows that the calculated future warmings due to anthropogenic CH4 and N2O also persist notably longer than the lifetimes of these gases. The figure illustrates that emissions of key non-CO2 greenhouse gases such as CH4 or N2O could lead to warming that both temporarily exceeds a given stabilization target (e.g., 2 °C as proposed by the G8 group of nations and in the Copenhagen goals) and remains present longer than the gas lifetimes even if emissions were to cease. A number of recent studies have underscored the important point that reductions of non-CO2 greenhouse gas emissions are an approach that can indeed reverse some past climate changes (e.g., ref. 27). Understanding how quickly such reversal could happen and why is an important policy and science question. Fig. 1 implies that the use of policy measures to reduce emissions of short-lived gases will be less effective as a rapid climate mitigation strategy than would be thought if based only upon the gas lifetime. Fig. 2 illustrates the factors influencing the warming contributions of each gas for the test case in Fig. 1 in more detail, by showing normalized values (relative to one at their peaks) of the warming along with the radiative forcings and concentrations of CO2 , N2O, and CH4 . For example, about two-thirds of the calculated warming due to N2O is still present 114 y (one atmospheric lifetime) after emissions are halted, despite the fact that its excess concentration and associated radiative forcing at that time has dropped to about one-third of the peak value

Climate displacement is already occurring – mass migrations inevitable
Fritz 10 Caroline is a Researcher at the Migration Policy Institute (Migration Policy Institute, “Climate Change and Migration: Sorting through Complex Issues without the Hype”, March 4, 2010)
Most scientists agree that global warming affects ecological systems, but there is less certainty about its social effects, especially regarding human mobility. Yet this has not prevented a number of scholars, multilateral agencies, and nongovernmental organizations from making alarming predictions that climate change processes will trigger historically unprecedented waves of mass migration. The more widely cited estimates for the number of people displaced by 2050 range from 50 million (UN University's Institute for Environment and Human Security) to 200 million (International Organization for Migration (IOM) and Stern Review). If the higher estimates pan out, climate change-related migration could dwarf current numbers of refugees and internally displaced people — about 45 million and 9 million by United Nations estimates, respectively. While there are no scientifically verified estimates of the number of people that will be displaced by climate change, several studies by UN agencies, IOM, and NGOs, including an influential report published in 2009, already show evidence that environmentally induced migration is occurring. Also, despite controversy surrounding the specifics of climate change data, there is no evidence to contradict the expected trend of continued global warming for at least a few decades to come. This article will examine the complex links between climate change and migration, how and where these links influence current and future migration patterns, and some of the problems with predicting future flows. It will also outline some current policy approaches and look at where the debate is headed. The Climate Change–Migration Nexus Migration has helped humans cope with environmental changes, such as droughts and floods, for centuries. The frequency, severity, and duration of such changes affect the broad types of migration patterns — temporary, permanent, internal, or international — that take place. The prevailing tendency thus far has been toward more circular, internal movements of people from mostly rural to urban areas and within national boundaries or regions. These trends are evident, for example, in the seasonal labor migration of Central American, Mexican, and West African farmers to compensate for lower agricultural productivity in rural areas, as well as in the temporary displacement of thousands of Bangladeshis to their capital, Dhaka, in response to annual monsoon floods. However, severe environmental damage, whether natural or manmade, can leave populations with little recourse but to move permanently and en-masse. This happened in the 1930s Dust Bowl in the Great Plains of the United States. Below-average rainfall, accompanied by the Great Depression, resulted in the widespread failure of small farms and the migration of about 300,000 "Okies" to California. Currently, people are beginning to leave some small island nations in the Pacific with low elevations because the islands are suffering high rates of coastal erosion and experiencing rising sea levels. Environmental degradation is also increasingly common in those areas, such as in West Africa and Haiti, where depleted agricultural land can no longer produce crops sustainably and is abandoned. Scientific evidence shows a trend toward rising sea and air temperatures. Manmade environmental degradation, which includes everything from fuel emissions to deforestation, is accelerating this trend. Global warming is expected to affect the climate through gradual processes, such as glacial melting, as well as through an increase in extreme weather events like cyclones. Both gradual changes and extreme weather events can heighten pressures on land, food, and water resources. In turn, these pressures can contribute to existing problems, including food insecurity, malnutrition, poverty, the spread of disease, rapid urbanization, and political instability, in areas of the world that already struggle with some of these issues. Add to the mix likely population growth, which demographers expect in places like Bangladesh and sub-Saharan Africa, and the chances of new or intensified migration patterns increase.

3 Scenarios for extinction –

Scenario 1 is South Asia –

Migration leads to South Asian war
Tay and Paungmalit 2010
Simon Tay and Phir, Singapore Institute of International Affairs, “Climate Change and Security In the Asia-Pacific,” Conference Paper Prepared for the 2nd Tokyo Seminar on Common Security Challenges, 26 March 2010, google
Environmentally induced displacement and migration are already taking place, and because of the impacts of climate change they are likely to increase markedly.62 It is that expected that the adverse impacts of climate change such as increased floods, droughts, sea level rise and intense storms will lead to the mass movement of peoples, resulting in up to 250 million environmental refugees by the middle of the century.63 These figures have been frequently quoted by the IPCC, the Stern Review, and the United Nations University Institute for Environment and Human Security, among others. The Norwegian Refugee Council recently indicated that as many as 20 million people may have been displaced by climate-induced sudden-onset natural disasters in 2008 alone.64 The Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights has identified five climate change related scenarios that may directly or indirectly cause human displacement: hydrometeorological disasters (flooding, hurricanes/typhoons/cyclones, mudslides, etc.), zones designated by Governments as being too high-risk and dangerous for human habitation, environmental degradation and slow onset disaster (e.g. reduction of water availability, desertification, recurrent flooding, salinization of coastal zones, etc.), the case of ‘sinking’ small island states; and, violent conflict triggered by a decrease in essential resources (e.g. water, land, food) owing to climate change. 65 It should be noted that gradual environmental degradation will cause significantly more people to migrate than extreme weather events.66 And most of those displaced by the effects of climate change will remain within their country’s borders or region.67 For those who stay within the country, the prevailing international normative standards would apply to them: they are internally displaced persons (IDPs). However, the legal status of those who are forced to leave their countries because of environmental factors is less clear: the term “environmental refugee” is poorly defined and has no legally binding mechanisms of protection or support.68 Despite many uncertainties about the delimitation of the definition of environmentally induced migration and its measurement, one fact remains certain in the face of the expected effects of climate change: the part played by environmental degradation and extreme weather events as causes of migration will increase. Security Implications Any climate-induced migration may increase tension and even conflicts in transit and destination areas. For receiving areas, the sudden influx of large numbers of people can be burdensome. The likelihood of migration-induced conflict increases if environmental migrants have to compete with the resident population for scarce resources such as land, accommodation, water, employment and basic social services.69 A competitive situation of this sort is particularly likely to arise in densely-populated regions. A competition for resource can be even more problematic if these migrants cross their national border and cause dissatisfaction in receiving state. Mass cross-border migration may also increase political friction between states that already face contested borders and territorial disputes, such as China, India, and Pakistan.70 It is also conceivable that migration may lead to conflict if the newcomers upset the cultural or ethnic order within a country or region.71 This change of ethnic balance may lead to xenophobia and violent confrontation, or further destabilize an already sensitive ethnic situation. One study refers to ‘clashes of national identity’ that may be caused by immigration if the dominance of one resident ethnic group is threatened.72 In the most extreme cases, migration has led to violent conflict in receiving areas. For example, civil wars in Jordan and Lebanon have involved Palestinian migrants; in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Hutu refugees from Rwanda contributed to local conflicts; and in Macedonia, refugees from Kosovo led to a minor armed conflict.73 On a smaller scale, internal migration has led to ethnic tensions in the North East regions of India as well as in non-Javanese regions of Indonesia.74 However, it is important to note that migrants themselves should not be labeled threats. These people, if they leave their home country, will be refugees, having been forced to leave by environmental or other factors. They will need support and protection. Migration will therefore need to be managed, rather than simply controlled.75 • Scenario Experts say Bangladesh could be the ground zero of climate change-induced migration, mostly due to sea level rise. The country's 150 million inhabitants live in the delta of three waterways, and the majority of the country sits less than 20 feet above sea level. It is also one of the poorest countries in the world. Although the knowledge on impact of sea level rise on Bangladesh remains limited, the past and current effects of sea level rise along the country’s coast are apparent. Accelerated sea level rise driven by global climate change has, for decades, badly affected Bangladesh coast through permanent inundation, drainage congestion in the polders, storm surge inundation and increased salinity intrusion of low-lying areas. Floods and storms also pose increasing threat of damage to infrastructures, destruction of fisheries, reduction of cultivated land, crop failures and the loss of biodiversity across the countries, which as well could affect people settlements. The UN's IPCC predicts a global sea-level rise in the range of 18-59cm during the 21st century.76 Specifically for Bangladesh, World Bank expects 10 cm, 25cm and near 1 m rise in sea level by 2020, 2050 and 2100; affecting 2%, 4% and 17% of total land mass respectively.77 At the top of this range at one meter rise, it is expected that approximately 20 million people would be displaced.78 Bangladesh government actually acknowledges the 20 million figure in its Climate Change Strategy and Action Plan 2009, saying “(cross border) migration must be considered as a valid option for the country”.79 Once the displacement starts to occur, most will move inland, which will foment instability as the resettled population competes for already scarce resources and jobs with established residents. Others will seek to migrate abroad. With cities like Dhaka are bursting at the seams, migration from Bangladesh to bordering India appears to be likely, possibly creating heightened political tension in South Asia. India itself has for many years been concerned about the stream of immigrants from Bangladesh, and is building a fence to keep illegal immigrants out.80 The potential mass migration due to climate change will increase the potential for social crisis in a region which is already characterized by cross-border conflicts, unstable governments, and Islamism.81 The likelihood of ethnic conflict may also increase if the arrival of environmental migrants upsets the ‘ethnic balance’ in the area82. For example, the majority Hindu population may reject the Muslim migrants. The combination of deteriorating socioeconomic conditions, contested borders and territories and dire environmental insecurity brought on by climate change could prove a volatile mix with severe regional and potentially global consequences. These dynamics are the reason why the linkage between climate-induced migration and its security implications for South Asia are slowly coming to the forefront of security discussion scenario around the world.

That goes nuclear
UPI 4
“Nuclear War A Real Fear In South Asia,” UPI, 17 December 2004, [[http://www.spacedaily.com/news/nuclear-india-pakistan%2004k.html|http://www.spacedaily.com/news/nuclear-india-pakistan 04k.html]]
No conventional war between India and Pakistan will remain limited for long and will gradually lead to a full-scale war and ultimately to a nuclear conflict, warns a study by a Pakistani defense official. The study, presented recently at a Washington think-tank, looks at various scenarios that could lead to an all-out war between the two South Asian neighbors, which conducted a series of nuclear tests in May 1998 and also possess nuclear-capable missiles. India and Pakistan have fought three wars since their independence from Britain in 1947 and are still engaged in 57-year-old conflict in the Himalayan valley of Kashmir which caused two of these three wars. Most of the possible war scenarios discussed in this study also focus on Kashmir where most international observers believe even a small conflict has the potential of escalating into a full-fledged war. Recently, both India and Pakistan have agreed to resolve their differences through dialogue and have taken several steps lessen tensions. The study by the Pakistani defense official envisages possible Pakistani response to a various proposals being discussed in India's defense circles for dealing with the Kashmir insurgency, which India blames on Pakistan-backed militants. The author, who wished not to be identified, argues that recently India has put forward the concept of a limited conventional war aimed at achieving a specific political objective, such as putting down the uprising in Kashmir. But the author warns that what India may see as a limited conventional war, may not be accepted to Pakistan as such. Similarly, what India defines as limited political perspective, may have a different implication for Pakistan, he adds. The author points out that most Western analysts and scholars are not comfortable with India's limited war doctrine and they also believe that a limited war between India and Pakistan cannot remain limited for long. Comparing nuclear policies of the two countries, the author says that the central theme of Pakistan's nuclear policy guidelines is to act in a responsible manner and to exercise restraint in conduct of its deterrence policy. Pakistan, he said, also wants to ensure that its nuclear capability does not pose any threat to non-nuclear weapon states in the region. Pakistan's nuclear capability is very clear for deterrence of aggression and defense of its sovereignty, the author said. India's declared nuclear doctrine, he said, is based on a posture of no first use of nuclear weapons. India, however, retains the option of using nuclear weapons in retaliation against a nuclear, biological or chemical attack on Indian territory or on Indian forces anywhere. India's doctrine contains an inbuilt offensive design. The most dangerous aspect of this policy is that it keeps the option open for a conventional war against Pakistan, according to the author. Asked why Pakistan had used the option of a limited conventional war in Kargil in 1999, the author said Kargil is part of Siachen sector where limited battles have continued since 1984. Kargil, he said, was a continuation of the same ongoing skirmishes between India and Pakistan. The author then explains various options India may exercise for launching a limited conventional war against Pakistan. These include: -- Surgical strikes conducted along the Line of Control in Kashmir against Pakistani troops and jihadi camps, which India says Pakistan is running on its side of Kashmir. The Indians have already attacked along the LoC to prevent Kashmiri fighters from crossing into Indian Kashmir but never succeeded in acquiring the desired results. So far, India only uses artillery for launching these surgical strikes into Pakistani Kashmir but under the new strategy they will also use air strikes for hitting targets across the LoC. -- Hot pursuits that include physically crossing the LoC and battling envisaged jihadi camps or capturing certain areas. It is an open option, says the author. In any war scenario, India can use it." But if they do so, Pakistan is not going to sit quiet. It will be an act of war which will not remain limited and it can escalate to a full-scale war and ultimately it can lead to a nuclear conflict if Pakistan's national interests are threatened, the author warns. -- Cold start strategy for which India has been raising eight to 10 combat groups to implement this new strategy. Each group will include forces from the army and the air force and, if required, from the navy. Each combat group will have a hard-hitting force of 3,000-4,000 troops and it should be able to achieve its objective in 72 hours, before Pakistan reacts or approaches the international community. The author says that Pakistan will not view an attack by this new force as a limited war. For us it will be a full-scale war, and Pakistan will respond with full resources, and if we fail to contain the Indians, the nuclear factor will definitely come in. Explaining how a conventional war can lead to a nuclear conflict, the author says: In a full conventional war, India has the potential to create impact. And if it does so, it will force Pakistan to use its nuclear option.

Scenario 2 is North Africa

Climate migrations destabilize North Africa – Causes a civil war that sucks in the EU
Werz and Manlove 2009
Michael Werz and Kari Manlove, Senior Fellow @ American Progress, Research Associate for the Energy Opportunity Team, American Enterprise Institute, December 8, 2009, [[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2009/12/on_the_move.html]]
Africa will be one of the continents hardest hit by global warming. In the west and northwest, drought and desertification will intensify and threaten the livelihoods of local habitants. Sir Nicholas Stern, chair of the Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment at the London School of Economics, considers both the humanitarian and economic impacts on Africa in his groundbreaking climate change analysis. He cites Mali in the 1970s and 1980s as a precedent to the looming, potential conflict that water shortages and drought can cause. In that case, the native Tuareg were so devastated by drought that they were driven to other countries to seek sustainable livelihoods. Their migration and eventual return caused much unrest and rebellion. This example illustrates how northwestern Africa can become a battlefront, but other factors contribute to risk in the region: Sub-Saharan migrants enter the European Union through the region, and Islamist rebels threaten the governments of Morocco, Algeria, and Tunisia, where Al Qaeda Maghreb’s presence has steadily grown in recent years. Resource allocation policies, drought, and water shortages are also factors within migration hubs like Morocco, Algeria, and Egypt, which all face their own environmental challenges. The European Union is keeping a close eye on these developments and how they could be affected by climate change. For example, the E.U. report, “Climate Change and International Security,” discusses mass migration and political destabilization that “puts the multilateral system at risk.” While this is a dark assessment, it appropriately calls attention to the issue. In response to growing migration pressures in Northern Africa, the European Union and especially the Spanish government have tightened border controls. The Spanish government, for example, has gone so far as to set up operations, such as sending officials of the Interior Ministry to countries like Senegal, Guinea-Conakry, Mali, Mauritania, and Cape Verde, often discouraging potential migrants from leaving. FRONTEX, a cooperative European effort on border security, has invested 24 million euros to control migratory routes toward Spain and control the coastal waters of Cape Verde, Morocco, Mauritania, and Senegal. Both the E.U. analysis and Spain’s actions reflect the understanding that increased climate migration amplifies existing security and humanitarian threats, which increases pressure on weak states along the North African coastline, and that these developments will affect Mediterranean security in a much broader sense.

African is strategically vital – even regional wars threaten global escalation.
Glick 7 – senior ME Fellow @ Center for Security Policy in Washington DC
[Caroline B. Glick, the senior Middle East fellow at the Center for Security Policy in Washington, D.C., The Center for Security Policy is a non-profit, non-partisan national security organization. 12/11/2007. “Condi's African holiday”. [[http://www.carolineglick.com/e/2007/12/condis-african-holiday.php?pf=yes]], JR2]
The Horn of Africa is a dangerous and strategically vital place. Small wars, which rage continuously, can easily escalate into big wars. Local conflicts have regional and global aspects. All of the conflicts in this tinderbox, which controls shipping lanes from the Indian Ocean into the Red Sea, can potentially give rise to regional, and indeed global conflagrations between competing regional actors and global powers. Located in and around the Horn of Africa are the states of Eritrea, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Somalia, Sudan and Kenya. Eritrea, which gained independence from Ethiopia in 1993 after a 30-year civil war, is a major source of regional conflict. Eritrea has a nagging border dispute with Ethiopia which could easily ignite. The two countries fought a bloody border war from 1998-2000 over control of the town of Badme. Although a UN mandated body determined in 2002 that the disputed town belonged to Eritrea, Ethiopia has rejected the finding and so the conflict festers. Eritrea also fights a proxy war against Ethiopia in Somalia and in Ethiopia's rebellious Ogaden region. In Somalia, Eritrea is the primary sponsor of the al-Qaida-linked Islamic Courts Union which took control of Somalia in June, 2006. In November 2006, the ICU government declared jihad against Ethiopia and Kenya. Backed by the US, Ethiopia invaded Somalia last December to restore the recognized Transitional Federal Government to power which the ICU had deposed. Although the Ethiopian army successfully ousted the ICU from power in less than a week, backed by massive military and financial assistance from Eritrea, as well as Egypt and Libya, the ICU has waged a brutal insurgency against the TFG and the Ethiopian military for the past year. THE SENIOR ICU leadership, including Sheikh Hassan Dahir Aweys and Sheikh Sharif Ahmed have received safe haven in Eritrea. In September, the exiled ICU leadership held a nine-day conference in the Eritrean capital of Asmara where they formed the Alliance for the Re-Liberation of Somalia headed by Ahmed. Eritrean President-for-life Isaias Afwerki declared his country's support for the insurgents stating, "The Eritrean people's support to the Somali people is consistent and historical, as well as a legal and moral obligation." Although touted in the West as a moderate, Ahmed has openly supported jihad and terrorism against Ethiopia, Kenya and the West. Aweys, for his part, is wanted by the FBI in connection with his role in the bombing of the US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998. Then there is Eritrea's support for the Ogaden separatists in Ethiopia. The Ogaden rebels are Somali ethnics who live in the region bordering Somalia and Kenya. The rebellion is run by the Ogaden National Liberation Front (ONLF) which uses terror and sabotage as its preferred methods of warfare. It targets not only Ethiopian forces and military installations, but locals who wish to maintain their allegiance to Ethiopia or reach a negotiated resolution of the conflict. In their most sensationalist attack to date, in April ONLF terror forces attacked a Chinese-run oil installation in April killing nine Chinese and 65 Ethiopians. Ethiopia, for its part has fought a brutal counter-insurgency to restore its control over the region. Human rights organizations have accused Ethiopia of massive human rights abuses of civilians in Ogaden. THEN THERE is Sudan. As Eric Reeves wrote in the Boston Globe on Saturday, "The brutal regime in Khartoum, the capital of Sudan, has orchestrated genocidal counter-insurgency war in Darfur for five years, and is now poised for victory in its ghastly assault on the region's African populations." The Islamist government of Omar Hasan Ahmad al-Bashir is refusing to accept non-African states as members of the hybrid UN-African Union peacekeeping mission to Darfur that is due to replace the undermanned and demoralized African Union peacekeeping force whose mandate ends on December 31. Without its UN component of non-African states, the UN Security Council mandated force will be unable to operate effectively. Khartoum's veto led Jean-Marie Guehenno, the UN undersecretary for peacekeeping to warn last month that the entire peacekeeping mission may have to be aborted. And the Darfur region is not the only one at risk. Due to Khartoum's refusal to carry out the terms of its 2005 peace treaty with the Southern Sudanese that ended Khartoum's 20-year war and genocide against the region's Christian and animist population, the unsteady peace may be undone. Given Khartoum's apparent sprint to victory over the international community regarding Darfur, there is little reason to doubt that once victory is secured, it will renew its attacks in the south. THE CONFLICTS in the Horn of Africa have regional and global dimensions. Regionally, Egypt has played a central role in sponsoring and fomenting conflicts. Egypt's meddling advances its interest of preventing the African nations from mounting a unified challenge to Egypt's colonial legacy of extraordinary rights to the waters of the Nile River which flows through all countries of the region. Globally, the region is a hotbed of Wahabist activity. Osama bin Laden was based in Khartoum until 1995. The ICU receives support not only from Eritrea, but from the Arab League and the Organization of the Islamic Conference. So too, international attempts to end the genocide in Darfur have been stymied by the Arab League and the OIC. One of the main reasons for the recent US decision to establish a military command in Africa is its strategic importance to the forces of global jihad. The US's largest force in Africa is located in Djibouti. International efforts to resolve the manifold conflicts in the region have failed to address the roots of the conflicts and so, even when successful are generally short lived. As the situation in Southern Sudan and the Eritrean-Ethiopian border show, these agreements only last as long as neither side believes it can defeat the other. Beyond that, while US and European leaders have spoken eloquently of the need to end the slaughter in Darfur and help the Somalis establish order, Washington and Brussels have made clear that they will not take effective action to back up their declarations. Indeed, even if Khartoum weren't actively working to undermine the peacekeeping mission in Darfur, it is hard to see the mission actually succeeding. No NATO member will agree to donate helicopters to the peacekeeping force. Without the helicopters, the peacekeepers will be unable to perform their mission. THIS REGIONAL morass of wars and rivalries formed the backdrop last week to US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice's one-day visit to African Union headquarters in Ethiopia. It is far from clear what Rice hoped to accomplish by traveling to Africa. She didn't bring any plans to solve any of the region's problems or even suggest new ways of looking at them. Even more troubling, Rice devoted the majority of her attention not to pointing a finger at Eritrea and Sudan for their bad behavior, but to attacking Ethiopia and pressuring the southern Sudanese to cut a deal with Khartoum.

Scenario 3 is Terrorism

Migration leads to terrorism
Smith 7
Paul J. Smith, associate professor of national security affairs at the US Naval War College, “Climate Change, Mass Migration and the Military Response,” Foreign Policy Research Institute, Fall 2007, [[https://transnet.act.nato.int/WISE/FSE/FuturesPap/ClimateCha0/file/_WFS/%20Orbis2--climate%20change%20and%20mass%20migration.pdf]]
Another consideration related to climate change is the problem of weak or failed states, which are at high risk of being destabilized by climate change. Mass population movements (both internal and international) may be one mechanism through which this failure is triggered. Large and acute population movements may exacerbate internal social and ethnic tensions, or pose an enormous economic challenge that exceeds the host state’s ability to manage. Thus, climate change-induced environmental migration may cause states that are already experiencing social and economic instability to reach a ‘‘tipping point’’ leading to instability or state failure. A National Intelligence Council report assessing key security trends through the year 2020 asserted that ‘‘weak governments, lagging economies, religious extremism, and youth bulges will align to create a perfect storm for internal conflict in certain regions.’’55 In addition, as climate change contributes to state weakness or failure— a more likely scenario for poor, developing countries plagued with preexisting social and economic problems—it could lead to additional security challenges for the world community. For example, the 2005 U.S. National Defense Strategy states that ‘‘the absence of effective governance in many parts of the world creates sanctuaries for terrorists, criminals, and insurgents.’’56 Such an environment may invite outside military intervention, although probably at a stage where military forces would be less welcome and less able to restore order or mitigate the underlying causes of state failure.

That causes US lash-out which escalates globally
Shwartz-Morgan 2001
Nicole Schwartz-Morgan, Assistant Professor of Politics and Economics at Royal Military College of Canada, 10/10/2001, “Wild Globalization and Terrorism,” http://www.wfs.org/mmmorgan.htm
The terrorist act can reactivate atavistic defense mechanisms which drive us to gather around clan chieftans. Nationalistic sentiment re-awakens, setting up an implacable frontier which divides "us" from "them," each group solidifying its cohesion in a rising hate/fear of the other group. (Remember Yugoslavia?) To be sure, the allies are trying for the moment to avoid the language of polarization, insisting that "this is not a war," that it is "not against Islam," "civilians will not be targeted." But the word "war" was pronounced, a word heavy with significance which forces the issue of partisanship. And it must be understood that the sentiment of partisanship, of belonging to the group, is one of the strongest of human emotions. Because the enemy has been named in the media (Islam), the situation has become emotionally volatile. Another spectacular attack, coming on top of an economic recession could easily radicalize the latent attitudes of the United States, and also of Europe, where racial prejudices are especially close to the surface and ask no more than a pretext to burst out. This is the Sarajevo syndrome: an isolated act of madness becomes the pretext for a war that is just as mad, made of ancestral rancor, measureless ambitions, and armies in search of a war. We should not be fooled by our expressions of good will and charity toward the innocent victims of this or other distant wars. It is our own comfortable circumstances which permit us these benevolent sentiments. If conditions change so that poverty and famine put the fear of starvation in our guts, the human beast will reappear. And if epidemic becomes a clear and present danger, fear will unleash hatred in the land of the free, flinging missiles indiscriminately toward any supposed havens of the unseen enemy. And on the other side, no matter how profoundly complex and differentiated Islamic nations and tribes may be, they will be forced to behave as one clan by those who see advantage in radicalizing the conflict,

===Credibility advantage=== 

Now is the key time for Obama to assert leadership on climate change
New York Times in 11
New York Times, 6-22- John M. Broder, June 22, 2011, “Gore Criticizes Obama for Record on Climate”, http://www.nytimes.com/2011/06/23/science/earth/23gore.html
Former Vice President Al Gore sharply criticized President Obama as lacking leadership on climate change in a magazine essay published online Wednesday, saying his policies had been little more effective than those of President George W. Bush. Related in Opinion In the 7,000-word article in Rolling Stone, Mr. Gore said that Mr. Obama clearly understood the threat to the planet posed by global warming and that he had appointed a number of committed environmental advocates to key positions. But Mr. Gore said that in the face of well-financed attacks from fossil fuel industries and denial and delay from Republicans in Congress, Mr. Obama had failed to act decisively to alter the nation’s policies on climate change and energy. Addressing climate change on national and international levels will require forceful American leadership, Mr. Gore said. “Yet President Obama has never presented to the American people the magnitude of the climate crisis,” he wrote. “He has simply not made the case for action. He has not defended the science against the ongoing, withering and dishonest attacks. Nor has he provided a presidential venue for the scientific community — including our own National Academy — to bring the reality of the science before the public.” A White House spokesman defended Mr. Obama’s record in a written statement. “The president has been clear since Day 1 that climate change poses a threat domestically and globally, and under his leadership we have taken the most aggressive steps in our country’s history to tackle this challenge,” said Clark Stevens, a White House press officer. Under Mr. Obama, Mr. Stevens said, the United States has spent billions of dollars on clean-energy technology, imposed tough new emissions standards for cars and trucks and taken the lead in international talks on climate change. Mr. Gore’s extended outburst of frustration signals a public turning point for him, and perhaps for other environmental advocates who have been quietly seething for months over what they view as the administration’s timidity. Mr. Gore, who shared a Nobel Peace Prize for his climate advocacy, praised some of the president’s actions, including the new vehicle standards and the investments in green technology. But in recent months he has told friends that the president has been too passive on climate change and has not been sufficiently supportive of Lisa P. Jackson, the Environmental Protection Agency administrator, who has tried to advance greenhouse gas regulation against stiff Congressional opposition. Much of Mr. Gore’s essay is devoted to criticism of the news media as failing to report accurately on the scientific consensus that climate change is real and that it is most likely caused by human activities. He said the media had been cowed by an aggressive lobbying and public relations campaign financed by the oil, gas and coal industries, or had presented ideological entertainment in the guise of news reporting. Mr. Obama has tried to move the country away from fossil fuels, and has made the connection between oil imports and national security, Mr. Gore wrote. “But in spite of these and other achievements, President Obama has thus far failed to use the bully pulpit to make the case for bold action on climate change,” he said. “After successfully passing his green stimulus package, he did nothing to defend it when Congress decimated its funding. After the House passed cap and trade, he did little to make passage in the Senate a priority.” Paul Bledsoe, a former energy aide in the Clinton White House and now senior adviser at the Bipartisan Policy Center, said: “I entirely disagree with Gore here. Obama has consistently made a compelling case for climate action based on the science and has fought in Congress and internationally for robust policies to cut emissions and promote clean energy. The administration’s failing on climate has in fact been political.” Mr. Gore also turned to public officials of both parties. “Many politicians, unfortunately, also fall into the same two categories: those who cheerlead for the deniers and those who cower before them,” he wrote. “The latter group now includes several candidates for the Republican presidential nomination who have felt it necessary to abandon their previous support for action on the climate crisis; at least one has been apologizing profusely to the deniers and begging for their forgiveness.” Mr. Gore does not name them, but Mitt Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts; Jon M. Huntsman Jr., a former governor of Utah and ambassador to China; and Tim Pawlenty, a former governor of Minnesota, have backtracked on their support for state and federal action to address global warming. Near the end of the article, Mr. Gore acknowledged that he might be hobbling a president trying to do the right thing in a difficult environment. “All of his supporters understand that it would be self-defeating to weaken Obama and heighten the risk of another step backward,” he wrote. But he said he felt compelled to speak out because the stakes were incalculable. “The climate crisis, in reality, is a struggle for the soul of America,” Mr. Gore concluded, using the voice of prophet and teacher that he has assumed on this topic for more than 20 years. “It is about whether or not we are still capable — given the ill health of our democracy and the current dominance of wealth over reason — of perceiving important and complex realities clearly enough to promote and protect the sustainable well-being of the many. What hangs in the balance is the future of civilization as we know it.”

However, US-first action solidifies environmental leadership and credibility
Walter in 2002
Norbert Walter, chief economist at Deutsche Bank Group, “An American Abdication,” New York Times (NYT), 8/28/2002, [[http://query.nytimes.com/gst/fullpage.html?res=9907E7DE1F3CF93BA1575BC0A9649C8B63]]
At present there is much talk about the unparalleled strength of the United States on the world stage. Yet at this very moment the most powerful country in the world stands to forfeit much political capital, moral authority and international good will by dragging its feet on the next great global issue: the environment. Before long, the administration's apparent unwillingness to take a leadership role -- or, at the very least, to stop acting as a brake -- in fighting global environmental degradation will threaten the very basis of the American supremacy that many now seem to assume will last forever. American authority is already in some danger as a result of the Bush administration's decision to send a low-level delegation to the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg -- low-level, that is, relative to America's share of both the world economy and global pollution. The absence of President Bush from Johannesburg symbolizes this decline in authority. In recent weeks, newspapers around the world have been dominated by environmental headlines: In central Europe, flooding killed dozens, displaced tens of thousands and caused billions of dollars in damages. In South Asia, the United Nations reports a brown cloud of pollution that is responsible for hundreds of thousands of deaths a year from respiratory disease. The pollution (80 percent man-made) also cuts sunlight penetration, thus reducing rainfall, affecting agriculture and otherwise altering the climate. Many other examples of environmental degradation, often related to the warming of the atmosphere, could be cited. What they all have in common is that they severely affect countries around the world and are fast becoming a chief concern for people everywhere. Nobody is suggesting that these disasters are directly linked to anything the United States is doing. But when a country that emits 25 percent of the world's greenhouse gases acts as an uninterested, sometimes hostile bystander in the environmental debate, it looks like unbearable arrogance to many people abroad. The administration seems to believe it is merely an observer -- that environmental issues are not its issues. But not doing anything amounts to ignoring a key source of world tension, and no superpower that wants to preserve its status can go on dismissing such a pivotal dimension of political and economic -- if not existential -- conflict. In my view, there is a clear-cut price to be paid for ignoring the views of just about every other country in the world today. The United States is jettisoning its hard-won moral and intellectual authority and perhaps the strategic advantages that come with being a good steward of the international political order. The United States may no longer be viewed as a leader or reliable partner in policymaking: necessary, perhaps inevitable, but not desirable, as it has been for decades. All of this because America's current leaders are not willing to acknowledge the very real concerns of many people about global environmental issues. No one can expect the United States to provide any quick fixes, but one would like to see America make a credible and sustained effort, along with other countries, to address global environmental problems. This should happen on two fronts. The first is at home in the United States, through more environmentally friendly policies, for example greater fuel-efficiency standards for cars and light trucks and better insulation for buildings. The second is international, through a more cooperative approach to multilateral attempts at safeguarding the environment. Simply rejecting international treaties (like the Kyoto Protocol) then failing to offer a better proposal cannot be an acceptable option for American policymakers. Much of the world has come together to help the United States in the fight against terrorism, out of the realization that a common threat can only be beaten through a cooperative effort. It is high time for the United States, metaphorically speaking, to get out of its oversized, gas-guzzling S.U.V. -- and join the rest of the world in doing more to combat global warming and protecting the planet.


Earth Observation satellites key to US environmental leadership- near-term support key to long-term credibility
Sabathier and Faith 7- Vincent Sabatheir, senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program. From 2004 to 2009, he was senior fellow and director for space initiatives at CSIS. He is also senior adviser to the SAFRAN group and consults internationally on aerospace and telecommunications; Ryan Faith, associate for the Center for Strategic and International Studies, 31 July 2007, “Minding the Gaps: Keeping Exploration Alive,” Online: http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/070731_space_commentary.pdf
Finally, the third challenge relates to the collection of environmental data through earth observation satellites. Global concern with climate change makes the sacrifice of earth observation to support human space exploration a very unappealing option. Further, the United States has already committed to a bold leadership role with the July 2003 launch, by former secretary of state Colin Powell and current National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) administrator VADM Conrad Lautenbacher (USN, ret.), of a worldwide effort to build the Global Earth Observation System of Systems. If we establish an organization to create a system like GEOSS and then immediately fail to meet our agreed-on commitments, it will be very difficult indeed to generate future support for international projects, and as a consequence, our basic ability to lead in other space-related areas—especially returning to the Moon—will be greatly compromised. Historically, the way that NASA has dealt with such competing priorities is through the senseless cannibalism of one project after another. This may not, however, currently be an option. On one hand, the broad, bipartisan support for a national vision of space exploration and the immediate interest should encourage solid, robust support for human space exploration; on the other hand, the growing concern of global climate change necessitates full support of earth observation. In these space leadership challenges, failure to provide near-term support will immediately erode our credibility, while in the longer term, our leadership role is at great risk.

And, this credibility builds multilateral relations which solves nuclear war
Levi 2008
Michael Levi, senior fellow in energy and environment at CFR, project director, “Confronting Climate Change: A Strategy for US Foreign Policy, report of an independent task force for the Council on Foreign Relations, 2008, [[http://www.cfr.org/content/publications/attachments/Climate_ChangeTF.pdf]]
Climate change policy also provides an opportunity to mend U.S. relations with other countries. Among the advanced industrialized nations, the United States is viewed as the country that has been slowest to develop a credible climate policy. The shape of U.S. policy has many origins. The United States found it especially difficult to meet the emissions targets set forth in the Kyoto Protocol primarily because its own emissions rose rapidly during the economic boom of the late 1990s and because it chose not to require emissions reductions; the European Union, by contrast, has seen its emissions rise much less sharply for a variety of reasons linked to its slower population growth, generally less robust economic expansion, fortuitous changes in its energy systems, and its active policies to cut emissions.20 The perceived lack of a sufficiently aggressive U.S. policy, along with the United States’ failure to ratify the Kyoto Protocol at a time when many in the world view climate change as a paramount danger for the planet, has undercut U.S. credibility in addressing global challenges. To be certain, the United States has adopted a variety of policies that will lead emissions to be lower than they otherwise would be, something discussed in more detail in the next chapter. But combined with an array of other policy differences, the U.S. approach to the climate problem has harmed the transatlantic alliance, long a bedrock of U.S. foreign policy. With climate change a top priority for most major U.S. allies in Europe, engaging in a way that is seen as serious and constructive has the potential to rebuild weakened relationships and accrue goodwill that would be useful across the U.S. foreign policy agenda. At the same time, climate change diplomacy, which will involve every major country in the world, also provides the United States an opportunity to build and intensify relationships that will be important well beyond the climate arena. U.S. leadership on climate change would also help steer any global approach in a direction that the United States finds to be in its interests. The Task Force finds that engaging on climate change can help repair U.S. relationships with historical allies and provide an avenue for strengthening relations with others.

Moreover, Environmental leadership checks extinction—its key to biodiversity, oceans, forests, and soil
Khosla in 2009
Ashok Khosla, IUCN President, International Union for Conservation of Nature, “A new President for the United States: We have a dream” 27 January 2009 [[http://www.iucn.org/knowledge/news/opinion/?2595/new-President-for-the-United-States-We-have-a-dream]]
A rejuvenated America, with a renewed purpose, commitment and energy to make its contribution once again towards a better world could well be the turning point that can reverse the current decline in the state of the global economy, the health of its life support systems and the morale of people everywhere. This extraordinary change in regime brings with it the promise of a deep change in attitudes and aspirations of Americans, a change that will lead, hopefully, to new directions in their nation’s policies and action. In particular, we can hope that from being a very reluctant partner in global discussions, especially on issues relating to environment and sustainable development, the United States will become an active leader in international efforts to address the Millennial threats now confronting civilization and even the survival of the human species. For the conservation of biodiversity, so essential to maintaining life on Earth, this promise of change has come not a moment too soon. It would be a mistake to put all of our hopes on the shoulder of one young man, however capable he might be. The environmental challenges the world is facing cannot be addressed by one country, let alone by one man. At the same time, an inspired US President guided by competent people, who does not shy away from exercising the true responsibilities and leadership his country is capable of, could do a lot to spur the international community into action. To paraphrase one of his illustrious predecessors, “the world asks for action and action now.” What was true in President Roosevelt’s America 77 years ago is even more appropriate today. From IUCN’s perspective, the first signals are encouraging. The US has seriously begun to discuss constructive engagement in climate change debates. With Copenhagen a mere 11 months away, this commitment is long overdue and certainly very welcome. Many governments still worry that if they set tough standards to control carbon emissions, their industry and agriculture will become uncompetitive, a fear that leads to a foot-dragging “you go first” attitude that is blocking progress. A positive intervention by the United States could provide the vital catalyst that moves the basis of the present negotiations beyond the narrowly defined national interests that lie at the heart of the current impasse. The logjam in international negotiations on climate change should not be difficult to break if the US were to lead the industrialized countries to agree that much of their wealth has been acquired at the expense of the environment (in this case greenhouse gases emitted over the past two hundred years) and that with the some of the benefits that this wealth has brought, comes the obligation to deal with the problems that have resulted as side-effects. With equitable entitlement to the common resources of the planet, an agreement that is fair and acceptable to all nations should be easy enough to achieve. Caps on emissions and sharing of energy efficient technologies are simply in the interest of everyone, rich or poor. And both rich and poor must now be ready to adopt less destructive technologies – based on renewables, efficiency and sustainability – both as a goal with intrinsic merit and also as an example to others. But climate is not the only critical global environmental issue that this new administration will have to deal with. Conservation of biodiversity, a crucial prerequisite for the wellbeing of all humanity, no less America, needs as much attention, and just as urgently. The United States’ self-interest in conserving living natural resources strongly converges with the global common good in every sphere: in the oceans, by arresting the precipitate decline of fish stocks and the alarming rise of acidification; on land, by regenerating the health of our soils, forests and rivers; and in the atmosphere by reducing the massive emission of pollutants from our wasteful industries, construction, agriculture and transport systems.

===Solvency=== 

CLARREO is the only option:

Accuracy
Madigan 11 – Jay Madigan, Senior Engineer and Web Development - Science Programmer at SSAI /NASA, 03/15/2011, “Societal Benefits,” online: http://clarreo.larc.nasa.gov/about-SocietalBenefits.php
In 2007, the National Research Council (NRC) conducted a survey of Earth science and its applications from space, identifying key scientific questions and societal objectives on which to focus Earth observations beginning in 2005. The Council organized the science missions into three time-phased tiers, identifying the mission(s) most appropriate to answer key science questions and address societal objectives. In addition to the NRC’s Decadal Survey, a summary of the policy documents that support the science goals of the CLARREO mission can be found here. Selected as a high-priority, tier one mission, the Climate Absolute Radiance and Refractivity Observatory (CLARREO) is a climate mission that will bring revolutionary accuracy to climate measurement—and provide a global benchmark measurement for conclusively determining long-term climate trends. The urgency for CLARREO results from the growing need for higher accuracy, long-term climate change observations than current instruments are capable of providing. Data from CLARREO will dramatically increase how accurately we define the real climate future that society faces—and assist policy makers in formulating more informed decisions about how to respond. The timing of the CLARREO mission is a result of recent advances in a wide range of scientific, measurement, and technological areas. These advances combine to enable CLARREO to be a completely new type of climate mission: a mission focused on accuracy at decade time scales. Because CLARREO measurements will cover the majority of the solar and infrared spectrum, CLARREO will provide this accuracy for most of the climate variables essential for assessing climate change, greatly expanding the uses of existing space-based data sets for societal benefit. Previous Earth science missions have focused on providing data for one aspect of the climate system such as clouds or aerosols. CLARREO will provide a global perspective of climate change, becoming the first mission to collect data that provide a single and highly accurate view of the entire climate system. By obtaining this global view, CLARREO will be used by climate modelers and decision makers to accurately predict climate change and to develop intelligent plans and methods to minimize and adapt to it. Kevin Brown, CLARREO Project Manager who is leading the CLARREO mission states, “The integrity of CLARREO measurements and their ability to accurately portray the Earth’s climate on a global scale, allows for greater confidence in policy derived from CLARREO observations.” CLARREO differs from other satellites because its measurements are tied to internationally-recognized standards, the same type of rigorously-tested standards used by National Metrology Institutes to determine the temperature of a material or length of a second. Using these international standards, measurements from CLARREO, as well as other satellites, may be pooled into one long-term observational record that is free from small drifts in measurements due to slight differences between satellites. This allows scientists to test the satellite observations for small errors that mirror the variability of the climate itself. Testing for these errors provides for a clear interpretation of measurement trends, greatly enhancing confidence in the data’s accuracy.

Current models—CLARREO solves climate gaps- tests accuracy in global observation systems
Anderson 7- Jim Anderson, Philip S. Weld Professor in the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, Harvard University, Decadal Survey: CLARREO Workshop [[http://www.docstoc.com/docs/30803707/DRAFT-Decadal-Survey-%28DS%29-CLARREO-Workshop-Report-Edited-]]
CLARREO is a Highly Leveraged Interdisciplinary Climate Change Mission • Accurate decadal-length records are essential for climate change detection, attribution, and for testing climate prediction accuracy. They represent the most critical test of uncertainty in future climate change prediction. • While process study missions (e.g. CALIPSO/CloudSat) are critical to improve underlying climate model physics (e.g. clouds), decadal change observations are critical to determine the impact of those climate model improvements on the accuracy of predicting future climate change. Both elements are critical, and CLARREO is the major Decadal Study mission addressing serious accuracy issues in decadal climate change observation. • The CLARREO mission is unique in its broad interdisciplinary impact on climate change science: the other NRC Decadal Survey missions are primarily focused on one climate process or discipline. • CLARREO provides new solar reflected and infrared emitted high spectral resolution benchmark radiance climate data records that can be used to test climate model predictions, improve climate change fingerprinting, and attribution. • CLARREO provides an orbiting calibration observatory that can be used to calibrate other solar and infrared space-borne sensors (e.g. VIIRS, CrIS, Landsat, Geostationary, CERES) and thereby improve to climate accuracy a wide range of sensors across the GEO observing system. It also improves the scientific value of all of these instruments. • Key climate variable decadal records

International standards— CLARREO is superior to current satellites for climate records- SI traceability allows a global climate record
Anderson 7- Jim Anderson, Philip S. Weld Professor in the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, Harvard University, Decadal Survey: CLARREO Workshop http://www.docstoc.com/docs/30803707/DRAFT-Decadal-Survey-%28DS%29-CLARREO-Workshop-Report-Edited-by
The ability of this CLARREO mission to calibrate passive sensors on-orbit via SI traceability and to address sampling issues without subsidiary information is a notable departure from the current strategy pursued for climate satellite records. The necessity for this departure was recognized by the NRC as follows: NRC Objective: Global Benchmark Climate Record Benchmark Observations: What are they? The NRC Decadal Survey recognized that when the global climate record emerges as a significant contributor to public policy (societal) decisions, that record will be attacked relentlessly. If the climate record cannot stand up to those attacks, the record cannot effectively serve society. Recognition of this led to the requirement that the design of climate observing and monitoring systems from space must ensure the establishment of global, long-term climate records, which are of high accuracy, tested for systematic errors on-orbit, and tied to irrefutable standards such as those maintained in the U.S. by the National Institute of Standards and Technology For the NRC report, this mission definition was essential for the prioritization process that fully considered scientific/societal impact, cost, ability to complement other systems, degree of readiness, risk mitigation, and contributions to other thematic areas. The ASIC3 report also chose a CLARREO-like mission as one of its high priority recommendations based on similar requirements. Once the context of responsiveness to societal objectives is understood, the path leading all the way to details of instrument design may be defined. A summary of requirements flowdown from high level science requirements to data products to mission and payload requirements for the IR and GPS components is included below.

CLARREO addresses key objectives for climate records- has a global framework for data
NASA 7- Jim Anderson,Hank Revercomb Dan Kirk-Davidoif Bill Gibson John Dyke mil Stephen Leroy Dave Toh in Boh Hoi/ Boh Knnieson Joe Taylor Mark Mulligan Jon Gero Response and Discussion of IR Breakout Discussion Recap of CI.ARREO Workshop 17-19 July 2007
The prioritization process for mission selection involved eight criteria used to set relative rankings: • Contribution to the most important scientific questions facing Harlh sciences today (scientific merit, discovery, exploration) • Contribution to applications and policy making (societal benefits) • Contribution to long-term observational record of the Farth • Ability to complement other observational systems, including national and international plans • Affordability (cost consideration, cither total costs for mission or costs per year) • Degree of readiness (technical, resources, people) • Risk mitigation and strategic redundancy (backup of other critical systems) • Significant contribution to more than one thematic application or scientific discipline Driven by the prioritization process that was applied across all disciplines within the NRC Decadal Survey purview, CLARREO emerged as a top priority for a new start: NRC Final Report: CI.ARREO addresses three key Societal Objectives: 1. The essential responsibility to present and future generations to put in place a benchmark climate record that is global, accurate in perpetuity, tested against independent strategies that reveal systematic errors, and pinned to international standards 2. The development of an operational climate forecast that is tested and trusted through a disciplined strategy using state-of-the-art observations with mathematically rigorous techniques to systematically improve those forecasts to establish credibility 3. Disciplined decision structure that assimilates accurate data and forecasts into intelligible and specific products that promote international commerce as well as _societal stability' and security spectrally resolved radiance measurements but with the addition of benchmark observations to obtain the reflected solar irradiance and a GPS receiver; and (3) re-flight of the incident solar irradiance and CERES broadband instruments on NPP and NPOESS

Only increased climate data can solve – information key to policy
Brown '8 Oli is the Programme Manager with the International Institute for Sustainable Development (Forced Migration Review, "The Numbers Game", October 2008, Issue 31) 
Estimates of the potential number of ‘climate change migrants' vary hugely. In order to persuade policymakers of the need to act and to provide a sound basis for appropriate responses, there is an urgent need for better analysis, better data and better predictions. As early as 1990 the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (lPCC) was arguing that the greatest single impact of climate change could be on human migration. So far, the scientific community has focused on establishing the extent and nature of anthropogenic climate change and its impact on our weather systems and coastlines. Much less time and energy; however, have been spent on empirical analysis of the impacts of climate change on human population distribution. Consequently the figures that analysts have produced to date represent little more than well-educated guesswork. This is unsurprising; the science of climate change is complex enough, even before considering its impact on societies with widely differing resources and varied capacities to adapt to external shocks. To assess the future impact of climate change on complex changing communities is to heap prediction upon prediction, multiplying the potential margin of error. Perhaps the best-known estimate for future migration forced by climate was made by Professor Norman Myers of Oxford University: Looking ahead to 2050 he has argued that "when global warming takes hold there could be as many as 200 million people [displaced] by disruptions of monsoon systems and other change (from a predicted global population of nine billion people). Other estimates vary widely in terms of numbers, time frame and causes. In 2005 the UN University’s Institute for Environment and Human Security warned that the international community should prepare for 50 million 'environmental refugees' by 2010. The UN Environment widely cited. But repetition does not make the figure inherently accurate. Professor Myers himself admits that his estimate, although calculated from the best available (and limited) data, required some "heroic extrapolations". The simple fact is that nobody really knows with any degree of precision what climate change will mean for human population distribution. We know that climate change will redraw our coastlines, alter where we can grow food, move where and when we can find water and expose us to fiercer storms or more severe droughts. We know that on current predictions the 'carrying capacity' of large parts of the world - the ability of different ecosystems to provide food, water and shelter for human populations - will be compromised by climate change. Intuitively we know that climate migration is likely to be a serious issue in future. we just don't know how serious. And it is hard to persuade policymakers of its importance without concrete (or at least more sophisticated) figures. The estimates we have so far are no real foundation for an appropriate response either. The challenge now is to better understand how climate change could affect population distribution and then to develop effective ways to address the possible consequences of forced migration, such as social and economic dislocation, delayed development or conflict. For that we need clearer answers to some key questions: How many people are likely to move as a result of climate change? Where are they likely to come from and go to? How much warning will they have? Will they be able to return? Better data on any or all of the questions above will help identify the most vulnerable populations, the regions of greatest concern and the potential effects of climate migration on development and stability: Ultimately better data would move the debate towards the three questions of most relevance to policymakers: Who should be responsible for providing for climate induced migrants? For how long will they typically need support? And how much will it all cost? The problem of prediction Developing more solid predictions will require a lot of hard number crunching that is only now really starting Those predictions are complicated by at least four factors. Disaggregating Causality Migrants’ decisions to leave their homes are influenced by a number of complex factors; deciding causality between economic 'pull' and environmental 'push' is often highly subjective. Disaggregating the role of climate change from other environmental, economic and social factors requires an ambitious analytical step into the dark. In short, deducing cause and effect between climate change and forced migration is very difficult. Eliminating the statistical ‘white noise': Future climate migration will take place against a background of unprecedented changes in the number and distribution of the world's population. The global population is currently growing at an annual rate of 1.1% and is predicted to peak at 9.075 billion by 2050 (from its 2005 level of 6.54 billion). Meanwhile, there is an accelerating move to urban areas. Already more than half of the world's population lives in urban settings and the growth rate of the urban population is nearly double that of total population growth. Clearly it would be absurd to attribute the entire urban drift to climate change but disaggregating the additional role of climate change on existing rural-urban migration is very hard. Dealing with the Lack of Data: Base-line data for current migration flows in many of the developing countries thought to be most vulnerable to climate change are patchy and incomplete. Nor is there much capacity in developing countries or the international community to gather this kind of dam, particularly for internal displacement. Census data rarely include the kind of questions that would give a nuanced understanding of the reasons behind internal population movements. What limited capacity exists is focused on tracking cross-border migration - which only captures a part of the picture, given that the majority of forced climate migrants are likely to stay within their own borders. Factoring in Uncertainty: Finally although climate modeling techniques have progressed dramatically over the past decade, we have not yet developed the modeling techniques that even begin to adequately account for the impact of individual choice, the potential for international action and the variability of future emissions and meteorological scenarios. Towards Better Data: We need more time, effort and energy to be put towards developing a better understanding of future forced migration.

More accurate climate observations are the only means to properly measure and adapt to warming – a US federal policy is key
Lewis et al ’10 [James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June,[[http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]]]
Satellites provide globally consistent observations and the means to make simultaneous observations of diverse measurements that are essential for climate studies. They supply high-accuracy global observations of the atmosphere, ocean, and land surface that cannot be acquired by any other method. Satellite instruments supply accurate measurements on a near-daily basis for long periods and across broad geographic regions. They can reveal global patterns that ground or air sensors would be unable to detect—as in the case of data from NASA satellites that showed us the amount of pollution arriving in North America from Asia as equal to 15 percent of local emissions of the United States and Canada. This sort of data is crucial to effective management of emissions— the United States, for example, could put in place regulations to decrease emissions and find them neutralized by pollution from other regions.15 Satellites allow us to monitor the pattern of ice-sheet thickening and thinning. While Arctic ice once increased a few centimeters every year, it now melts at a rate of more than one meter annually. This knowledge would not exist without satellite laser altimetry from NASA’s ICESat satellite.16 Satellite observations serve an indispensable role—they have provided unprecedented knowledge of inaccessible regions. Of the 44 essential climate variables (ECV) recognized as necessary to support the needs of the parties to the UNFCCC for the purposes of the Convention, 26 depend on satellite observations. But deployments of new and replacement satellites have not kept pace with the termination of older systems. Innovation and investment in Earth observation technology have failed to keep pace with global needs for monitoring and verification. Much of our data comes from satellites put in orbit for other purposes, such as weather prediction and monitoring. The sensors on these weather satellites provide valuable data, but they are not optimized for monitoring climate change or for adequately assessing the effect of mitigation efforts. More precise and specialized data are needed to understand and predict climate change, and getting these data will require new orbital sensors. Countries have improved many of their climate observation capabilities, but reports suggest little progress in ensuring long-term continuity for several important observing systems. The bulk of climate data is collected by the United States, and NASA’s investment in the Earth Observing System missions has provided the climate-quality data used to establish trends in sea level, ozone concentrations, ocean color, solar irradiance, Earth’s energy balance, and other key variables. While this investment has made an invaluable contribution, it is not an operational system. Many satellites currently in orbit are operating well past their planned lifetimes. In the next eight years, half of the world’s Earth observation satellites will be past their useful life. One reason for this is that many of the satellites that provide critical data for monitoring climate change are experimental satellites (such as TRMM—the Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission). Satellites built as research efforts provide real benefit, but if they are not replaced when their service life ends and if a permanent operational capability for Earth observation is not put in place, we will face insurmountable problems for observing capabilities and our ability to manage climate change. Many missions and observations for collecting climate data are at risk of interruption. These include measurements of ocean color that are critical for studying phytoplankton bloom and the role of ocean biomass as a carbon source and sink and data on the role of forests in the carbon cycle. Perhaps the most important shortcoming involves the monitoring of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and greenhouse gases. Reduction and regulation of CO2 emissions are part of every discussion on how to manage climate change, but the crash of NASA’s Orbiting Carbon Observatory (OCO) satellite left the world essentially bereft of the ability to make precise measurements to assess emissions reduction efforts. OCO cost approximately $278 million,17 which was about 2 percent of NASA’s annual budget for manned space flight in 2009. Its loss will cripple global carbon monitoring until we have its replacement, finally funded this year and scheduled for launch no later than February 2013. Existing GHG monitoring networks and programs are predominantly ground-based, but they are not truly adequate to the task. Ground-based networks are limited because they can only provide disjointed pieces of a larger picture. Moreover, these systems are aging, and investment for replacement has declined. We now rely on Japan’s GOSAT, the European Space Agency’s SCIAMACHY sensor, and Canada’s microsatellite, CanX-2, for observations of atmospheric concentrations of carbon; however, these sensors are not advanced enough to meet data requirements needed to understand critical aspects of the carbon cycle, and they are highly constrained by their range of coverage. For example, the carbon produced from a fossil fuel power plant is too small to measure with GOSAT, and low spatial resolution and high uncertainty of measurements limit the monitoring capabilities of SCIAMACHY.18 The implications are serious for measuring the effectiveness of climate policies. If reduction in GHG emissions (the most significant being carbon dioxide) is the centerpiece of mitigation efforts and a goal for both national legislation and international agreement, we are woefully unprepared to assess the effectiveness of these measures. It will be difficult to assess and adjust CO2-reducing measures without greater investment in orbiting sensors.19 The need for information has never been greater, but there are significant gaps in global Earth monitoring capabilities.20 Although more than 50 nations operate or plan to operate Earth observation satellites, most of these are basic electro-optical satellites, essentially orbiting digital cameras that lack the necessary sensors for precise climate monitoring. There are only a handful of dedicated satellites for monitoring climate change, and the time has passed when general-purpose weather satellites can meet our informational needs. Japan, Europe, and the United States operate satellites with some of the sensors needed to monitor climate change, but a recent National Academies study found that of the 26 essential climate variables that can be monitored from space, we have coverage of only 16.21 Only a coordinated federal policy and investment-, including revised priorities for our civil space programs, can change this. For most of the last decade, NASA was unable to replace its climate-monitoring satellites. Replacing these satellites is crucial to avoid a drastic decline in collecting the most valuable information for monitoring climate change. The Obama administration has proposed a budget for NASA’s Earth science programs of $2.4 billion in new funding over the next five years, an increase of more than 60 percent. The new funding, which requires congressional approval, will help replace OCO and allow NASA to replace the twin GRACE satellites that make detailed measurements of Earth’s gravity field that can provide important climate data. The request for NOAA’s budget for climate-related activities has been increased as well. NOAA will be spending $2.2 billion to maintain and further develop satellites and to support climate research; $435 million has been requested to support the U.S. Global Change Research Program, with $77 million in new increases for core climate services and observations. Spending on space has always been a question of priorities. Until recently, those priorities were frozen in time, reflecting political needs that were decades out of date. Our national priorities have changed. A new priority, reflecting the new challenges to our security and national interest, involves monitoring and understanding climate change. Debate over climate change is fierce and there are many skeptics, but the signs of major changes are undeniable. Warnings of catastrophe are likely overblown, but we do not fully understand the implications of climate change or the utility of various measures to mitigate it. Climate change is occurring, and it creates new risks. In this context, the recent decision to scale back spending on human space flight and increase spending on Earth observation is a better match for national priorities and interests. It updates a space policy that has been badly out of date for years. Observation of climate change began more than a century ago with simple measurements of the Earth’s average temperature. These were interesting, but inadequate. The breakthrough in understanding climate change came with Earth observation satellites. Satellites provide global awareness in ways that other technologies cannot match. The monitoring needed for a serious effort requires observations that can only be done from space.