=Aff= 
Check the regular Wiki for 1ACs
==Inherency Updates== 
US troops will stay past the deadline – security concerns and Iraqi requests prove
AP, 4-8-11
(“Gates: US troops could remain in Iraq after 2011,” http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5io1xcOcRu-aqHVie-HBzg_c3lLYQ?docId=133699f35704400da334d1d1ad6e8f0d, accessed 5-1-11, CMM)
U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates… extended U.S. troop presence.

==A2 Psychoanalysis== 
It is impossible to take the position of the psychoanalyst – that takes decades of training and education that this debate round can’t provide. Proves the hollow and vague nature of the alternative framework.
North Carolina Psychoanalytic Foundation, Accessed 11 (http://www.ncpsychoanalysis.org/about.htm#whois, DWEST)
Who Is A Psychoanalyst? … that is second to none in the mental health field.

The alternative DOESN’T ACTUALLY DO PSYCHOANALYSIS and won’t solve because it is not a choice that the “American psyche” choices to embrace.
North Carolina Psychoanalytic Foundation, Accessed 11 (http://www.ncpsychoanalysis.org/about.htm#whois, DWEST)
How Is Psychoanalysis Different From Other Types Of Counseling? Most modern types of counseling or psychotherapy have their roots in psychoanalytic theory. But unlike some forms of counseling that try to be … Self-defeating behavior Attachment disorders

=Neg= 
==SKFTA DA== 
A. SKFTA will pass – Obama is pushing and South Korea is just waiting for US action
Needham, The Hill, 4-29-11
(Vicki, “McDermott feels confident US, Korea will complete trade deal,” http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/1005-trade/158285-mcdermott-feels-confident-us-korea-will-complete-trade-deal, accessed 5-1-11, CMM)
Despite a few kinks, Rep. … have broad congressional support.

B. Military withdrawals abroad spur fierce opposition – defies conventional Washington wisdom, perceived as security threat and sparks intense lobbying from business and military
ENGELHARDT 10. [Tom, co-founder of the American Empire Project, runs the Nation Institute's TomDispatch.com , “Yes, We Could…. Get Out! – Why we won’t leave Afghanistan or Iraq” Atlantic Free Press -- lexis]
Have you noticed, by the way, that there’s … imagined control) over the planet’s strategic oil lands.

2. Political capital now is essential to guarantee votes for ratification.
Scott Linciome, Int'l Trade Attorney, Published Author, 11/23/2010, “Should Free Traders Be Concerned about KORUS and the Short-term Prospects for US Trade Policy? "http://lincicome.blogspot.com/2010/11/should-free-traders-be-concerned-about.html, access 12/20/10
Second, the Seoul impasse proved without question that the Administration simply is unwilling to expend the political capital necessary to move KORUS as-is, despite the fact that (a) most congressional vote-counters have … with action. So far, Barack Obama hasn't.

3. Multilateral trade liberalization is impossible absent passage of SKFTA.
Cooper et al, Specialist in international trade and finance coordinator, 11-12-10
[William, Mark E. Manyin, Specialist in Asian Affairs, Remy Jurenas, Specialist in Agricultural Policy, Michaela D. Platzer, Specialist in Industrial Organization and Business, “The Proposed U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA): Provisions and Implications” http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL34330.pdf, p.45-6, accessed 2-4-11, TP]
Since the early 2000s, U.S. … economic ties with major trading partners.

4. Multilateralism through trade is key an effective cooperative global order.
Matthews, Carnegie Endowment President, 2007
(Jessica, 11-8-7, "Europe and the US: Confronting Global Challenges," http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/transcript_mandelson.pdf]
The first is that we now …measures when people break those rules.

5. Multilateralism solves a coming great power war.
Dyer, University of London Military History PhD, 2004
(Gwynne, 12/30/4, "The end of war," Toronto Star, l/n [accessed 8/15/10])
War is deeply embedded in our … context of the existing state system.

==Reductio Ad Hitlerium Disad== 
The longer an intense debate goes on, the likelihood that a Hitler or Nazi analogy is made approaches one. Once that analogy is made, the analogy maker should be immediately declared the loser of the debate because rational discussion can no longer be possible. This is Goodwin’s law, and they just violated it. They should lose right now because they trivialized the holocaust, made a coherent debate impossible, increased the possibility that we actually will mirror Weimar, and made it so that when we actually need to use Nazi references, they won’t have the appropriate affect.
Davis Hanson 5 Martin and Illie Anderson Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution (Victor, 6/28/05, “Hitler, Hitler, Everywhere”, http://www.victorhanson.com/articles/hanson062805.html) MH
Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) was not alone when he … We will all soon reap what the ignorant are now sowing.
==Strategies== 
Round 2: verses Biopower Iraq CIA 
1NC- T-subsets, BRAC CP, SKFTA, Velvet Glove K, Case: Biopower answers, Util, Reps not first
2NR- T-Subsets

Round 3: verses counternarcotics
1NC- Inherency, Orientalism, SKFTA, BRAC CP, Visas Advantage CP, Case: Coercion answers, Mexico Economy answers, Afghan Collapse answers
2NR- Inherency

Round 6: verses COIN
1NC- SKFTA, Libya DA, BRAC CP, Visas Advantage CP + Strategy Net Benefit, Case: Pakistan won't collapse, no nuclear terror, general heg defense
2NR- Libya DA + Case