[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
Aff and Neg cites: [[mailto:raymond.r.fang@gmail.com|raymond.r.fang@gmail.com]] (Sid is lazy)

==St. Marks 1AC== 

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">Hegemony Advantage</span>
Advantage 1—Hegemony
Space weaponization and conflict is inevitable, we isolate a few internal links-
A. Dependence
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Kitfield 10</span>-Senior Correspondent @ The National Journal, writer for Air Force Magazine, B.A. Journalism, University of Georgia, distinguished writer on defense, national security, and foreign policy, author of two books on national security, [James, Air Force Magazine, “Crowded Congested Space” August 2010, [[http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2010/August%202010/0810space.aspx]]]
In the “commons”…" the report concluded.
B. History
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Smith 11</span>, Colonel and PhD in IR, **11** (M.V., Colonel, PhD in Politics and IR @ University of Reading, Citing Colin Gray, “Chapter 17: Security and Spacepower, Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]], EMM)

It is a rule in … slowly over time.<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">21 </span>
C. Everybody else is doing it
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Kramnik 10</span>-RIA Novotsi (think tank) military commentator, military commentator for the Russian News Service [Ilya, Space War, “Possible Space Wars in the Near Future,” January 18, http://www.spacewar.com/reports/Possible_Space_Wars_In_The_Near_Future_999.html]
__The U.S.__ media … of military space systems.
D. Realism
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Cooper 9</span> – Analyst Assistant at National Research Council (Brent, “Lost in Space: A Realist and Marxist Analysis of US Space Militarization”, http://www.scribd.com/doc/38214957/Lost-in-Space-A-Realist-and-Marxist-Analysis-of-US-Space-Militarization//ts)
**In international relations**,… space weaponization regime.
AND, weaponization is key to preserving heg
A. Prevent arms race

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Dolman 10</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment,” September, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576, EMM)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This is the </span>… space <span style="font-size: 16px;">is remote</span>.


<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">B. Tech leadership</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Dolman and Cooper 11</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Everett, </span>PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, and Henry, Former Deputy for the Strategic and Space Systems of the DOD and Chairman of High Fronteir, a non-profit organization studying issues of missile defense and space, “Chapter 19: Increasing the Military Uses of Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]], EMM)
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Space weapons are expensive; </span>… <span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> likely lose its preeminence.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">C. Terrestrial dominance</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Dolman 5</span> (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “ US Military Transformation and Weapons in Space,” September 14th, [[http://www.e-parl.net/pages/space_hearing_images/ConfPaper%20Dolman%20US%20Military%20Transform%20&%20Space.pdf]], EMM)
<span style="font-size: 8px;">The United States has </span>… <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> the United States. </span>

D. Defuse conflict escalation
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Miller 02</span> – writer for the free republic and national review online (John J., the free republic, “Our 'Next Manifest Destiny': America should move to control space -- now, and decisively<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.” </span>[[http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/news/714383/posts]]) CMR
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">That may sound </span>… what it values.
E. Miscalculation
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Smith 11</span> (M.V., Colonel, PhD in Politics and IR @ University of Reading, Citing Colin Gray, “Chapter 17: Security and Spacepower, Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]], EMM)
Spacepower provides different … <span style="font-size: 16px;">deterrence</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> more </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">effective</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 13.3333px;">. </span>
F. Offensive Deterrence
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Morgan 10</span>-Adjunct Professor of Security Policy Studies @ University of Pittsburgh, Senior Political Scientist @ RAND Corporation, PhD, Policy Studies @ University of Maryland, M.A., Air Power Arts & Sciences @ Air University School for Advanced Airpower Studies, M.A. @ Webster University, B.S. @ University of Maryland [Forrest, __Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space: A Preliminary Assessment__, part of a RAND study “Project Air Force,” June 16, pg. 3-4, DavidK]

Space stability issues …<span style="font-size: 16px;"> space support</span>__.__


<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">Heg deters global war</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Zhang* and Shi **11**</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 13.3333px;">. </span>**(Both MA candidates at Columbia University. *Yuhan, researcher @ Carnegie Endowment for international peace and** Lin, consultant for the World Bank. “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry.” January 22nd, 2011) <span style="font-size: 8px;">http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/</span>
Paul Kennedy was …of unrivalled US primacy.
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Interventionism inevitable but the plan would result in a more benign form that solves backlash to primacy</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Dolman 10</span> (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment,” September, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576, EMM)
There is<span style="font-size: 16px;">little </span> …future American empire.
China Advantage
Advantage 2—China
They’re a threat –
A. SQ behavior
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Adams 10</span> (Jonathan, China Specialist at CSM, “China is on path to 'militarization of space',” October 28, [[http://www.csmonitor.com/World/Asia-South-Central/2010/1028/China-is-on-path-to-militarization-of-space]], EMM)

<span style="font-size: 16px;">China looks set </span> …<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> lead in space." </span>
B. Military doctrine
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wortzel, 8</span> - Colonel, United States Army (Retired) (Larry, Astropolitics, 6:112–137, “THE CHINESE PEOPLE’S LIBERATION ARMY
AND SPACE WARFARE,” Ebsco Political Science)
The <span style="font-size: 16px;">PLA is </span> …any future conflict.

<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">C. The self fulfilling prophecy has happened</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Chang 9</span> columnist for Forbes (11/6/09, Gordon G., Forbes.com, “Should the U.S. and China cooperate?” http://www.forbes.com/2009/11/05/space-arms-race-china-united-states-opinions-columnists-gordon-g-chang.html)

Did the arms …ground of space.


D. Preemptive strikes
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Tellis 7, </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">Senior Associate @ Carnegie, 7 (Ashley</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Senior Associate @ Carnegie, Survival, Autumn, “China’s Military Space Strategy”, ingenta)</span>

Finally, the growing …<span style="font-size: 16px;">race, and win</span>.

The brink is NOW
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Kan 07 </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">(April 23 2007, Shirley Kan Specialist in National Security Policy, Foreign Affairs, Defense and Trade Division, “CRS Report for Congress: China’s Anti-Satellite Weapon Test” p. 1-3 SG)</span>
On January 11, 2007, …against space assets.<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">7</span>

The impact is US-Sino nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Forden 8</span>, PhD and Research Associate @ MIT, 8 (Geoffrey<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, PhD and Research Associate at MIT, “How China Loses the Coming Space War (Pt. 2),” 1/10, </span>[[http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2008/01/inside-the-ch-1/]]<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, EMM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">U</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">nited </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">S</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">tates </span> …a clear military goal.

<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">US-Sino war cause extinction in 24 hours </span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Takai 09</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span>Mitsuo—Retired Colonel and Former Researcher in the military science faculty of the Staff College for Japan’s Ground Self Defense Force (“U.S.-China nuclear strikes would spell doomsday”, October 7, [[http://www.upiasia.com/Security/2009/10/07/us-china_nuclear_strikes_would_spell_doomsday/7213/]]What would happen if China launched its 20 Dongfeng-5 intercontinental ballistic missiles, each with a 5-megaton warhead, at 20 major U.S. cities) DavidK
__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 14.6667px;">What would happen </span>__ …<span style="font-size: 16px;">annihilation of mankind</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">.</span>
Only affirming clear division as ‘lines in the sand’ prevents political exclusion from being pushed underground and causing limitless violence – attempts to hide differences with China magnifies risk of war
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Rasch 5</span> William, Henry H. H. Remak Professor of Germanic Studies at Indiana University Lines in the Sand: Enmity as a Structuring Principle South Atlantic Quarterly 104 (2) [[http://saq.dukejournals.org/cgi/reprint/104/2/253.pdf]]
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Schmitt</span>, then, starts …of absolute exclusion.






<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">Roids Advantage</span>
Advantage 3—Asteroids

Space weapons are key to planetary defense
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Sadeh 09 </span>(Eligar Sadeh Assistant Professor in the Department of Space Studies at the University of North Dakota where he directs the Space Policy track for the Department. Sadeh also serves as a Research Associate with the Space Policy Institute at George Washington University “Chapter 13: Spacepower and the Environment” SG)
The NEO subject …<span style="font-size: 16px;">benefit</span> of <span style="font-size: 16px;">humankind</span>?<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">47</span>

ONLY space weapons allow orthogonal interception- that’s key to deflection
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Maccone 04 </span>(4 May 2004, Claudio Maccone, “Planetary Defense from Space: Part 1-Keplerian Theory” SG)
<span style="font-size: 16px;">A system of </span> …<span style="font-size: 16px;">from the impact.</span>
DOD is most competent option- it is most experienced and key to secure America’s best interests and space leadership
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Garretson and Kaupa 8 </span>(September 22 2008, Peter Garretson and Douglas Kaupa, “Planetary Defense: potential mitigation roles of the Department of Defense” Air & Space Power Journal Fall 2008 Volume 22 Issue 3 SG)
Policy Perspectives The good …<span style="font-size: 16px;">our lead</span> in space.

We’re passing through a cosmic cycle with ten times the risk of asteroid impact
<span style="font-size: 16px;">McKinney 10</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (Luke McKinney “A Deadly Orbit?” http://www.dailygalaxy.com/my_weblog/2010/02/a-deadly-orbit-the-solar-systems-journey-through-the-milky-way.html)</span>
Is there a genocidal … up on re-entry.
The impact is extinction
<span style="font-size: 16px;">McGUIRE 2002</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 159-168)</span>
The Tunguska events …<span style="font-size: 16px;">Earth before 2100</span>__.__
Plan reframes the enemy and allows us to reconceptualize international relations with the asteroid as the common enemy
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mellor 07</span> (Felicity, Professor of MSc in Science Communication at Imperial College London, Social Studies of Science, “Colliding Worlds : Asteroid Research and the Legitimization of War in Space”, published by SAGE, 2007, http://sss.sagepub.com/content/37/4/499.full.pdf) rory
Through such claims, …offered hope of salvation.
Our representations are justified – asteroid advocacy is key to educating policymakers about the neo threat
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Morrison et al 2002</span> [David – researcher @ NASA Ames Research Center, “Dealing with the Impact Hazard”,
[[http://www.disastersrus.org/emtools/spacewx/NEO_Chapter_1.pdf]])
It is only during … and governmental response

**Plan: The Department of Defense should weaponize space beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.**

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue';">Solvency</span>
Arms control fails- unverifiable and dual use
<span style="font-size: 16px;">O’Hanlon 11</span> (Michael, Senior Fellow @ Brookings, Looks like Evan McCarty, “Chapter 21: Balancing U.S. Security Interests in Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]], EMM)
One type of …__cannot be ruled out.__

NO tech barriers
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Marshall et. al 05 </span>(William Marshall, George Whitsides, Robert Schingler, Andre Nilsen, Kevin Parkin, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs Harvard University, “Space Weapons: the Urgent Debate” SG)
A decision to …<span style="font-size: 16px;">of political will</span>.


==Anthro 1AC== 
<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its exploration of space beyond the earth’s mesosphere for the possibility of extraterrestrial life.</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Contention 1 - Anthropocentrism</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">The status quo approach to space is steeped in anthropocentric ideology—the government seeks to demonize the study of extraterrestrials because the possibility of more intelligent life is threatening to their sovereignty—to prove the existence of aliens would shatter the humanist metaphysics that has dominated recent history and inevitably culminates in violence against the demonized </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wendt and Duvall 8 </span>Alexander Wendt and Raymond Duvall, ‘8 (“Sovereignty and the UFO”, Profs at OSU and U of Minnesota, PolitPical Theory)
Few ideas today… theory and practice

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">The state demonizes the study of ET life and shrouds any potential evidence in secrecy—UFOs and ET life are relegated to non objects and systematically ignored—its not really important whether aliens actually exist, but we should still be open to the possibility</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wendt and Duvall 8 </span>Alexander Wendt and Raymond Duvall, ‘8 (“Sovereignty and the UFO”, Profs at OSU and U of Minnesota, Political Theory)
One might expect… instead remain ignorant.

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">The ET taboo created by the government is a manifestation of modern biopolitics—in order to preserve universal sovereignty the government demonizes any research into potentially more intelligent life—the plan is vital to disrupt this violent politics that demonizes ET exploration</span>
-no claim to truth of ET—must overcome the ignorance
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wendt and Duvall 8 </span>Alexander Wendt and Raymond Duvall, ‘8 (“Sovereignty and the UFO”, Profs at OSU and U of Minnesota, Political Theory)
A Key Premise and…ask the question.

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">The ET taboo fosters a contemporary alien discourse that is highly securitized, drawing on and replicating discourses of racial hierarchy which justifies massive violence in the name of protecting white western privilege—the belief in the crafty alien outsider who will try to trick us with superior technology is a product of an orientalist logic that must be called into question.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Roth 5 </span>Christopher F. Roth, Anthropology—University of Northern Illinois, DeKalb, 2005 E.T. Culture: Anthropology in Outerspaces, ed. Debbora Battaglia, p. 71-7
Asanthropologists, we… and technological advantage.

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Hysteria over alien threats is an expression of our displaced racial anxieties—the 1AC’s analysis is key.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Roth 5 Christopher F. Roth, Anthropology—University of Northern Illinois, DeKalb, 2005</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">E.T. Culture: Anthropology in Outerspaces, ed. Debbora Battaglia, p. 91-2</span>
An occasional hope… providing some answers.

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Racialized views of alien others authorizes mass racial genocide</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Roth 5 Christopher F. Roth, Anthropology—University of Northern Illinois, DeKalb, 2005</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">E.T. Culture: Anthropology in Outerspaces, ed. Debbora Battaglia, p. 86-8</span>
In sum, the… all white Americans.

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Modern governmentality makes mass killing inevitable—the commandment to “make live” ensures that all life can be destroyed in order to protect the populace.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Dean 1 </span>Mitchell Dean, Professor of Sociology at Macquarie University, 2k1 (“Demonic Societies: Liberalism, biopolitics, and sovereignty.” Ethnographic Explorations of the Postcolonial State, ed. Hanson and Stepputat, p. 55-58)
Consider again the… the modern state (232).

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Speciesism must be rejected - domination over animals is the root cause of all violence, genocide, and war</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Best 07</span>—Associate Professor of Department of Humanities and Philosophy @ UT-El Paso [Dr. Steven, “Commonalities of Oppression: Specieism, Racism, and Oppression”
In this context, Charles… Holocaust against animals.

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Anthropocentrism makes objective consequentialism impossible</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Katz and Oechsli, 93 </span>(1993, Eric Katz, associate professor of philosophy and director of the Science, Technology, and Society Program at the New Jersey Institute of Technology, and Lauren Oechsli, Craighead Environmental Research Institute, geographic information specialist, “Moving Beyond Anthropocentrism - Environmental Ethics, Development, and the Amazon,” Environmental Ethics (1993) Volume: 15, Issue: 1, Pages: 49-59, Springer)

The first problem is…anthropocentric instrumental reasoning.

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Contention 2 - Solvency</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">The plan is vital to change the culture of secrecy and paranoia that permeates current society—to be open to the idea that there could be more intelligent life besides humans shatters the violent anthropocentric metaphysics that currently dominates space politics</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Zimmerman 2 </span>Michael E. Zimmerman Encountering Alien Otherness The Concept of the Foreign, ed. Rebecca Saunders (Lanham, Maryland: Lexington Books, 2002), 153-177
Obviously, alien abduction… technologically-advanced non-humans.7

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Only through the pursuit of ET exploration can we hope to shatter the anthropocentric metaphysics that dictates current space politics—failure to open up to the possibility of ET life guarantees our fears and anxieties manifest in violence against demonized alien others</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wendt and Duvall 8 </span>Alexander Wendt and Raymond Duvall, ‘8 (“Sovereignty and the UFO”, Profs at OSU and U of Minnesota, Political Theory)
Anthropocentrism and UFO… requires and sustains it.

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Our aff criticizes the popular notion of space exploration—what we mean when we say the USFG should explore space is not simply a literal exploration of space, but an ethical criticism that analyses the role that ET plays in the social imagination—this is vital to break down host visitor binaries that only result in violence—the 1AC opens up space for new critical and ethical inquiries</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Battagllia 5 </span>Debbora Battaglia, Anthropology—Mounty Holyoke, 2005 E.T. Culture: Anthropology in Outerspaces, ed. Debbora Battaglia, p. 6-7
Overall, then, this volume… of social life.12

Prefer our rejection of a specific manifestation of biopolitics – we must locate individual instantiations of neoliberal governmentality in order to challenge it
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Tosa 9 </span>Hiroyuki Tosa, ‘9 (Professor of Graduate School of International Cooperation Studies, Kobe University, “Anarchical Governance: Neoliberal Governmentality in Resonance with the State of Exception Issue”, International Political Sociology, Volume 3, Issue 4, pages 414–430, December 2009)
Although the articulation… itself to new fluctuations.

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Space is the crucial area to begin to re-think our relation to sovereignty and move away from the violent Westphalian sovereignty of the past</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Jill </span><span class="cite">**<span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 16px;">Stuart 9</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica;">, PhD London School of Economics, Securing Outer Space, ed. N. Bormann & Michael Sheehan, p. 21-22</span>
In regards to… unique politics of outer space.

==Anthro 1AC== 
Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its exploration of space beyond the earth’s mesosphere for the possibility of unidentified flying objects.
<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Contention 1 - Anthropocentrism</span>
The status quo approach to space is steeped in anthropocentric ideology—the government seeks to demonize the study of extraterrestrials because the risk of more intelligent life is threatening to their sovereignty—to accept the possibility of aliens would shatter the humanist metaphysics that has dominated recent history and inevitably culminates in violence against the demonized
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wendt and Duvall 8 </span>Alexander Wendt and Raymond Duvall, ‘8 (“Sovereignty and the UFO”, Profs at OSU and U of Minnesota, PolitPical Theory)
Few ideas today… theory and practice

The state demonizes the study of UFOs and shrouds any potential evidence in secrecy—UFOs and ET life are relegated to non objects and systematically ignored—its not really important whether aliens actually exist, but we should still be open to the possibility
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wendt and Duvall 8 </span>Alexander Wendt and Raymond Duvall, ‘8 (“Sovereignty and the UFO”, Profs at OSU and U of Minnesota, Political Theory)
One might expect… instead remain ignorant.

The UFO taboo created by the government is a manifestation of modern biopolitics—in order to preserve universal sovereignty the government demonizes any research into potentially more intelligent life—the plan is vital to disrupt this violent politics that demonizes ET exploration
-no claim to truth of ET—must overcome the ignorance
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wendt and Duvall 8 </span>Alexander Wendt and Raymond Duvall, ‘8 (“Sovereignty and the UFO”, Profs at OSU and U of Minnesota, Political Theory)
A Key Premise and…ask the question.

The UFO taboo fosters a contemporary alien discourse that is highly securitized, drawing on and replicating discourses of racial hierarchy which justifies massive violence in the name of protecting white western privilege—the belief in the crafty alien outsider who will try to trick us with superior technology is a product of an orientalist logic that must be called into question.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Roth 5 </span>Christopher F. Roth, Anthropology—University of Northern Illinois, DeKalb, 2005 E.T. Culture: Anthropology in Outerspaces, ed. Debbora Battaglia, p. 71-7
Asanthropologists, we… and technological advantage.

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Hysteria over alien threats is an expression of our displaced racial anxieties—the 1AC’s analysis is key.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Roth 5 Christopher F. Roth, Anthropology—University of Northern Illinois, DeKalb, 2005</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">E.T. Culture: Anthropology in Outerspaces, ed. Debbora Battaglia, p. 91-2</span>
An occasional hope… providing some answers.

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Racialized views of alien others authorizes mass racial genocide</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Roth 5 Christopher F. Roth, Anthropology—University of Northern Illinois, DeKalb, 2005</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">E.T. Culture: Anthropology in Outerspaces, ed. Debbora Battaglia, p. 86-8</span>
In sum, the… all white Americans.

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Modern governmentality makes mass killing inevitable—the commandment to “make live” ensures that all life can be destroyed in order to protect the populace.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Dean 1 </span>Mitchell Dean, Professor of Sociology at Macquarie University, 2k1 (“Demonic Societies: Liberalism, biopolitics, and sovereignty.” Ethnographic Explorations of the Postcolonial State, ed. Hanson and Stepputat, p. 55-58)
Consider again the… the modern state (232).

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Speciesism must be rejected - domination over animals is the root cause of all violence, genocide, and war</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Best 07</span>—Associate Professor of Department of Humanities and Philosophy @ UT-El Paso [Dr. Steven, “Commonalities of Oppression: Specieism, Racism, and Oppression”
In this context, Charles… Holocaust against animals.

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Anthropocentrism makes objective consequentialism impossible</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Katz and Oechsli, 93 </span>(1993, Eric Katz, associate professor of philosophy and director of the Science, Technology, and Society Program at the New Jersey Institute of Technology, and Lauren Oechsli, Craighead Environmental Research Institute, geographic information specialist, “Moving Beyond Anthropocentrism - Environmental Ethics, Development, and the Amazon,” Environmental Ethics (1993) Volume: 15, Issue: 1, Pages: 49-59, Springer)

The first problem is…anthropocentric instrumental reasoning. 

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Contention 2 - Solvency</span>
Only through the pursuit of UFO exploration can we hope to shatter the anthropocentric metaphysics that dictates current space politics—failure to open up to the possibility of UFOs guarantees our fears and anxieties manifest in violence against demonized alien others
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wendt and Duvall 8 </span>Alexander Wendt and Raymond Duvall, ‘8 (“Sovereignty and the UFO”, Profs at OSU and U of Minnesota, Political Theory)
Anthropocentrism and UFO… requires and sustains it.

The plan is vital to change the culture of secrecy and paranoia that permeates current society—to be open to the idea that there could be more intelligent life besides humans shatters the violent anthropocentric metaphysics that currently dominates space politics
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Zimmerman 2 </span>Michael E. Zimmerman Encountering Alien Otherness The Concept of the Foreign, ed. Rebecca Saunders (Lanham, Maryland: Lexington Books, 2002), 153-177
Obviously, alien abduction… technologically-advanced non-humans.7

<span class="cite">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Status quo space exploration centers on safe and predictable discoveries that pose no threat to sovereign assumptions about reality—ufology in space is uniquely key to shatter those conceptions and reconfigure American identity and break down anthropocentrism</span>**</span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Dean 97</span> (Jodi, Professor of Political Science at Hobart and William Smith University, “[[http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.baylor.edu/journals/theory_&_event/toc/tae1.2.html#essays2|http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.baylor.edu/journals/theory_&_event/toc/tae1.2.html - essays2]]The Familiarity of Strangeness: Aliens, Citizens, and Abduction”) RF</span></span>
To reiterate, by destabilizing… a script to be staged. 

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Our aff criticizes the popular notion of space exploration—what we mean when we say the USFG should explore space is not simply a literal exploration of space, but an ethical criticism that analyses the role that ET plays in the social imagination—this is vital to break down host visitor binaries that only result in violence—the 1AC opens up space for new critical and ethical inquiries</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Battagllia 5 </span>Debbora Battaglia, Anthropology—Mounty Holyoke, 2005 E.T. Culture: Anthropology in Outerspaces, ed. Debbora Battaglia, p. 6-7
Overall, then, this volume… of social life<span style="text-decoration: none;">.12</span>

Prefer our rejection of a specific manifestation of biopolitics – we must locate individual instantiations of neoliberal governmentality in order to challenge it
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Tosa 9 </span>Hiroyuki Tosa, ‘9 (Professor of Graduate School of International Cooperation Studies, Kobe University, “Anarchical Governance: Neoliberal Governmentality in Resonance with the State of Exception Issue”, International Political Sociology, Volume 3, Issue 4, pages 414–430, December 2009)
Although the articulation… itself to new fluctuations.

Calculations that prioritize combatting one form of oppression over another make BOTH inevitable – ignores the interrelation of power
<span class="cite">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mikdashi, 2011</span>**</span> (Jun 29, Maya, Co-Founder of Jadaliyya, PhD candidate at Columbia University's Department of Anthropology, “What is [the] left?,” [[http://www.jadaliyya.com/pages/index/2012/what-is_the_left]])
I have been reading… our principles, now

The aff is a radical test of the status quo – this means that even if we don’t win immediate solvency, the aff is enough of a shock that it creates real change in the long run
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Bryant 11 </span>(July 21 2011, Levi R. Bryant, professor of philosophy at Collin College, “Morton on Incrementalism” [[http://larvalsubjects.wordpress.com/2011/07/21/morton-on-incrementalism/]] SG)</span></span>
Morton has a [[http://ecologywithoutnature.blogspot.com/2011/07/environmental-incrementalism-and.html|post up]]… for activist punching.


=Negative= 

==Disads== 
===China Bashing-St. Marks=== 
China bashing will pass—vote counts—but Obama’s political capital is key to force a vote
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CSM 10/13</span> (Gall Russell Chaddock, Staff Writer for the Christian Science Monitor, “Why China ‘Trade War’ bill is tying House Republicans in knots” [[http://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Politics/2011/1013/Why-China-trade-war-bill-is-tying-House-Republicans-in-knots]]) RF
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The bill to punish...</span>with what he said.”
Expanding space exploration is perceived as controversial new spending - guarantees backlash and Republican withdrawal
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Handberg, 11</span> - Professor and Chair of the Department of Political Science at the University of Central Florida (Rodger, “Small ball or home runs: the changing ethos of US human spaceflight policy,” The Space Review, 1/17, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1759/1]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The US space program ...becomes your mantra.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">China bashing is key to stopping a double-dip recession</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morici 10/13</span> (Peter, professor at the Smith School of Business, University of Maryland School, and former Chief Economist at the U.S. International Trade Commission, “August Trade Deficit $45.6 Billion, Huge Jobs Killer” [[http://axcessnews.com/index.php/articles/show/id/22179]]) RF
(AXcess News) College Park, MD - The Commerce Department...would be self defense.


Double dip recession will be worse than before; further weakening the economy
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Maley, 2/25</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Karen Maley, Columnist at Business Spectator, “A US recession would be fatal”, </span>__Business Spectator__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 2/25/11, http://www.businessspectator.com.au/bs.nsf/Article/oil-price-recession-middle-east-libya-pd20110225-EDSPU?opendocument&src=rss)</span>

__Already__ <span style="font-size: 12pt;">the question has...</span>__lower at this time."__

Extinction
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedberg & Schoenfeld ‘8 </span>(Aaron, professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School, Gabriel, Visiting Scholar @ Witherspoon Institute, The Dangers of a Diminished America, WSJ, 10/21, Proquest)
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Protectionist sentiments</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> are...</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">with external adventures</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span>


==Kritiks== 

===Capitalism=== 
The affirmative is merely an outlet for the state to expand its capitalist grip – infinite wars will be fought over new resources
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dickens 9</span> – <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Visiting Professor of Sociology at the University of Essex (Peter, “The Cosmos as Capitalism’s Outside,” The Sociological Review, 57: 66–82, dml)</span>
The imminent conquest of...temporary<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, sticking-plaster, variety. </span>
Capitalist territorialization causes the death of the biosphere and nuclear conflicts over resource optimization – that’s extinction
<span class="Underline">Massumi 92</span>, (Brian, pHD in Philosophy @ Yale, A user’s guide to capitalism and schizophrenia 1992. P 137-8)
"Postmodernity" is not nothing...transcend forced personification).
The Alternative is to practice nothingness. Participation ensures the system is reproduced. Our withdrawal clears the way for revolutionary activity.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Vighi and Feldner, 2009</span> (Fabio, PhD, lecturer in Italian at the School of European Studies at Cardiff University, and Heiko, PhD, Lecturer in Modern German History at Cardiff University, “Pathological Attachments: Slavoj Zizek on Anticapitalism and Liberal Democracy,” Rethinking Marxism Volume 21 Number 2, April, p. 295-296, TH)
From this viewpoint,... comes into play.


===Astropolitics=== 
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The affirmative’s image of space as a site for competition and control is a fundamentally bankrupt form of knowledge production—the aff is an excuse for the US to impose a global empire and turns humanity into //homo sacer//</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MacDonald 07</span>, Fraser MacDonald, Professor of Anthropology, Geography, and Environmental Studies at Melbourne University in Australia, “Anti-Astropolitik – outer space and the orbit of geography,” Progress in Human Geography, 2007, Pages 592-615.
Two things should...<span style="font-size: 12pt;">other ‘spaces of exception’</span> (see Gregory, 2004; Agamben, 2005).

This form of astropolitical discourse imposes a global empire and excludes 95% of the planet from the decision-making process in a new system of planetary apartheid
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Havercroft and Duvall 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jonathan, Ph.D. Minnesota) specializes in political theory. His primary research focus is on the historical transformation of sovereignty in the discourses of political philosophy from the 17th century to the present. He has also published essays grappling with conceptions of freedom, power, and sovereignty in early modern and contemporary political thought. His work has appeared in </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 8pt;">Constellations</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 8pt;">Review of Inte rnational Studies</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and Raymond, professor of political science at the University of Minnesota, “Critical astropolitics: The geopolitics of space control and the transformation of state sovereignty” From //Securing Outer Space,// pg. 45-47) RF</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">W</span>ithin Dolman's theory of astropolitik...<span style="font-size: 8pt;">geopolitical theory of astropolitics. </span>
This form of astropolitical thought is central to justifying violence and extermination and necessitates unending war
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Balibar ‘1</span> (Etienne, Emeritus Prof. of Philosophy @ U. of Paris X Nanterre and U. of Cal., Irvine, “Outlines of a Topography of Cruelty: Citizenship and Civility in the Era of Global Violence,” Constellations, Vol. 8.1)
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This paper is based on a...seem to be mainly “economic.” </span>

The alternative is to vote neg to reject the aff’s vision of space as a location to be controlled and dominated—we need to take a step back and see that their descriptions are not true but are used to justify destruction on the part of the government
Fraser <span style="font-size: 12pt;">MacDonald 7</span>, School of Anthropology, Geography and Environmental Studies, University of Melbourne, 2007, “Anti-Astropolitik outer space and the orbit of geography,” Progress in Human Geography, Volume 31, p. 608-609
Dolman’s astropolitical project ...<span style="font-size: 12pt;">has become formalized.</span>


===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Heidegger</span>=== 
The affirmatives attempt to explore/develop space denies Earthbound ontology, destroying our ability to connect with our ‘world’
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Turnbull 6</span> (Neil, “The Ontological Consequences of Copernicus: Global Being in the Planetary World”, Theory, Culture & Society 2006 (SAGE, London, Thousand Oaks and New Delhi), Vol. 23(1): 125–139, Project Muse MV)
What Nietzsche is suggesting...measure of all things).

Such forms of technological thought only create the conditions that are the pre-requisite for nuclear wars—the consequences of such thought are more devastating than extinction
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Caputo 93</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue'; font-size: 6pt;">—professor of Humanities at Syracuse, founder of weak theology, MA from Villanova, PhD from Bryn Mawr in Philosophy</span>** (John Caputo, //<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Demythologizing Heidegger</span>//, 1993 p. 136-141, [Miller])

In his essay "The Thing" ... authentic, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">ontological destruction</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span>

Thus the alt, the judge should vote negative to engage in meditative thought
Meditative Thinking unfolds onto itself and into other forms of thinking subsuming all benefits of other thinking and is the only way to progress
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Beistegui 98</span> [Miguel de Beistegui; Published in 1998; Heidegger & the Political: Dystopias; Pg 2-3; MV]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">To think is to risk. </span><span style="line-height: 24px;">...</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> the demands of performance</span>.

Ontology comes first - you have to make ontological assumptions to act and understand truth
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hay 6</span> [Colin Hay; 2006; Oxford Handbooks of Political Science, Political Ontology; pg. 78-80; MV]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The terms </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">‘‘political’’ and ‘‘ontology’’ </span>...<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> and practical political consequences</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Deterrence</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">The aff is a performance of credibility for the other—it centers political decisionmaking on how we believe other people perceive us. This constructs an ideology of deterrence that mediates our actions with other nations—this non-falsifiable method requires leaders to take the most drastic actions and re-entrenches the elite monopoly on knowledge</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Marullo 85</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Sam, Professor of Sociology at Cleveland State University, “The Ideological Nature of Deterrence: Some Causes and Consequences” pg. 316-319 JSTOR) RF</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">An </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">understanding of</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> this </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">paradox ...</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> a reliance on deterrence ideology.</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Wars are not isolated events or accidents. Instead, breakdowns are embedded in the very fabric of the international system itself and can only come out of the dangerous situation produced by deterrence. A “fog of war” ensures uncertainty in our knowledge of the other’s belief, The aff obscures our role in producing situations of danger and creating the conditions for violence.</span>
<span class="Underline">Chaloupka ’92</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">, (William, Chair of Political Science @ Colorado State, Knowing Nukes, pgs. 12-16)</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Even our best signs ... bases for fateful decisions."45</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">The aff’s expansion of space exploration and development with the symbolic economy of deterrence ensures genocide and destruction</span>
<span class="Underline">Zupancic ‘00</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">, (Alenka, Ethics of the Real: Kant and Lacan, March, p. 96-7)</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">“Another problem still remains, ... </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">a by-product' of our actions.</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Thus the Alternative: Vote negative to think beyond the logic of deterrence</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">The aff’s technical management of deterrence inevitably leads to paradox – only the alt’s refusal to engage the world within the framework of deterrence can ensure a sustainable strategy for achieving peace and security</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Williams 92</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Michael C, Professor in the Graduate School of Public and International Affairs at the University of Ottawa, “Rethinking the Logic of Deterrence” p. 87-89 JSTOR) RF</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Thinking about</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> strategy ...</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">more adequately these challenges. </span>
== == 
==Counterplans== 

===<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Referendums</span>=== 


Text: The United States federal government should hold a binding national referendum over whether [PLAN]. The result of the referendum should be unconditionally implemented and enforced.

We must break with the structures of representative democracy – they destroy the power of the commons to create productive power relations that destroy biopolitical control. We must revitalize old concepts to allow direct decisionmaking by the multitude
<span class="Underline">Hardt and Negri</span><span class="verdana"> (nerd; terrorist) </span><span class="Underline">9</span><span class="verdana"> (Michael, Antonio, Commonwealth, pg. 304-6)</span>
The metaphor of a great conversation,...<span style="font-size: 12pt;">with the power of decision.</span>

Being unable to mobilize power positively for the multitude turns the case and makes war inevitable
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Marks ‘8</span> (John, Assoc. Prof. in French, University of Nottingham, “Michel Foucault: Biopolitics and Biology,” //Foucault in an age of terror: Essays on biopolitics and the Defence of Society//, Eds. Stephen Morton and Stephen Bygrave, p. 97-98)
Although<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> biopower</span> in ...<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the entire</span> German <span style="font-size: 12pt;">population</span>.12

Binding referendums on space exploration are the ideal way to reframe current institutions – allows direct control of the multitude. Representative structures depoliticize issues by leaving policymaking up to technocrats and depoliticize the public sphere
<span class="Underline">Rourke et al.</span> (Professor of Political Science @ UConn) <span class="Underline">92</span> (John T., Direct Democracy and International Politics, p. 17-19)
The difference between ...<span style="font-size: 12pt;">under the title politics.</span>


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]