=Table of Contents= 
[[toc]]
**Email me at [[mailto:amarzach@gmail.com|amarzach@gmail.com]] for anything specifically.**
=**__Affirmative - Wake__**= 

==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Advantage One Power Projection</span>== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Despite unmatched space capability, the U.S. satellite network remains extremely vulnerable to asymmetric deception, disruption, denial, degradation, and/or destruction </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Rendleman, 2010</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (James, Ret. Colonel U.S. Air Force, “A Strategy for Space Assurance”, Astropolitics, 8: 220-255)</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> 11 January 2007 </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">test of .... </span>__**21st Century adversary attack capabilities.


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And – These vulnerabilities make space weaponization and conflict inevitable – potential adversaries will attempt to level the playing field by attacking U.S. space systems, which guarantees rapid escalation </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Morgan, 2010</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Forrest, Defense Policy Research at RAND, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Given the great extent to which the U</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">nited ... </span>attacks, and rapid escalation.4


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And – Even conflicts not involving the U.S. would wipe our satellites out of the sky </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Smith, 2011</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (M.V., USAF Colonel, Director of the Air Force Space and Cyber Center at Air University, Served in the Pentagon’s National Security Space Office, Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Spacefaring prowess is a common attribute ... </span>destruction to remove doubt in the minds of commanders.

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And – The lack of effective satellite defense jeopardizes the war-fighting function of our military; space vulnerabilities paralyze communication, intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance, targeting, timing, and coordination </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kittfield, 2010</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (James, Senior Correspondent at the National Journal, “Crowded Congested Space”, Air Force Magazine, August, http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2010/August%202010/0810space.aspx)</span>



**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">In the “commons” above Earth, ... </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">tech</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">nology</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> by buying time on commercial satellites. </span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And – Stable and secure satellite networks are critical to our military’s ability to project power </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Marshall, 2008</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Will, Analyst at NASA Ames Research Center, “Reducing the Vulnerability of Space Assets: A Multitiered Microsatellite Constellation Architecture”, 6: 154-199)</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Space assets are</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> one of </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">the most critical ...</span>__**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">‘indispensable</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> adjunct’’ in the military</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> over the last decade.5 </span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And – Collapse of power projection triggers great power nuclear wars</span>**



**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Zhang and Shi, 2011</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Yuhan, Researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, America’s Decline: A Harbinger of Conflict and Rivalry, January 22, [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]]) </span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">This does not necessarily mean that the...</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy. </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And – U.S. military predominance prevents multiple scenarios for catastrophic nuclear violence </span>**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Khalilzad, 1995</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Zalmay, RAND, The Washington Quarterly, Spring)</span>

Under the third option, the United States..... **__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">a multipolar balance of power system.</span>__**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And – Their impact turns are non-starters – the U.S. will always attempt to maintain hegemony </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Shalmon and Horowitz, 2009</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Dan, Mike, Total B.A.’s, Orbis, Spring)</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">It is important to recognize,... </span>__**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">role in the global order.24 </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And – Diplomacy and soft-power are not substitutes for needed satellite hardening – only the plan maintains U.S. power projection </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Haddick 2011</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert, Managing Editor of Small Wars Journal, “Lost In Space”, Foreign Policy, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/02/11/this_week_at_war_lost_in_space?page=0,1)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The U.S. Department of Defense released its</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">for the Pentagon's budget masters.</span>



==**ADVANTAGE 2 China**== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The PLA is intent on aggressively competing with U.S. power in space – they are in the process of developing military capabilities and combat strategies that would neutralize our satellite network, collapse nuclear deterrence and guarantee catastrophic conflict </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Fisher, 2011</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Richard D., Senior Fellow at the International Assessment and Strategy Center, January 20, http://www.strategycenter.net/research/pubID.222/pub_detail.asp)</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">China's</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Jan. 11 </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">test of</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">exoatmospheric ....</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">increase political instability and</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> in turn </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">threaten</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> the region's </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">economic growth. </span>__**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And – All indicators point to an attack on U.S. assets in space – such a move will rapidly escalate into full-scale U.S.-China war. Our scenario should be methodologically preferred and none-of-their advantage counterplans solve </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Wortzel, 2008</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Larry, Ret. Colonel United States Army, “The Chinese People’s Liberation Army and Space Warfare”, Astropolitics 6; 112-137) </span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The PLA is exploring.....</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">access to space in any future conflict.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt;">And </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">–</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt;"> Separation between the PLA and the Chinese government makes crisis-escalation and miscalculation extremely likely</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">MacDonald, 2011</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Bruce, Senior Director of the Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program at the U.S. Institute of Peace, “Military and Civil Space Programs in China”, CQ Congressional Testimony, May 11, Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Miscalculation ignites... </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">appears to be militarily and strategically quite undesirable. </span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt;">And </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">–</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt;"> Deterrence theory only supports our advantage; China is not deterred from attacking our space assets because it would leave us incapable of retribution. At the same time, the perception that our space systems are vulnerable to attack collapses both conventional and nuclear deterrence below the mesosphere</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Burke, 2006</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Alan, Lt. Colonel – Space Command, U.S. Air Force, “Space Threat Warning: Foundation for Space Superiority, Avoiding a Space Pearl Harbor”, https://www.afresearch.org/skins/RIMS/display.aspx?moduleid=be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153&mode=user&action=researchproject&objectid=07acf878-3a5f-4a2c-8259-4a34c0717e9b)</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The erosion of the US ability to execute .....</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">satellites without fear of retribution.</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">57</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt;">And </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">–</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt;"> U.S.-China satellite warfare guarantees quick, nuclear escalation </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Forden, 2008</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Geoffrey, MIT Research Associate, Former UN Weapons Inspector, and Strategic Weapons Analyst with the Congressional Budget Office, “How China Loses the Coming Space War”, January 10, http://blog.wired.com/defense/2008/01/inside-the-chin.html#more)</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The U</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">S</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">has</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> five </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">satellites in geostationary ... </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">conflict into a nuclear war</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> without a clear military goal. </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And – The impact is extinction</span>

<span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Straits Times, 2000</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(June 25)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> high-intensity</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">scenario postulates a cross-strait war....should that come to pass, we would see the destruction of civilisation</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And – Even a limited war would annihilate the planet </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Takai, 2009</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Mitsuo, Ret. Colonel and Researcher at the Staff College for Japan’s Ground Self-Defense Force, “U.S.-China Nuclear Strikes Would Spell Doomsday”, October 7, http://www.upiasia.com/Security/2009/10/07/us-china_nuclear_strikes_would_spell_doomsday/7213/)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">What would happen</span><span class="DebateUnderline">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">if China</span>__**</span>**<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">launched</span>__</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> its </span><span class="DebateUnderline">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">20</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">....</span></span>China. Such advice is worth heeding by nuclear hard-liners.

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And – Space is unique – none of their generic U.S.-China defense applies </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Dolman, 2010</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Everett, Ph.D. and Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the U.S. Air Force School of Advanced Air & Space Studies, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment”, September, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576,) </span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The coming war with China will be fought ....</span>__**Both sides will engage and destroy any and all satellites within range, cheaply and effectively.


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And – We’ll preempt their counterplan – space arms control fails – insurmountable verification problems prove that arms control has no hope of preventing U.S.-China space conflict </span>**



**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">O’Hanlon, 2011</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael, Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution, “Balancing U.S. Security Interests in Space”, Chapter Twenty One from “Toward a Theory of Space Power”, Ed. Charles Lutes & Peter Hays, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">One type of </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">arms control</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> accord on </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">activities in space.... </span>__**But over time, a possible need for such a weapon cannot be ruled out.

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And – Our plan’s hedging strategy is based on the most methodologically sound understanding of China. Competing views either misdiagnose the situation or misapply theory</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Siddall, 2000</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Alexandra Siddall, Second Secretary, Embassy of Australia in Russia, Ph.D., Department of Government, University of Queensland, “The Misapplication of Defensive Realism: the Security Dilemma and Rising Powers in East Asia”, Paper \Presented at the 42nd Australian Political Studies Association Annual Conference, 10-5-2000, apsa2000.anu.edu.au/confpapers/siddell.rtf)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The difficulty for defensive realists is that </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">in a world ...</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">relationship between Washington and Beijing at the beginning of the twenty-first century.</span>__**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Plan – </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its deployment of nanosatellites beyond the Earth’s mesosphere through the Multipurpose NanoMissile System. </span>**

==**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Solvency </span>**== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt;">The Multipurpose NanoMissile System is key; it guarantees secure satellite networks by providing rapid and cheap reconstitution. The technology and the capability already exist </span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">–</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt;"> lack of government funding is the only obstacle </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hawkins, 2011</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Kari, Assistant Editor of the Redstone Rocket, “Flying Into Orbit in Small Package”, Redstone Rocket, Vol. 60 No. 4, January 26, https://ams8.redstone.army.mil/pls/portal/docs/PAGE/PAO_PAGE_GROUP/PAO_COMMAND_PUBLICATIONS_PAGE/PAO_COMMAND_PUBS_CENTER_PORTLET/JANUARY%2026%2C%202011.PDF)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Currently, there are plans to fly three of those satellites ..... </span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">internal</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, with how the Army will adapt to this technology.” </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And – Only our Aff solves </span>**

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Rendleman, 2010</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(James, Ret. Colonel U.S. Air Force, “A Strategy for Space Assurance”, Astropolitics, 2: 220-225)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">A robust and </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">responsive space infrastructure ....</span>__**capabilities, and, as needed, activate on-orbit spares.


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And – Nanosatellites are key – they are survivable, they guarantee a low probability of detection, they have good signal strength in Low-Earth-Orbit, they adapt to changing environments, all while being affordable and maintaining economies of scale </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">London, 2010</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (John R. London III, US Army Space and Missile Defense Command, with Brent Marley and David J Weeks, SETA Contractors, “Army Nanosatellite Technology Demonstrations For the Tactical Land Warfighter”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA534645)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Constellations of nanosatellites..</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Through these demonstrations the command hopes to validate the utility of the emerging trend in satellite miniaturization for the tactical land warfighter.</span>





**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And – The plan would not only increase the survivability of U.S. space assets in the event of an attack, but the plan would also prevent and discourage attacks from happening in the first place by removing the motivations for others to resort to anti-satellite systems </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Schendzielos, 2008</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Kurt, Major in the U.S. Air Force, School of Advanced Military Studies, “Protection in Space: A Self-Defense Acquisition Priority for U.S. Satellites”, April 30, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA485553)S</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The first and most obvious advantage of developing timely and responsive satellite defenses ... </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">prohibitions against ASATs and space weapons.</span>__**

=**__St. Marks__**= 

===**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> Launch Mechanism </span>**=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The end of the Shuttle program has left the United States without a stable, viable launch mechanism. This is fueling launch-system uncertainty that, if allowed to continue, will doom all prospects of economic recovery </span>**

<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Maser, 2011</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jim, Chair of the Corporate Membership Committee – American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics and President – Pratt & Whitney Rocketdyne, “A Review of NASA’s Exploration Program in Transition: Issues for Congress and Industry”, U.S. House Science, Space, and Technology Committee Hearing, 3-30, [[http://www.prattwhitney.com/media_center/executive_speeches/jim_maser_03-30-2011.asp]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">It is true that we face many ... </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">implications on the space industrial base for years to come.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And – Independently – dependence on foreign launch-providers guarantees devastating forms of launch coercion</span>**



**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Burton</span>__**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">, **2007**</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael, Lt. Col. U.S. Air Force, Globalized Spacelift: A Threat to Assured Access)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">national security</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">of the United States .. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">of those scenarios and others. </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And – Both adversaries and allies alike will use launch-services to leverage and coerce the United States – this dooms U.S. access to space, collapses the industrial base, and eviscerates U.S. economic leadership</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Burton</span>__**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">, **2007**</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael, Lt. Col. U.S. Air Force, Globalized Spacelift: A Threat to Assured Access)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Control of the space ... </span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">would be significantly limited.</span>__**



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt;">And – The aerospace sector and our overall industrial base are not immune – collapse now would be particularly quick and severe</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Albaugh, 2011</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Jim, Fellow at the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics and Member of the International Academy of Astronautics, “Keeping America’s Lead in Aerospace”, Speech to the 10th Annual Aviation Summit, US Chamber of Commerce, April 27, [[http://www.aia-aerospace.org/newsroom/speeches_testimony/]])</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Today we take America’s </span>__**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">U.S. launch vehicle. To me, that’s unconscionable.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt;">Now – The Impacts</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt;">Maintaining economic __primacy__ is critical to prevent an array of scenarios for world-ending global nuclear chaos </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Friedberg and Schoenfeld, 2008</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Aaron, Professor of Politics and International Relations at Princeton University, Gabriel, Visiting Scholar at the Witherspoon Institute, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, The Wall Street Journal, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html)</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">One immediate implication of the crisis .... </span>__**<span class="DebateUnderline">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">from internal travails with external adventures</span>__**</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>__**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt;">And – Economic collapse causes Russia-China conflict, war on the Korean Peninsula, Iranian nuclearization, terrorism, and disease spread – it sparks every major impact and makes massive escalation extremely likely</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Green and Schrage, 2009</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael J., Senior Advisor and Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Stephen P., Associate Professor at Georgetown University and CSIS Scholl Chair in International Business also a former senior official with the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, “Its Not Just the Economy”, Asia Times, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Asian_Economy/KC26Dk01.html)</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Facing the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression ... </span>__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">are urging China to embrace at home.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And – For old-times’ sake </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Mead, 1992</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Walter Russell, Senior Fellow in American Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, World Policy Institute)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Hundreds of millions – billions – ... </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">and Japan did in the ‘30s.</span>


=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">__GBX__ </span>= 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">__Just add:__</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">__To the Heg Flow__</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Even if attacks don’t take out our satellites, debris will and there’s nothing we can do </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Sample 11 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Ian Sample, Science Correspondent for the Guarding, 9/1/11, [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/science/2011/sep/01/space-junk-rising-exponentially-earth]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> The amount of junk in space is rising exponentially,...</span> but this is not<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> always </span>effective.

__And To the solvency flow__
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold'; font-size: 12pt;">There is no way to resolve vulnerability while maintaining a small number of large satellites – deploying clusters of rapidly reconstitutable nanosats is the only way to make our space systems virtually indestructible </span>**

**__<span style="background-color: #d3d3d3; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Armstrong, 2010</span>__**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Mekesha, Major in the U.S. Military, “Strategic Implications of Satellite Constellation Size and Mission Set”, http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=11&ved=0CBgQFjAAOAo&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.afresearch.org%2Fskins%2Frims%2Fq_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153%2Fq_act_downloadpaper%2Fq_obj_c2f524ef-9deb-491f-8abf-0ce381d9dc5d%2Fdisplay.aspx%3Frs%3Denginespage&ei=OMQ1TvX1K4nRsgb9t9G5Ag&usg=AFQjCNF1MqKRwuTrfUoH3sEur02-NNNYVw)</span>


**__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The US’s increasingeconomic and.... </span>__****__<span style="background-color: lime; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">to maintain the ultimate high ground -- space.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">And – Nanosat launch-platform is critical to both effective space deterrence and to a robust aerospace industry – only the plan solves </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Colon, 2010</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Miguel, Lt. Colonel United States Air Force, former Director of Operations to the 45th Operations Support Squadron at Cape Canaveral, “Deterrence 2035 – the Role of Transparency and Diversity in a World of Nanosats”, [[https://www.afresearch.org/|https://www.afresearch.org]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">A New Approach to Space Deterrence... </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">assessment dictate not to attack; effectively deterring</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> him.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Specifically system failure is inevitable without the plan </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AIA 11 </span>**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Aerospace Industries of Association of America Inc, 2011, [[http://www.nationalaerospaceweek.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/whitepaper.pdf]]]</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Space is</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> certainly </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">becomingmore... </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">their own space infrastructure. </span>








== == 
=2ac blocks= 

==SKFTA== 
===(Uniqueness will be updated for St. Marks hoedown)=== 
===<span style="font-family: 'calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 19px;">Plan helps Aerospace their influence makes space sacred</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 19px;">Raju and Bresnahan, 11</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> (4/20/11, Manu Raju and John Bresnahan, Politico, “Shooting for the moon amid cuts,” </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11px;">[[http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0411/53495.html]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">For all the rhetoric about....Martin and Boeing in those states.</span>





===<span style="font-family: 'calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 21px;">Plan Popular</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 21px;">Raju and Bresnahan, 11</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;"> (4/20/11, Manu Raju and John Bresnahan, Politico, “Shooting for the moon amid cuts,” </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13px;">[[http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0411/53495.html]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">, JMP)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">While some praise Congress....eclipsed by Russia or China."</span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 19px;">Kyl loves the plan</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 19px;">AIA 07 (Aerospace Industries Assosiation, “U.S. should improve defensive capabilities in space, lawmaker says”, January 30, </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 19px;">[[http://www.smartbrief.com/servlet/ArchiveServlet?issueid=D055AAB8-46F9-4A7F-948E-39FF1257BC07&lmid=archives]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 19px;">, BS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 19px;">Sen. Jon Kyl, R-Ariz., said Monday......Heritage Foundation in Washington</span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 17px;">Kyl is key to republican votes on contreversial issues</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 17px;">McConnell 10 (Mitch, Senate minority Leader, “Jon Kyl”, Apr. 29, Time Magizine, </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 17px;">[[http://www.time.com/time/specials/packages/article/0,28804,1984685_1984864_1984901,00.html]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 17px;">, BS)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 15px;">In the Senate, Arizona's Jon </span><span style="font-family: 'calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 17px;">Kyl.....</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 15px;">power is the power to persuade.</span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 17px;">US SOUTH KOREA RELATIONS ARE RESILIENT – ONE ISSUE CAN’T WRECK IT. </span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 20px;">TARGETED NEWS SERVICE 9</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 15px;">. [“From allies, past and present” Sept 14 -- lexis]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 15px;">In a conversation in front.....</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 13px;">presence, she said. </span>







==Security K== 
===---Realism and securitization are inevitable=== 
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Guzzini, Senior Research Fellow at the Copenhagen Peace Research Institute, 98</span>Associate Professor of Political Science, International Relations, and European Studies at the Central European University in Budapest, 1998 (Stefano, Realism in International Relations, p. 212)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;">Therefore, in a third step...the spirit, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">of realism.</span>


===Threats are real – alt results in military interventions and dismisses a safer approach to IR=== 

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Liotta</span>Prof of Humanities at Salve Regina University <span style="font-size: 16px;">05</span>,Professor of Humanities at Salve Regina University, Newport, RI, andExecutive Director of the Pell Center for International Relations and Public Policy

[P. H. “Through the Looking Glass” Sage Publications]
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;">Although it seems attractive ....– or </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">fail to address – security</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;">. </span>


===---Alt fails – no acceptable solution or empirical evaluation=== 

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Walt, Professor of International Affairs at Harvard, 99</span> (Stephen, “Rigor or Rigor Mortis? Rational Choice and Security Studies,” International Security, 23(4),)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;">Taken together, these characteristics ....</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">took control of its research agenda</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;">.</span>


===That makes their impacts inevitable=== 

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Boggs, Professor of Social Sciences – Los Angeles, 97</span> (Carl, The Great Retreat, Theory and Society 26.6, jstor)
<span style="font-size: 16px;">The false sense of empowerment ......</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13px;">vanished from civil society.</span>







=**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Negative </span>__**= 
=Counter Plans= 

==Consult Russia== 
**Text: The United States federal government should propose that it will to the Russian Federation through the U.S.-Russia Bilateral Presidential Commission for binding consultation. The United States should support the proposal during consultation and abide by the result of consultation. We’ll clarify**

**The counterplan is theoretically legitimate**

**It’s not topical – the counterplan tests the word “resolved” which means “to make a firm decision about,” it also test the word “should” which is “used to imply obligation or duty” – counterplans that test the resolution are key to predictable negative ground.** [American Heritage Dictionary at dictionary.com]

**This also means that the fiat of the plan is unconditional, with immediate action and enforcement. Otherwise, they can spike out of offense by claiming the plan is delayed or unenforced. Consultation is mutually exclusive because it conditions the plan on Russia’s acceptance.**

**Conditioning the plan is the only way to preserve the option of solving the case which checks unpredictable 2ac add-ons and plan clarifications. This risk is compounded by the aff monopoly on pre-round prep and structural advantages in late developing debates.**

**Observation two is the net benefit –**

**Consultation now through the BPC is key to broader relations – recent developments have reduced tensions, but disagreements threaten cooperation – now is __uniquely key__**
**Rojansky, ‘7-13** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[7/13/11, Matthew Rojansky, the deputy director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment “Lavrov's Visit and a New Foundation for U.S.-Russia Cooperation”, http://carnegie.ru/publications/?lang=en&fa=45036, SM]</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The 2009 reset was an urgently needed... </span>__necessary steps in the coming year.

**Unilateral action crushes relations**
**O’Flynn 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – (3/24/10, Kevin O’Flynn, special to Russia Now, “Russia makes space for U.S.,” http://rbth.ru/articles/2010/03/24/240310_space.html DH) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">On April 2, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">new Soyuz crew members ... </span>__**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">as well as scientific endeavor.</span>__**

**US-Russian relations prevent extinction**
**Cohen, 2k** **-** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">professor of Russian studies at New York University, (Stephen, </span>__Failed Crusade__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, p. 196-205)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">These assurances are manifestly untrue and... </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">will reap the benefits or pay the price. </span>


===**__Overview__**=== 


**Net benefit alone turns the case – absent consultation the plan isn’t sustainable**
**Abbey and Lane 05** (George, former director of the Johnson Space Center (JSC) and Fellow in Space Policy at the Baker Institute of Rice University, and Neal, Senior Fellow in Science and Technology Policy Malcolm Gillis University Professor, 2005, United States Space Policy Challenges and Opportunities, http://www.amacad.org/publications/spacePolicy.pdf)DR
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The __vitality of America’s space program is in...__ </span>
**__future U.S. space efforts__**__.__


==Negotiations== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Text:</span>__</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The United States Federal Government should enact the outcome of a binding negotiation with the American aerospace industry. In the negotiation, the United States Federal Government should recommend that [INSERT THE PLAN]. </span>**



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Solvency</span>__</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">:</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Negotiation solves -- parties will come to the table and produce a viable plan</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Harter, 1997__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> (Phillip J., Visiting Professor and Director of the Program on Consensus, Democracy and Governance at Vermont Law School, Duke Law Journal, April)</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__The most well developed__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> […] </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__the outcome was one of the aspects of the process they considered most valuable.__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> 48</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The aerospace industry will agree to the recommendation -- results in enactment of the plan</span>**


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Net Benefit</span>__</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">:</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Deliberative negotiation with the Aerospace industry is key to predictability and long-term planning. This solves the health of Aerospace and the overall economy.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Atkins and Newton, ‘10</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">(Chuck Atkins, Former Chief of Staff to the US House of Representatives Committee on Science and Technology, No relation to the former Detroit Pistons guard, Elizabeth Newton, Director for Aerospace and Defense Policy at the University of Alabama, “Take the Chaos Out of US Space Policy,” Space News, 5-10-2010, [[http://spacenews.com/commentaries/100510-take-chaos-out-space-policy.html]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">The current debate over U.S. civil space policy makes for fascinating reading, but </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[…] about how many the country can afford</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> at a given point in time, especially relative to other national needs. A managed and regular prioritization process should replace episodic, ad hoc presidential commissions in order to ensure that the compelling questions for human space exploration are asked and answered with an enduring consensus in an accountable way and that diverse and iconoclastic views are considered. </span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Aerospace key to the overall economy</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Stephen </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Fuller__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">, Professor of Economics and Director of the Center for Regional Analysis at George Mason University, “The US Economic Impact of Approved and Projected DOD Spending Reductions on Equipment in 2013,” October 24, 20</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__11__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> ([[http://secondtonone.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/10/aia_impact_analysis.pdf]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Additionally, </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the impacts of</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> these </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[…] construction, and other manufacturing</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">. </span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nuclear war</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Aaron </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Friedberg and Schoenfeld 08</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">, professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University, and Gabriel Schoenfeld, visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute [</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Wall Street Journal</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">, “The Dangers of a Diminished America,” [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]]]</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">One immediate implication of the crisis that began on Wall Street and spread across the world is that the primary instruments of U.S. foreign policy will be crimped</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">[…] </span>divert attention from internal travails with external adventures<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>


=**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Privitizaton CP </span>__**= 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tax incentive solves -- businesses will develop the tech</span>**

<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Hudgins 2004</span><span style="font-family: Cambria,serif;"> (Edward, formerly director of regulatory studies for the Cato Institute and editor of //Regulation// magazine. He served as a senior economist for the Joint Economic Committee of the U.S. Congress and was both deputy director for economic policy studies and director of the Center for International Economic Growth at the Heritage Foundation, “return to the moon? Not with this NASA,” The Atlas Society, http://www.atlassociety.org/return-moon-not-nasa)</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">NASA will also need to do businessin... </span>__government's revenue losses from such an exemption.



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Private sector solves better -- and, has the capacity to deploy</span>**

**__Pelton, 2010__**
[Joseph N., Research Professor with the Institute for Applied Space Research -- George Washington University, chairs a NASA and the National Science Foundation Panel of Experts that is conducting a global review of satellite telecommunications, “A new space vision for NASA - And for space entrepreneurs too?,” __Space Policy__ 26 (2010) p. 78-80]

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Anyone who rereads the Paine Commission report today ... </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">from both the inside and the outside will bring significant change [12]. pg. 78-80</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Many companies will compete for the incentive, meaning that expenditure on tech vastly exceeds the size of the payout. Takeouts don’t assume this multiplier effect.</span>**

Edward **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Aldridge</span>__**, et al., Former Secretary of the Air Force, Chair of this Commission, Report of the President’s Commission on Implementation of United States Space Exploration Policy, June 4, **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2004</span>__** (http://www.nasa.gov/pdf/60736main_M2M_report_small.pdf)

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">In addition to the innovation directly produced by NASA and the government .. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">all </span>__at very little expense__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> or risk </span>__to__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>__government__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">External investors will pour in their money to try to get a piece of the incentive </span>**



<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Tumlinson, 2005 </span><span style="font-family: Cambria,serif;">(Rick, co-founder of the Space Frontier Foundation, “Private Industry Can Help NASA Open the Space Frontier”, Feb. 14, 2005,</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria,serif;">http://www.samizdata.net/blog/archives/cat_aerospace.html</span><span style="font-family: Cambria,serif;">)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Pay for delivery contracts and prizes tied to </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">tax incentives... </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">taxes</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> it might be assessed on profits realized from any activities generated by the project.</span>



**CP solves telescopes**

**Gough, 97**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – writer for the cato institute (Michael, “Don’t lavish funds on NASA”, HYPERLINK "http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=6120" http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=6120)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">Even so, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">it’s not appropriate to spend taxpayers’ dollar ... </span>__firms to venture into space and everyone would benefit.


AT Perm

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No “double solvency” -- NASA involvement threatens businesses, undermining their incentive to do the plan</span>**

<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Hudgins 2001</span>//<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif;"> (</span>//<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif;">Edward L., director of regulatory studies – CATO, Cato Handbook for Congress: Policy Recommendations for the 107th Congress (2001) http://www.cato.org/pubs/handbook/hb107/hb107-35.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">In addition, __when companies__offering private launch ... </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">those and future contracts</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>

AT Links to Politics

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan spends political capital --- CP doesn’t link</span>**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Powell 9</span>__** (Stewart M., Washington Bureau – Houston Chronicle, “Potential Uphill Battle for NASA”, Houston Chronicle, 9-13, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/nation/6615751.html]]</span>)

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">NASA supporters are bracing for an **uphill battle to get...** </span>__**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">political capital to put forward an Obama space program</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">.”</span>



==Disads== 
==Politics - SKFTA== 
===Uniqueness Ev.=== 
Congress has a road map to pass SKFTA—but the plan can still be derailed
Garza, former ambassador, 9/5/11
Antonio, “It’s time for Congress to approve trade deals,” http://www.hartfordbusiness.com/news20308.html

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The recent fight over the .... </span><span class="Underline">**measures have invariably required**</span>.

===Link/Internal Link and Impact Work=== 

**The plan ( Webb telescope) will spark backlash – seen as wasteful spending**
**Moran, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – PJM Chicago editor, Blog Editor at The American Thinker, and a frequent contributor to FrontPage.com [July 10, 2011, Rick Moran, “Webb telescope may be axed,” http://www.americanthinker.com/blog/2011/07/webb_telescope_may_be_axed.html]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">It is one of the most sophisticated and technologically advanced machines ever conceived..... </span>Goddard Space Flight Center describing that it may not launch until after 2018 -- even that is "unfeasible," the report said.

__NASA actions sap political capital__
<span class="cite">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">David 4</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Leonard, Writer – Space.com, “Robotic Missions to Save Hubble Proposed”, CNN, 4-5, Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Lightning rod decisions</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The look at how.. </span>into Earth's atmosphere no earlier than the year 2013.


**Obama will be key to navigate SKFTA through a complicated process**
**Palmer, Reuters, 9/6/11**
Doug, “U.S. trade deals face tricky approval path,” http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/06/usa-trade-congress-idUSN1E7851P420110906

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">But to get past distrust built up on ... </span>final congressional action before going to the White House.


**SKFTA key to the alliance**
**Cooper 10** (William, Coordinator Specialist in International Trade and Finance; Mark E. Manyin, Specialist in Asian Affairs; Remy Jurenas, Specialist in Agricultural Policy; Michaela D. Platzer, Specialist in Industrial Organization and Business, “ The Proposed U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA): Provisions and Implications,” November 12, Congressional Research Service)

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Although __the FTA__’s utility as an .... </span>rather than economic, relations.





**Alliance solves Korean proliferation**
**Mack 96**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Andrew, Prof IR – Australian National University, “Proliferation inNortheast Asia,” Occasional Paper No. 28 July http://www.stimson.org/wmd/pdf/mack.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Only a tiny minority of South Koreans is prepared to argue .... </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">hand, has </span>threatened to break its alliance with Seoul if the South acquires the bomb.

**That causes global nuclear war**
**Cirincione 2K**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Joseph, Dir – Non-Proliferation Project, CEIP, Foreign Policy, 3-22, Lexis)</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The blocks would fall quickest .... </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">first combat use of a nuclear weapon since 1945</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**SKFTA is key to U.S. heg in Asia**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cha 9</span>** (Victor, Senior Advisor and Korea Chair @ CSIS, “What’s at Stake in the KORUS FTA,” Nov 5th, http://csis.org/files/publication/KPlatform2.Final.pdf)

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Third, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">U.S. support for the FTA... </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">goods and diminished amounts of foreign assistance. </span>


**That causes global nuclear war**
**Cirincione 2K**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Joseph, Dir – Non-Proliferation Project, CEIP, Foreign Policy, 3-22, Lexis)</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The blocks would fall quickest and hardest </span>__


==Militarization DA== 

**Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization**
**Huntley, 11** - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, [[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]])

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">As is well understood, the space policies of </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">indicating that more specific guidelines for military implementation of the strategy remain to be developed.18 Many devils may lurk in these details. </span>



**Pursuing space cooperation prevents crisis escalation even if weaponization is inevitable**

**Hayes, 9 -** Lt Col, USAF, paper submitted to the Faculty of the Joint Advanced Warfighting School in partial satisfaction of the requirements of a Master of Science Degree in Joint Campaign Planning and Strategy (Tracey, “PROPOSAL FOR A COOPERATIVE SPACE STRATEGY WITH CHINA”, [[http://dodreports.com/pdf/ada530117.pdf]])



__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Cooperation can prevent conflict escalation, increase safety ... </span>____preventing__ __potential crisis escalation__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**The perception of pursuing space dominance will destroy the commitment to the new Obama National Space Policy**

**Dant, 11** - chief of staff of the Air Force fellow and the director of space policy for the under secretary of defense for policy (Daniel, High Frontier, February, " The National Space Policy: Sustainability and Cooperation in a Congested, Competitive, and Contested Domain,” [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf]])



//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Cooperation for contested and competitive domain. </span>//__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The NSP ...</span>__to active leadership of the coalition of responsible space-faring nations.



**Prior bad acts from the US means that even legitimate defensive steps will be perceived as threatening**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hitchens, 7</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;"> – director of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, STATEMENT BY BEFORE THE NATIONAL SECURITY AND FOREIGN AFFAIRS SUBCOMMITTEE HOUSE OVERSIGHT AND GOVERNNMENT REFORM COMMITTEE ON WEAPONIZING SPACE: IS CURRENT U.S. POLICY PROTECTION OUR SECURITY? MAY 23, [[http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/HitchensTestimony.pdf]])</span>

<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Further, other responses to counter perceived space threats ... </span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">use space as a “soft power” tool. </span>__

**And it is (SPS AFF) perceived as a weapons deployment**
**<span style="color: black;">Pop, 2k</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> – PhD Student, University of Glasgow Law School (Virgiliu, “SECURITY IMPLICATIONS OF NON-TERRESTRIAL RESOURCE EXPLOITATION”, <span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.geocities.com/virgiliu_pop/publications/security.pdf]]</span>)</span>

__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The SPS system .. </span>__Use of the SPS for ABM purposes would hence bebanned”24.


<span class="Underline">**Unilateral action alienates allies and shatters other areas of cooperation**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Sabathier et. al 6**— senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program and former senior fellow and director of CSIS space initiative (September 18, 2oo6 ,Vincent G. Sabathier, D.A. Broniatowski, G. Ryan Faith, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “The Case for Managed International Cooperation in Space Exploration”, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/060918_managed_international_cooperation.pdf , FS)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">International cooperation is valuable ... </span>mutual understanding, the possibility of future beneficial cooperation would be more likely.

**Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens, 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, </span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]]</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d;">)</span>

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Perhaps of even greater concern is that several .... </span>__weapons. The nations of Earth must soon decide whether it is possible to sustain the predominantly peaceful human space exploration that has already lasted half a century. The likely alternative would be unacceptable to all.

**Space control is impossible, countermeasures override deterrence and risk nuclear escalation**
**Krepon et al, 11** – President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, also Theresa Hitchens, Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and Michael Katz-Hyman, Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space
Security and South Asia Projects (Michael, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]])

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">While some have compared space to another "global commons," the high seas ... </span>__Spacepower depends on the preservation__

**War in space occurs through miscalculation, risks extinction**
**<span style="color: black;">Mitchell, et al 1</span>**<span style="color: black;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="color: black;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, <span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span>)</span>

__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">A buildup of space weapons might begin ..... </span>____<span style="color: black;">into the most destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>__

**Lack of coop risks multiple earth and space wars.**
**Huntley et al 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – US Naval Postgraduate School [Wade L. Huntley, Joseph G. Bock (Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, Notre Dame) & Miranda Weingartner (Weingartner Consulting), “Planning the unplannable: Scenarios on the future of space,” __Space Policy__, Volume 26, Issue 1, February 2010, Pages 25-38//edlee]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">4.3. Scenario A: “Back to the Future” - “</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Back to the Future” describes ..... </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">freedom to access space. A non-interference pact could be developed</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, which might name the kinds of weapons not to be used.</span>



**And the plan spurs asymmetric balancing – tanks heg**

**Zhang, 06**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - Research Associate at the Project on Managing the Atom in the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government, Project on Managing the Atom (Hui, "Space Weaponization and Space Security: A Chinese Perspective", <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.wsichina.org/|China Security]]</span>, Vol 2, Issue 1)</span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">At this stage, it would be difficult to persuade the United States to alter ... </span>__which the United States would acknowledge and understand.__

**ASAT attacks will destroy US conventional superiority**
**Walsh 7** – J.D., Georgetown University Law Center (Frank M., Fall, “ FORGING A DIPLOMATIC SHIELD FOR AMERICAN SATELLITES: THE CASE FOR REEVALUATING THE 2006 NATIONAL SPACE POLICY IN LIGHT OF A CHINESE ANTI-SATELLITE SYSTEM”, 72 J. Air L. & Com. 759, Lexis Law)

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Over the last twenty years, the American armed ... </span>__bring down a seemingly unstoppable warrior.__

**a space war will render all of space unusable for thousands of years**
**Forden, 8** - Massachusetts Institute of Technology (Geoffrey, Astropolitics, 6:138–153, “VIEWPOINT: CHINA AND SPACE WAR,” Ebsco Political Science)

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">If the short-term military consequences to the U.S ... </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">that renders space unusable from hundreds to thousands of years</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">.14</span>

**Space cooperation is key to weather monitoring that allows for climate change adaptation**
**Friedman** **11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Former 30 year Executive Director of The Planetary Society (Lou Friedman, “Peace,” </span>__The Space Review__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Monday, January 3, 2011, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1751/1]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Space offers much more than symbolism to advance ... </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">political cooperation in the former.</span>__

====__Uniqueness Work__==== 

**Obama’s new National Space Policy is pursuing an informal code of conduct to prevent accidents in space now – but it will require bargaining and making concessions to create enforceable norms**
**Lewis, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Senior Fellow and Director Technology and Public Policy Program Center for Strategic and International Studies (James, High Frontier, “Engagement and Sustainability in the 2010 National Space Policy,” February, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf]]</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The Obama administration changed course </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">... </span>expenditures on space associated with the Cold War.

====Link Work==== 

**The plan’s unilateralism undermines the NSP – it occurs without genuine consultation and will be __perceived__ as abandoning the commitment to international partnership**
**Smith 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-- Space and Technology Policy Group </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(February, 2011, Marcia A., Space Policy, Vol. 27, Issue 1, p. 22-23, Science Direct, FS)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Over succeeding months </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">national security officials .. </span>__A revised version was released at a meeting at the UN in October 2010 [5].


**The lack of prior consultation is a link – the current lack of resources for space is forcing the US to enter into a genuinely consultative mode**
**Foust, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – editor of the Space Review (Jeff, Space Politics, “New paradigms in human spaceflight policy,” 1/14, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.spacepolitics.com/2010/01/14/new-paradigms-in-human-spaceflight-policy/</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">As the shuttle programs ends and NASA’s future direction remains uncertain, .... </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">programs are initiated</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">and</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> necessary </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">changes are made</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>


**Unilateral implementation destroys solvency – political and practical multilateral action alone necessary to create space security. This links to the net benefit.**
**Rathgeber 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Scientific Staff Member; Institute of Radio Frequency Engineering and Radar Systems (Wolfgang Rathgeber, Kai-Uwe Schrogl Director of European Space Policy Institute, Ray A. Williamson directing a project on Dual–Purpose Space Technologies: Opportunities and Challenges for U.S. Policymaking, The Fair and Responsible Use: An International Perspective, ed. by The European Space Policy Institute, pg. 150-151 A.W.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The United Nations through the Committee on Peaceful Uses... </span>of this partnership, the GMES program was extended to Africa (GMES – Africa).


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Russia will retaliate to the plan causing space arms races and global nuclear conflict</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Rick </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Rozoff</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, writer for Stop Nato, 200**9****.** “Militarization of Space: The Threat of Nuclear War on Earth,” http://dandelionsalad.wordpress.com/2009/06/18/militarization-of-space-threat-of-nuclear-war-on-earth-by-rick-rozoff/</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">That is, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">the militarization of space can result in a nuclear conflagration on earth not only ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">between nations </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">that has ensured the peace for decades</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">That causes the US to launch nuclear strikes globally</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Paul </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hellyer</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> 4/15/</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">03</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (a Canadian engineer, politician, writer and commentator who has had a long and varied career. He is the longest serving current member of the Privy Council, just ahead of Prince Philip, Common Dreams, humanity think tank, [[http://www.commondreams.org/views03/0515-10.htm]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The notion that NMD will save Canadian lives is unquestionably ... </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">installation on Earth and have the capacity to zap any person in their garden</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">.</span>


**China is solely reactionary – any US action would spark dangerous counterbalancing**

**Zhang, 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University (March/April, “The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship,” Asian Survey, Vol. 51, No. 2, JSTOR)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Although many U.S. experts are correct in emphasizing the importance... </span>maintaining status quo is the minimum goal of any great power.”


**All US space activity is perceived as threatening by China.**
**Listner 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael Listner, legal and policy analyst with a focus on issues relating to space law and policy, writes a regular column on space law and policy at Examiner.com, received his JD in 2001 from Regent University of School of Law in Virginia Beach, VA and was admitted to the New Hampshire Bar in 2003, 4/25/11, “An exercise in the Art of War: China’s National Defense white paper, outer space, and the PPWT,” The Space Review, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1828/1]]) </span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">United States space policy has evolved .... </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">anti-satellite and space weapons to defend against that </span>__


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">And even the perception of further dominance in space causes china to freak out </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Zhang '11 – Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University, Hong Kong (Baohui, March/April, "The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship," JSTOR, RG)</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Chinese strategists</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> certainly </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">perceive the U.S. quest for space dominance as damaging ... </span>means for the U.S. military to perform global combat in the 21st century.
==== ==== 
====Impact Work==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Extinction</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">BBC, 06</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“North Korean paper decries US pursuit of ‘preemptive nuclear strike’,” April 11, originally published by Minju Choson on February 15, Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In the "Review Report," the US Department of Defence .... </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the existence of humanity itself will be put at risk.</span>__

==__Earth Science Trade Off__== 
==**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1nc</span>**== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NASA’s budget levels will demand difficult choices, but the Administration is committed to Earth science programs.</span>**
<span class="s2" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Holdren 11**</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">– Director office of Science and Tech policy</span>**
(John, Director – Office of Science and Technology Policy, “The Budget for the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy”,<span class="s2" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ostp/jph-house-sst-testimony-2-17-11.pdf]]</span>, 2-17)

National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) This past October, the President signed the 2010 NASA Authorization Act (the “Act”, Public Law 111-267), […] Earth orbit, including sufficient support for the operations of the ISS.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Empirically, emphasis on space exploration trades off with Earth science research.</span>**
<span class="s2" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Stempeck 05** </span>– Senior reporter for E&E Daily
(Brian, E&E Daily senior reporter, “CLIMATE CHANGE: <span class="s4" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**NASA**</span> space missions may undermine climate studies,” April 29, Environment and Energy Daily, Lexis)

A member of the National Academy of Sciences' National Research Council told a House panel yesterday that <span class="s2" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[…] are some of the most at-risk programs</span>, he said.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Earth sciences solves multiple scenarios for extinction, including climate change.</span>**
<span class="s5" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Killeen 5** </span>– Phd. , Director of the National Center for Atmospheric Research
(Timothy, 28th April 2005, “Senate Hearing on NASA's Earth Science Program”, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=16382]]</span>) NAR

<span class="s6" style="background-color: #ffffff;">It is clear after decades of pioneering satellite observations that </span><span class="s1" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[…] the regional manifestation of global scale climate change; and the reactions of ecosystems to simultaneous multiple stresses. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Warming causes extinction</span>**
<span class="s2" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Mazo 10**</span>– PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA
Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122

The best estimates for global warming to the end of the century range from 2.5-4.~C […]<span class="s2" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> cultural and political changes.</span>
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Disadvantages-Earth Science Tradeoff DA-2NC Overview]]<span class="s1">**2NC Overview**</span></span>==== 


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Even 1% risk justifies action -- the consequences are too big.</span>**
<span class="s1" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Strom, 2007**</span>
[Robert, Prof. Emeritus Planetary Sciences @ U. Arizona and Former Dir. Space Imagery Center of NASA, “Hot House: Global Climate Change and the Human Condition”, Online: SpringerLink, p. 246]

Keep in mind that <span class="s2" style="background-color: #ffffff;">the </span><span class="s8" style="background-color: #ffffff;">current </span><span class="s2" style="background-color: #ffffff;">consequences of </span><span class="s8" style="background-color: #ffffff;">global </span><span class="s2" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[…]</span> Clearly we cannot afford to delay taking action by waiting for additional research to more clearly define what awaits us. <span class="s8" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The time for action is now.</span>


====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Disadvantages-Earth Science Tradeoff DA-2NC Uniqueness Wall]]<span class="s1">**2NC Uniqueness Wall**</span></span>==== 



Currently, NASA is funding its Earth science program, which is focused on climate change solutions (This is your author, writing a year later)
<span class="s2" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Werner 10-**</span>staff writer
(Debra, Staff Writer, “NASA Ramping Up in Earth Observation”, Space News, 12-28, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.space.com/10555-nasa-ramping-earth-observation.html]]</span>)

Meanwhile, <span class="s2" style="background-color: #ffffff;">the latest spending plan enables NASA to move ahead with the four missions given the highest priority in the Earth […]</span>" Freilich said. As a result, NASA plans to mount the third-generation Stratospheric Aerosol and Gas Experiment on the international space station in 2014, he said. That instrument, which has been stored at NASA's Langley Research Center in Hampton, Va., since 2004, is designed to measure ozone, aerosols and water vapor.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Increase in earth science programs now</span>**
<span class="s2" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://pubs.acs.org/cen/staff/bi|**Morrissey**]] **11**</span> - PHD in Chemistry
(Susan R., “NASA: Funding Is Flat, But Earth Science Programs Grow”, 02/28/11http://pubs.acs.org/cen/coverstory/89/8909cover7.html)

The <span class="s2" style="background-color: #ffffff;">President’s 2012 […]</span>. These funds will go into other programs.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Here’s the NASA budget</span>**
<span class="s2" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Weaver 11 -**</span> NASA Associate Administrator for the Office of Communications
(Daniel S., NASA Announces Fiscal Year 2012 Budget, February 14th, 6-27-11, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.nasa.gov/home/hqnews/2011/feb/HQ_11-041_NASA_Budget.html]]</span>)

WASHINGTON -- <span class="s2" style="background-color: #ffffff;">NASA […]</span> "We're looking at new ways of doing business that improve program management and delivers even greater results to the American taxpayers."

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Political support</span>**
<span class="s2" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Werner 10**</span>– staff writer
(Debra, Staff Writer, “NASA Ramping Up in Earth Observation”, Space News, 12-28, [["h|<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.space.com/10555-nasa-ramping-earth-observation.html]]</span>]])

<span class="s2" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Strong support from the White House and U.S. […]</span> over the previous budget blueprint, Freilich said. If approved by Congress, that money will allow NASA "to go from flying one mission every couple of years to flying a couple of missions per year," he said.

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Disadvantages-Earth Science Tradeoff DA-2NC Link Wall (Top Level)]]<span class="s1">**2NC Links** </span></span>==== 


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Empirically, NASA will cut funding from existing programs to pay for new projects</span>**
<span class="s2" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Stern 8**</span> – Astrophysicist and planetary scientist
(Alan - an astrophysicist and planetary scientist, was an associate administrator in charge of the NASA Science Mission Directorate from 2007 to 2008, “NASA’s Black Hole Budgets,” November 27, The New York Times, Lexis)

<span class="s9" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Endemic project cost increases at […]</span> Even those two missions are endangered now by the Mars Science Laboratory's spiraling cost.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NASA funding is a Zero-Sum game</span>**
<span class="s2" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Robinson 8**</span>- assistant professor of history at Hillyer College
(Michael, July 27th 2008, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://hnn.us/node/51386]]</span>) NAR

But Wellman’s story is worth taking seriously, especially as the United States gears up to replace the aging shuttle fleet[…] “We must not forget that the explorer is not expected merely to travel from one point to another, but that we must expect him also to see and to observe things worth seeing.”

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Space funds trades off with Earth Sciences</span>**
<span class="s2" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**NAST 8**</span>- non-profit organization comprised of community leaders, business leaders and former NASA officials(NASA’S ROLE IN THE 21ST CENTURY, Fall 2008, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://nastus.org/documents/NASARole.21stCentury.pdf]]</span>) NAR

<span class="s9" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The budget needs […] </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">in space exploration is greatly diminished.</span>**



=Topicality= 

====VS SPS T Increase Requires Pre-existence==== 

. SPS necessitates ground development
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hanks</span>**, director of communications @ space island universe, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">No Date N</span> (John,“Space-Based Solar Power Satellites,” [[http://spaceislanduniverse.com/wp-content/uploads/2009/09/Space-based-Solar-Power-Overview.pdf]])
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The Earth-based receiver antenna ... and use as might be supposed.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">T Increase Requires Prior Policy</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Increase is from an already-existing policy </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Jeremiah Buckley et al, </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">06 (Founding partner of BUCKLEY KOLLAR LLP, serves as general counsel for Electronic Signatures and Records Association, and GOODWIN PROCTOR LLP, November 13, 2006, Supreme Court, http://supreme.lp.findlaw.com/supreme_court/briefs/06-84/06-84.mer.ami.mica.pdf) </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Next, the Ninth Circuit reasoned that because the Insurance Prong includes the words “existing or applied for,” </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Congress intended that an “increase in any charge” for insurance .. </span>construed to apply to increases of an already-existing policy


===Vs Dscover - Substantial=== 
Substantial increase in nasa’s budget is 50%
Carole<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> Shifrin</span>, writes for Aviation Week & Space Technology, staff writer at the Washington Post, 19<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">87</span>, “Soviets Consider Possible Mars Rover, Sample Return Missions”

Allen cited the space station science program ..."But that seems somewhat unlikely, under the kind of budget pressures that existed in the past."


The plan is a 2.9% increase
Brinton 11 (Turner Brinton, staff writer for Space News, July 12, 2011 “House Panel Denies Funding for Pair of NOAA Satellite Projects” Space News
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; text-align: left;">[[http://www.spacenews.com/civil/110718-house-panel-denies-funding-for-dscovr-cosmic-2-missions.html]]</span>


<span class="DebateUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The U.S. House Appropriations Committee will vote ...</span> 2011 but $168.6 million less than the request.
=Kritiks= 
==H- Triv== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Trivialization of the holocaust is a logical fallacy and a d rule- reject them</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Curtis 4</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Gary. Fallacy Files “Ad Nazium” [[http://www.fallacyfiles.org/adnazium.html]])</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In </span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">almost every heated debate, one side or the other...</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> it is often "fighting words". </span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Securtityzzz</span>== 


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The affirmatives disaster scenarios are mere constructions of threats that foster an environment of unending securitization.</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">David</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Grondin,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;"> Masters in Political Science and Ph.D. Candidate – University of Ottawa, 200</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">4,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;"> (“(Re)Writing the ‘National Security State,’ Center for United States Studies, p. 12-17) </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Neorealist and neoclassical realism offer themselves up as a...... danger through foreign policy that the state’s very conditions of existence are generated18.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The construction of threats ensures any agencies of power to authorize force including annihilation and genocide</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Coviello 2000</span>** (Peter, Assist. Prof. of English @ Bowdoin College, Queer Frontiers: Millennial Geographies, Genders, and Generations, "Apocalypse from Now On")

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Apocalypse, as I began by saying, changed – it did not go away. .... nuclear or otherwise, seems a civic initiative that can scarcely be done without. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Vote neg to reject the 1ac’s securitized discourse. Critical praxis outweighs policy making - voting affirmative guarantees error replication. Only a radical break from dominant paradigms can avoid becoming a self-fulfilling prophecy</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Graeme </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cheeseman,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Snr. Lecturer @ New South Wales, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">and</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Robert </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bruce</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Assoc. Prof in social sciences @ Curtin univ</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, ‘96</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">This goal is pursued in ways which are still unconventional in the intellectual milieu of.... Contributors ask whether Australia’s policy-makers and their academic advisors are unaware of broader intellectual debates, or resistant to them, or choose not to understand them, and why?</span>


=<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Framework </span>= 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1NC Framework</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A) “Resolved” before a colon reflects a legislative forum</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Army Officer School, 04</span>** (5-12, “# 12, Punctuation – The Colon and
Semicolon”, <span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[@http://usawocc.army.mil/IMI/wg12.htm]]</span>)
The colon introduces …) That this council petition the mayor.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B) “United States Federal Government should” means the debate is</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">solely about the outcome of a policy established by governmental means</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ericson, 03</span>** (Jon M., Dean Emeritus of the College of Liberal Arts –
California Polytechnic U., et al., The Debater’s Guide, Third Edition,
p. 4)

The Proposition of Policy: … future action that you propose.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This is a prior question that must be resolved first – it is a</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">pre-condition for debate to occur</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Shively, 2k</span>** – Assistant Prof Political Science at Texas A&M (Ruth
Lessl, Partisan Politics and Political Theory, p. 181-2)

The requirements given thus far are primarily…. intelligibly
contesting it. In other words, contestation rests on some basic
agreement or harmony.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Focusing on the details and inner-workings of government policy-making</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">is productive – critical approaches can’t resolve real world problems</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">like poverty, racism and war</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">McClean, 01</span>** – Adjunct Professor of Philosophy, Molloy College, New
York (David E., “The Cultural Left and the Limits of Social Hope,”
Presented at the 2001 Annual Conference of the Society for the
Advancement of American Philosophy,
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[@http://www.american-philosophy.org/archives/past_conference_programs/pc2001/Discussion%20papers/david_mcclean.htm|www.american-philosophy.org/archives/past_conference_programs/pc2001/Discussion%20papers/david_mcclean.htm]]</span>)

Yet for some reason, at least partially explicated in … with their
snobish disrespect for the so-called "managerial

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And, our framework is also socially productive – forcing students to</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">assert policy solutions has tremendous research and education benefits</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">and encourages them to become advocates for change rather than mere</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">spectators</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Joyner, 99</span>** – Professor of International Law in the Government
Department at Georgetown University (Christopher C., Spring, 199, 5
ILSA J Int'l & Comp L 377)

Use of the debate can be an effective pedagogical tool for education
in the social sciences. Debates, like other role-playing simulations,
help students understand different perspectives on a policy issue by
adopting a perspective as …analysis, political critique, and legal
defense
==APEC== 

==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1nc vs sps</span>== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No solvency without specific direction</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shubert '10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Ph.D., P.E. Packer Engineering Inc (Peter J., Winter 2010, "Solar Power SatellitesCosts, Organization, and Roadmap for SSP," http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/schubert.html, RG)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">At present, </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">neither NASA, nor .... </span>__</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">coalition to support SSP.</span>__

**Agency direction k2 development – otherwise the aff turns into the squo**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shea '10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Master of Arts in Science Technology and Space Policy at George Washington University (Karen, 11/1/10, "NASA Has A Space Solar Power Program?" http://spacesolarpowerinformationservice.blogspot.com/2010/11/nasa-has-space-solar-power-program.html, RG)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">What if I said that </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">NASA has been banging at the ... </span>__</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">about mission creep. </span>__</span>

==2nc solvency defecit extensions== 
**Lack of spec leads to confusion and delays – guts solvency**
**Livingston '1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – adjunct professor at the University of North Dakota Graduate School of Space Studies; Doctorate in Business Administration (DBA) also at Golden Gate University (Dr.David, 2001, "Barriers to Space Enterprise," http://www.spacefuture.com/archive/barriers_to_space_enterprise.shtml, RG)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">U.S. government agencies and Congress .... </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">commercial</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> space project.</span>__

**An agency should be chosen to avoid confusion**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Change '8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – referencing Obama supporters reccomendations on solar power (12/6/08, "Obama-Biden Transition Project: Space Solar Power (SSP) -- A Solution for Energy Independence & Climate Change," http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=30044, RG)</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">We urge the</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> next </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">President... </span>__</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">advocate within the US Government</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">."</span>

**Agency confusion kills aerospace leadership**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Walker et al '2</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Chair of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners (Robert, 11/02, Final Report of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners," http://www.trade.gov/td/aerospace/aerospacecommission/AeroCommissionFinalReport.pdf, RG)</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The government is not organized to define ... </span>__</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">international boundaries.</span>

**Their author agrees – SPS needs an organizational structure**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cox ’11 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">– their author (William John, 3/23/11, “The Race for Solar Energy from Space”, [[http://www.consortiumnews.com/Print/2011/032311b.html]], RG)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Space-solar energy is the greatest source of ... </span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">space programs and energy security.”</span>__**



=Prior 2nrs= 

==Wake Forest -== 

Round 1 vs SPS
1nc - T Ground Development
Space Weap DA
Case
2nc - T and Weap
1nr - Case
2nr - Weaponization

Round 4 vs Webb Telescope

1nc - Privatization Cp
SKFTA
Security K
Case
2nc - Privatization
Case
1nr - SKFTA
2nr - Privatization with the net benefit of SKFTA

Round 6 vs Sci Fi affirmative

1nc - Framework
Topicality - Prior policy
Capitalism K
Case
2nc - Topicality
Cap K
Case
1nr - Framework
2nr- Topicality
and Framework

==St. Marks Sophmore Hoe Down== 
Round 1 vs AEHF

1nc -
T Exploration means colonization and Development needs humans
Consult Russia
Space Mil DA
Security K
Case
2n
Space Mil DA/Case
1nr
Security K
2nr
Security K

Round 3 vs Heritage Hall (Webb Telescope)

1nc -
Privatization
NASA tradeoff
Security K
Case
2nc - Privatization, Nasa, Case
1nr Sec. K
2nr- privatization/Nasa Tradeoff

Round 5 vs SPS

1nc -
ASPEC
Venezula DA
Space Mil DA
Security K
Case Turns
2nc -
ASPEC
Venezula DA
Space Mil DA
1nr -
Case
Security K
2nr -
ASPEC
Space Mil