=Affirmative= 
Thus, the plan: The United States federal government should deploy a substantial space-based Brilliant Pebbles Ballistic Missile Defense Program.

===Contention 1 is Inherency=== 
The United States has no Space-based BMD now
Baker <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Spring</span> April 12 <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010 The Heritage Foundation, The Cutting Edge </span>
http://www.thecuttingedgenews.com/index.php?article=12104
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Second, the BMDRR ... </span>network of space-based interceptors.

===<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Contention 2 is Hegemony</span>=== 

Space weaponization and conflict is inevitable - winning the race for dominance is key to US hegemony

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kitfield 10</span>-Senior Correspondent @ The National Journal, writer for Air Force Magazine, B.A. Journalism, University of Georgia, distinguished writer on defense, national security, and foreign policy, author of two books on national security, [James, Air Force Magazine, “CrowdedCongested Space” August 2010,http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2010/August%202010/0810space.aspx
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">In the “commons” </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">above ... </span>the report concluded.

Military dominance is entirely dependent on space assets - weaponization is key to ensure their protection
Everett <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolman</span>, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, September 14, 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">05</span> “ US Military Transformation and Weapons in Space,” http://www.e-parl.net/pages/space_hearing_images/ConfPaper%20Dolman%20US%20Military%20Transform%20&%20Space.pdf

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The United States has embarked on a revolutionary ... </span>combat inventory of the United States.

U.S. unipolar dominance is the only way to maintain international stability – withdrawal guarantees global war
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Robert </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kagan, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Senior Fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace 7/19/20</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">07</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">This is a good thing, and </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">it should ... </span>likely to draw the United States back in again.

Space power is critical to global stability and conflict resolution - provides transparency to reduce miscalculation, strengthens dissuasion power, and deters small conflicts
M.V. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Smith</span>, Colonel, PhD in Politics and IR @ University of Reading, 20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span> “Chapter 17: Security and Spacepower, Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Spacepower provides different ways to manage security ... </span><span class="DebateUnderline">interconnecting glue</span> making terrestrial deterrence more effective.

Inability to resolve small conflicts makes the escalation of global nuclear war inevitable
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">BOSCO 2006</span> (David, Senior Editor of Foreign Policy, Post Gazette, July 30 2006, “Keeping an eye peeled for World War III” http://www.post-gazette.com/pg/06211/709477-109.stm)
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The understanding that </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">small ... </span>world learned about managing conflict?

====Scenario 2: Rogue States==== 
North Korean ICBM strikes are a real threat
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Klingner 11</span> (<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Bruce Klingner, writer for the WSJ and the Senior Research Fellow for Northeast Asia at The Heritage Foundation's Asian Studies Center, January 12, 2011, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.heritage.org/research/commentary/2011/01/north-koreas-imminent-threat]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Secretary of Defense Robert Gates made ... </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">increasing in range</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">."</span>


North Korea will be motivated to attack because diplomacy fails – missile defense is key

Bruce <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Klingner </span>I am Senior Research Fellow for Northeast Asia at The Heritage Foundation. March 10, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2011</span> “North Korea – a Multi-Faceted Threat to Peace and Stability” The Heritage Foundation

[[http://www.heritage.org/research/testimony/2011/03/north-korea-a-multi-faceted-threat-to-peace-and-stability]]

North Korea – a Multi-Faceted .. <span style="font-size: 10pt;">to develop and deploy missile defense systems</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">;</span>


These Rogue State attacks are the biggest threat today, only space weapons solve

(<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolman and Cooper 11</span>, Everett Dolman and Henry Cooper, Everett Dolman is Phd and Prof. Military studies at USAF SAAS, former NSA analyst where he received the Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award. Henry Cooper is former DoD deputy executive and Chairman of the High Frontier think-tank and journal. This appeared in Chapter 19 of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower”, edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, ISBN <span style="color: black;">978-1780393858, 03-07-11, </span>gd, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The most likely and most ... survival of our way of life</span>


One nuclear missile strike on the US leads to extinction – Economic, Infrastructure, Transportation collapse

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lambakis '7</span> (Steven Lambakis, National Security and International Affairs Analyst specializing in Space Power policy studies, “Missile Defense From Space”, Policy Review, No. 141, February & March 2007, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/5516446.html]]</span>)

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Now just imagine the costs imposed by a ... </span>weapons are as mind-numbing as they are terrifying.


===Contention 3 is China:=== 

**FIRST – weaponization by China is inevitable – tests, proven capability, and PLA intentions**
**Wall 5/12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– SPACE Senior Writer (2011, Mike, “Washington Worries China Will Challenge U.S. Dominance in Space,” http://www.space.com/11646-china-space-policy-united-states.html, ISB)</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">U.S. power brokers aren't sure how ... </span>__**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">PLA’s recent military posture</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">."</span>


China will act solely in its interest

Richard D<span style="font-size: 12pt;">. Fisher, </span>Jr, , is a Senior Fellow, International Assessment and Strategy Center (June 2004 to present) and the Director of the Center’s Project on Asian Security and Democracy. He was formerly an Asian Security Fellow at the Center for Security Policy, editor of the Jamestown Foundation’s China Brief, a Senior Fellow with the Republican Policy Committee of the House of Representatives and Director of the Asian Studies Center of the Heritage Foundation. His articles and reports have appeared in numerous national newspapers and journals.Published by Praeger Security International, September <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008 </span>“China’s Military Modernization: Building for Regional and Global Reach” International Assesment and Strategy Center”

[[http://www.strategycenter.net/research/pageID.48/default.asp]]

China's rise to global economic and strategic ... pursuing a far-reaching strategic agenda.


Our understanding of threats that justifies our plan takes into account the internal workings of the Chinese government. The negative views the Chinese government as a single entity and this confounds their analysis and judgment.
Richard D. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fisher</span>, Jr, Book “China’s Military Modernization”, Praeger Security International, Ch. 1, Pg. 41-42, is a Senior Fellow, International Assessment and Strategy Center (June 2004 to present) and the Director of the Center’s Project on Asian Security and Democracy. He was formerly an Asian Security Fellow at the Center for Security Policy, editor of the Jamestown Foundation’s China Brief, a Senior Fellow with the Republican Policy Committee of the House of Representatives and Director of the Asian Studies Center of the Heritage Foundation. His articles and reports have appeared in numerous national newspapers and journals.Published by Praeger Security International, September <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008</span>
This chapter examines the significant influence of China's ... its increasing reliance on access to the
Military journals show that China intends to weaponize space
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MacDonald 11, </span>Bruce W. MacDonald is a member of the United States Institute of Peace, former member of CFR, see 1st line of ard, 5-11-11,gd, http://www.usip.org/files/resources/bmacdonald_testimony.pdf
Prior to USIP, I led the Council on Foreign Relations study of China ... urgently needed and are important to U.S. security.

US dominant now, but Chinese political factions wanting a space 1st strike are gaining popularity
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Cox 08, </span>Stan Cox is a writer, columnist for ~500 newspapers, worked for the US dpt of Agriculture, has a Ph.D from Iowa State University in agricultural genetics, 9-28-07, gd, http://www.fwweekly.com/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=2850)
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">In the depths of the Cold War ... </span>he said, “we can certainly have superiority.”


China 1st Strike in Space would be a part of Taiwanese invasion
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(France and Adams 05, </span>Martin France and Richard Adams are Chiefs of the Space Superiority program at Peterson AFB, CO, originally published in the //High Frontier Journal//, Winter 2005, gd, http://www.spacedebate.org/evidence/1844/)
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The keys to any Chinese military action ... </span>ability of US forces to react rapidly or effectively.


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US-China war causes nuclear war</span>
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Hunkovic</span>, 20****<span style="font-size: 11pt;">09</span>**– American Military University [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]</span>] avidK
A war between China, Taiwan and the United ... in the world that will not be economically and/or militarily affected by it.

===Contention 4 is Solvency=== 
<span class="Author-Date">BP is an effective missile defense program</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Wall Street Journal 2001</span>, Ambassador Henry F. Mr. Cooper, a Ph.D. engineer, was the director of the Strategic Defense Initiative during the Bush administration and was ambassador and chief U.S. negotiator at the Geneva Defense and Space Talks during the Reagan administration., The Wall Street Journal May 7 2001, “Why Not Space-Based Missile Defense?” http://www.highfrontier.org/Highfrontier/main/about/WSJ-Why%20Not%20Space-Based%20MIssile%20Defense.htm
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">This is surprising because a space-based interceptor concept ... </span>fail to revive this important program.


Kinetic Kill interceptors have built in defenses against countermeasures
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Foreign Policy Analysis 09’</span> By an Independent Working Group (Co Chairmen: __Dr. Robert L. Pfaltzgraff__, Jr. Shelby Cullom Davis Professor of International Security Studies The Fletcher School, Tufts University President, Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis __Dr. William R. Van Cleave__ Professor Emeritus Department of Defense and Strategic Studies Missouri State University), 2009 Report, [[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWG2009.pdf]], The Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A space-based KEI is designed to hit a ballistic missile ... </span>the capabilities of the 1990 Brilliant Pebbles.


Brilliant Pebbles solves—One interceptor can destroy 10 warheads at once
Donald R. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Baucom</span>. (Donald Baucom is the historian of the Ballistic Missile Defense Organization. He is a graduate of the Air Force Academy and served as a commissioned officer for twenty-eight years. He has taught history and strategy at the Academy and the Air War College and has directed the Air Power Research Institute at Maxwell AFB, Alabama. Dr. Baucom was editor of the Air University Review, currently the Airpower Journal. He is the author of The Origins of SDI, which won the Organization of American Historians’ Leopold Prize in History.) <span style="font-size: 12pt;">04</span>. [[http://www.highfrontier.org/Archive/hf/D_Baucom_Rise%20and%20Fall%20of%20BP.pdf]]. “The Journal of Social, Political and Economic Studies?
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The remarks about economic feasibility should ... </span>crucial<span class="DebateUnderline"> to the broader history of the SDI program</span>


=Negative= 
Strategies

vs. ORS
T - exploration is peaceful
Politics (SKFTA)
Europe CP
Militarization DA
Case (Heg, China, Solvency)

vs. SPS
T - exploration is human
Politics (SKFTA)
Europe CP
Space Weapons DA
Case (Leadership, Warming, Solvency)

vs. Avatar
T - mesosphere
T - substantially
Capitalism K
Case (Inherency, Irony, Imperialism)