=AFF= 
==1AC== 
===Pace RR=== 
====Plan==== 
The United States federal government should establish lunar property rights by recognizing lunar land claims.


====Moon Wars==== 

Moon race is happening – a legal framework for land distribution is required
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hatch 10</span> (Benjamin D. Hatch, Executive Notes and Comments Editor, Emory International Law Review; J.D. Candidate, Emory University School of Law (2010),24 Emory Int'l L. Rev. 229, Lexis | Suo)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While the notion of ... as Part II will demonstrate.</span>
Absent a property rights regime, conflict is inevitable
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hatch 10</span> (Benjamin D. Hatch, Executive Notes and Comments Editor, Emory International Law Review; J.D. Candidate, Emory University School of Law (2010),24 Emory Int'l L. Rev. 229, Lexis | Suo)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Noting the substantive problems ... </span>economic opportunity in history<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">.</span>
That escalates to nuclear war with Russia and a space arms race
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Beljac 8</span> (Marko Beljac, PhD at Monash University, a Foreign Policy In Focus contributor, teaches at the University of Melbourne. He blogs at http://sciencesecurity.livejournal.com, | April 1, 2008, [[http://www.fpif.org/fpiftxt/5113]] | Suo)

<span class="underline0">China has tested an ... place upon nuclear deterrence.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">War with Russia causes extinction</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Helfand and Pastore 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Ira Helfand, M.D., and John O. Pastore, M.D., are past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">March 31, 2009, </span><span class="vitstoryheadline" style="font-size: 8pt;">“U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat”, http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President Obama and Russian ... in 1995 remains in place today. </span>
Independently makes war and miscalc more likely
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hitchens 08 </span>[Theresa, author of “Future Security In Space: Charting a Cooperative Course,” continues to write on space and nuclear arms control issues for a number of outside publications, March, “Space Wars”, [[http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=bth&AN=31334623&site=bsi-live]]]

<span class="UnderlineChar">Perhaps of even greater concern ... one would be highly problematic. </span>
Recognizing property rights solves resource conflict
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Twibell 97</span> (Ty S. Twibell, J.D. Candidate, , University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1997, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589 | Suo)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As stated at the forefront of this ... </span>and humanitarian rewards<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">.</span>
The US can unilaterally recognize land rights – that’s spurs investment and avoids international backlash
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Twibell 97</span> (Ty S. Twibell, J.D. Candidate, , University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1997, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589 | Suo)
The problems with international ...<span class="UnderlineChar"> agreed-upon international regime."</span>
That spills over globally
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wasser 11</span> (Allan Wasser, former broadcast journalist at ABC News and CBS News, Chairman of the Executive Committee (CEO) of the National Space Society, member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, Advocate of the Space Frontier Foundation, author of numerous articles on the subject of space property rights, most recently in The Explorers Journal, the official magazine of the Explorers Club, Space News, Ad Astra, Space Governance, May 2011, “The Space Settlement Initiative”, [[http://www.spacesettlement.org/]] | Suo)

The United States will probably ...<span class="underline0"> **nationality, to undertake alone.** </span>
Land claim recognition is key to open up private investment
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bennett 8</span> (Drake Bennett, staff writer for Ideas and Bloomberg Business, May 18, 2008, “If we really want to explore space, maybe we should sell it off to the highest bidders”, [[http://www.boston.com/bostonglobe/ideas/articles/2008/05/18/my_space/]] | Suo)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">IF THE PAST few years have ... a way of accomplishing that."</span>
Private enterprise is the only peaceful way to develop space – interdependence means countries cooperate
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wasser and Jobes 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Alan Wasser is the Chairman of The Space Settlement Institute and a former CEO of the National Space Society. He is a former member of the AIAA Space Colonization Technical Committee, former member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, and a former Senior Associate of the Space Studies Institute. Douglas Jobes is the President of The Space Settlement Institute and a promoter of space exploration and settlement. He has been published in The Space Review and in the American Astronautical Society’s (AAS) SPACE TIMES magazine, “SPACE SETTLEMENTS, PROPERTY RIGHTS, AND INTERNATIONAL LAW: COULD A LUNAR SETTLEMENT CLAIM THE LUNAR REAL ESTATE IT NEEDS TO SURVIVE?”, [[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/jal73-1Wasser.pdf]] | Suo)</span>

Some<span class="UnderlineChar"> of those </span>who have ... to appropriate the Moon<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.71</span>

====Econ==== 

Multiple internals:

a. Investment- Common Heritage makes space not cost effective for US companies- the plan provides a massive incentive
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ranjana </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kaul</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, partner at Dua Associates practicing space law, columnist for the Financial Express, 11/15/</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">08</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, http://www.financialexpress.com/news/column-whose-moon-is-it-anyway/385819/0</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">November 14, 2008 was ... contradict international law.</span>

b. Industrialization- the plan provides infinite directions for spacefaring companies- jumpstarts the market and puts us back on top
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ty S. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Twibell</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, J.D. Candidate, , University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 19</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">97</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="verdana" style="font-size: 8pt;">SPACE LAW: LEGAL RESTRAINTS ON COMMERCIALIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF OUTER SPACE, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">65 UMKC L. Rev. 589</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Apollo landing on the Moon, ... commercialization of space.</span>

c. Development- Common Heritage currently blocks space development
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jeremy L. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zell</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">,</span><span class="verdana" style="font-size: 8pt;">J.D. Candidate, University of Minnesota Law School; B.A., University of South Dakota, 20</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">06</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 15 Minn. J. Int'l L. 489</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The time for the formation ...</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> way that truly benefits all of humanity.</span>


Only the plan sends the signal that development of space is legitimate- paves the way for more innovative ventures
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ty S. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Twibell</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, J.D. Candidate, , University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 19</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">97</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="verdana" style="font-size: 8pt;">SPACE LAW: LEGAL RESTRAINTS ON COMMERCIALIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF OUTER SPACE, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">65 UMKC L. Rev. 589</span>
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">Currently, </span>most ventures are performed ... claim- of-right to the final product<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">.</span>
Within 5 years the plan spurs lunar mining that uncovers a vast array of resources- leads to limitless wealth and makes us filthy rich
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ezra J. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reinstein</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Associate, Kirkland & Ellis, 19</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">99</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 20 NW. J. INT'L L. & BUS. 59</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Space offers the potential for practically ...</span> fruits of space for a long time to come<span class="UnderlineChar">.</span>
That independently causes the next industrial revolution
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ty S. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Twibell</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, J.D. Candidate, , University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 19</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">97</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">,</span><span class="verdana" style="font-size: 8pt;">SPACE LAW: LEGAL RESTRAINTS ON COMMERCIALIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF OUTER SPACE, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">65 UMKC L. Rev. 589</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">An immediate and accelerated surge in ... genetic engineering and molecular electronics. </span>

Economic decline causes war
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harris and Burrows 9</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">PhD in European History @ Cambridge and Counselor of the US National Intelligence Council AND Member of the National Intelligence Council’s Long Range Analysis Unit (Mathew J. and Jennifer, “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” April, Washington Quarterly, [[http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf]], EMM)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Of course, the report encompasses more than ...</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> in a</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> more </span><span class="UnderlineChar">dog-eat-dog world. </span>

Experts and history disprove your impact takeouts
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schrage ‘9</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael J. Green and Steven P., Michael J. Green is Senior Advisor and Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) and Associate Professor at Georgetown University. Steven P. Schrage is the CSIS Scholl Chair in International Business and a Former Senior Official with the US Trade Representative's Office, State Department and Ways & Means Committee, //It's not just the economy//, Available Online @ the Asian Times)</span>

Facing the worst economic crisis ... most of the critical challenges we face.

Diversionary conflict theory makes war stemming from economic collapse a reality
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedberg ‘9</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Aaron Friedberg and Gabriel Schoenfeld, Professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School, Visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute in Princeton, Senior editor of Commentary, //The Dangers of a Diminished America//, Accessed Online at the WSJ)</span>

The stabilizing effects of our ... a world economic and geopolitical power.

Alternatively, the US would just withdraw from the international system during the collapse
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ferguson ‘9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Niall, Laurence A. Tisch Professor of History at Harvard University, Author of War of the World and The Ascent of Money, //Introducing the axis of upheaval//, The Times, Accessed Online @ The Times Online)</span>

The problem is that, <span class="UnderlineChar">as ...</span> age of upheaval starts here.

The combination of isolationism and diversion is the most deadly- leads to world war three
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ockham Research ‘8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Independent Equity Research Provider based in Atlanta Georgia, Economic Distress and Geopolitical Risks, November 18th, Accessed Online @ Seeking Alpha)</span>

The economic turmoil roiling ... another race, country, ideology, etc.

Collapse triggers all war – absent a large-scale shift from inertia all your DA impacts are triggered in 2012
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">McKillop 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Andrew McKillop, former chief policy analyst, Division A Policy, DG XVII Energy, European Commission, has more than 30 years experience in the energy, economic and finance domains. Trained at London UK’s University College, he has had specially long experience of energy policy, project administration and the development and financing of alternate energy. This included his role of in-house Expert on Policy and Programming at the DG XVII-Energy of the European Commission, Director of Information of the OAPEC technology transfer subsidiary, AREC and researcher for UN agencies including the ILO, 12/30/11, “Global Economic Collapse In 2012?”, http://www.marketoracle.co.uk/Article32374.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">MORAL AND ECONOMIC DECLINE This longstanding ... the changeover starts Anarchist.</span>

==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Neg SHit</span>== 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Rd 2 vs bishop guertin (space lazors, SMD)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1nc: t commercial, xo, ptc, case d (also china spark)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2nc: case d, china spark</span>
1nr: ptc
2nr: ptc, case d, china spark

rd 4 vs river hill sl (d+g race)
1nc: framework, agonism k, cap k
2nc: framework, agonism k
1nr: cap k
2nr: cap k