[[toc]]
=Topicality= 
==T-Framework== 
<span class="Underline">First, effective deliberation requires a forum of discussion that facilitates political agonism and the capacity to substantively engage the topic at hand-in short, a forum of switch side debate where the negative can predict and respond to the aff is the most intellectually effective-this is crucial to affecting productive change in all facets of life-the process in this instance is more important than the substance of their advocacy </span>
<span class="Underline">Amy Gutmann 96 is the president of Penn and former prof @ Princeton, AND Dennis Thompson is Alfred North Whitehead Professor of Political Philosophy at Harvard University, Democracy and Disagreement, pp 1</span>
<span class="Underline">OF THE CHALLENGES that … for deciding what means are morally required to pursue our common ends.</span>

<span class="Underline">Effective deliberation is crucial to the activation of personal agency and is only possible in a switch-side debate format where debaters divorce themselves from ideology to engage in political contestation-this activation of agency is vital to preventing mass violence and genocide and overcoming politically debilitating self-obsession </span>
<span class="Underline">Patricia Roberts-Miller 3 is Associate Professor of Rhetoric at the University of Texas "Fighting Without Hatred:Hannah Ar endt ' s Agonistic Rhetoric" JAC 22.2 2003</span>
<span class="Underline">Totalitarianism and the Competitive Space of Agonism</span>
<span class="Underline">Arendt is probably most…/., independent but not expressivist rhetoric.</span>

<span class="Underline">Democratic agonism can only successfully operate in a limited forum-it’s not a limitation on the content of argument, but on the form in which it is presented-this is not an appeal to exclusion, but to maximizing the deliberative potential of debate</span>
<span class="Underline">Robert W. Glover 10 Prof of Poli Sci @ UConn "Games without Frontiers?: Democratic Engagement, Agonistic Pluralism, and the Question of Exclusion" Philosophy and Social Criticism Vol. 36</span>
<span class="Underline">Recent democratic …. with limits and frontiers.</span>

<span class="Underline">Agreement is a precondition for contestation</span>
<span class="Underline">Ruth Lessl Shively 2k, associate professor of political science at Texas A&M, 2000 Political Theory and Partisan Politics p. 181-2</span>
<span class="Underline">The requirements given thus far are p…agreements are simply implicit in the act of argumentation. </span>

<span class="Underline">Effective deliberative discourse is the lynchpin to solving all existential social and political problems-a switch-side debate format that sets appropriate limits on argument to foster a targeted discussion is most effective-our K turns the whole case</span>
<span class="Underline">Christian O. Lundberg 10 Professor of Communications @ University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, “Tradition of Debate in North Carolina” in Navigating Opportunity: Policy Debate in the 21st Century By Allan D. Louden, p311</span>
<span class="Underline">The second major problem ….with the existential challenges to democracy [in an] increasingly complex world. </span>

==T-Commercial== 

**Space development is exclusively commercial opportunities**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nasa Academy 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- “ROADMAP TO A SPACE FARING CIVILIZATION,” August 7, 2008, [[http://commercialspace.pbworks.com/f/NA08_GSFC_RSFC_VER_1.0.pdf]] </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Space development – private in...work in and profit from space. </span>

==T-Physical== 

**Space exploration is physical presence in space**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Faith 9-</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> G. Ryan Faith, Adjunct Fellow at the Center for Strategic & International Studies, Washington, DC, “Giving NASA a clear mission,” August 31, 2009, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1456/1]], The Space Review</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">If we wish to see … the groundwork for future missions.</span>

==T-Preexisting== 
**Increase requires pre-existence**
**Brown, 03 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">US Federal Judge for the UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE DISTRICT OF OREGON (ELENA MARK and PAUL GUSTAFSON, Plaintiffs, v. VALLEY INSURANCE COMPANY and VALLEY PROPERTY AND CASUALTY, Defendants, 7/17, lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">FCRA does not define the … insurance [**23] coverage at a lower price.</span>

==T-No Research== 
**There is a clear distinction between exploration and research**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">National Academy of Sciences 5 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[SCIENCE IN NASA’S VISION FOR SPACE EXPLORATION, Committee on the Scientific Context for Space Exploration Space Studies Board Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences, 2005]</span>
<span style="background-color: lime; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">New opportunities for research will … </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">on the problem at hand. </span>
**Development excludes research**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Chayes 85 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Summer 1985, Leading International Law Specialist, Kennedy Administration's Chief International Lawyer, and Felix Frankfurter Professor of Law, Emeritus [deceased], Abram, “Space Weapons: The Legal Context”, //Daedalus// Vol. 114, No. 3, Weapons in Space, Vol. II: Implications for Security Pg. 202-203 http://www.jstor.org/pss/20024990)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__Development__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ACDA Director Gerard C. Smith … the meaning of the treaty.21</span></span>

==T-its== 

**Its” is possessive.**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">English Grammar 5</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Glossary of English Grammar Terms, [[http://www.usingenglish.com/glossary/possessive-pronoun.html]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mine, yours, his, hers, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">its</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, … shows that it belongs to me.)</span>

**USFG incentives for space activities are __distinct__ from “its” space development programs.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Berger 11 -</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Houston Chronicle's space, weather and science reporter. (“NASA still being torn between commercial space and its own rockets,” Houston Chronicle Blog, 2/14, [[http://blog.chron.com/sciguy/2011/02/nasa-still-being-torn-between-commercial-space-and-its-own-rockets/]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The president’s budget for NASA … a new NASA rocket and crew vehicle.</span>