[[toc]]
=He3 Affirmative= 
Plan
Plan: The United States federal government should implament its lunar mining capabilities for Helium-3 as allowed under the 1967 Outer Space Treaty.

==Inherency== 
There is currently a shortage of Helium-3 on Earth
Dana A. Shea and Daniel Morgan 2010 (Dana A. Shea, specialist in science and technology policy, and Daniel Morgan, special in science and technology policy, Congressional Research Facility, December 22, 2010, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R41419.pdf)

The world is experiencing a shortage of helium-3, a rare isotope of helium with applications in homeland security, national security, medicine, industry, and science


Helium-3 Good No replacement technology for He-3 exists today. The technological and funding barriers to developing alternative technologies for He-3 in respect to nuclear safeguarding and oil exploration will be immense and challenging to overcome. Without plenty of federal funding, the nation may experience serious effects of a He-3 shortage.
Anderson 10 Thomas R. Anderson, Product Line Leader of GE Energy and Reuter Stokes Radiation Measurement Solutions, April 22, 2010, Written Testimony of Thomas R. Anderson, Product Line Leader GE Energy, Reuter Stokes Radiation Measurement Solutions Before the Subcommittee on Investigations and Oversight Committee on Science And Technology U.S. House of Representatives Hearing on Caught By Surprise: Causes And Consequences Of The Helium-3 Supply Crisis, http://science.house.gov/sites/republicans.science.house.gov/files/documents/hearings/042210_Anderson.pdf

<Alternative Technologies.A drop-in replacement for Helium-3 does not exist today.



==Advantage 1: Proliferation== 

Recent Increases In Nuclear Terrorism Show That Terrorists Can And Will Obtain Nuclear Material To Build Weapons. These Weapons Destroy The Economy And Civilization War And Violence Would Become The Norm.
Ferguson, Charles D. and Potter 04, William C. Potter: Director of Center for Nonproliferation Studies. The Four Faces of Nuclear Terrorism. Monterey Institute Center for Nonproliferation Studies. Nuclear Threat Initiative. 2004.

Nuclear materials suitable for nuclear arms are perhaps at even greater risk than the nuclear weapons themselves.

Helium-3 Solves Nuclear Proliferation Helium-3 Fusion Reduces The Production Of Fissile Material That Is Produced In Status Quo Fusion.
J. F. Santarius 98, G. L. Kulcinski, L. A. El-Guebaly, and H. Y. Khater. Professors at Fusion Technology Institute, University of Wisconsin. Could Advanced Fusion Fuels Be Used With Today's TechnologyJournal of Fusion Energy. Volume 17. No. 1. 1998. http://www.springerlink.com/content/q81305u163620k03/fulltext.pdf
An important distinction between D-3He and D-T power plants is that D-3He power plants could not produce fissile fuel and contribute to nuclear proliferation.

Helium-3 Is Key To Detect Dangerous Nuclear Materials The Status Quo Shortage Prevents Detection And Increases The Probability Of Nuclear Terrorism.
Shea and Morgan 10 (Dana and Daniel, specialists in science and technology policy, The Helium-3 Shortage: Supply, Demand, and Options For Congress 12/22 Pg. 5, 16-17 JF)
The demand for helium-3 for national and homeland security purposes falls into two main categories:

Terrorist nuclear use triggers global nuclear war ending in extinction
Morgan 9 (Dennis, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693, World on Fire JF)
Moore points out what most terrorists obviously already know about the nuclear tensions between powerful countries.


==Advantage 2: Desalination== 

Water is running out- 1 in 6 people does not have access to safe drinking water
World Water Council, 2010 http://www.worldwatercouncil.org/index.php?id=25

While the world's population tripled in the 20th century, the use of renewable water resources has grown six-fold.

There is interest in desalinization, but energy is a huge obstacle
Schirber, Michael 7
http://www.livescience.com/4510-desalination-work.html
Energy is key But even with membranes, large amounts of energy are needed to generate the high pressure that forces the water through the filter

Fusion heat is k2 desal
FPC, 2011 Fusion Power Corporation, a beneficial use of waste heat http://www.fusionpowercorporation.com/freshwater2

Waste heat is a necessary component of heat engines and all thermal processes in general

Water Solves Tensions and Regional, National, and International Instability
ˇWorld Water Council, 2010 http://www.worldwatercouncil.org/index.php?id=25

As the resource is becoming scarce, tensions among different users may intensify, both at the national and international level.ˇ

Providing water is key to provide food and prevent political destabilization in developing regions
Crary, David 10/17/11. http://news.yahoo.com/challenges-loom-world-population-hits-7-billion-040835519.html
As of Oct. 31, according to the U.N. Population Fund, there will be 7 billion people sharing Earth's land and resources

==Advantage 3: Economy== 

Economy on brink of double-dip now.
Silver 8-2011 [Nate Silver, 8/4/11, New York Times, Double Dip or Not, Economy Is Falling Further Behind?, http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/08/04/double-dip-or-not-economy-is-falling-farther-behind/]
While Washington was busy debating whether or not to sabotage the recovery by failing to raise the federal debt ceiling, the economy seemed to be doing everything in its power to demonstrate that it's in feeble health to begin with.

Helium-3 Cost Efficient It Solves Back The Cost Of Fossil Fuels.
Stansbery 11 (Dr. Eileen K. Stansbery, the Deputy Director, Office of Astromaterials Research and Exploration Science at NASA Johnson Space Center (JSC)NASA, June 25, 2011, http://ares.jsc.nasa.gov/humanexplore/exploration/exlibrary/docs/isru/06energy.htm)

Along with the other light gases mentioned above, we can extract an isotope of helium from the regolith.

He-3 Stimulates The Economy: It Promotes Job Creation And Product Development
D?souza, Otalvaro & Singh 6 (HARVESTING HELIUM-3 FROM THE MOON An Interactive Qualifying Project Report submitted to the Faculty of the WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the Degree of Bachelor Science by Marsha R. D?Souza Diana M. Otalvaro Deep Arjun Singh Date: February 17, 2006 http://www.wpi.edu/Pubs/E-project/Available/E-project-031306-122626/unrestricted/IQP.pdf)
The peculiarity of He-3 is that the resources in space are practically unlimited for a human lifespan

Stimulus Key To The Economy It Prevents Global Collapse, Unemployment, And Spiraling Recession.
Worth June 11, Jim. Author, Journalist for the Huffington Post. ?Stimulating a Dead Economy. Huffpost Business. June 17, 2011. http://www.huffingtonpost.com/jim-worth/stimulating-a-dead-econom_b_878850.html
The U.S. economy is surviving only because of over-stimulation.

Declines in American technology and manufacturing base kills the economy and US leadership
Velazquez 03
(Nydia M Velazquez, Ranking Member of House Small Business Committee. House.gov, 10-16-2003: Is America Losing Its Lead in High-tech: Implications for the U.S. Defense Industrial Base accessed June 26, 2011 from http://democrats.smallbusiness.house.gov/Statements/2003/st101603.htm [6/8/11])
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Earlier in the year, the committee looked at trends in the technology sector and the challenges facing this industry.


Economic decline causes nuclear and biological war
Kerpen, 8 Conservative policy analyst in Washington, D.C.
[From Panic to Depression, NRO Financial, http://article.nationalreview.com/376654/from-panic-to-depression/phil-kerpen]
It's important that we avoid all these policy errors not just for the sake of our prosperity, but for our survival.

==Advantage 4: Warming== 
Carbon Dioxide Emissions Are Increasing After Fukushima more countries will switch to fossil fuels.
J. P. Morgan 2011 Climate Care. Climate on the brink as 2010 carbon emissions reach all-time high. J. P. Morgan ClimateCare. May 31, 2011.
Global energy-related CO2 emissions soared last year to the highest carbon output in history,

Helium-3 Eliminates Fossil Fuel Dependence And Solves Global Warming.
Dsouza, Otalvaro & Singh 6 (HARVESTING HELIUM-3 FROM THE MOON An Interactive Qualifying Project Report submitted to the Faculty of the WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the Degree of Bachelor Science by Marsha R. D?Souza Diana M. Otalvaro Deep Arjun Singh Date: February 17, 2006 http://www.wpi.edu/Pubs/E-project/Available/E-project-031306-122626/unrestricted/IQP.pdf)
Energy is the most important driving force for powering industrial nations

Effects of climate change are just as bad as any war
Lovell 07
(Jeremy Lovell, analyst for Reuters. September 13th, 2007. "Global Warming Impact Like 'Nuclear War'" Accessed: 6/23/11 http://www.countercurrents.org/lovell130907.htm)
London - Climate change could have global security implications on a par with nuclear war unless urgent action is taken, a report said on Wednesday.
Solvency

Helium-3 mining would be easy and inexpensive, total plan cost about 15 billion

Popular Mechanics 4 (Mining The Moon 12/7 http://www.popularmechanics.com/science/space/moon-mars/1283056 JF)
Because the concentration of helium-3 is extremely low, it would be necessary to process large amounts of rock and soil to isolate the material

He3 can be extracted with current technology.
Bilder, 9 - Foley & Lardner-Bascom Emeritus Professor of Law, University of Wisconsin Law
School
[Richard, A Legal Regime for the Mining of Helium-3
on the Moon: U.S. Policy Option, Fordham International Law Review, 33:2, 2009, http://ir.lawnet.fordham.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=2180&context=ilj&sei-redir=1#search="united+states+helium+3+mining+law+review"]
How would lunar He-3 be extracted and transported to Earth?

Helium-3 Is A Prerequisite To Fusion Development?Status Quo Fusion Unattractive And Unlikely To Develop.
Cheetham, Brad and Pastuf, Dan. 2008. [University at Buffalo, Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. ?Lunar Resources and Development: A brief overview of the possibilities for lunar resource extraction and development.? http://www.eng.buffalo.edu/~cheetham/index_files/Moon%20Paper%20441.pdf
The possibility of a Helium-3 fueled lunar economy was mentioned previously.

=ExoMars Affirmative= 
See page for Layne Turci/Olivia Pribich.
=Negative= 
We've gone for Cap, PTX, case turns, and framework in the 2NR.
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]