[[toc]]
**For any questions contact piemanrulezu@gmail.com**
**All cite requests will be given and then posted**

=**1AC**= 
**Contention 1 is Inherency:**
**There Is No Helium-3 On Earth—The Element That Is Key To Making Fusion Possible Exists Only On The Moon**
Stefano<span style="font-size: 16px;">Coledan</span>. //Popular Mechanic//. “Mining The Moon.” December 7, 20<span style="font-size: 16px;">04</span>. http://www.popularmechanics.com/science/space/moon-mars/1283056

==Economy== 

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Contention 2 is the economy</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Energy needs trades off with other priorities, crippling the economy</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Lugar 07</span>-Former vice-chair Commission on Intergovernmental Relation, Foreign Relations Committee, former chair of the Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee[Richard, “ENERGY SECURITY, ENERGY URGENCY: KEY ISSUES FACING THE NEXT PRESIDENT”, Dec. 18, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/events/2007/1218_lugar/20071218lugar.pdf]



**He-3 Stimulates The Economic Growth, Three Reasons:**
**1. It Promotes Job Creation And Product Development**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">D’souza, Otalvaro&Singh 6</span> (HARVESTING HELIUM-3 FROM THE MOON An Interactive Qualifying Project Report submitted to the Faculty of the WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the Degree of Bachelor Science byMarsha R. D’Souza Diana M. Otalvaro Deep Arjun Singh Date: February 17, 2006 http://www.wpi.edu/Pubs/E-project/Available/E-project-031306-122626/unrestricted/IQP.pdf)



**2. Multiple Uses Makes It Economically Competitive In The Short And Long Term.**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">D’souza, Otalvaro&Singh 6</span> (HARVESTING HELIUM-3 FROM THE MOON An Interactive Qualifying Project Report submitted to the Faculty of the WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the Degree of Bachelor Science byMarsha R. D’Souza Diana M. Otalvaro Deep Arjun Singh Date: February 17, 2006 http://www.wpi.edu/Pubs/E-project/Available/E-project-031306-122626/unrestricted/IQP.pdf)




**3. Long-Term Benefits Of Helium-3 Attract Investors**

<span style="font-size: 16px;">D’souza, Otalvaro&Singh 6</span> (HARVESTING HELIUM-3 FROM THE MOON An Interactive Qualifying Project Report submitted to the Faculty of the WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the Degree of Bachelor Science byMarsha R. D’Souza Diana M. Otalvaro Deep Arjun Singh Date: February 17, 2006 http://www.wpi.edu/Pubs/E-project/Available/E-project-031306-122626/unrestricted/IQP.pdf)





**<span style="color: #000000;">-Economic growth reduces gender inequality – statistics</span>**
**Forsythe et al, 2k** <span style="font-size: 10px;">[Nancy Forsythe, prof of Sociology and Women’s Studies at the University of Maryland; Roberto Patricio Korzeniewicz, prof of sociology at the University of Maryland; Valerie Durrant, Ph.D. in sociology with an emphasis in demography. Economic Development and Cultural Change, Vol. 48, No. 3 (April 2000), pp. 573-617. Economic Development and Cultural Change, Vol. 48, No. 3 (April 2000), pp. 573-617]</span>



-**Economic growth is a key solution to famine**

Mahder 8 <span style="font-size: 10px;">(Ethiopian Development Website, “Addressing the root cause of famine and poverty in Ethiopia,” September 27, 2008,</span>

<span style="font-size: 10px;">http://mahder.com/pdf/Addressing_the_root_cause_of_famine_and_poverty_in_Ethiopia..pdf, AD: 7-6-9)</span>




**-Economic growth solves poverty—historical stats prove.**
<span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Deaton</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 16px;"> __5__ </span><span style="font-size: 10px;">(Angus, Woodrow Wilson School @ Princeton, “Measuring Poverty In A Growing World” The Review of Economics and Statistics 87.1 February 2005 accessed 6/21/11 JF)</span>



**Ongoing global poverty outweighs nuclear war- only our ev is comparative.**
Spina 2k <span style="font-size: 12px;">(Stephanie Urso, Ph.D. candidate in social/personality psychology at the Graduate School of the City University of New York, Smoke and Mirrors: The Hidden Context of Violence in Schools and Society, p. 201)</span>



**Helium-3 Fusion is Cost and Energy Efficient—Any Costs Are Solved Back By Revenue**.
Stefano<span style="font-size: 16px;">Coledan</span>. //Popular Mechanic//. “Mining The Moon.” December 7, 20<span style="font-size: 16px;">04</span>. http://www.popularmechanics.com/science/space/moon-mars/1283056

==Fusion== 

**Contention 3 is Fusion:**
**<span style="font-size: 14.66px;">A steady supply of helium-3 from the moon makes fusion possible</span>**
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Schirber 2008</span> (Michael, LiveScience columnist, “How Lunar Soil Could Power the Future” [[http://www.livescience.com/2784-lunar-soil-power-future.html]] Date Accessed 7/15/11
**Fossil fuel use increasing- CO2 emmissions prove**
J. P. Morgan Climate Care. “Climate on the brink as 2010 carbon emissions reach all-time high.” J. P. Morgan ClimateCare. May 31, 2011.

**Helium-3 fusion Is Safe And A Great Replacement For Fossil Fuels**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">D’souza, Otalvaro & Singh 6</span> (They wrote a 300 page paper on helium-3 that's all you really need to know)

**Helium 3 will produce 10 times as much energy as fossil fuels**
**Whittington,** space policy analyst and author of //Children of Apollo//, **4**<span style="font-size: 8px;"> (12/8/04, Mark R., USA Today, “World's next energy source may be just a moon away,” [[http://www.usatoday.com/news/opinion/editorials/2004-12-08-energy-source_x.htm]], JMP)</span>

**Shred your solvency attacks- helium-3 fusion reactors are possible now and do not require a tokomak**
<span style="color: #000000;">Hedman 06 (</span>//<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.33px;">Eric R. Hedman</span>//<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.33px;">,a contributor for the space review January 16, 2006,A fascinating hour with Gerald Kulcinski, the space review online, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/536/1)</span>
**6 impacts to fossil fuels**

**Scenario 1 is terrorism**
**US oil dependence drives up the price of oil—this literally FUNDS the hands of hostile nations and terrorist-sponsoring states**

<span class="cite">Powers 10 (</span><span style="font-size: 13px;">Jonathan Powers, COO at Truman National Security Project, Oil addiction: Fueling our Enemies, Truman National Security Project, Feb 17, pg. 3-4)</span>

**Scenario 2 is pollution**

**Fossil fuels cause massive amounts of air pollution**

<span class="cite">CLEAN 04</span> <span style="font-size: 10px;">– collaboration global warming raise awareness program, comprised of well qualified scientists (2004, CLEANenergy.org, “Summary of the Issues: Energy” http://www.cleanhouston.org/energy/index.htm#studies CB)</span>


**Left unchecked, <span style="color: #222222;">air pollution</span> destroys the environment and risks extinction**
<span class="cite">Driesen 03</span> (David, Associate Professor, Syracuse University College of Law. J.D. Yale Law School, 1989, Fall/Sp

ring, 10 Buff. Envt'l. L.J. 25, lexis)


**Scenario 3 is hegemony**
**Oil dependence reduces US global hegemony and emboldens nations hostile to American interests**

<span class="cite">Wald and Team 09</span> (General Charles F. Wald and team, Former Deputy Commander, Headquarters U.S. European Command, CAN, “Powering America’s Defense: Energy and the Risks to National Security,” May, http://www.cna.org/sites/default/files/Powering%20Americas%20Defense.pdf)

**Us hegemony solves MULTIPLE impacts both systemically and terminally**
**Lieber 5**<span style="font-size: 10px;"> – PhD from Harvard, Professor of Government and International Affairs at Georgetown, former consultant to the State Department and for National Intelligence Estimates (Robert, “The American Era”, pages 51-52, WEA)</span>

**<span style="color: #000000;">Scenario 4 is Biofuels</span>**

**Fossil fuel dependence leads to increased biofuel use. Biofuel leads to higher food prices and starvation worldwide**
**Tenenbaum 08 (**Food vs. Fuel: Diversion of Crops Could Cause More Hunger, David J. Tenenbaum, <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nlm.nih.gov/|US National Library of Medicine]][[http://www.nih.gov/|National Institutes of Health]]</span><span style="font-size: 13px;">, June 11 2008, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2430252/)</span>

**<span style="color: #000000;">Increased food prices will cause mass starvation killing 95% of the world</span>**
**Adams 8** – staff writer for naturalnews.com (April 23, “The Biofuels Scam, Food Shortages and the Coming Collapse of the Human Population”, [[http://www.naturalnews.com/023091.html]])


**Scenario 5 is cooperation:**
**Fossil fuels create large geopolitical conflict and hurt cooperation- Russia and China prove**
Xuetang **Guo and** Mehdi P**. Amineh 07 (**Xuetang Guo is an Associate Professor at the Institute ofInternational Politics, Tongji University, Shanghai, China. He visited IIAS as an affiliated fellowin Feb-April 2007 Mehdi P. Amineh is a Senior Research Fellow and Energy Programme Director at IIAS. https://openaccess.leidenuniv.nl/bitstream/handle/1887/12813/IIAS_NL45_15.pdf?sequence=1)


**Scenario 6 is Global Warming:**
**Anthropogenic Carbon Emissions Caused By Burning Fossil Fuels Are Causing Global Warming—Our Efforts To Reduce Carbon Now Are Critical To Solve**

Emily Figdor Director, Federal Global Warming Program, “CARBON-NEUTRAL POLICIES FOR THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT,” CQ Congressional Testimony, May 17, 2007, p. lexis

**Failure to Check Climate Change Will Eliminate All Life On Earth and Outweigh the Release of Every Nuclear Weapon on the Planet- Gives us the biggest impact in the round**
<span style="color: #333333;">Richard Girling, “</span>What will climate change do to our planet?” Times Online (London), March 11, 2007 (http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/news/uk/science/article1480669.ece)

==Plan== 

**Thus the plan: The United States Federal Government should begin mining the moon for Helium-3**

Or

**Thus the Plan: The National Nuclear Security Administration should begin mining the moon for Helium-3**
==**Solvency**== 

**Contention 4 is solvency**
**Helium-3 Transportation Feasible Now**

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bilder</span>, Richard B. Foley & Lardner-Bascom Emeritus Professor of Law, University of Wisconsin Law School. “A Legal Regime for the Mining of Helium-3 on the Moon: U.S. Policy Options.” //Fordham International Law Journal//. Volume 33, Issue 2. Article 1.<span style="font-size: 16px;">2009</span>. http://ddw11.wikispaces.com/file/view/Helium-3+Law+Review+Article.pdf

**He3 can be extracted with current technology.**
<span style="font-size: 13px;">Bilder, 9 - Foley & Lardner-Bascom Emeritus Professor of Law, University of Wisconsin Law School </span>[<span style="font-size: 12px;">Richard, A Legal Regime for the Mining of Helium-3 on the Moon: U.S. Policy Option, Fordham International Law Review, 33:2, 2009, http://ir.lawnet.fordham.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=2180&context=ilj&seiredir=1#search="united+states+helium+3+mining+law+review"] </span>

**The mining of Helium-3 in significant quantities is both economically and technically viable**
**Barnatt, 11**<span style="font-size: 8px;"> (April 2011, Christopher, Explaining the Future, “Helium-3 Power Generation”, [[http://www.explainingthefuture.com/helium3.html]])</span>

**Helium-3 fusion Is Safe And A Great Replacement For Fossil Fuels**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">D’souza, Otalvaro & Singh 6</span> (They wrote a 300 page paper on helium-3 that's all you really need to know)

**Helium 3 will produce 10 times as much energy as fossil fuels**
**Whittington,** space policy analyst and author of //Children of Apollo//, **4**<span style="font-size: 8px;"> (12/8/04, Mark R., USA Today, “World's next energy source may be just a moon away,” [[http://www.usatoday.com/news/opinion/editorials/2004-12-08-energy-source_x.htm]], JMP)</span>

**HE-3 causes a transition to a nuclear fusion economy --- solves radiation, public fears of nuclear power, nuclear waste and prevents economic and environmental damage**
**Kulcinski& Schmitt,** with the Fusion Technology Institute in the Department of Engineering Physics at the University of Wisconsin-**Madison 2000**<span style="font-size: 6px;"> (July 2000, G.L. Kulcinski and H.H. Schmitt, Fusion Technology Institute, “Nuclear Power Without Radioactive Waste – The Promise of Lunar Helium-3,” Presented at the Second Annual Lunar Development Conference, “Return to the Moon II”, 20–21 July 2000, Las Vegas NV, [[http://fti.neep.wisc.edu/FTI/pdf/fdm1131.pdf]], JMP)</span>

==Framework== 

**Contention 5 is we're nuke war hipsters**
**Solving systemic harms comes before ensuring survival.**

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Callahan 85 (Daniel, Director of International Program, PhD on philosophy in Harvard The Tyranny of Survival and Other Pathologies of Civilized Life, p. 91-93 Kim)</span>

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Turn- Ethics are a pre-requisite to utilitarian calculations, if we win our ethical framework then you vote aff before you ever consider a body count. Voting neg denies the value to life</span>**
Manning, <span style="font-size: 13px;">Professor of theology and philosophy at Quincy University,</span> 1993
(Robert, , Intepreting Otherwise than Heidegger, p. 123-125)

**The focus on survival instead of life destroys all value to life – threats are used to blackmail populations create a society where government and people are separate.**
<span style="font-size: 10px;">Baudrillard, professor of philosophy of culture and media criticism at the European Graduate School, 1995 </span>
<span style="font-size: 10px;">(Jean, America, p 43-44)</span>


**Policy decisions directed at maintaining human survival through whatever means will encourage genocide, war, and the destruction of moral values**

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Callahan 73</span> <span style="font-size: 10px;">(Co-Founder and former director of The Hastings Institute, PhD in philosophy from Harvard University, Daniel, “The Tyranny of Survival”, p 91-93)</span>

==1AC plan (districts)== 

Thus the plan: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its development of space beyond the earth’s mesosphere by mining the moon for Helium-3 with all necessary funding and resources provided

=Neg= 

==Neg Strats== 

===**North Hall**=== 

**Rd.1 vs. Central Gwinnet PM (SPS)**
1nc- Nasa trade-off da, Debris da, ozone da, case
2NR- Debris, Ozone, Case

**Rd.4 vs. Central Gwinnet SZ (China coop)**
1nc- Case turns
2nr- What do you think?


===**Houston**=== 

**Rd. 1 vs Pace HP (sps)**
1nc- International cp, china da, trade-off da, politics (can't remember le scenario) Russia da, case
2NR- Cp, China, trade-off, case

**Rd. 3 vs Pace KS (ssa)**
1NC- Fear of death K, Private CP, Trade-off disad, case
2NR- FOD

===**Blue Key**=== 
**(It was carrollton JB at the time)**

**Rd. 2 vs Ransom everglades SB (It sounds like a shampoo) (sps)**
1nc- Private cp, Coop disad, DOJ trade-off, Tics (I think Jobs IDK), Case
2nr- Everything

**Rd. 4 vs. St. Petersberg TC (Sps)**
1nc- Private Cp, Coop disad, DoJ trade-off, politics, case
2nr- Case, Cp, Coop da

**Rd. 5 vs. Fort Lauderdale UM (Ors)**
1nc- Weapons da, Private cp, Coop disad, DOD trade-off, China, Politics, Case
2nr- Case, Politics, Private cp, China

**Quarters vs. Taravella AT** (that's probably not their name but Florida has weird team names) (**Brilliant pebbles**)
1nc- Start da, china da, russia da, DOD trade-off, Coop da, International cp, Case
2nr- Start da, China da, Russia da, Cp

===**Lincoln**=== 

**Rd. 1 vs Houston PH (weapons)**
1nc- Generic theory, positive peace k, Politics (education), Biopower Da, case
2nr- K, Politics, Biopower, Case

**Rd. 4 vs. Houston MR (weapons)**
1nc- Politics, International cp, cooperation da, Case
2nr- Cp, coop, case

===Grady=== 

**Rd. 1 vs. Wheeler LW (sps)**
1nc- t- exploration requires humans, pollution da, radiation da, rsp cp, case def
2nr- Cp, Radiation, case def

**Rd. 4 vs. Roswell UM (sps)**
1nc- Ospec (yes we did, I know it's terrible, but at least it is a timesuck), Rsp cp, debris disad, coop disad, case def
2nr- Coop disad, case


===Jackson=== 

**Round 1 vs. Central Gwinnet SP (sps w/ china coop)**
1nc- case d, t-usfg, t-increase, international cp, pollution da, debris da
2nr- Case-d, T-usfg

**Round 4 vs. Central Gwinnet NS (Weapons**)
1nc- Vagueness theory, Declare war on china cp, debris disad, case d
2nr- War on china cp

===Districts=== 
**Round 1 vs. Marist AB (space corps)**
1nc- T-increase, T-beyond, China coop cp, DOD trade-off disad, nationalism K, case def
2nr- T- Beyond, K

**Round 3 vs. Houston county MP (weapons)**
1nc- Ozone disad, soft power disad, china disad, code of conduct cp, case turns
2nr- Soft power disad, code of conduct cp, case turns
==Requested cites== 

===Start DA=== 
**START has worked**

Rose **Gottemoeller**, Assistant Secretary, Bureau of Arms Control, Verification and Compliance, July 1, **2011**, Statement at the Annual Security Review Conference [[@http://www.state.gov/t/avc/rls/167477.htm]]

**If U.S. doesn’t consult Russia on plan, Russia withdraws from START**
**Anton Kulikov,** <span style="font-size: 16px;">Jan 27**, 2011** Russia responds to USA with own air and space defense system [[@http://english.pravda.ru/russia/politics/27-01-2011/116683-russia_defense_system-0/]]</span>

**Russia would withdraw from START if U.S. expanded missile defense.**
Vladimir **Isachenkov**February 7, **2011** <span style="font-size: 16px;">Russia eyes U.S. missile defense**:** May rethink New START [[@http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/feb/7/report-russia-warns-us-over-missile-defense-plans/]]</span>

**START prevents accidental nuclear war**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">DPC, 2010</span>**<span style="font-size: 16px;"> [[@http://dpc.senate.gov/docs/fs-111-2-30.html]]</span>