[[toc]]
=Info= 
Email [[mailto:cory.jstern@gmail.com|cory.jstern@gmail.com]] for neg cites and [[mailto:miagilepner@gmail.com|miagilepner@gmail.com]] for aff cites.
=Affirmative= 
==***1AC*** - Greenhill== 
===Asteroids=== 

**Contention 1 is asteroids**
**Current asteroid tracking has ignored many Near Earth Objects and could be reliant on false data. Asteroids still pose a large risk.**
**NRC 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (2010, National Research Council, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mitigation Strategies” [[http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842]] MGE)</span>
__Congress has established for NASA … : Humanity must be constantly vigilant.__

**5 events make it clear that there is a statistical certainty for an asteroid to impact Earth**
**NRC 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (2010, National Research Council, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mitigation Strategies” [[http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842]] MGE)</span>
__Over the past several decades, … the__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">y might pose to humanity. </span>

**An asteroid collision would destroy civilization, but advanced warning would solve**
**Bekey 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ivan, internationally known advanced space systems engineering consultant, 2009, International Academy of Aeronautics, “ Dealing with the THREAT TO EARTH From ASTEROIDS and COMETS” [[http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups/SG%20Commission%203/sg35/sg35finalreport.pdf]] MGE)</span>
__A million MT impact, even …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">humankind faces an uncertain future. </span>

**Would lead to a planetary wide extinction – worse than nuke war**
**Grego 98** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Peter, Director of Lunar Section Director of Britain's Society for Popular Astronomy (then called the Junior Astronomical Society), editor of both the SPA News Circulars and Popular Astronomy, 1998, Blanford, “Collision Earth!” MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> As they are so … of perhaps once every 22,000 years.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A 500m-diameter meteoroid will produce a crater more than 10km wide and wipe out anything within 1000sq km around the impact site. Big meteoroids like this might hit our planet every half0million years or more, producing environmental catastrophes which permanently affect life the world over. An asteroid ten times larger will blast out a crater in the Earth’s crust exceeding 100km in diameter, rendering total desolation over half a million sqare kilometres.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally, </span>__the unimaginable catastrophe of …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">mass extinctions of animal life.</span>

**This catastrophe comes before any other impact**
**Asphaug and Samarasinha 2**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Erik, University of California, and Nalin, National Optical Astronomy Observatory, September 2002, “ NASA Workshop on Scientific Requirements for Mitigation of Hazardous Comets and Asteroids” [[http://www.noao.edu/meetings/mitigation/media/arlington.extended.pdf]] MGE) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">No-one suggests that chemotherapy, … consequence, as with a serious cancer. </span>


**A reduction of the risk of extinction by 1 millionth of 1 percent is would save ten billion lives**
**Bostrom 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Nick, Oxford Martin School & Faculty of Philosophy, 2011, “The Concept of Existential Risk” http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html MGE)</span>
__To calculate the loss associated …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">benefit of such an action.[13] </span>
===Plan=== 

**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its efforts to survey Near Earth Objects.**

===Existential Risk=== 
**Contention two is existential risk**

**A 1% solvency deficit to a CP outweighs– any risk that an asteroid will strike means that you vote aff**
**Barbee 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Brent W., BS, Aerospace Engineering degree from UT Austin; MS in Engineering from the Department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics at the University of Texas, Austin specializing in Astrodynamics and Spacecraft Mission Design, 4/1/9, Air Power, “Planetary Defense Near-Earth Object Deflection Strategies” [[http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational/apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm|http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational//apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm]] MGE)</span>
__It is generally accepted … process for defense against NEOs.__

**The catastrophic nature of our impact puts asteroids in their own framework – their defense doesn’t apply**
**Morrison 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David, NASA Astrobiology Institute, NASA Ames Research Center, Moffett Field, CA, 2005, Science and Global Security, 13:87–103, “Defending the Earth Against Asteroids: The Case for a Global Response” [[http://www.princeton.edu/sgs/publications/sgs/pdf/13%201-2%20Morrision.pdf]] MGE)</span>
__While the level of hazard …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the statistical frequency of impacts.</span>

**Our extinction level impact will always outweigh – all other magnitude claims fall short**
**Bostrom 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Nick, Oxford Martin School & Faculty of Philosophy, 2011, “The Concept of Existential Risk” http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Holding probability constant, risks become … </span>__century fail to register__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (figure 3).</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Figure 3: World population over the last century. Calamities such as the Spanish flu pandemic, the two world wars, and the Holocaust scarcely register. (If one stares hard at the graph, one can perhaps just barely make out a slight temporary reduction in the rate of growth of the world population during these events.)</span>
__But even this reflection fails …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">people think. </span>__Compare three outcomes:__
__(1) Peace.__
__(2) A nuclear war that kills 99% of the world’s existing population.__
__(3) A nuclear war that kills 100%.__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(2) would be worse than (1), … is only a fraction of a second. (10: 453-454)</span>
__To calculate the loss associated with an existential catastrophe, we must consider how much value would come to exist in its absence. It turns out that the ultimate potential for Earth-originating intelligent life is literally astronomical.__
__One gets a large number even …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">continuing technological and moral progress.</span>
**Reduction of the risk of extinction should be our primary focus**
**Garrick 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (B. John, 2008, Risk Analysis, Academic Press xxii , “Quantifying and Controlling Catastrophic Risks” http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com.proxy.uchicago.edu/doi/10.1111/j.1539-6924.2010.01508.x/full MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Suppose that about 65 million years … the era of the dinosaurs?</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Sixty-five million years after this extinction event, evolution has led to us. Do we have the knowledge, the leadership, and the social cohesion that would allow us to survive the potential catastrophe that would result from a large asteroid impact? And similarly, will we survive other possible massive natural disasters and threats resulting from our increasing population and technological capability?</span>
__The analysis of catastrophic risks … might be avoided or mitigated.__

**Our impact framework doesn’t cause paralysis—within a risk framework, we should choose the action that has the greatest benefit**
**Bostrom 2011** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nick, Prof. of Philosophy at Oxford, The Concept of Existential Risk (Draft), [[http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html]] MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">These considerations suggest that </span>__the …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">tempting, that implication is implausible.</span>

**Intervening actors don’t solve - asteroids are ignored**
**Schweickart and Garretson 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Russell L., and Peter, Winter 2008, Ad Astra, NSS, “The Threat of Impact” http://www.nss.org/adastra/volume20/AdAstra2008ThreatOfImpact.pdf MGE) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is now past the … the nerve to take it on? </span>

**Time must be viewed in thousands of years in order to protect civilization as a whole**
**Verschuur 96**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gerrit L., Adjunct Professor of Physics at University of Memphis, 1996, “Impact! The Threat of Comets & Asteroids” MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So here we are, basking … question is worth thinking about. </span>
===Solvency=== 

**Contention three is Solvency**

**We have the technology**
**Worden 02** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Simon P., Director of Development and Transformation, Space and Missile Systems Center, Air Force Space Command 7/10/2, Space Ref,"Military Perspectives on the Near-Earth Object (NEO) Threat" [[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewpr.html?pid=8834]] MGE)</span>

__New technologies for both space-…__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">small objects could be done.</span>


**Tracking and deflection tech can be improved to protect us from a collision**
**Bekey 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ivan, internationally known advanced space systems engineering consultant, 2009, International Academy of Aeronautics, “ Dealing with the THREAT TO EARTH From ASTEROIDS and COMETS” [[http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups/SG%20Commission%203/sg35/sg35finalreport.pdf]] MGE)</span>
__An effective surveillance infrastructure____should …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">for NEO characterization as required. </span>

**We need space based missions for adequate deflection**
**NRC 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (2010, National Research Council, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mitigation Strategies” [[http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842]] MGE)</span>
__Detailed knowledge of the physical …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">attempted is essential (see Chapter 5). </span>

**Tracking asteroids gives us time to mitigate the collision**
**Morrison 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David, NASA Astrobiology Institute, NASA Ames Research Center, Moffett Field, CA, 2005, Science and Global Security, 13:87–103, “Defending the Earth Against Asteroids: The Case for a Global Response” [[http://www.princeton.edu/sgs/publications/sgs/pdf/13%201-2%20Morrision.pdf]] MGE)</span>
__Surveys to discover threatening asteroids …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">in the orbit of a 200 m asteroid. 29 </span>


**NASA is key to do the plan**
**A) They are already the world leader, have crisis plans in place, and are key to get other agencies involved**
**Hsu 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jeremy, 10/22/10, MSNBC “White House adviser voices asteroid worries” http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/39796926/ns/technology_and_science-space/ MGE) </span>
__National emergency plans for natural …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Committee on Science and Technology.</span>
__Holdren states that NASA must continue leading efforts to close the gap in detecting and perhaps deflecting near-Earth objects (NEO).____The U.S. space agency already has the duty of alerting the rest of the government about any threatening space objects.__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Holdren's letter also laid out </span>__…__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Research Institute in Boulder, Colo.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Going on alert </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to Holdren's letter, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, under the Department of Homeland Security, has the main responsibility on the ground in the U.S. FEMA can rely in part upon the National Warning System, which was designed to alert U.S. citizens to a Cold War nuclear attack.</span>
__The Department of Defense would work with NASA on possible mitigation or deflection scenarios that involved military resources.__
__Meanwhile, the Department of State … is considered low__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," Holdren said.</span>

**Only the US has unique technology to detect asteroids**
**Space Ref 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Space Ref, 10/4/7, “HR 3737: To provide for National Science Foundation and National Aeronautics and Space Administration utilization of the Arecibo Observatory” http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=25609 MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Congress finds the following:</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(1) Arecibo Observatory is the world's largest single-aperture telescope. It has been recognized as an Electrical Engineering Milestone by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and as a Mechanical Engineering Landmark by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. Its visitor center draws 120,000 visitors each year.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(2) Arecibo radio astronomy led to the first discovery of planets outside our own solar system, the first discovery of a binary pulsar (resulting in a Nobel Prize), and the first detailed three-dimensional mapping of how galaxies are distributed in the universe.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(3) Arecibo Observatory's planetary radar has unique abilities worldwide for research on our solar system, including near-Earth asteroids. Besides their scientific importance, near-Earth asteroids may be both a significant hazard to Earth and a potential source of future resources.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(4) Arecibo Observatory is a leading United States laboratory for research on Earth's ionosphere.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(5) </span>__Congress has mandated that …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">posed by near-Earth objects.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">SEC. 2. CONTINUATION OF OPERATION.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Director of the National Science Foundation shall--</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(1) ensure that the Arecibo Observatory is fully funded to continue its research on Earth's ionosphere, continue its research in radio astronomy, and continue research on the solar system; and</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(2) </span>__coordinate with the Administrator … , and other research as needed.__



**We solve comets too**
**Easterbrook 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gregg, contributing editor of The Atlantic and The New Republic, a fellow at the Brookings Institution, and the author, most recently, of The Progress Paradox, June 2008, Atlantic, “The Sky is Falling” [[http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2008/06/the-sky-is-falling/6807/3/]] MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> But when it comes … </span>__work, proves useful against comets.__

===No DAs=== 
**Contention four is no disads**

**No war – violence has been decreasing amongst countries**
**Pinker 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Steven, Ph.D., is Harvard College Professor and Johnstone Family Professor in Harvard University's psychology department. He is the author of seven books, two of which were finalists for the Pulitzer Prize, 4/1/9, Greater Good, “Why is There Peace?” [[http://greatergood.berkeley.edu/article/item/why_is_there_peace/]] MGE)</span>
__Over the past century, violent … have brought about unprecedented violence.__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Our seemingly troubled times are routinely contrasted with idyllic images of hunter-gatherer societies, which allegedly lived in a state of harmony with nature and each other. The doctrine of the noble savage—the idea that humans are peaceable by nature and corrupted by modern institutions—pops up frequently in the writing of public intellectuals like, for example, Spanish philosopher José Ortega y Gasset, who argued that “war is not an instinct but an invention.”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But now that social scientists … </span>__our species’ time on earth.__

**Their war claims are a product of psychological bias**
**Pinker 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Steven, Ph.D., is Harvard College Professor and Johnstone Family Professor in Harvard University's psychology department. He is the author of seven books, two of which were finalists for the Pulitzer Prize, 4/1/9, Greater Good, “Why is There Peace?” [[http://greatergood.berkeley.edu/article/item/why_is_there_peace/]] MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span>__from the Middle Ages …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">low our behavior can sink.</span>


**Nuclear war is survivable**
**NYQUIST 1999**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (J.R., Defense Analyst, Worldnetdaily.com, May 20, 1999)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I patiently reply to these … </span>__few (if any) fallout casualties__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Nuclear winter theory is exaggerated – no scenario for enough smoke** </span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ball 2006</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Desmond, prof at the Strategic and Defense Studies Centre at the Australian National Univ, “The Probabilities of On the Beach: Assessing ‘Armageddon Scenarios’ in the 21st Century,” Working Paper No. 401, Strategic and Defence Studies Centre at The Australian National University, [[http://rspas.anu.edu.au/papers/sdsc/wp/wp_sdsc_401.pdf]] MGE)</span>

The<span class="Underline">leading </span>populariserof<span class="Underline"> the ‘</span>… <span class="Underline">them</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (e.g., by omitting fallout casualties). </span>


**Working to prevent an impact will allow us to address other extinction events**
**Verschuur 96**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gerrit L., Adjunct Professor of Physics at University of Memphis, 1996, “Impact! The Threat of Comets & Asteroids” MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This, then, is the dilemma … to the point of altering it. </span>


**An undetected asteroid collision would cause the effects of warming**
**Barnes-Svarney 96**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Patricia, master's degree in geography/geomorphology and has worked professionally as a geomorphologist and oceanographer, 1996,“Asteroid Earth Destroyer or New Frontier?” MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Cold would be next: … comet strikes on the Earth.</span>

**Studies show that technology solves the effects of warming**
**Logan and Oltzman 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (J., Schultz, M. and S., EOS, 2010, Transactions, American Geophysical Union, “Observing and understanding tropospheric ozone changes” [[http://www.nipccreport.org/articles/2010/jun/25jun2010a5.html]] MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Logan et al. (2010) describe and discuss what was revealed at a "Tropospheric Ozone Changes Workshop" held in Boulder, Colorado (USA) on 14-16 October 2009, where they say that "long-term ozone records from regionally representative surface and mountain sites, ozonesondes, and aircraft were reviewed by region."</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to the authors, "in … greening of the earth phenomenon. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Only the US has the effective infrastructure</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">National Academies 2009 (</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Committee to Review … </span><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt;">objects than ground-based telescopes</span>**__.__**
==*1AC* - UMich== 
===Asteroids=== 

**Contention 1 is asteroids**

**SQ fails –**

**A) Current asteroid tracking has ignored many Near Earth Objects and could be reliant on false data. Asteroids still pose a large risk.**
**NRC 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (2010, National Research Council, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mitigation Strategies” [[http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842]] MGE)</span>
__Congress has established for NASA … : Humanity must be constantly vigilant.__

**B) NEOWISE makes your DAs non-unique, but is in hibernation now.**
**Associated Press 9/30** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“NASA identifies 90 percent of largest near-Earth asteroids” [[http://www.syracuse.com/news/index.ssf/2011/09/nasa_identifies_90_percent_of.html]] MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">NASA researchers also downgraded … </span>__and is currently in hibernation.__

**5 events make it clear that there is a statistical certainty for an asteroid to impact Earth**
**NRC 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (2010, National Research Council, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mitigation Strategies” [[http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842]] MGE)</span>
__Over the past several decades, … the__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">y might pose to humanity. </span>

**The impact is extinction**
**McGuire 2**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 159-168 MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Tunguska events pale into … comet heading in our direction.</span>

**A reduction of the risk of extinction by 1 millionth of 1 percent is would save ten billion lives**
**Bostrom 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Nick, Oxford Martin School & Faculty of Philosophy, 2011, “The Concept of Existential Risk” http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html MGE)</span>
__To calculate the loss associated …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">benefit of such an action.[13] </span>
===Plan=== 

**Thus the plan: United States federal government should substantially increase its efforts to survey Near Earth Objects.**

===Existential Risk=== 
**Contention two is existential risk**

**A 1% solvency deficit to a CP outweighs**
**Barbee 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Brent W., BS, Aerospace Engineering degree from UT Austin; MS in Engineering from the Department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics at the University of Texas, Austin specializing in Astrodynamics and Spacecraft Mission Design, 4/1/9, Air Power, “Planetary Defense Near-Earth Object Deflection Strategies” [[http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational/apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm|http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational//apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm]] MGE)</span>
__It is generally accepted … process for defense against NEOs.__

**Our extinction level impact will always outweigh**
**Bostrom 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Nick, Oxford Martin School & Faculty of Philosophy, 2011, “The Concept of Existential Risk” http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Holding probability constant, risks become … </span>__century fail to register__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (figure 3).</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Figure 3: World population over the last century. Calamities such as the Spanish flu pandemic, the two world wars, and the Holocaust scarcely register. (If one stares hard at the graph, one can perhaps just barely make out a slight temporary reduction in the rate of growth of the world population during these events.)</span>
__But even this reflection fails …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">people think.</span> __Compare three outcomes:__
__(1) Peace.__
__(2) A nuclear war that kills 99% of the world’s existing population.__
__(3) A nuclear war that kills 100%.__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(2) would be worse than (1), … is only a fraction of a second. (10: 453-454)</span>
__To calculate the loss associated with an existential catastrophe, we must consider how much value would come to exist in its absence. It turns out that the ultimate potential for Earth-originating intelligent life is literally astronomical.__
__One gets a large number even …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">continuing technological and moral progress.</span>

**Our impact framework doesn’t cause paralysis**
**Bostrom 2011** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nick, Prof. of Philosophy at Oxford, The Concept of Existential Risk (Draft), [[http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html]] MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">These considerations suggest that </span>__the …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">tempting, that implication is implausible.</span>

**Intervening actors don’t solve - asteroids are ignored**
**Schweickart and Garretson 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Russell L., and Peter, Winter 2008, Ad Astra, NSS, “The Threat of Impact” http://www.nss.org/adastra/volume20/AdAstra2008ThreatOfImpact.pdf MGE) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is now past the … the nerve to take it on? </span>

**Time must be viewed in thousands of years in order to protect civilization as a whole**
**Verschuur 96**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gerrit L., Adjunct Professor of Physics at University of Memphis, 1996, “Impact! The Threat of Comets & Asteroids” MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So here we are, basking … question is worth thinking about. </span>
===Solvency=== 

**Contention three is solvency**

**Tracking and deflection tech can be improved to protect us from a collision**
**Bekey 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ivan, internationally known advanced space systems engineering consultant, 2009, International Academy of Aeronautics, “ Dealing with the THREAT TO EARTH From ASTEROIDS and COMETS” [[http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups/SG%20Commission%203/sg35/sg35finalreport.pdf]] MGE)</span>
__An effective surveillance infrastructure____should …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">for NEO characterization as required. </span>

**We need space based missions for adequate deflection**
**NRC 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (2010, National Research Council, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mitigation Strategies” [[http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842]] MGE)</span>
__Detailed knowledge of the physical …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">attempted is essential (see Chapter 5). </span>

**NASA is key to do the plan**
**A) Deflection, crisis mitigation, and international organization**
**Hsu 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jeremy, 10/22/10, MSNBC “White House adviser voices asteroid worries” http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/39796926/ns/technology_and_science-space/ MGE) </span>
__National emergency plans for natural …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Committee on Science and Technology.</span>
__Holdren states that NASA must continue leading efforts to close the gap in detecting and perhaps deflecting near-Earth objects (NEO).____The U.S. space agency already has the duty of alerting the rest of the government about any threatening space objects.__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Holdren's letter also laid out </span>__…__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Research Institute in Boulder, Colo.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Going on alert </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to Holdren's letter, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, under the Department of Homeland Security, has the main responsibility on the ground in the U.S. FEMA can rely in part upon the National Warning System, which was designed to alert U.S. citizens to a Cold War nuclear attack.</span>
__The Department of Defense would work with NASA on possible mitigation or deflection scenarios that involved military resources.__
__Meanwhile, the Department of State … is considered low__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," Holdren said.</span>

**B) Arecibo telescope**
**Space Ref 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Space Ref, 10/4/7, “HR 3737: To provide for National Science Foundation and National Aeronautics and Space Administration utilization of the Arecibo Observatory” http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=25609 MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Congress finds the following:</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(1) </span>__Arecibo Observatory is the …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">center draws 120,000 visitors each year.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(2) Arecibo radio astronomy led to the first discovery of planets outside our own solar system, the first discovery of a binary pulsar (resulting in a Nobel Prize), and the first detailed three-dimensional mapping of how galaxies are distributed in the universe.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(3) Arecibo Observatory's planetary radar has unique abilities worldwide for research on our solar system, including near-Earth asteroids. Besides their scientific importance, near-Earth asteroids may be both a significant hazard to Earth and a potential source of future resources.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(4) Arecibo Observatory is a leading United States laboratory for research on Earth's ionosphere.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(5) </span>__Congress has mandated that …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">posed by near-Earth objects.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">SEC. 2. CONTINUATION OF OPERATION.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Director of the National Science Foundation shall--</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(1) ensure that the Arecibo Observatory is fully funded to continue its research on Earth's ionosphere, continue its research in radio astronomy, and continue research on the solar system; and</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(2) </span>__coordinate with the Administrator … , and other research as needed.__

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">C)</span> **SQ Surveys**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">National Academies 2009 (</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Committee to Review … </span><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt;">objects than ground-based telescopes</span>**__.__**

**We solve comets too**
**Easterbrook 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gregg, contributing editor of The Atlantic and The New Republic, a fellow at the Brookings Institution, and the author, most recently, of The Progress Paradox, June 2008, Atlantic, “The Sky is Falling” [[http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2008/06/the-sky-is-falling/6807/3/]] MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But when it comes … </span>__work, proves useful against comets.__

===No DAs=== 
**Contention four is no disads**

**Nuclear war doesn't cause extinction –**
**A) 90% of the population would survive**
**Martin 82**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Brian, Department of Mathematics Faculty of Science Australian National University, 1982, Journal of Peace Research, Vol. 19, No. 4, pp. 287-300, “Critique of Nuclear Extinction” [[http://www.bmartin.cc/pubs/82jpr.html]] MGE)</span>
__The available evidence suggests … a lesser extent China and Japan.__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Direct effects</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Most of the deaths and … civil defence measures were used.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Indirect effects</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(a) Global fallout. </span>__The main …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">on earth, is highly misleading.[14]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the absence of any positive evidence, statements that nuclear war will lead to the death of all or most people on earth should be considered exaggerations. In most cases the exaggeration is unintended, since people holding or stating a belief in nuclear extinction are quite sincere.[15]</span>
__Another major point to be …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">this possibility does not exist.</span>

**B) No fallout**
**NYQUIST 1999**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (J.R., Defense Analyst, Worldnetdaily.com, May 20, 1999 MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I patiently reply to these … </span>__few (if any) fallout casualties__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**C) Not enough weapons**</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ball 2006</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Desmond, prof at the Strategic and Defense Studies Centre at the Australian National Univ, “The Probabilities of On the Beach: Assessing ‘Armageddon Scenarios’ in the 21st Century,” Working Paper No. 401, Strategic and Defence Studies Centre at The Australian National University, [[http://rspas.anu.edu.au/papers/sdsc/wp/wp_sdsc_401.pdf]] MGE)</span>
The<span class="Underline">leading </span>populariserof<span class="Underline"> the ‘</span>… <span class="Underline">them</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (e.g., by omitting fallout casualties). </span>

**No warming**
**A) Tech solves your internal link**
**Logan and Oltzman 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (J., Schultz, M. and S., EOS, 2010, Transactions, American Geophysical Union, “Observing and understanding tropospheric ozone changes” [[http://www.nipccreport.org/articles/2010/jun/25jun2010a5.html]] MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Logan et al. (2010) describe and discuss what was revealed at a "Tropospheric Ozone Changes Workshop" held in Boulder, Colorado (USA) on 14-16 October 2009, where they say that "long-term ozone records from regionally representative surface and mountain sites, ozonesondes, and aircraft were reviewed by region."</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to the authors, "in … greening of the earth phenomenon. </span>

**B)** **Doesn’t cause extinction**
**INPCC 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Nongovernmental International Panel on Climate Change. Surviving the unprecedented climate change of the IPCC. 8 March 2011. [[http://www.nipccreport.org/articles/2011/mar/8mar2011a5.html]] MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In a paper published in //Systematics …// </span>__wide amplitude fluctuations in climate."__

**No war**
**A) Structural barriers**
**Duedney and Ikenberry 9**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Daniel, Professor of Political Science at Johns Hopkins University, and G. John, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University, January 2009, “The Myth of the Autocratic Revival: Why Liberal Democracy Will Prevail” [[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/63721/daniel-deudney-and-g-john-ikenberry/the-myth-of-the-autocratic-revival]] MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This bleak outlook is based on an...international integration and cooperation.</span>

**B) Bias**
**Pinker 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Steven, Ph.D., is Harvard College Professor and Johnstone Family Professor in Harvard University's psychology department. He is the author of seven books, two of which were finalists for the Pulitzer Prize, 4/1/9, Greater Good, “Why is There Peace?” [[http://greatergood.berkeley.edu/article/item/why_is_there_peace/]] MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span>__from the Middle Ages …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">low our behavior can sink.</span>

=Negative= 

==Kritiks== 

===Security=== 


**Framing space policy within the context of security normalizes global securitization**
**Peoples 2010** -- School of Sociology, Politics and International Studies, University of Bristol (Columbia, “The growing ‘securitization’ of outer space.” <span style="color: #000000;">Space PolicyVolume 26, Issue 4</span>, November 2010, Pages 205-208. Science Direct) CMR *italics in original*

__What__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">, then</span>__, is ‘securitization’__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">, and why should it...</span>__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">weaponization alone simply isn’t sufficient.</span>__


**And, those representations causes nuclear war and also causes their fake threats to become real**

**Mack****19****88****(John E., M.D. an American psychiatrist, writer, and professor at Harvard Medical School. He was a Pulitzer Prize-winning biographer. “The Enemy System” 1988.**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.66px;">http://www.johnemackinstitute.org/passport/enemysystem.html</span>**) *we do not endorse gendered language**



**The threat of nuclear annihilation** **…a major focus of our educational system.**


**Rejecting their demand for immediate yes/no policy response is the only way to raise critical ethical questions about the discourse and practice of ir in the middle east.**
Shampa **__BISWAS__** Politics @ Whitman **__‘7__** “Empire and Global Public Intellectuals: Reading Edward Said as an International Relations Theorist” //Millennium// 36 (1) p. 117-125
The recent resuscitation of the project … important senses of the vocation.21


**Reps first**
Neta <span style="font-size: 14.66px;">Crawford</span>,PhD MA MIT, BA Brown, Prof. of poli sci at boston univ. __Argument and Change in World Politics__, 200<span style="font-size: 14.66px;">2</span> p. 19-21
Coherent argumentsare unlikely to … framing is a meta-argument.

====2NC Democracy Link==== 

**Constructing non-democracies as threats legitimizes intervention against those threats**

**Burger and Villumsen 07** (<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Christian and Trine, Journal of International Relations and Development, “Beyond the gap: relevance, fields of practice and the securitizing consequences of (democratic peace) research” pg. 24, https//secure.palgrave-journals.com/jird/journal/v10/n4/full/1800136a.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">To give empirical flesh to the...</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">testify to a dilemma of vast proportions.</span>__

===__Capitalism__=== 
**__The final market__—plan seeks to expand capitalism through search for surplus**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Parker, 9. Martin (University of Leicester School of Management), The Sociological Review Volume 57</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This chapter explores a paradox.1...</span><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">in order that enterprise can be launched.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Violence, war ensue** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Brown, 5.** </span>Professor of Economics and Research Scientist at the University of Michigan<span class="Underline"> (Charles Brown,[[http://archives.econ.utah.edu/archives/pen-l/2005w15/msg00062.htm]]) </span>
<span class="Underline">The </span>capitalist classowns<span class="Underline"> the </span>factories<span class="Underline">,...</span>self-determine the shape of their social world.

<span class="Underline">**The alternative is to reject the affirmative’s capitalist relations.** </span>

**Hollowing out capitalism solves – also avoids transition wars**
**Herod 2004**—James, Faculty at the University of Massachusetts at Boston,[[http://www.umb.edu/faculty/salzman_g/Strate/GetFre/index.htm]]
It is time to try to describe, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">a...</span>self-determine the shape of their social world.

====Link - Environment==== 

Their authors only focus on supply-side problems—that ignores ecological damage and dooms the planet to war and environmental collapse.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Heinberg 2004</span> (Richard, Senior Fellow at Post-Carbon Institute, Advisor to National Petroleum Council, “Power Down: Options and Actions for a Post-Carbon World,” p. 51-54)

My colleague Julian Darley has produced ... the latter task that we turn now.

====2NC Uniqueness==== 

**Revolution coming**
**Farrell 10/4** – marketwatch, the burning platform (“A new Lost Decade is leading to revolution.” [[http://www.theburningplatform.com/?p=22549]]) CMR

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Unfortunately, the new one gets worse: Why? </span>__The ...booster rocket accelerating a new American Revolution.__


**Structural factors**
**Farrell, 8/23/**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">11. Paul B (MW columnist since 1997 and has published more than 1,400 columns plus nine books</span>**//**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">jh), “A No-Growth Boom Will Follow 2012 Global Crash” for MarketWatch, http://www.marketwatch.com/story/a-no-growth-boom-will-follow-2012-global-crash-2011-08-23?pagenumber=2</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">And yet, </span>__the facts about the ...____Markets and economies will crash.__


====AT Perm do Both==== 

**Calls of urgency coopt the alt**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Zizek, 8.</span> Slavoj, //Violence,// pp. 6-8//jh

__Let’s think about the fake sense of ...and learn” what causes this violence__.

====AT Framework==== 

**) __Education and agency__ – interp allows access to untapped kritikal literature about capitalism – their interp makes us capitalist automatons – ours allows us to challenged previously unexamined structures. __Their plan doesn’t pass__ – only our framework allows access to education gained in the room to change society**
**Carroll 10 –** *founding director of the Social Justice Studies Program at the University of Victoria
(William, “Crisis, movements, counter-hegemony: in search of the new,” Interface 2:2, 168-198,)

Mediatization and the struggle to democratize ...<span class="Underline"> they move together and lean into one another.</span>

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Role of the ballot – weigh impacts as if you were a member of the global south – epistemology calls into question their truth claims </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Grosfoguel 11</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">- Associate Professor of Ethnic Studies, University of Cal. Berkley (Ramon, 2011, //TRANSMODERNITY: Journal of Peripheral Cultural Production of the Luso-Hispanic World, 1(1)//, Decolonizing Post-Colonial Studies and Paradigms of Political Economy: Transmodernity, Decolonial Thinking, and Global Coloniality) NAR</span>

Globalization studies<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, political-economy paradigms and world-system ...</span> a new civilization<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (indigenous’ conception of transformation in different parts of the world).</span>

**Ethical obligation**
**Morgareidge 98**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">—Associate Professor of Philosophy at Lewis and Clark College</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Clayton, “Why Capitalism is Evil”, Radio Active Philosophy, Lewis and Clark Educational Papers, http://legacy.lclark.edu/~clayton/commentaries/evil.html)//AW</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Well, what is the foundation of moral life</span>__? What ...__ __of capitalism is on the table will ethics have a seat at the table.__

===Edelman=== 

**Oh my god an asteroid might kill our great-great-great-great grandchildren yikes! Your discussion of solving some future extinction in a million years presupposes value in future generations and the Child – this excludes the queer, guarantees violence. Alt text: reject the affirmative in favor of resisting enslavement to the future.**

**Edelman, 5**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Lee (professor and chair of the English department at Tufts University, Fletcher Professor of English Literature, Ph.D. from <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yale_University|Yale University]]</span>, a M. Phil. from Yale, an M.A. from Yale, and a B.A. from <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Northwestern_University|Northwestern University]]</span>//jh),// No Future: Queer Theory and the Death Drive// p. 28-31</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Bernard Law, the former cardinal of Boston, __...__</span> __insist that the future stop here.__

===Objectivity=== 
**Uniqueness – revolution’s coming**
**Farrell 10/4**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – marketwatch, the burning platform (“A new Lost Decade is leading to revolution.” [[http://www.theburningplatform.com/?p=22549]]) CMR </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Unfortunately, the new one gets … </span>__rocket accelerating a new American Revolution.__

**The focus on the rimacy of discourse ruptures this. Post-structuralist criticism makes lack of objectivity natural – but there are objective truths, like the oppression of workers globally – and you prevent real, radical change from occurring in addition to reifying capitalism.**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Mas'ud </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Zavarzadeh</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">,</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Department of English, … </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">__more tolerable, justifiable, and naturalized.__</span>

<span class="Underline">**And, the particular – shouldn’t try to eliminate** </span>
Rene Francisco <span style="font-size: 16px;">Poitevin</span>, Doctoral Candidate … <span class="UnderlineChar">going to do it either.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Impacts – Capitalism causes war, oppression**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Brown, 5.** </span>Professor of Economics and Research Scientist at the University of Michigan<span class="Underline"> (Charles Brown, [[http://archives.econ.utah.edu/archives/pen-l/2005w15/msg00062.htm]]) </span>
<span class="Underline">The </span>capitalist class owns<span class="Underline"> the </span>… <span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">fact of life in the U.S.</span>

**AND, denial of object facts makes all violence possible.**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Sherry 96</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Suzanna, Professor of Civil … speaking such a truth to power. 145</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Some, however, have suggested that… of speaking such a truth to power.</span>

**Alternative: reject the affirmative in favor of a Marxist analysis of space exploration and development. This round should be an educational exercise—that empowers us to recognize inequality and take action rather than just changing the way we think.**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Cole 3</span>(Mike, Senior Lecturer and … /cubasigloXXI/congreso/cole_05abr03.pdf) cp
Atkinson's main argument seems …(cited in Cole, 2001, p. 77).


===Chaloupka=== 

**Why are debaters so obsessed with nukes? This aff, like nearly every aff at this tournament, buys into the framework of nuclearism by allowing nuclear weapons to shape their discussion of policy – this focus on nukes prevents action against them.**
**Chaloupka 1992** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">–</span> <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Professor and Chair of the department of political science at Colorado State University (William, “Knowing Nukes: the politics and culture of the atom,” University of Minnesota Press, 1992. p 1-2, CMR) italics by author </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Like few other issues, </span>__nuclearism__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> strains </span>__...__ __universalistic survival codes assume.__

**Nuclearism forces disciplinary power’s destructive control over populations**
**Chaloupka 1992** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">–</span> <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Professor and Chair of the department of political science at Colorado State University (William, “Knowing Nukes: the politics and culture of the atom,” University of Minnesota Press, 1992. p 16, CMR) </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">It may be surprising, given the liberal ...uses, this is precisely poststructuralist power.</span>

**Alt text: reject the 1AC in favor of nuclear criticism.**

**Nuclear criticism is not vapid deconstruction but politically charged – necessary to challenge nuke’s textuality**
**Chaloupka 1992** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">–</span> <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Professor and Chair of the department of political science at Colorado State University (William, “Knowing Nukes: the politics and culture of the atom,” University of Minnesota Press, 1992. p 18-19, CMR) italics by author </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">As I suggested earlier, </span>__nuclear criticism____presents ... the politics of literary criticism.____52__

**Our framework is that the judge evaluates language and power structures – this is logically prior to any political action and also crafts more effective action**
**Chaloupka 1992** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">–</span> <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Professor and Chair of the department of political science at Colorado State University (William, “Knowing Nukes: the politics and culture of the atom,” University of Minnesota Press, 1992. p 94-95, CMR) italics by author </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">My reading works, then, on language-and-politics turf __...__</span>__those enabled by the Enlightenment.__

====__Link - Deterrence__==== 

**Entropy is guaranteed – deterrence is a form of power that needs to be criticized**
**Chaloupka 1992** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">–</span> <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Professor and Chair of the department of political science at Colorado State University (William, “Knowing Nukes: the politics and culture of the atom,” University of Minnesota Press, 1992. p 7-8, CMR) italics by author </span>

__Although opposition has focused on ...despite our wishes it would recede.__

====__2NC Framework__==== 

**Language matters**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">John </span>**Collins**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Ass. Prof. of Global Studies at St. Lawrence, </span>**and**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Ross </span>**Glover**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Visiting Professor of Sociology at St. Lawrence University, 20</span>**02**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Collateral Language, p. 6-7</span>
__The Real Effects of Language__
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">As any university student knows, theories __...__</span> __from the physical effects of violence.__


==Disads== 

===SKFTA=== 

**SKFTA will pass – Obama’s key**
**WSJ 9/12**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> (“Kirk Working With Senate on Trade Bills” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.66px;">http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424053111904265504576567244253741086.html?mod=googlenews_wsj</span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> U.S. Trade Representative Ron </span>__Kirk …__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> still need to be ironed out.</span>

[insert link]

**Political capitals key to passage**
**Reuters 9/2** (“Analysis: Obama's trade legacy in a crucible this fall.” <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/02/us-usa-obama-trade-idUSTRE7814CZ20110902</span>) CMR

Still, __Congress' approval__ of the South Korea, … __to approve the trade pacts.__


**KORUS solves warming**
**Kim 2010**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> – policy analyst, heritage foundation (Anthony, “Time to Build a Clean Energy Future through the KORUS FTA.” http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/06/Time-to-Build-a-Clean-Energy-Future-through-the-KORUS-FTA) CMR </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">The pending Korea–U.S. Free Trade Agreement, known as the </span>__KORUS FTA, is a ready-made …__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">in both countries would benefit.</span>

**Extinction**
**Cummins and Allen ‘10**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> (Ronnie, Int’l. Dir. – Organic Consumers Association, and Will, Policy Advisor – Organic Consumers Association, “Climate Catastrophe: Surviving the 21st Century”, 2-14, </span>[[http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/02/14-6]]<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">)</span>

__The hour is late. Leading …__to maintain "business as usual."
===China Bashing=== 
**China currency won’t pass**
**Washington Post 10/7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Sommez, “China currency bill splits GOP leaders, rank-and-file members.” [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/2chambers/post/china-currency-bill-splits-gop-leaders-rank-and-file-members/2011/10/07/gIQAR2PgTL_blog.html]]) CMR </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A </span>[[@http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/china-currency-sanctions-bill-moves-toward-vote-in-senate/2011/10/06/gIQAml9NQL_story.html|proposal on Chinese currency]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> has </span>opened ... <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the other side of the issue.</span>

[Insert Link]

**Obama political capital blocks it, if he doesn’t, bill kills china US relations**
**Reuters 9/2**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ([[http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/09/02/us-usa-obama-trade-idUSTRE7814CZ20110902]]) CMR </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Democrats like House Minority Leader ...</span> expend political capital to block it.

**<span style="color: black;">Solve warming </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Lieberthal 9</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">—director of the John L. Thornton China Center and senior fellow in Foreign Policy and Global Economy and Development at the Brookings Institution, PhD in Political Science, Columbia—AND—David B. Sandalow, Assistant Secretary for Policy and International Affairs at the Energy Department, JD (Kenneth G., January 2009, Overcoming Obstacles to U.S.-China Cooperation on Climate Change,[[http://www.brookings.edu/reports/2009/01_climate_change_lieberthal_sandalow.aspx]], RBatra)</span>
<span style="color: black;">Opportunities for collaboration...</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">only bilateral but </span><span style="color: black;">global benefits</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Extinction**
**Cummins and Allen ‘10**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> (Ronnie, Int’l. Dir. – Organic Consumers Association, and Will, Policy Advisor – Organic Consumers Association, “Climate Catastrophe: Surviving the 21st Century”, 2-14, </span>[[http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/02/14-6]]<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">)</span>

__The hour is late. Leading …__to maintain "business as usual."
===Spending=== 

**Perilously close to a new recession**
**Randazzo 8/18**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> -- Director of Economic Research, Reason Foundation (Anthony, “Is the House of Cards Falling Down?.” 2011, </span>[[http://reason.org/blog/show/is-the-house-of-cards-falling-down]]<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">) CMR </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Stocks are tumbling down a steep …</span> __is not necessarily a time for optimism either__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. </span>

**New spending risks default – crushes the economy**
**Griffing 9/7** (John, American Thinker, “<span style="color: #999966;">The Coming Chaos.” </span>[[http://www.americanthinker.com/2011/09/the_coming_chaos.html]]) CMR

__Default__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> has been discussed as a … political posturing is past. Let's be Americans.</span>

**War**
**Royal 10**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> Less intuitive is how </span>__periods of …__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> debate and deserves more attention. </span>


===Weaponization=== 

**Weaponization not inevitable – Obama’s new NSP solves**
**Huntley, 11**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.66px;">http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2</span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">As is well understood, the space ...Many devils may lurk in these details. </span>

**You create global weaponization**
**Hoey, 6**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> - Research Associate at the Institute for Defense and Disarmament Studies, writer for the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, [Mathew, Space Review, “Military Space Systems: The Road Ahead” February 26, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.66px;">http://www.thespacereview.com/article/563/1</span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;">]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.66px;">Many people believe that </span>__<span style="font-family: Times;">a...</span>__<span style="font-family: Times;">potential development could become a reality.</span>

**Accidents risk extinction**
**Mitchell, et al 1**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh (Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.66px;">http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html</span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;">)</span>

__A buildup of space weapons might ...__ __most destructive military conflict ever seen.__

====2NC Overview==== 

**war is EXTREMELY UNLIKELY only question is accidents.**
**Hellman 2008 --** professor emeritus of electrical engineering at Stanford University (Martin, “Risk Analysis of Nuclear Deterrence.” The Bent, spring 2008) CMR *we don’t endorse gendered language*

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Some might argue that, </span>__...____**a sequence of events that spirals out of control.**__

**If realism is true then their wars wont happen only accidents will**
**Quackenbush 2010**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> -- Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Missouri (Steven, “Deterrence theory: where do we stand?.” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.66px;">Review of International Studies </span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;">(2011), 37: 741-762) CMR </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Structural deterrence theory, closely **__...__**</span> **__only real threat to deterrence.__****<span style="color: #000000;">16</span>**

**We control magnitude – space arms race makes __nuclear__** **escalation likely**
**Krepon 2004** -- Founding President of the Henry L. Stimson Center (Michael, “Avoiding the Weaponization of Space.” <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.stimson.org/images/uploads/research-pdfs/Avoiding_the_Weaopnization_of_Space.pdf</span>) CMR

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">To prevent adversaries from shooting </span>__...____prelude to attacks on nuclear forces.__

**Existential**

//<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Nick </span>//**Bostrom**//<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, Ph.D. and Professor of Philosophy at Oxford University, March 20</span>//**02**//<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards </span>//
__A much greater existential risk ...__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> that we will encounter in the 21st century.</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Vote neg on presumption – china takes out are satellites the second we build them if they’re truly evil </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Blazejewski 8 </span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;">(Kenneth, received his master’s degree in public affairs from the Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton University and his JD degree from the New York University School of Law, " Space Weaponization and US-China Relations." Spring, http://www.au.af.mil/au/ssq/2008/Spring/blazejewski.pdf, AD 6/29/11)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">I recommend that the United States ... would instigate a space arms race.</span>

**Most probable – space weapons multiplies the risks of miscalc and tech accidents – also guarantees great power escalation**
**Hitchens 2008 --** <span style="font-size: 10.66px;">directs the Center for Defense Information in Washington, D.C., and leads its Space Security Project, in cooperation with the Secure World Foundation (Theresa, “SPACE WARS..” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.66px;">Scientific American</span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;">; Mar2008, Vol. 298 Issue 3, p78-85, 8p, EBSCO) CMR </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Perhaps of even greater concern ... one would be highly problematic.</span>

====<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Link - ORS</span>==== 


**Even defensive capabilities trigger backlash**

**Zhang 11**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> – Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies @ Lingnan University, Hong Kong [Baohui Zhang, “The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship,” </span>__Asian Survey__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, Vol. 51, No. 2 (March/April 2011), pp. 311-332)</span>



__This strategy of space dominance__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, __...__</span>__rest of the world won’t accept__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">.”17</span>


**Prior aggressive actions means that even defensive steps will be perceived as threatening**

**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens, 7</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> – director of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, STATEMENT BY BEFORE THE NATIONAL SECURITY AND FOREIGN AFFAIRS SUBCOMMITTEE HOUSE OVERSIGHT AND GOVERNNMENT REFORM COMMITTEE ON WEAPONIZING SPACE: IS CURRENT U.S. POLICY PROTECTION OUR SECURITY? MAY 23, [[http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/HitchensTestimony.pdf]])</span>



<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 10.66px;">Further, other responses to counter </span>__...____<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> to use space as a “soft power” tool. </span>__



**Even defensive hardening efforts trigger an arms race**

**Jakhu 10 –** Institute of Air and Space Law, McGill University <span style="font-size: 10.66px;">(Dr. Ram , with Cesar Jaramillo Managing Editor, Project Ploughshares, Phillip Baines (Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade, Canada),), John Seibert (Project Ploughshares), Dr. Jennifer Simmons (The Simmons Foundation), Dr. Ray Williamson (Secure World Foundation). “Space Security 2010.” Spacesecurity.org. August 2010. [[http://www.spacesecurity.org/space.security.2010.reduced.pdf]]. pp. 119-167. Accessed June 21, 2011.</span>



<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">The security dynamics of protection __...__ </span>__actors with secure use of space__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">.</span>



==Counterplans== 

===Spending Conditions CP=== 

**Reciprocal cuts avoid the spending link**
**Easterbrook 2010**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> – American writer, lecturer, and a senior editor of The New Republic (Gregg, Reuters, “Congress’ “emergency” spending is out of control.” </span>[[http://blogs.reuters.com/gregg-easterbrook/2010/06/10/congress-emergency-spending-is-out-of-control/]]<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">) CMR</span>

__After listening to__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> President Barack </span>__Obama call for…__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> discipline by using the word “emergency” encourages this mindset.</span>

===XO CP=== 

**Text: The President of the United States should issue an executive order to [insert plan].**

**Executive orers solve direction of funds for space – NASA was created with one**
**Gabrynowicz 10** – Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Space Law and Remote Sensing and the Director of the National Center for Remote Sensing, Air, and Space Law at the University of Mississippi School of Law, recipient of the Women in Aerospace Outstanding International Award, and Director of the International Institute of Space Law (Joanne, 7/21/2010, “One Half Century and Counting: The Evolution of US National Space Law and Three Long-Term Emerging Issues”, Harv. L. & Pol'y Rev. 405 Lexis)
The characteristics of this relationship … committed to civil missions.

**Executive orders are the easiest way for a president to enact his policies and can circumvent congress**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Cooper 2</span> – Professor of Public Administration at Portland State (Phillip, 2002, “By Order of the President: The Use and Abuse of Executive Direct Action”)
Executive orders are often … for orders generated elsewhere.

**Obama’s presidential power will only increase with executive orders**
**Zelizer 9** – professor of history and public affairs at Princeton Universitys Woodrow Wilson School (Julian, 1/5/2009, “Commentary: Can Obama and Congress Share Power?”, [[http://www.cnn.com/2009/POLITICS/01/05/zelizer.power/index.htm]]) CJS
Obama must be held responsible …finest and most effective programs.

**Presidential power is critical to sustain the vital functions of American leadership**
**Mallaby 2K** (Sebastian, Member, Washington Post’s Editorial Board, Foreign Affairs, Jan/Feb)
Finally, some will object that … nobody can change, such as isolationism or multiculturalism.


**Global nuclear war**
**Khalilzad ‘95** (Zalmay, RAND Corporation, Losing The Moment? Washington Quarterly, Vol 18, No 2, p. 84)
Global Leadership Under the … multipolar balance of power system**__.__**

===Modernization CP=== 


**Counterplan Text: The United States federal government should increase its core defense budget to $720 billion per year for fiscal years 2012 through 2016 to modernize conventional and strategic forces.**

**That solves military modernization and prevents the rise of hostile powers**
Carafano et al 11
<span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.heritage.org/About/Staff/C/James-Carafano|James Jay Carafano (Ph.D.]]</span> Deputy Director of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies and Director of the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Davis Institute), <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.heritage.org/About/Staff/E/Mackenzie-Eaglen|Mackenzie Eaglen]]</span> (Research Fellow for National Security in the Allison Center) and <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.heritage.org/About/Staff/S/Baker-Spring|Baker Spring]]</span> (F. M. Kirby Research Fellow in National Security Policy in the Allison Center at The Heritage Foundation), “How to Field the Right Military Force to Protect America,” The Heritage Foundation. March 17, 2011. http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/03/how-to-field-the-right-military-force-to-protect-america //AJO//
//The basic force summary roll-up... abroad, and respond flexibly to unanticipated dangers.//
//**And, Modernization is the most important link to hegemony – it overwhelms all other physical power**//
//Spencer 03//
//Jack Spencer (Senior Policy Analyst for Defense and National Security in the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies at The Heritage Foundation), Heritage Foundation, August 1, 2003, “Reducing Stress on an Overstretched Force”, accessed September 13, 2010, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.heritage.org/research/nationalsecurity/em895.cfm]]</span>// AJO
While U.S. forces are not adequate ... outdated and wasteful organizations.

===Sharing is Caring CP vs. ORS=== 

**Text: The United States federal government should create agreements and appropriate procedures with applicable spacefaring allies to coordinate and share critical spacebased information, particularly reconnaissance and surveillance data.**

**That solves deterrence by dissuasion – solves the impact to a space pearl harbor**
**Larrimore 2007** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">-- Lt Col, USAF, A Research Report Submitted to the CADRE/AR In Partial Fulfillment of the Graduation Requirements (“ OPERATIONALLY RESPONSIVE SPACE: A NEW PARADIGM OR ANOTHER FALSE START?.” AIR FORCE FELLOWS AIR UNIVERSITY) CMR </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Recommendation 2: </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Coordinate U.S ...ASAT attack against a single satellite.</span>__

===NSF CP vs. Asteroids=== 
__ASAT attack against a single satellite.__

**TEXT: The National Science Foundation should [do the plan].**

**NSF funding is politically untouchable even in an era of tight budgets**
**Gallo 2009**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> -- works at the Science and Technology Policy institute in Washington, DC; Ph. D. from the Media, Technology and Society Program at Northwestern University (John, “The Discursive and Operational Foundations of the National Nanotechnology Initiative in the History of the National Science Foundation.” Perspectives on Science,Volume 17, Number 2, Summer 2009, MUSE) NNI = National Nanotechnology Initiative</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">While most of these assertions **__...__**</span>__**an era of changing political priorities.**__

===__**Anchor Tenant vs. SPS**__=== 

**Text: The Department of Defense should replace current spending on fossil fuels by agreeing to pay at least one dollar per kilowatt-hour for space-based solar power services developed by the private sector.**
**The United States federal government should not develop space-based solar power. The United States federal government should offer long-term, low-interest, guaranteed loans to any private company that expresses interest in investing in space-based solar power.**

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Being an anchor tenant is the only way for the DOD to create investment</span>
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">NSSO 7</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">(October 2007, National Security Space Office, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security,” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 8px;">www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/.../final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">, FS)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">FINDING: The SBSP Study Group found that ... pioneered by the National GeoSpatial</span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math'; font-size: 8px;">‐</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">imaging Agency. </span>

**Loan guarantees solve better than the aff**
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Bova, 1AC author, 8</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> –award-winning editor and an executive in the aerospace industry Ben, “TO THE NEXT PRESIDENT From Ben Bova,” 10-2008, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 8px;">http://www.benbova.com/presidentltr1.html</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">Once you enter the White House </span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 8px;">you ...</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">begin to move away from </span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 8px;">fossil fuels.</span>

====__**2NC Solvency**__==== 

<span class="Underline">**<span style="color: #000000;">Counterplan solves- private sector is the only sustainable method for SSP.</span>**</span>
**<span style="color: #000000;">NSSO, 7 </span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">(National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study” October 10, 2007, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf)</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">FINDING: The SBSP Study Group found ...</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> of space</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Cambria Math'; font-size: 10.6667px;">‐</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">based solar power systems.</span>

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The CP would catalyze private sector development</span>
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">NSSO 7 </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">(October 2007, National Security Space Office, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security,” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 8px;">www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/.../final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> , FS)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">The SBSP Study Group found that a small ... feasibility of advanced energy technologies.” </span>

<span class="Underline">**Having the DoD as an anchor tenant change the entire economic equation—makes commercial success possible**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Space Frontier Foundation 7** </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">(October 2007 Space Frontier Foundation, “Space-Based Solar Power (SBSP): Meeting Humanity’s Energy, National Security, Environmental and Economic Development Needs”, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 8px;">http://www.scribd.com/doc/8766486/SpaceBased-Solar-Power-SBSP-Meeting-Humanitys-Energy-National-Security-Environmental-and-Economic-Development-Needs</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> , FS)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">In other words, if space-based solar power existed ... of power, </span><span class="Underline">**is a major step forward**.</span>

<span class="Underline">**The counterplan is key to spill over**</span>
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">NSSO 7 </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">(October 2007, National Security Space Office, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security,” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 8px;">www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/.../final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> , FS)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;"> The majority of the study participants ... for reusable space transportation </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**The program is a no risk option for the government, success would allow the US to become the leader in the global energy marker. Even with half the prized claimed we solve.**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="Underline">**Globus ’10**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[ Winter 2010 Al Globus chairman of the Space Settlement Committee of the National Space Society, also works for contractors at NASA Ames Research Center Online Journal of Space Communication //Space Solar Power Via Prizes//, [[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/globus.html]]; WBTR]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__Congress places $21 billion dollars in ...__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">unreachable space capabilities, including settlement. </span></span>

====__**AT Perm Do Both**__==== 

<span class="Underline">**A) Links to all of our NASA fails arguments – any government involvement prevents spillover**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Nansen 9**</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;"> led the Boeing team of engineers in the <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/doe.htm|Satellite Power System Concept Development and Evaluation Program]]</span> for the Department of Energy and NASA, andPresident Solar Space Industries (Ralph, Energy Crisis: Solution from Space,</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">P.151, FS)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Another approach follows a much more ...</span><span class="Underline"> off base a commercially viable system NASA has strayed. </span>

**<span style="color: #000000;">B) Deters private sector involvement</span>**
**NSSO, 7** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study” October 10, 2007, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf)</span>
<span style="color: #000000;">Incentives would help. These could ...</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">help with the availability and terms of financings.</span>

__**2NC Solves Heg**__

**The CP solves -- commercial action prevents international backlash.**
**Brown 2009**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj09/spr09/brown.html#brown|Trevor]], Masters of Science from Rajaratnam School of International Studies, Nanyang Technological University, “Soft Power and Space Weaponization,” [[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/home.htm|Air & Space Power Journal]], <span style="font-size: 16px;">[[../../../../Downloads/Spring|Spring]]</span>, http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj09/spr09/brown.html]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Evidently, </span>__rhetoric emanating from the U____nited ...____military space capabilities and retain soft power__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

==__Strategies__== 
===__Greenhill__=== 
__Rd. 1 - Coppell DE - Common Heritage__
ASPEC
T - Human
T - Space
XO CP
'The' PIC
Cap K (2NR)
SKFTA DA
Case

__Rd. 4 - Edina YM - Satellite Hardening__
T - Human (2NR)
Cutgo Conditions CP
Hegemony Reps PIK
Spending DA
SKFTA DA
Case

__Rd. 6 - Grapevine FK - SPS__
T - Human
Anchor Tenant CP
Cutgo Conditions CP
Weaponization DA
Spending DA (2NR)
Case (2NR)

===__Valley__=== 
__Rd. 1 - Millard South CI - Whitey on the Moon__
Framework
Pre/Post Round Discussion CP (2NR)
Cap K
Inoculation DA (2NR)
Ozone DA
Case (2NR)

__Rd. 4 - Eagan WD - Satellite Hardening__
T - Human
Cutgo Conditions CP
China Reps PIK (2NR)
Spending DA
Case (2NR)

__Rd. 6 - Iowa City West YK - Satellite Hardening__
T - Human
Modernize Military CP (2NR)
Security K
Weaponization DA (2NR)
Case (2NR)

__Doubles - Westside WA - Performance examination of the rez__
Plan Good (2NR)
Anti-Art PIC
Cap K
Ozone DA
Case
===__New Trier__=== 
__Rd. 1 - Appleton East MB - Tax Incentives__
T - Its (2NR)
Space Shuttle CP
Security K
China Bashing Ptx DA
Spending DA
Case

__Rd. 3 - GBN HC - Space Debris__
T - Beyond
Cutgo Conditions CP (2NR)
Spending DA (2NR)
Weaponization DA
Case

__Rd. 6 - Wayzata BS - SPS__
T - Human
Anchor Tenant CP
Cap K (2NR)
China Bashing Ptx DA
Case (2NR)

__Octas - GBS OT - Asteroids__
T - Human
NSF CP
Edelman K
China Bashing Ptx DA (2NR)
Case (2NR)

===__Caucus__=== 
(With Charlie Rafkin)

__Rd. 1 - Millard South AC - Whitey on the Moon__
Framework (2NR)
Shoes PIC (2NR)
Objectivity K
Speciesism K
Innoculation DA
Case

__Rd. 4 - Blake MM - TSATs__
T - Human
Cap K (2NR)
China Bashing Ptx DA
Case

__Rd. 5 - ICW HD - SPS__
T - Human (2NR)
Cap K
Russia Oil DA
Weaponization DA
Case

__Doubles - Washburn Rural KS - Asteroids__
T - Human
NSF CP
Edelman K
China Bashing Ptx DA (2NR)
Case (2NR)
===__UMich__=== 
__Rd. 2 - Lexington MC - ORS__
T - Human
Modernize Military CP
Security K
Russia Relations DA (2NR)
Case (2NR)

__Rd. 3 - Niles West LZ - SPS__
T - Human
Chaloupka PIK
PGS DA
Russia Oil DA
Weaponization DA (2NR)
Case (2NR)

__Rd. 5 - Pace ES - ORS__
T - Human
Sharing is Caring CP
Chaloupka PIK
Weaponization DA (2NR)
Case (2NR)