If you have any questions feel free to e-mail me at [[mailto:sol32995@yahoo.com|sol32995@yahoo.com]].
----



Justice AC

V:Justice

Justice is defined as "a town in Illinois"

Thus the resolution is a question of whether or not the town of justice requires animal rights.
If the town of justice requires animal rights then that is sufficient to affirm.

So I contend that the town of justice has special laws that require and protect animal rights.

The mayor of justice explains,

[[http://www.town/justice.com/rights/animals/mayor/illinois|www.town/justice.com/rights/animals/mayor/illinois]]

Oh and before the value I have a lot of theory spikes and justifications. So have fun!


Larp AC

Section 1 is the larp:

Deont bad
Rakowski 10

And, huh huh this is keeeeeeey to stop extinction

Annnnnnnnnd huh
Section 2 is AFC
grant aff the framework because 2ar post dates
Annnnd debaters must run util
This is keeey to education
Education is keeey to fairness
Annnnnd fairness is keeeey to education and policymaking


Annnd
Section 3 is the impacts
AFC stops extinction
annnd education stops extinction
and debating util and larping is keeeey to stop extinction




Justice NC

V:Justice

Justice is defined as " a town in Illinois"

Thus the resolution is a question of whether or not the town of justice requires the recognition of rights.
If the town of justice doesn't require animal rights that's sufficient to negate.

So I contend that the town of justice doesn't require the recognition of animal rights.


Hypogriff PIC

Text: I'll do all of the aff except for granting rights to hypogriffs
Reasons:
1. Hypogriffs are mystical creatures that can't be given rights.
2. The only time we've ever seen a hypogriff is in captivity so we can't grant them rights.



AT: Can't be extra- topical

I meet I'm so topical that I'm extra-topical

Theory:
Interp: Debaters must have opening quote at the top of their case
Standards:
1.Predictability
2.Reciprocity
3.Time Skew