[[toc]]
for aff cites: [[mailto:robelrocks@gmail.com|robelrocks@gmail.com]]
for neg cites: [[mailto:basco.colin.96@gmail.com|basco.colin.96@gmail.com]]
we'll post all 1ac and 1nc off-case cites asap. email us for anything additional.
=Affirmative= 
==Dragnets 1ac - Lexington== 
===Aerospace Advantage=== 

read in place of the cooperation advantage
didn't read all the cards in all debates, but all at some point

**__CONTENTION 3 IS AEROSPACE__**

**Budget cuts will decimate the aerospace industry—government projects are key to jumpstart it**
**UPI 1/10**/12 (“Industry study warns of budget cut effects,” [[http://www.upi.com/Business_News/Security-Industry/2012/01/10/Industry-study-warns-of-budget-cut-effects/UPI-42191326212962/]], RBW)

ARLINGTON, Va., Jan. 10 (UPI) -- A U.S. defense industry task force … of innovation that is necessary."


**High launch costs prevent commercial development of space**
**Coppersmith 10** – historian of technology at Texas A&M University (Jonathan, “Obama in space: bold but not bold enough,” The Space Review, April 12, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1603/1]])

Lost in the attention given … as well as scientific opportunities.


**Plan is vital to capitalizing the entire aerospace and commercial industrial base**
**Rendleman 10** – Colonel, U.S. Air Force (Retired), (James, Astropolitics, 8:220–255, 2010, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Ebsco Political Science)

Given the importance of a responsive … of a space assurance strategy.


**Plan stimulates commercial launch markets and substantially lowers launch costs**
**Colón****<span style="color: #101010;"> 10</span>**<span style="color: #101010;"> – </span>Lt Col, USAF, former Director of Operations to the 45th Operations Support Squadron at Cape Canaveral AFS, served as the deputy commander 595th Space Group responsible for the operational testing of space and missile weapon systems until leaving for his present assignment at the Air War College (Miguel, “DETERRENCE 2035 –THE ROLE OF TRANSPARENCY AND DIVERSITY IN A WORLD OF NANOSATS,” [[https://www.afresearch.org]])

A New Approach to Space Deterrence … not to attack; effectively deterring him.


**TWO IMPACTS:**
**First, commercial space development’s key to prevent extinction via resource wars**
<span class="Underline">**Collins and Autino ‘10** - *Life & Environmental Science, Azabu University AND **Andromeda Inc., Italy (Patrick and Adriano, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace,” Acta Astronautica 66 (2010) 1553–1562, science direct)**</span>

**<span class="Underline">The major source of social friction … to the general public.</span>**


Second, aerospace industry’s key to the economy
Hernnstadt 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Director of Trade and Globalization for the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (Owen E., “Offsets and the lack of a comprehensive U.S. policy,” Economic Policy Institute, April 17, [[http://www.sharedprosperity.org/bp201.html]])</span>**

**Aerospace is an especially important … (Aerospace Industry Commission 2002, 1-2).**


Economic decline results in global war

Royal 10 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the DoD, 10 — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” //Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives//, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)</span>**

**Less intuitive is how periods of economic … considered ancillary to those views.**


Free trade solves war—studies prove
Gartzke, 05** - associate professor of political science at Columbia University and author of a study on economic freedom and peace contained in the 2005 Economic Freedom of the World Report (Erik, “Future Depends on Capitalizing on Capitalist Peace,” 10/18, Windsor Star, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=5133)

<span class="cite">__With terrorism achieving "global reach"__ … __developed nations from this historic opportunity__</span>.
==Dragnets 1ac - Ohio Valley== 
*not all of these cards were read in all debates, but were at some point

===Inherency=== 

**__CONTENTION ONE IS INHERENCY__**

**Current Space Situational Awareness acquisition efforts fail**
**Chaplain ’11** –Director of Acquisition and Sourcing Management at the Government Accountability Office (Cristina T, “SPACE ACQUISITIONS: Development and Oversight Challenges in Delivering Improved Space Situational Awareness Capabilities,” May, http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d11545.pdf, RBW)

Despite recent investments, existing SSA … next 5 years and the challenges and risks they face.


**This is due to ground sensor failure, high res data, and inability to see small objects**
**Ziegler ’07** – Major, USAF (Dustin P, “PERSISTENT SPACE SITUATIONAL AWARENESS: DISTRIBUTED REAL-TIME AWARENESS GLOBAL NETWORK IN SPACE (DRAGNETS),” April, http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/cst/bh_ziegler.pdf)

The Potential Threat Europe, Russia, China, Japan, …the Space Commission, and a host of others.


===Plan Text=== 

**PLAN—**
The United States federal government should develop and launch the distributed real-time awareness global network in space in constellation format.


===Hegemony=== 

**__CONTENTION TWO IS HEGEMONY__**

**Countries closing the gap on space capabilities—SSA’s key to prevent parity**
**Bowen and Spier ’08** – *Director Surveillance and Intelligence Systems at Lockheed Martin Space Systems Company and Director Strategic C4ISR Capabilities Unit Lockheed Martin Information Systems and Global Services (Phillip D and Clifton, “Space Situational Awareness Architecture Assessment,” November, The High Frontier Journal, Vol. 5, N0. 1, http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-081117-032.pdf, RBW)

The United States holds an asymmetric …rapidly to military and civil decision-makers.


**SSA capability gaps make attacks inevitable**
**Morgan ’10** **–** senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation (Forrest E, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space: A Preliminary Assessment,” RAND Corporation, http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2010/RAND_MG916.pdf, RBW)

First-strike instability is made worse by …restore first-strike stability in that domain. 18


**SSA key to early warning and attribution**
**Weist ’07** **–** Major USAF (Todd, “Upon this Rock… a Foundational Space Situational Awareness Technology for 2030,” April, Air Command and Staff College, Air University, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA515444)

With small satellite technology … potentially threatening satellites.


**The plan’s key to nuclear deterrence and overall war-fighting capabilities**
**Burke ’06** **–** Lt. Col., Deputy Director in the Missile Defense Agency with operational experience in missile operations, space surveillance, space control, missile warning, and command and control (Alan W, “Space Threat Warning: Foundation for Space Superiority, Avoiding a Space Pearl Harbor,” April 17, Air War College, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA476999&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf/]])

Implications of the Erosion of US Space… satellites without fear of retribution.57 Pg. 8-12


**Nuclear deterrence checks all global conflicts**
**Lieber and Press ’09** **–** *Associate Professor in the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University and Associate Professor of Government at Dartmouth College and Coordinator of the War and Peace Studies Program (Keir A and Daryl G, “The Nukes We Need,” November/December, Foreign Affairs, Vol. 88, Issue 6)

THE PRIMARY purpose of U.S. nuclear…cease-fire and remain in power.


**Military dominance is critical to prevent global nuclear war**
**Kagan ’07** – senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History,” July 19, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html)

This is a good thing, and it should continue … involvement will provide an easier path.


**Social science proves that the alternative to hegemony is great power war—no peaceful transition**
**Wohlforth, 09** – professor of government at Dartmouth (William, “Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War,” World Affairs, January, project muse)

The upshot is a near scholarly consensus that…<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> for status tend to be zero sum</span>.9


**Hegemony solves nuke war and extinction---multipolarity is inevitable but absolute US power smooths the transition and is empirically correlated to perpetual great-power peace**
**Barnett, 11** - chief analyst at Wikistrat, former visiting scholar at the University of Tennessee’s Howard Baker Center for Public Policy and a visiting strategist at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies (Thomas, World Politics Review, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads,” 3/7, [[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads]]

Events in Libya are a further … deaths from state-based conflicts.


**U.S. hegemonic decline causes global great-power war, collapses trade and spreads economic nationalism and protectionism**
**Zhang & Shi 11** – Yuhan Zhang, researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace; Lin Shi, Columbia University, independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and consultant for the World Bank, January 22, 2011, “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry,” East Asia Forum, online: http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/

Over the past two decades, … devoid of unrivalled US primacy.


**War is at its lowest level in history because of US primacy---best statistical studies prove heg solves war because it makes democratic peace resilient globalization sustainable---it’s the deeper cause of proximate checks against war**
**Owen 11** John M. Owen Professor of Politics at University of Virginia PhD from Harvard "DON’T DISCOUNT HEGEMONY" Feb 11 www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/11/john-owen/dont-discount-hegemony/

Andrew Mack and his colleagues … support for liberal democracy remains strong.


**Every credible measure of study shows violence is down because of everything consistent with the aff---heg, democracy, liberal trade---it’s only a question of sustaining current dynamics and preventing shocks to the system**
**Pinker 9-24** (Steven, Professor of Psychology at Harvard University, “Violence Vanquished: We believe our world is riddled with terror and war, but we may be living in the most peaceable era in human existence. Why brutality is declining and empathy is on the rise,” 9-24-2011, http://online.ws j.com/article/SB10001424053111904106704576583203589408180.html?mod=googlenews_wsj)

On the day this article … enlightenment that made it possible.


===Cooperation=== 

**__CONTENTION 3 IS COOPERATION__**

**Cooperative frameworks are inevitable but will fail without the plan**
**Rendleman and Ryals ’11** – *Col., J.D. and BS and was second lieutenant through the Air Force ROTC and Col., BSEE, JD, and MA and a Force Space Command as a contractor in space control and as an instructor for the past five years at the Space Innovation and Development Center’s Advanced Space Operations School (James and Robert, “The New National Space Policy: More is Needed,” February, The High Frontier Journal, Vol. 7, No. 2, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf]])

Interest in international space cooperation is not … community will not see cooperation as a benefit.


**Multiple internal links—**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">a) SSA solves treaty-verification and weaponization</span>**
**Baines and Cote ’09** **–** *Deputy Director of the Non-proliferation and Disarmament Division at the Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade Canada and researcher in the same division and an MA candidate at the Norman Paterson School of International Affairs at Carleton University (Philip J and Adam, “Promising confidence- and security-building measures for space security,” http://www.unidir.org/pdf/articles/pdf-art2906.pdf)

<span class="underline0">Verification and governance are … of accidental collisions or interference.38 </span>


**b) U.S. leadership and data processing facilities are vital for success of data sharing initiatives**
**Robinson ’11** – Resident Fellow at the European Space Policy Institute (Jana, “Transparency and confidence-building measures for space security,” Space Policy 27,)

Build space TCBMs with like-minded partners… of missions and value-added capabilities. Pg. 36-37


**c) Miscalculation**
**Rendleman ’10** – Col., J.D. and BS and was second lieutenant through the Air Force ROTC (James, “A Strategy for Space Assurance,” Astropolitics: The International Journal of Space Politics & Policy, Volume 8, Issue 2 & 3, 2010, Pages 220 – 255)

Samuel Black argues that ‘‘space assurance’’ should …hreats, and to assure viability of its systems. Pg. 221-223


**Multilateral cooperation is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war**
**Hitchens, 8** – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you)

<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Perhaps of even greater concern is that …</span> alternative would be unacceptable to all.


**War in space occurs through miscalculation, risks extinction**
**Mitchell et al, 1** -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh
(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)

A buildup of space weapons might begin … the most destructive military conflict ever seen.


**Information as a result of the plan causes a tendency to share**
**Roberts ’05** – Major, Space and Missile Force Programmer, Directorate of Plans and Programs, HQ Air Force (Tommy A, “Space Situation Awareness: How Much Should the US Share?” Winter, The High Frontier Journal, Vol. 1, No. 3, http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-070622-057.pdf, RBW)

Recent operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as the tragic … …now the devil will be in the details.


===Solvency=== 

**__CONTENTION 4 IS SOLVENCY__**

**Femtosat sensing nodes provide quick images and immediate information sharing**
**Ziegler ’07** – Major, USAF (Dustin P, “PERSISTENT SPACE SITUATIONAL AWARENESS: DISTRIBUTED REAL-TIME AWARENESS GLOBAL NETWORK IN SPACE (DRAGNETS),” April, http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/cst/bh_ziegler.pdf)

Former Air Force Space Command (AFSPC) Commander … of the discussion will help frame the approach.


**And, they maintain continual cognizance**
**Ziegler ’07** – Major, USAF (Dustin P, “PERSISTENT SPACE SITUATIONAL AWARENESS: DISTRIBUTED REAL-TIME AWARENESS GLOBAL NETWORK IN SPACE (DRAGNETS),” April, http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/cst/bh_ziegler.pdf)

In the decades since the space …in the use of US space capabilities.



==Add-ons== 
===2ac - Solar Storms=== 

**Plan solves—high temporal and spatial resolution awareness is critical**
**Ziegler ’07** – Major, USAF (Dustin P, “PERSISTENT SPACE SITUATIONAL AWARENESS: DISTRIBUTED REAL-TIME AWARENESS GLOBAL NETWORK IN SPACE (DRAGNETS),” April, http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/cst/bh_ziegler.pdf)

In the future, progress in … the missions they enable, however.


**This is the biggest impact ever: 0% chance of survival**
**Adams 9-13-11** – <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> award-winning journalist & editor of NaturalNews.com Mike, September 13, “ Solar flare could unleash nuclear holocaust across planet Earth, forcing hundreds of nuclear power plants into total meltdowns”, [[http://www.naturalnews.com/033564_solar_flares_nuclear_power_plants.html]], NEH )</span>

(NaturalNews) Forget about the 2012 Mayan calendar … fraction of the total population.






=Negative= 

==**<span style="background-color: white;">Security K</span>**== 
===**<span style="background-color: white;">1nc</span>**=== 
**<span style="background-color: white;">The affirmative’s securitization of supposed threats creates a self-fulfilling prophesy of global enmity ending in extinction. Realism and violence are not inevitable – the alternative is to </span>reject the affirmative and their representations of the technological need to securitize space.**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Mack 88 –</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> MD Psychiatrist and Professor at Harvard Medical School (August 13, 1998, John Mack, “The Enemy System,” Published in the Lancet,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> http://johnemackinstitute.org/1988/08/the-enemy-system-short-version/</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">) CB</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span class="Underline">threat of nuclear annihilation … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, then we would have war”.</span>


==Russia DA== 
===**<span style="background-color: white;">1nc</span>**=== 
=== === 

**Cooperation and relations now, but unilateralist policies will kill them**
**Kharlamov 6/29**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ilya, reporter for The Voice of Russia citing director of Moscow’s Institute of Strategic Assessment and Analysis Sergei Oznobishcheb, “ Hillary Clinton gives post-“reset” outlook” The Voice of Russia [[http://english.ruvr.ru/2011/06/29/52552669.html]] NEH)</span>

__Upon pushing the “reset” button … a state of mutual nuclear deterrence__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Russian relations key to all impacts including** **<span style="font-size: 14pt;">nuclear war</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Allison and Blackwill 10-30**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">-11. Graham Allison director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard’s Kennedy School and a former assistant secretary of defense in the Clinton administration. Robert Blackwill is Henry A. Kissinger senior fellow for U.S. foreign policy at the Council on Foreign Relations and served as U.S. ambassador to India and as deputy national security adviser for strategic planning in the Bush administration. They are co-chairmen of the Task Force on Russia and U.S. National Interests, co-sponsored by the Belfer Center and the Center for the National Interest “ 10 reasons why Russia still matters” Politico [[http://www.politico.com/news/stories/1011/67178.html]] NEH)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">House Speaker John Boehner recently … , in advancing our national interests.</span>

==Militarization DA== 
===1nc=== 

**Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization**
**Huntley 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As is well understood, the … may lurk in these details. </span>

**The perception of pursuing space dominance will destroy the commitment to the new Obama National Space Policy**
**Dant, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - chief of staff of the Air Force fellow and the director of space policy for the under secretary of defense for policy (Daniel, High Frontier, February, " The National Space Policy: Sustainability and Cooperation in a Congested, Competitive, and Contested Domain,” http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf)</span>

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cooperation for contested and competitive … </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">of responsible space-faring nations.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Unilateral action alienates allies and shatters other areas of cooperation**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Sabathier et. al 6**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">— senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program and former senior fellow and director of CSIS space initiative (September 18, 2oo6 ,Vincent G. Sabathier, D.A. Broniatowski, G. Ryan Faith, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “The Case for Managed International Cooperation in Space Exploration”, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/060918_managed_international_cooperation.pdf , FS)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">International cooperation is valuable to a … cooperation would be more likely. </span>

**War in space occurs through miscalculation, risks extinction**
**Mitchell et al, 1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)</span>

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">A buildup of space weapons … destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>__

==Ptx== 
===1nc-Payroll=== 

**Payroll tax cut extension will pass now—Obama holds the better hand, public opinion supports Democratic proposals, Republicans fear the consequences of blocking**
<span class="Heading2Char">Bartlett 12/2/11</span> (Bruce, The Fiscal Times, "Obama Could Win if GOP Blocks Payroll Tax Cut," http://www.thefiscaltimes.com/Columns/2011/12/02/Obama-Could-Win-if-GOP-Blocks-Payroll-Tax-Cut.aspx?p=1)

Today the situation is largely … voting against a bill that passes.

**Political capital key to passing payroll tax cut and unemployment benefit extension**
<span class="Heading2Char">Philadelphia Inquirer 9/8/11</span> ("Point: Don't expect miracles on job growth," http://www.philly.com/philly/opinion/20110908_Inquirer_Editorial__The_president_s_jobs_speech.html)

President Obama goes into Thursday's … <span class="UnderlineChar">**cut and continuing unemployment insurance.** </span>

**Passing Obama’s jobs plan tax cut proposals is vital in preventing US economic collapse**
<span class="Heading2Char">Zandi 9/9/11</span> (Mark, Economist @ Moody's Analytics, "An Analysis of the Obama Jobs Plan," http://www.economy.com/dismal/article_free.asp?cid=224641)

President Obama’s<span class="UnderlineChar"> much-anticipated </span>jobs … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Recession to closer to 5.5% currently. </span>

**Impact is Extinction**
<span class="Heading2Char">Auslin 9</span> (Michael, Resident Scholar – American Enterprise Institute, and Desmond Lachman – Resident Fellow – American Enterprise Institute, “The Global Economy Unravels”, Forbes, 3-6, http://www.aei.org/article/100187)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What do these trends mean … </span>that coalesce into a big bang<span class="UnderlineChar">.</span>


==GEO DA== 
===1nc=== 

**SPS would occupy the majority of GEO space – causes competition**
**National Research Council 81 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">private non-profit institutions that provide expert advice on some of the most pressing challenges facing the nation and the world, the organization produces groundbreaking reports that have helped shape sound policies, inform public opinion, and advance the pursuit of science, engineering, and medicine. (http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/1981NRC-ElectricPowerFromOrbit-1.Report.pdf, p. 92-93)</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> CB</span>**


<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">There are at least six … broader context of politicaldecisions. </span>


**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Competition creates multiple scenarios for conflict</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Klotz 99 </span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">— Commander, Air Force Global Strike Command, Barksdale Air Force Base [Lt. Gen. Frank G. Klotz, Jan 1999, Space, Commerce, and National Security, Council on Foreign Relations, p.23-4] CB</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__scramble for geosynchronous slots …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">military equipment to foreign countries.100 </span>

**Impact is extinction**
**Mitchell et al 1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html) CB</span>

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">A buildup of space weapons … destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>__



==Papworth DA== 

===1nc=== 

**Regardless of the commendable intent of particular social efforts, the Affirmative’s uncritical acceptance of centralization destroys any possibility of social empowerment—the result is extinction**
**<span class="Heading2Char">Papworth 01</span>** (John, Senior Editor @ Ecologist + Founder of Fourth World Review, Peace Through Social Empowerment, "Primary Causes," http://www.cesc.net/radicalweb/radicalconsultation/papworth/jp14.html)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is simply this; that</span> __… **to any genuine social progress.**__

**Voting Negative is a prerequisite to empowering local communities and challenging the perceived “naturalness” and “inevitability” of centralization**
**<span class="Heading2Char">Papworth 01</span>** (John, Senior Editor @ Ecologist + Founder of Fourth World Review, Peace Through Social Empowerment, "Primary Causes," http://www.cesc.net/radicalweb/radicalconsultation/papworth/jp14.html)

__Supposing then our reform movements …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">organisations joined hands to do so?</span>
__What then would be involved?__
__They would be agents of …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">under one Brussels-dominated Government.</span>


**Democratic participation at the local level is vital to overall environmental sustainability – political fighting over the plan will derail the transition; only the counterplan can spur greater public participation and break down social and environmental heirarchies**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 10pt;">Bryner, 02</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 10pt;"> - Professor, Department of Political Science, Brigham Young University, and Research Associate, Natural Resources Law Center. University of Colorado School of Law (Gary, 26 Environs Envtl. L. & Pol'y J. 1, “Policy Devolution and Environmental Law: Exploring the Transition to Sustainable Development”, lexis)</span>

<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 10pt;">IV. THE ECOLOGICAL .. </span> [*32] V. CONCLUSION

<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 6pt;">The idea of sustainable development … </span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 10pt;">in the idea of sustainability.</span>__


==Molniya CP== 

===1nc=== 

**Text: The United States federal government should develop and deploy solar powered satellites in an elliptical Molniya Orbit.**

**SPS in GEO fails – Molniya orbit solves**
**Jones 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Winter 2010, Royce Jones, degrees in Constuction Management , Computer Programing, and Aided Design, also a Space Technology entrepreneur, venture manager, IP Developer, and investor; Alternative Orbits A New Space Solar Power Reference Design, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/jones.html; WBTR] </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This paper offers a new space … </span>__substantially reduce SSP satellite mass____.__



==SSA CP== 

===1nc=== 

**Counterplan text—**
**The United States Department of Defense should**
**--substantially increase its Space Situational Awareness**
**--promote Space Situational Awareness data sharing**

**SSA is the foundation of space deterrence**
**Schulte 9/13**/11 – Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Space Policy (Gregory, “Guest Blog: on Space Security – ‘Adjusting to an Evolving Domain’”, http://www.newparadigmsforum.com/NPFtestsite/?p=1073, RBW)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">III. Deterrence One of the “… </span>__cause instability in a terrestrial crisis__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



==State Climate CP== 

===1nc=== 


**The fifty state governments should establish a Carbon Portfolio Standard requiring a twenty percent reduction in carbon emissions from electric utilities by 2020.**

**The CP solves global warming and boosts international climate leadership**
**Apt et al, 07** – executive director of the Electricity Industry Center at Carnegie Mellon University’s Tepper School of Business and the Department of Engineering and Public Policy, where he is a Distinguished Service Professor <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jay, “Promoting Low-Carbon Electricity Production,” Issues in Science and Technology, Spring, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.issues.org/23.3/apt.html]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Who should act first in … of implementing federal carbon standards.</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Whatever is done, the nation must start soon.... </span>__Since the U__nited __S__tates __has …__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">a clear timetable for emission reductions.</span>



==T-commercial== 

===1nc=== 

**Interpretation - Exploration is space science and development is the creation of commercial market activities**
**Hsu and Cox, 9 -** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">*Senior fellow, Aerospace Technology Working Group, AND **Founder & Director of the Aerospace Technology Working Group (Feng and Ken, “Sustainable Space Exploration and Space Development - A Unified Strategic Vision,” 2/20, http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=30702)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Particularly, NASA needs reforms on … in solely by taxpayer contributions.</span>




==ORS spec== 

===1nc=== 

<span class="Underline">**ORS doesn’t exist due to lack of definition—makes it impossible to construct a coherent 1nc**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Doggrell 08**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Les, senior project leader with The Aerospace Corporation, supporting Headquarters Air Force Space Command's Directorate of Requirements, Peterson AFB, Colorado “ The Reconstitution Imperative” December 08, [[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj08/win08/doggrell.html]] NEH)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Congress and senior </span><span class="Underline">defense officials … published a reconstitution concept for ORS.</span>

**Defining ORS is a prerequisite to their solvency debate – they can’t solve, vote neg on presumption**
**GAO 2k8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– US Government Accountability Office (US Government Accountability Office, “Defense Space Activities: DOD Needs to Further Clarify the Operationally Responsive Space Concept and Plan to Integrate and Support Future Satellites,” 7/14/2k8, [[http://www.gao.gov/htext/d08831.html]] /mr)</span>

__DOD is making some progress__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span>**__warfighter needs may be hampered.__**


==Neg Strats== 

===Ohio Valley=== 

====**Round 1: Neg vs. Niles West AT (SPS)**==== 
**2nr - space mil DA, case**

====**Round 3: Neg vs. River Hill (ORS)**==== 
**2nr - space mil DA, SSA CP, case**

====**Round 6: Neg vs. Thomas Johnson GH (critical EOS)**==== 
**2nr - payroll DA, case**


===Lexington=== 

====**Round 2: Neg vs. Nashua SS (Space elevator: Bataille)**==== 
**2nr - payroll DA, case**

====**Round 3: Neg vs. Houston HB (Space Commons)**==== 
**2nr - T-increase**

====**Round 6: Neg vs. Pace HP (SPS)**==== 
**2nr - mil DA, nextgen cp, case**

====**Semifinals: Neg vs. UCLab (Asteroid)**==== 
**2nr - payroll DA, case**


===Golden Desert=== 

====**Round 1: Neg vs. Highland AB (SPS: Poverty, Warming)**==== 
**2nr - Ptx DA, Ozone turn, case**

====**Round 3: Neg vs. Marist MT (Space corps: Heg, Deterrence, India)**==== 
**2nr - Ptx DA, case**

====**Round 6: Neg vs. Loyola FM (SPS: Fossil Fuel, Poverty)**==== 
**2nr - Mil DA, Ozone turn, case**


===Harvard=== 

====<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Round 2: Neg vs. Barstow MW (Property Rights: Economy, Colonization)**</span>==== 
**2nr - Cybersecurity ptx DA, Case**

====<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Round 4: Neg vs. Blake MM (TSAT: Heg, China)**</span>==== 
**2nr - Acquisition DA, Case inherency**

====<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Round 5: Neg vs. Berkeley GX (SBIRS: Arctic Conflict, Hosted Payloads)**</span>==== 
**2nr - Heidegger K**

====<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Round 7: Neg vs. Lexington AM (Property Rights:** **Moon Race, Economy)**</span>==== 
**2nr -** **Cybersecurity ptx DA, Case**

===Vestavia=== 

====<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Round 1: Neg vs. C.E. Byrd GN (Fasching: Anthropocentrism)**</span>==== 
**2nr - Taoism K**

====<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Round 4: Neg vs. Johns Creek FD (PDS: Asteroid, ETI)**</span>==== 
**2nr - T-commercial**

====<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Semifinals: Neg vs. Johns Creek HX (PDS: Asteroid, ETI)**</span>==== 
**2nr - Mil DA, Case, Covert affs bad**

====<span style="font-size: 13px;">**Finals: Neg vs. Woodward NS (Mars Col)**</span>==== 
**2nr - NASA t/off DA, Case**