== == 
[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC MBA== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Text: The United States Federal Government should implement the 2004 Vision for Space Exploration.</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16pt;">Contention 1: Status Quo</span>__**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Current Obama space policy kills NASA in the long run and produces unrealistic goals</span>**

[[http://www.time.com/time/letters/email_letter.html|**KLUGER**]]**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, 2011,</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Jeffery Kluger, is the Times Science writer) (April 16th) (“Has Obama's NASA Strategy Fizzled at Launch?”) (http://www.time.com/time/health/article/0,8599,1982475,00.html) </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(**__RICHARD M__**)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Obama's take on space…misreading of space history. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Additionally it is not the VSE</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Mohney, 2011</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Doug Mohney is a contributing editor for TMCnet and a 20-year veteran of the ICT space) (“A Trail of Broken Promises for a Manned Mars Mission”) (August 2nd) (</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://satellite.tmcnet.com/topics/satellite/articles/203436-trail-broken-promises-a-manned-mars-mission.htm]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">) (</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">RICHARD M</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The next serious push to Mars…launched to simply orbit the Moon. </span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16pt;">Contention 2: Space Militarization</span>__**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Currently the US has a unique window to engage China in space to create a sustainable long term relationship</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Moskowitz, 9/29/11</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Clara, journalist for USA Today, Tehran Times, and space.com, “U.S. & China: Space race or cosmic cooperation?”</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.tehrantimes.com/index.php/component/content/article/3005]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (**__RICHARD M__**)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">This week the rising space power is set…public policy think tank. </span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">However </span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the status quo only promotes a dangerous perception of space arms race—</span>****<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">current Wolf Clause hinders cooperation—</span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">based on flawed, lingering cold war ideology</span>**

**__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Xinhua, 2011,</span>__**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(“'Wolf Clause' betrays China-US cooperation,”) (</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">http://usa.chinadaily.com.cn/us/2011-05/18/content_12531720.htm) (</span>**__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">RICHARD M</span>__**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The bill included a clause…peace-loving people in the world.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This misperception makes conflict inevitable creates the perception of space race and China developing offensive space military capabilities</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Johnson-Freesea</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Naval War College, Newport, USA__,__ </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">06</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Joan, “A New US-Sino Space Relationship: Moving Toward Cooperation”, Astropolitics, Vol 4 No 1, August]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">A new term has been floating around Washington. Congagement…to level the playing field.</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">China Will Say Yes:</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">A)</span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> China emphasize cooperation with the US—they see it as mutually beneficial </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Logsdon and Krolikowsk, 2011</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, (John M. Logsdon is Professor Emeritus at the Space Policy Institute, Elliott School of International Affairs, George Washington University. Alanna Krolikowski is a Visiting Scholar and Fulbright doctoral grantee at the Space Policy Institute and a PhD candidate at the University of Toronto) (“Enhancing US-China Relations in Space**”) (**September 22nd**) (**http://www.chinausfocus.com/slider/enhancing-us-china-relations-in-space/) **(**</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">RICHARD M</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The most visible part of China’s space program…U.S. expectations for transparency. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">B) </span>China wants to cooperate on space policy – particularly human exploration**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Smith, 2010</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Marcia is the President of Space and Technology Policy Group. She was Director of the Space Studies Board and of the Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board at the U.S. National Research Council. Before that she was a specialist in aerospace and telecommunications policy at the Congressional Research Service “Global Economic Woes Mean More International Space Cooperation, Should Include China, Say International Space Reps” October 16 http://www.spacepolicyonline.com/pages/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1174:global-economic-woes-mean-more-international-space-cooperation-should-include-china-say-international-space-reps&catid=91:news&Itemid=84) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">International cooperation will be essential to realizing… benefits are more visible to the public. </span>

**C) China interested in lunar mining**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Lou **Friedman,** 2/14/2011, “American Leadership”, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1778/1]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">American leadership in space… human expeditions to other worlds. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And Chinese militarization of space is only a response to US perception of space race</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Gargasz 10</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Michael Luke, Major, United States Air Force, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama, “We’ve Rattled Our Sabers…Now What? The Future of US/China Space Relations”)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Similar to the traditional US view of peaceful… gotten more aggressive in its tone. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Militarization causes a Hair trigger stance - miscalc and accidental launches will be inevitable—leads to extinction </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Mitchell, 01</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> – Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">A buildup of space weapons… military conflict ever seen.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Specifically, implementing the VSE sparks cooperation with China</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Moltz, 2011</span>__****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(James Clay Moltz is a professor national security, Naval Postgraduate Sch) (Journal of Contemporary China, Issue 68, pp. 69-87, vol. 20) (**__RICHARD M__**)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Another forward-looking prospect for… international coalition for this work.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, put your relations Disads away—US-Sino bilateral cooperation key to ensure an establishment for a multilateral world, no backlash will occur </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Patrick and Thaler, 2010</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Stewart M. **__Patrick__**—Senior Fellow and Director of the International Institutions and Global Governance Program. His expertise are Multilateral cooperation, international institutions and global governance; United Nations; weak and failing states; foreign assistance and post-conflict reconstruction; transnational threats; U.S. foreign policy; diplomatic history. Farah Faisal </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Thaler</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">— a research associate with the International Institutions and Global Governance at the Council on Foreign Relations where she works on issues related to the United Nations and the Bretton Woods institutions. She holds a masters in international affairs from Columbia University and a bachelor of commerce degree from McGill University) (“China, the United States, and Global Governance: Shifting Foundations of World Order”) (March 15th-17th) (http://www.cfr.org/content/thinktank/CFR_CICIR_MeetingNote.pdf) </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(**__RICHARD M__**)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Prospects for effective multilateral cooperation… embraced a doctrine of contingent sovereignty. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dialogue reveals mutual intentions between the US and China – it prevents threat-mongering</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Lynch</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Assistant Professor of Political Science at Williams College, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">in ‘2</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Marc, “Why Engagement? China and the Logic of Communicative Engagement” European Journal of International Relations, Vol 8 No 2, p 187-230]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The difficulty in making accurate…for reliability and trustworthiness.</span>

**Space militarization is only “inevitable” because we keep militarizing space. Stepping back from it would allow arms control to lift the security dilemma and avoid an arms race**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Zhang 2011 -</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">[Baohui The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship The Prospects for Arms Control ASIAN SURVEY 51:2 JSTOR Accessed July 12]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">This article, citing firsthand Chinese military sources… the way for arms control.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space militarization is not inevitable: </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1. it’s a social construct</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2. Foreign weaponization is contingent upon U.S. action</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Grondin, 6 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">– Assistant Professor, School of Political Studies, University of Ottawa (David, The (Power) Politics of Space: The U.S. Astropolitical Discourse of Global Dominance in the War on Terror)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">US astropolitical analysts… space weaponization by other countries."</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Neither the PLA nor China want to fight the US; too many internal problems</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">MacDonald, 11</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Bruce W. MacDonald is senior director of the Nonproliferation and Arms Control Program with the USIP Office of Special Initiatives. In this capacity, he developed and serves and lead instructor of </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.usip.org/education-training/courses/21st-century-issues-in-strategic-arms-control-and-nuclear-nonproliferatio|21st Century Issues in Strategic Arms Control and Nonproliferation]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, a series of courses for the USIP </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.usip.org/education-training/domestic/academy-international-conflict-management-and-peacebuilding|Academy for International Conflict Management and Peacebuidling]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, as well as serving as an adviser on a variety of issues related to nuclear strategy and policy, missile defense, arms control, and nonproliferation. He served as senior director of the </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.usip.org/programs/initiatives/congressional-commission-the-strategic-posture-the-united-states|Congressional Commission on the Strategic Posture of the United States]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, a bipartisan body headed by former Defense Secretaries William Perry and James Schlesinger. He was project leader for the Council on Foreign Relations’ study of China, Space Weapons, and U.S. Security. He also served on the Obama presidential campaign’s defense policy support team in the areas of military space, missile defense, and other strategic issues.MacDonald was assistant director for national security at the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy and served on the National Security Council staff.MacDonald is an honors graduate in aerospace engineering from Princeton University. He also received two masters degrees from Princeton, one in aerospace engineering with a specialty in rocket propulsion, and the second in public and international affairs. MacDonald is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics. CQ Congressional Testimony, “Military and Civil Space Programs in China,” on May 11, 2o11 from) (http://www.uscc.gov/hearings/2011hearings/transcripts/11_05_11_trans/11_05_11_final_transcript.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> In the face of this growing Chinese military… through miscalculation or distraction.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Failure to cooperate over space hinders US-China relations —space is the starting point to foster good relations</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Moltz, 2011</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. James Clay, Naval Postgraduate School,for the hearing of the U.S. China Economic and Security Review Commission on) (“The Implications of China’s Military and Civil Space Programs”) (May 11th) (http://www.uscc.gov/hearings/2011hearings/written_testimonies/11_05_11_wrt/11_05_11_moltz_testimony.pdf) (</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">RICHARD M</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Renewing civil and commercial…leadership and establish lasting cooperative ties**.** </span>


**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16pt;">Contention 2: Energy</span>__**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We are heading towards a global energy crisis</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Connor, 2009</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, (Steve Connor, Science Editor) (“ Warning: Oil supplies are running out fast Catastrophic shortfalls threaten economic recovery, says world's top energy economist”) (August 3rd) (</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.independent.co.uk/news/science/warning-oil-supplies-are-running-out-fast-1766585.html]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">) (</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">RICHARD M</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The world is heading for a catastrophic energy crunch… energy crisis redoubles the imperative," he said. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lunar resources key to solve global energy crisis </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Garan</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Astronaut, </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">2010</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ron, Universe Today by Nancy Atkinson, “The Importance of Returning to the Moon”, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.universetoday.com/61256/astronaut-explains-why-we-should-return-to-the-moon/]]</span>)

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Energy: Today, about 1.6 billion people…destroying our environment. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Great conflicts will occur in space and on Earth if U.S. unilaterally acts upon exploiting the Moon’s resources</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hatch 10</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Benjamin D. Hatch, Executive Notes and Comments Editor, Emory International Law, “DIVIDING THE PIE IN THE SKY: THE NEED FOR A NEW LUNAR RESOURCES REGIME,” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.law.emory.edu/fileadmin/journals/eilr/24/24.1/Hatch.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Today, unowned areas cannot…greatest economic opportunity in history. </span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">**US Unilateral actions to exploit the moon’s resources will harm countries through military means**</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Moltz 09</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">James Clay Moltz, is an associate professor in the Department of National Security Studies at the Naval Postgraduate School, Monterey, California. His latest book is The Politics of Space Security: Strategic Restraint and the Pursuit of National Interests (Stanford University Press, 2008), “Toward Cooperation or Conflict on the Moon?” Fall 2009, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.au.af.mil/au/ssq/2009/Fall/moltz.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The debate on the issue…possibly through military means. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Causes energy imperialism – endless wars</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Foster</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">,B. John (professor of sociology at University of Oregon) **2008**, editor, Monthly Review, July 2008, (</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.monthlyreview.org/080707foster.php]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The tightening oil situation…in big oil and the Pentagon.42</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia Bold'; font-size: 12pt;">US peruse national competition risks environmental degradation—causes planetary destruction and extinction </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">J</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">osée </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">JOHNSTON</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> Associate Professor of Sociology at the University of Toronto, **__200__**</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">3</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Capitalism, Nature, Socialism, “Who Cares about the Commons?” December 2003, [Stolarski]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Even when the specific language of enclosure… its value calculus cannot discern any problem. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Helium 3 mining feasible—multiple warrants </span>**

**__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Barnatt</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, 2011</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Christopher Barnatt is a futurist, author, videographer, and Associate Professor of Computing and Future Studies in Nottingham University Business School. The author of seven books on future studies and computing. Also works with the Discovery Channel, member of the World Future Society) (“Helium-3 Power Generation”) (September 17th) (</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.explainingthefuture.com/helium3.html]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">) (</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">RICHARD M</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">To provide a little background…potential future nuclear fuel. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Specifically—Cooperation over the moon is key </span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Moltz, James ’09</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(James Clay Moltz, an associate professor at the Naval Postgraduate School, is the author of “The Politics of Space Security.”)“Toward Cooperation or Conflict on the Moon?” - http://www.au.af.mil/au/ssq/2009/Fall/moltz.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">While pressures for “enclosure”… self-interest behind them.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cooperation creates a global framework for engagement and reduces likelihood for conflict</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Rendleman and Faulconer, 10</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">– retired USAF Colonel AND __President of Strategic Space Solutions,__ </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">over 31 years in the aerospace industry (James and Walter, “</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Improving international space cooperation: Considerations for the USA,” Space Policy 26 (2010) 143-151, Science Direct)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Resource and risk sharing…being paid to the discussions held with the Indian government and its space community.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Exploration and development is what benefits the interest of all countries – facilitates international cooperation</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Outer Space Treaty 2002</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(“UNITED NATIONS TREATIES AND PRINCIPLES ON OUTER SPACE” -UN </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.oosa.unvienna.org/pdf/publications/STSPACE11E.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The exploration and use of outer space…cooperation in such investigation.</span>


=Answers To:= 

=Disadvantages= 

==Obama Good== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Winners win</span>**



**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Singer 2k9</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">-</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> Editor of MyDirectDemocracy, JD Candidate at Berkeley Law (Jonathan, “By Expending Capital, Obama Grows His Capital”, [[http://www.mydd.com/story/2009/3/3/191825/0428]])</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Peter Hart gets at a key point…ending the war in Iraq.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Congress is committed to human spaceflight programs its increasing NASA funds</span>**



<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Powell 09</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Stewart, political analyst and reporter, Moon mission gets help in Congress, [[http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/nation/6780240.html]], 12/21/09)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">Fearful that the White House might scale back…Republicans</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> in the Senate and none in the House.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No internal link – issues are compartilized</span>**



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Dickinson 2k9</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">– Professor of Political Science at Middlebury College and taught previously at Harvard University where he worked under the supervision of presidential scholar Richard Neustadt (5/26/09, Matthew, Presidential Power: A NonPartisan Analysis of Presidential Politics, “Sotomayor, Obama and Presidential Power”)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">As for Sotomayor, from here the path…measured through legislative boxscores.</span>



==Spending== 

<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Stimulating money in the economy solves – budget cuts only increase layoffs, decrease state government funds and consumer spending</span>**</span>



__<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Seidman, 2011</span>**</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">, (is a professor of economics at the University of Delaware.) 9/14 “Don't turn a recession into a depression”</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">) ([[http://www.delawareonline.com/article/20110915/OPINION09/109150323/Don-t-turn-recession-into-depression?odyssey=mod%7Cnewswell%7Ctext%7CHome%7Cs]])</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">Here's a</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> fact many citizens don't know</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">…fiscal stimulus to combat a recession.</span>



<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Non-unique – congress won’t stop spending now</span>**</span>



<span class="Underline">**__SATTERFIELD,4–28 –1__1 (**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Terry Satterfield, Politicians can't cut **spending**) ([[http://www.marionstar.com/article/BF/20110428/OPINION02/104280348/Politicians-can-t-cut-spending?odyssey=nav|head|http://www.marionstar.com/article/BF/20110428/OPINION02/104280348/Politicians-can-t-cut-**spending**?odyssey=nav|head]])</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">In the 18th century, as democratic ideals… programs for our senior citizens!").</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Congress is committed to human spaceflight programs its increasing NASA funds</span>**



__<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Powell 09</span>**</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Stewart, political analyst and reporter, Moon mission gets help in Congress, [[http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/nation/6780240.html]], 12/21/09)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">Fearful that the White House might scale back…Republicans in the Senate and none in the House.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan key to the economy and job growth in the long run—multiple warrants</span>**



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Dr. **__David Livingston 2008__**, (prof., Space Studies, Univ. of North Dakota, January 21, 2008) (http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1040/1)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The money spent on manned space exploration…federal funding has been terminated</span>



==**Space Mill**== 



<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">No Link, VSE key to demonstrate peaceful activities—China won’t weaponize unless provoked by the US</span>**</span>



<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Baofu, 2007</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">(Baifu Wang is by People's Daily Online and its author Wang Baofu, a research fellow and deputy director of the Strategic Studies Institute of the Chinese National Defense University) (“Outer space not let to overcast with war clouds”) (April 3rd) (http://english.people.com.cn/200704/03/eng20070403_363411.html</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">) (</span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">RICHARD M</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">In fact, what the global… the entire global community.</span>



<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Weaponization of the moon won’t occur—NSP stops it</span>**</span>



<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">White House 06</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;"> ([[http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ostp/national-space-policy-2006.pdf]])</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">The conduct of U.S. space programs… consistent with national security.</span>



<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Obama is not weaponizing space - now is key time to cooperate</span>**</span>



<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Zhang 11</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;"> (Baohui, March/April, “The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship”, Asian Survey, Pg 328-31, Vol. 51, No. 2, http://www.jstor.org/action/showArticleInfo?doi=10.1525%2FAS.2011.51.2.311)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">Important changes in U.S. strategic posture…security cooperation with the U.S.</span>



<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Other actors check—Russia not weaponizing now</span>**</span>



<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">RIA 10</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;"> (MOSCOW, April 9 (RIA Novosti, “Russia has no plans to deploy weapons in space - top brass” accessed 7/11/10 Russia has no plans to deploy weapons in space - top brass aes)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">The commander of Russia's space… force against space objects.</span>



==Debris== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">EVEN WITHOUT a solution, the debris problem won’t escalate for hundreds of years</span>**



<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The Times 2010</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Duncan Graham-Rowe, Science Writer, “Junk in space,” 6-3, Lexis)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">How you define the point…</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">will take over.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No Impact to Space Debris</span>**



<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Dolman 2006</span>__</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">,</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> (</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">US Air Force’s School of Advanced Air and Space Studies Comparative Military Studies professor,**)** (Everett, “Toward a U.S. Grand Strategy in Space,” Washington Roundtable on Science and Public Policy, George C. Marshall Institute, 3-10-06, [[http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/408.pdf]])</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Dolman: </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">Well, I think that…</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">enforce some sort of order</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The link is small - the US doesn’t produce much debris and is already engaged in cleanup - and national security outweighs anyway</span>**



<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">USSD 7</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(US State Department, “Study on Space Policy: Report on the International Security Advisory Board,” April 27, Accessed on Spacedebate.com, http://www.spacedebate.org/evidence/3003)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The United States is party to the Convention…threaten populations, armed forces, and infrastructure.</span>



==Ozone== 



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Depletion is inevitable—manufactured products and temperature rotation</span>**



**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Wilkins, 2011,</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Alsadair Wilkins) (October 3rd) (“Giant ozone hole opens up over the Arctic for the first time”) (</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://io9.com/5846155/giant-ozone-hole-opens-up-over-the-arctic-for-the-first-time]]</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">) (</span>****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">RICHARD M</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>**



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">A hole in Earth's protective ozone layer… likely linger on for decades more.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Depletion is slow prefer our timeframe</span>**



**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Vince, 2003,</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Gaia Vince from the new scientists online web news) (“Earth's ozone depletion is finally slowing”) (July 30th) (</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.newscientist.com/article/dn4010-earths-ozone-depletion-is-finally-slowing.html]]</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">) (</span>****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">RICHARD M</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>**



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Almost 30 years after… amount of ozone and other gases.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Alt Causes:</span>**



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A) Solar flares</span>**



**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Young 07</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Kelly, Aerospace Staffwriter, 19:33 23 March 2007 “ Solar 'superflare' shredded Earth's ozone” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.newscientist.com/article/dn11456-solar-superflare-shredded-earths-ozone.html]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The largest solar flare in the last…CFCs and other human-made chemicals.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">B) Climate change</span>**



**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Perlman 08</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(David, Chronicle Science Editor, November 21, 2008, “Death bloom of plankton a warning on warming” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://articles.sfgate.com/2008-11-21/news/17128313_1_sea-ice-high-arctic-phytoplankton]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Vanishing Arctic sea ice brought on by climate change… appear and disappear, Arrigo's team has found.</span>



==Disease== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">Space research discovers cures for diseases</span>**



Martin **Schwab**, security strategist at the University of Zurich, 20**06** [“dhttp://beyondearth.org/pdfs/beyond-earth-ch-34.pdf ]



Natural and human influenced… global civilization as we know it.



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; text-decoration: none;">Viruses in space are highly unlikely</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Brian Thomas, M.S</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">. (Master in Science), 6/8/</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">2009</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> [“Viral Life from Outer Space? Not Likely.”, June 8th, 2009, http://www.icr.org/article/viral-life-from-outer-space-not-likely/]</span>



Since a whole, functioning cell…even more complications.



=Negative= 
=Extra Information= 

For AFF cites email richard_[[mailto:metaj@comcast.net|metaj@comcast.net]]
For Neg cites email w<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[mailto:ierdgirl5834@comcast.net|ierdgirl5834@comcast.net]]</span>