[[toc]]
**Aff cites:** [[mailto:a.allicat@gmail.com|a.allicat@gmail.com]]
**Neg cites:** [[mailto:hilah12@gmail.com|hilah12@gmail.com]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC- IFL State (SPS)== 
===Warming=== 
**Warming is real, anthropogenic, and happening now. Deal with it.**
**Braganza 6/14** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Karl, Manager, Climate Monitor at the Bureau of Meteorology in Australia, The Bureau presently operates under the authority of the Meteorology Act 1955, which requires it to report on the state of the atmosphere and oceans in support of Australia's social, economic, cultural and environmental goals. His salary is not funded from any external sources or dependent on specially funded government climate change projects. Karl Braganza does not consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organisation that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations “The greenhouse effect is real: here’s why,” http://theconversation.edu.au/the-greenhouse-effect-is-real-heres-why-1515)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In public discussions of climate … </span>__rapid future warming is irrefutable__

**The climate debate is settled—we don’t need 100% certainty, just consensus. The negative’s media skepticism and denier research should be rejected.**
**Lewandowsky and Ashley 6/24** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stephan, Professor of Cognitive Studies at the University of Western Australia, and Michael, Professor of Astrophysics at the University of New South Wales, “The false, the confused and the mendacious: how the media gets it wrong on climate change</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,” http://theconversation.edu.au/the-false-the-confused-and-the-mendacious-how-the-media-gets-it-wrong-on-climate-change-1558, AM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Certainty in science </span>__If you …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">thoroughly failed the Australian public.</span>


<span class="Underline">**Climate change outweighs every other impact**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Doebbler 11.**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Curtis, International Human Rights Lawyer.( Two threats to our existence. Ahram Weekly. July 2011. [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2011/1055/envrnmnt.htm]])</span>

__Climate change is widely acknowledged …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">. They continue in this vein.</span>

**Independently, warming is the only existential risk.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Deibel 07</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">( Terry Deibel, Professor of National Strategy at the National War College. , Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today, Google books)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally, </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">there is one major … of life</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> on this planet</span>__</span>

<span class="Underline">**Other countries will follow suit if we significantly cut emissions – the alternative is extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Cummins and Allen 2010**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ronnie, Int’l. Dir. – Organic Consumers Association, and Will, Policy Advisor – Organic Consumers Association, “Climate Catastrophe: Surviving the 21st Century”, 2-14, [[http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/02/14-6]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The hour is late.</span>Leading … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to maintain "business as usual."</span>

**In addition, the plan leads to global energy sharing**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Kusiolek 9 – </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chairman of TransGlobal</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Richard Kusiolek, Chairman & President of TransGlobalNet Inc., a Mountain View California company that provides Global Management Consulting in International Marketing, 3-2009, “Space-based Solar Power Comes to Light,” Via Satellite, Lexis</span>
The satellite industry's efforts in … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the United States," he says.</span>

<span class="Underline">**The tipping point is 2030 – SPS has enough time to solve**</span>
<span class="Underline">**GW Forecasts 11** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(global warming forecasts, see bottom of card for citations, “Permafrost,” </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.global-warming-forecasts.com/permafrost.php]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, accessed 11/19/11)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2020 – </span>2030. Time frame when<span class="Underline"> irreversible </span>… <span style="font-size: 8pt;">B, 63: 165–180. doi: 10.1111/j.1600-0889.2011.00527.x, Volume 63, Issue 2, pages 165–180, April 2011)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">SPS is better than every other source of energy</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">National Space Society 7</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (October ‘07, [[http://www.nss.org/legislative/positions/NSS-SSP-PositionPaper.pdf]], p.2, accessed: 23 June 2011)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While all viable energy options … meet our global energy needs.</span>

**US leadership is key**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Hsu 10</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Feng Hsu, PhD in Engineering, Former head of the NASA GSFC risk management function, and was the GSFC lead on the NASA-MIT joint project for risk-informed decision-making support on key NASA programs, has over 90 publications and is coauthor of two books and co-chair of several technical committees, 12-2010, “Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap,” Online Journal of Space Communication, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">A</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">n </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">major effort led by … energy</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> for all of humanity.</span>__</span>

<span class="Underline">**US is key, has the tech for SPS now, and could have a program within a year – NASA scientists**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Costa 10** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Rebecca, sociobiologist whose unique expertise is to spot and explain emerging trends in relationship to human evolution, global markets, and new technologies (“Can NASA Save a Struggling America?” 11/1/2010, http://cleantechnica.com/2010/11/01/can-nasa-save-struggling-america/)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It didn’t take long for … </span><span class="Underline">energy solution here on earth.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">New developments prove SPS is possible</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space Solar Power Workshop 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Georgia Institute of Technology, //Silent Power//, pg. 41-42)</span>
<span style="background-color: yellow;">Studies of S</span><span class="underline0">pace </span>S<span class="underline0">olar </span>P<span class="underline0">ower </span>… <span class="underline0">has not been available, ... yet</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**SPS is the only solution to warming**
**Hsu 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Feng, PhD in Engineering, 12-2010, “Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap,” Online Journal of Space Communication, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It has become increasingly evident … has a chance to make a difference.</span>



===Hegemony=== 
**We’ll isolate several scenarios**
**First is Aerospace-**

**The U.S. is ceding Aerospace superiority**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dominic</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Gates</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Seattle Times aerospace reporter, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">6/12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">/11, “Boeing's Albaugh worries about 'intellectual disarmament' of U.S.”, The Seattle Times,</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://seattletimes.nwsource.com/html/businesstechnology/2015304417_albaughside13.html]] Jim Albaugh is the executive vice president of The Boeing Company and president and chief executive officer of Boeing Commercial Airplanes</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Jim</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Albaugh is worried about … </span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">into orbit again in a U.S. spacecraft."</span>

**SPS development ensures continued American tech and scientific competitiveness**
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar1">NSSO,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> National Space Security Organization, …</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">FINDING: The SBSP Study Group … </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">of the American Competitiveness Initiative.</span>__</span>

**SSP will greatly expand U.S. launch services and space competitiveness – a demonstration project with existing launch services will cause rapid expansion of commercial markets and substantially reduce launch costs**
**NSSO, 7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study” October 10, 2007, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">FINDING**:** The SBSP Study Group … </span>__new industries and possibilities open up__

**Aerospace competitiveness drives economic growth – purely private sector approaches guarantee failure**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hernnstadt 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Director of Trade and Globalization @ IAMAW</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Owen, director of the Trade and Globalization Department, International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, “Offsets and the lack of a comprehensive U.S. policy,” Economic Policy Institute, [[http://www.sharedprosperity.org/bp201.html]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Aerospace is</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">an </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">especially important</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">… alone implemented (Aerospace Industries Commission 2002, 8-12).</span>

**Economic decline causes global war**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Royal 10 – Director of CTR</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how periods … debate and deserves more attention.</span>

**Aerospace dominance is key to American primacy and prevents great power war**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mike </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Snead</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, president and founder of the Spacefaring Institute LLC and an aerospace engineering consultant, senior member at the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, 6-3-</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2007</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Why the next president should start America on the path to becoming a true spacefaring nation”, [[http://spacefaringamerica.net/2007/06/03/6--why-the-next-president-should-start-america-on-the-path-to-becoming-a-true-spacefaring-nation.aspx]]</span>

__Why is being a great power …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">next presidential administration should exercise.</span>

**The Second Scenario is Energy Dependence-**


**SBSP solves oil dependence- solves 100% of global energy demand**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Morgan 07</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(James, staff writer for Herald Scotland. “Ray of Hope on Energy”http://www.heraldscotland.com/ray-of-hope-on-energy-1.840720. 25 Oct 2007)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">If I told you that the … on the death rays, I say.</span>

**Acknowledging the feasibility of extra-terrestrial resources solve resource wars that culminate in extinction**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Collins and Autino 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - * Life & Environmental Science, Azabu University AND **Andromeda Inc., Italy**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Patrick and Adriano, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace,” Acta Astronautica 66 (2010) 1553–1562, Science Direct</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The major source of</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> social … of a vigorous space tourism industry.</span>**

Oil dependence causes extinction—getting us off shifts US policy away from hostile hegemony
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Richard Heinberg, core faculty member at New College of California, The Party’s Over: Oil, War and the Fate of Industrial Societies, 2003, p. 230</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today the average US citizen … </span>__and__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">most of </span>the biosphere<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Dependency compromises hegemony—we risk major concessions to suppliers that sacrifice US interests</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Parthemore and Nagl 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Christine and John, Fellow and President, Center for a New American Security, September, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA529990&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]], p. 6, accessed 6-24-11)</span>**

**<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> growing world demand for … , including in times of crisis</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**

Last is the Impact
Hegemony checks nuclear conflict
Zhang and Shi **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1/22/</span>**11 **<span style="font-size: 7pt;">– *Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C.; Lin Shi is from Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C. (America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/)</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Paul Kennedy was probably right: … devoid of unrivalled US primacy.</span>**

The alternative to U.S. hegemony is apolarity and global nuclear wars.
Ferguson 4**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Niall Ferguson, July/August 2004 “A World Without Power,” FOREIGN POLICY Issue 143</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">So what is left? </span>__Waning …__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">such a not-so-new world disorder.</span>**

A multipolar world makes great power wars inevitable
Wohlforth 9**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – William Wohlforth (professor of government at Dartmouth College) 2009 “ Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War” Project Muse</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The upshot is a near scholarly … tend to be zero sum.9</span>**

Even if the alternative were better, history proves that the transition away will cause lashout
Khanna 9**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Director of the Global Governance Initiative at the New America Foundation (Parag, The second world: how emerging powers are redefining global competition in the twenty-first century, p. 337-338)</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Even this scenario is optimistic, … —before the next world war.67</span>**

America will cling to a false unipolar reality post-transition
Calleo 9**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – David P. Calleo (University Professor at The Johns Hopkins University and Dean Acheson Professor at its Nitze School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS)) 2009 “Follies of Power: America’s Unipolar Fantasy” p. 4-5</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">It is tempting to believe … another, the world grows dangerous.</span>



===Plan Text=== 
**The United States federal government should develop and deploy space-based solar power.**
===Solvency=== 

<span class="Underline">**A US government commitment to build solar power satellites will create a viable domestic SSP industry that can supply cheap solar power to the military**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Shea, 10**</span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;">– </span><span style="color: #000033; font-size: 10.66px;">Master of Arts in Science Technology and Public Policy with Specialty in Space Policy from the George Washington University</span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> (Karen, “</span><span style="color: #000033; font-size: 10.66px;">Why Has SPS R&D Received So Little Funding?”, Space Journal,</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">[[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/shea.html|http://sp]][[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/shea.html|a]][[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/shea.html|cejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/shea.html]])</span>
__To meet the demands of …__ <span style="font-size: 10.66px;">costs will have been lowered.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Significance</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Space solar power is stuck … </span>__our energy needs are met__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">.</span>

**Now note that weaponization is inevitable**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">A. Empirics- 2.5 thousand years of history prove</span>
**Smith**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> Colonel and PhD in IR, </span>**11**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> (M.V., Colonel, PhD in Politics and IR @ University of Reading, Citing Colin Gray, “Chapter 17: Security and Spacepower, Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]], EMM)</span>

__It is a rule in strategy, … stretch them slowly over time.__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">21</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">B. </span>**The US is weaponizing now – international perceptions have been triggered**
**Ruyssenaars 10**
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Henk, 5-22, “U.S. AIR FORCE MILITARIZING: SPACE 'PEARL HARBOR' NEXT?,” [[@http://forpressfound.livejournal.com/37871.html]]</span>
"As usual with this … are doing in Central Asia.

**C.** **Chinese official statements**
**Navrozov 9**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> (Lev, Writer @ the Center for the Survival of Western Democracies, Citing Chi Haotian, Former Minister of National Defense of China, and chinse Senior office Yao, “ Weaponizing space inevitable, says a reasonable-sounding Chinese communist lady,” Aug 27, http://www.worldtribune.com/worldtribune/WTARC/2009/lev0684_08_21.asp, EMM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">In short, </span>__space war is …__ <span style="font-size: 10.66px;">important issues of our time.</span>

**Finally, there are no prior questions - empirical validity is a sufficient justification for action. Emphasis on metaphysical hurdles destroys any chance of effectively describing the world and guiding action – our aff is a disad to any alternative**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">David </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Owen,</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Reader of Political Theory at the Univ. of Southampton, Millennium Vol 31 No 3 200</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> p. 655-7</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Commenting on the ‘philosophical turn’ … </span><span class="CardText1Char" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">so a potentially </span><span class="CardText2Char">vicious circle arises.</span>
==1AC- MBA (NatLab)== 
===Biotech=== 

**The International Space Station’s National Laboratory will be under-utilized due to lack of NASA support and launch assistance**
**<span style="color: #141413;">GAO, 9</span>**
<span style="color: #141413; font-size: 8pt;">[Government Accountability Office Report to Congressional Requesters. “International Space Stations: Significant Challenges May Limit Onboard Research.” GAO-10-9, November. </span>[[http://www.gao.gov/assets/300/299002.pdf]]<span style="color: #141413; font-size: 8pt;">]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The ISS has been continuously … </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">future for the ISS beyond 2015.</span>__

**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its support for the International Space Station National Laboratory, including launch and utilization support for parties interested in research on the International Space Station.**

**United States biotech innovation is rapidly declining – the industry has picked all the low hanging fruit, and no new innovations are in the pipeline**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Kircher, 2011</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Manfred. Executor of the Cluster Industrielle Biotechnologie. “</span><span style="color: #221e1f; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Pharmaceutical Industry Needs More Innovation in Bioprocesses.” Future Medical Chemistry 3(14). http://www.future-science.com/doi/pdf/10.4155/fmc.11.124]</span>

__Despite increasing R&D efforts, the new …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">will not balance the loss.</span>

**The plan solves biotech for a few reasons:**

**First is space bioprocessing research**

**Space microgravity and cell production research leads to revolutions in bioprocessing, specifically vaccine production**
**Clement and Bukley, 6**

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Gilles.Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique Angie. Ohio University, Athens. “Biotechnology in Space.” Space Technology Library, 2006, Volume 18. http://www.springerlink.com/content/w1414504161u8t48/]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Often praised as</span> __<span style="background-color: yellow;">the most … </span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">the characteristics of genuine tissue.</span>


**Second, the tech spills over – causes total industry innovation**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Hauser and John, 9</span>**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Marty. VP, Washington Operations, Research and Analysis. Mariel. Research analyst at the Space Foundation, Space Foundation, 2009, “The International Space Station: Decision 2015" http://www.spacefoundation.org/docs/ISS_Decision_2015.pdf]</span>

__The space program is one …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">United States, and people worldwide. </span>


**Third, the plan is key to demonstrating the commercial applications of space biotech – this leads to private sector research and investment**
**Clement and Bukley, 6**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Gilles.Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique Angie. Ohio University, Athens. “Biotechnology in Space.” Space Technology Library, 2006, Volume 18. http://www.springerlink.com/content/w1414504161u8t48/]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In general, efforts to find … </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">successful and affordable biotechnology </span>____experiments.__


**Bioterror is inevitable, possible, probable and worse than nuclear war—advances in biotech key to solve**
**Maurer 7**
[[http://violet.berkeley.edu/~gspp/iths/maurercv.htm|Stephen M. Maurer, J.D. ]]Director of the [[http://gspp.berkeley.edu/index.html|Goldman School Project]] at the [[http://www.berkeley.edu/|University of California, Berkeley]] on [[http://gspp.berkeley.edu/academics/affiliates/maurer.html|Information Technology and Homeland Security]] Lifeboat Foundation BioShield http://lifeboat.com/ex/bio.shield 2007

__The new realities of terrorism__ … __organisms. **Time is running out.**__


**Independently, disease spread causes extinction**
**Yu 9.** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Victoria, 5/22/09, “Human Extinction: The Uncertainty of Our Fate.” Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science. [[http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Citing the CDC and R. Calsbeek, a lecturer at Dartmouth</span>

<span class="Underline">A pandemic will kill off … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">birds — into a human-viable strain (10). </span>


**And NASA shuttle launches key – international partners and commercial sector launches cause delays that lead to abandoning science research and can’t transport the necessary payloads**
**<span style="color: #141413;">GAO, 9</span>**
<span style="color: #141413; font-size: 8pt;">[Government Accountability Office Report to Congressional Requesters. “International Space Stations: Significant Challenges May Limit Onboard Research.” GAO-10-9, November. </span>[[http://www.gao.gov/assets/300/299002.pdf]]<span style="color: #141413; font-size: 8pt;">]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">NASA faces several significant challenges … </span>__only conduct minimal science experiments.__


===Scientific Leadership=== 


**Plans to abandon ISS signal perception of failure and decline of scientific leadership—timeframe is 2015**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Hauser and John, 9</span>**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Marty. VP, Washington Operations, Research and Analysis. Mariel. Research analyst at the Space Foundation, Space Foundation, 2009, “The International Space Station: Decision 2015" http://www.spacefoundation.org/docs/ISS_Decision_2015.pdf]</span>

__If the U__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited</span> __S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates</span> __allows__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">… </span>__a National Laboratory__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to other nations.</span>

**This tanks US space leadership, science collaboration, and soft power – a few internal links**

**First – reliability of science agreements**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Hauser and John, 9</span>**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Marty. VP, Washington Operations, Research and Analysis. Mariel. Research analyst at the Space Foundation, Space Foundation, 2009, “The International Space Station: Decision 2015" http://www.spacefoundation.org/docs/ISS_Decision_2015.pdf]</span>

__<span style="background-color: yellow;">The U</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited</span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;"> S</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates</span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;"> should continue … its fate is still uncertain</span>____.__

**And, that spills over into other science initiatives – ruins US image and removes a catalyst for collaboration**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Hauser and John, 9</span>**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Marty. VP, Washington Operations, Research and Analysis. Mariel. Research analyst at the Space Foundation, Space Foundation, 2009, “The International Space Station: Decision 2015" http://www.spacefoundation.org/docs/ISS_Decision_2015.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Reduced to the role of a … of importance in the ISS. </span>

**This has three impacts –**

**First is scientific diplomacy**

**United States is key to overall scientific diplomacy efforts – viewed as the powerhouse in expertise**

**Turekian, 10**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Vaugh. Director, Center for Science Diplomacy, American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS). Keynote Address at USC Center for on Public Diplomacy Conference, 2010. http://uscpublicdiplomacy.org/media/Science%20Diplomacy%20Proceedings.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Dr. Vaughan Turekian began his … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">be obtainable through foreign cooperation</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">. </span>

**Try-or-die – extinction is inevitable without scientific exchange – and it’s key to solving all other impacts**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Sackett, 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">– former Chief Scientist for Australia, former Program Director at the NSF, PhD in theoretical physics, the Director of the Australian National University (ANU) Research School of Astronomy and Astrophysics and Mount Stromlo and Siding Spring Observatories (2002 – 07) [August 10, 2010, Penny Sackett, “Science diplomacy: Collaboration for solutions,” published in the Forum for Australian-European Science and Technology cooperation magazine, [[http://www.chiefscientist.gov.au/2010/08/science-diplomacy-collaboration-for-solutions/]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Imagine for a moment that the … the value of science diplomacy.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">And, science diplomacy checks escalation of conflicts – it’s an impact filter – it also solves ocean acidification, and nuclear escalation</span>**
**Royal Society, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – a Fellowship of more than 1400 outstanding individuals from all areas of science, mathematics, engineering and medicine, who form a global scientific network of the highest calibre. The Fellowship is supported by over 130 permanent staff with responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Society and its activities. [January, 2010, “New frontiers in science diplomacy”]</span>

__Over the next thirty …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Scheme has been running since 2001. </span>

**Ocean acidification causes mass extinction – empirically proven**
**Boswell, 11**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Randy. Staff Writer for the Vancouver Sun. “Mass extinction due to high ocean acidity: Canadian-led team solves biggest mystery in Earth history.” http://www.vancouversun.com/business/technology/Mass+extinction+high+ocean+acidity+study/5377124/story.html. September 9.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A Canadian-led team of … dinosaur age 65 million years ago.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Second is Russia</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Specifically, abandoning the ISS ruins image of US science commitments with Russia – damages overall cooperation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Broniatowski et al 6</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[D. A. PhD Candidate in the EDAM, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. “The Case for Managed International Cooperation in Space Exploration” International Space Exploration Update, from Center for Strategic and International Studies. [[http://web.mit.edu/adamross/www/BRONIATOWSKI_ISU07.pdf]]]</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The ISS program, along … it would alienate a key ally</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">. </span>

**It’s also reverse causal – increasing support for the ISS increases overall US-Russian scientific engagement**
**Popov, 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[S.A. With the Keldysh Research Center. **“**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Means and Methods of Overcoming Barriers in Cooperation: Mindset Gap as a Legacy of the Cold War and Cooperation in Exploration and Utilization of Cosmic Space.” National Academies Press. http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11302&page=86] </span></span>

__The regulatory and legal … are vital for its development.__ ‘’

**Science diplomacy is key to Russian cooperation on BMD – leads to joint control**
**Lowenthal, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Micah. Senior Program Officer Nuclear and Radiation Studies Board National Research Council of the National Academies “Science Diplomacy for Nuclear Security.” United States Institute for Peace. [[http://www.usip.org/files/resources/SR_288.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. president Ronald Reagan was … </span>__political problem of joint control__.

**Joint control now is key – BMD expansion is occurring and inevitable – the plan reassures Russia before it's too late**
**Futter, 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Andrew. doctoral candidate at the University of Birmingham, U.K., and a current fellow at the Council for a Livable World in Washington, D.C. “US Must Prioritize BMD Cooperation With Russia.” World Politics Review. [[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/5951/u-s-must-prioritize-bmd-cooperation-with-russia]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Having reached an agreement on … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, not to mention global zero.</span>

**Cooperation key to check arms race**
**Rogozin, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Dmitry. //<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Russia’s ambassador to NATO and the special envoy of the president of Russia for interaction with NATO in anti-missile defense. “Missile Defense: As Friends or Foes?” The New York Times Opinion Pages. </span>////<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/06/08/opinion/08iht-edrogozin08.html]]</span>////<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">]</span>//</span>

__Missile weapons and technologies … and a new European arms race.__

**Leads to accidents, miscalculation, and nuclear exchange**
**Martin 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Matt. Program officer in Policy Analysis and Dialogue at the Stanley Foundation, has held positions with the British American Security Information Council, the Center for Arms Control and Non-Proliferation, the Henry L. Stimson Center, and Amnesty International, USA “Avoiding an Accidental Nuclear War.” The Stanley Foundation. July. [[http://www.stanleyfoundation.org/articles.cfm?ID=498]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">While no one believes … </span>__to a perceived threat more likely.__

**Extinction**
**Bostrom, 2** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">[Nick </span><span class="Heading4Char" style="font-size: 6pt;">Bostrom</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, professor of philosophy - Oxford University, March, </span><span class="Heading4Char" style="font-size: 6pt;">2002</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards, Journal of Evolution and Technology, p. [[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]]</span>

<span class="MinimizedTextChar">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">A much greater existential risk … </span>__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">encounter in the 21st century.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Third is the Arctic**</span>

**Science diplomacy is key to resolve coming great power wars over arctic resources**
**Lempinen, 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Edward. Sr. Writer @ AAAS, Edward, “On Security, Climate, and Economic Development, Conference Sees Need for Science Diplomacy”, AAAS, 6/29, [[http://www.aaas.org/news/releases/2009/0629london.shtml]]]</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The Arctic is a region where … strategies for peace and stability."</span>__

**Arctic conflicts go nuclear**
**Staples, 9****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Steven, Rideau Institute Danish Institute for International Studies, Copenhagen , “PRESENTATION NOTES STEPS TOWARD AN ARCTIC NUCLEAR WEAPON FREE ZONE”, Dansk Institut for Internationale Studier, 8/10, http://www.diis.dk/graphics/Events/2009/Presentation%20Staples.pdf]</span>**

__The fact is, the Arctic is … or use of nuclear weapons__.”

**Finally, there are no prior questions - empirical validity is a sufficient justification for action. Emphasis on metaphysical hurdles destroys any chance of effectively describing the world and guiding action – our aff is a disad to any alternative**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">David </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Owen,</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Reader of Political Theory at the Univ. of Southampton, Millennium Vol 31 No 3 200</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">2</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> p. 655-7</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Commenting on the ‘philosophical turn’ … </span><span class="CardText1Char" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">so a potentially </span><span class="CardText2Char">vicious circle arises.</span>


== == 
=Negative= 
==CP== 
===Code of Conduct=== 
**The United States federal government should adopt the Code of Conduct for use of space.**

**Counterplan solves – it increases satellite information sharing which disincentivizes ASAT attacks**
**Shachtman 08** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[ Noah Shachtman. http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2008/01/inside-the-chin/. How China Loses the Coming Space War. Accessed July 13, 2011]</span>

__The first step the United … effects on war in space.__

===F-35s=== 
**The United States federal government should fully fund the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program.**

**F-35s solve case —it reinvigorates the aerospace industry, increases hegemony and solidifies our alliances – we have worked cooperatively on the F-35 program**

**Donnelly, 2011 - director of the Center for Defense Studies** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[7/18/11Thomas, The Weekly Standard, “An Extremely Immodest Proposal,” http://www.weeklystandard.com/blogs/extremely-immodest-proposal_576967.html?, accessed 7/24/11//HK]</span>

__No doubt the legal and … combat aircraft will rapidly disappear.__
==DA== 
===Weaponization (Generic Link)=== 
**Obama is pursuing space cooperation now – countries are responding with new cooperative frameworks**
**Smith, '11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Marcia. Member of the Space and Technology Policy Group, LLC, Arlington, VA, USA. “President Obama's National Space Policy: A Change in Tone and a Focus on Space Sustainability.” Space Policy. 27:1. February. ScienceDirect] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On June 28, 2010, President Barack </span>__Obama … for which all are responsible__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Unilateral space action ends the perception of cooperation</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Sabathier et. al 6</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">— senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program and former senior fellow and director of CSIS space initiative (September 18, 2oo6 ,Vincent G. Sabathier, D.A. Broniatowski, G. Ryan Faith, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “The Case for Managed International Cooperation in Space Exploration”, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/060918_managed_international_cooperation.pdf , FS) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The corollary to this is … </span>__it would alienate a key ally__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Failure of multilateralism causes arms race in space**
<span style="color: #0d0d0d; text-decoration: none;">Hitchens, 8</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 12pt;"> –</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 5pt;"> president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, </span>[[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]]<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 5pt;">) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Alternatives to Space Warfare Given … . </span>__Space warfare is not inevitable.__
<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Causes chemical, nuclear, and biological weapon use – also, the threat of computer glitches means deterrence will fail</span>
**Mitchell, 01**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on … </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>

===Debris (Economy Impact)=== 
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Each new space launch drastically increases the risk of space debris</span>**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Australian Space Academy 7</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Briefing on Space Law,” ASA, http://www.spaceacademy.net.au/spacelaw/spacelaw.htm</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Since the start of the … </span><span class="Underline">collision hazards to active spacecraft</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">We are at critical mass – new launches create a pollution cloud that limits any economic benefit from space</span>**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Sénéchal 7 – PhD from Columbia</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thierry Sénéchal, PhD from Columbia University, 2007, “Space Debris Pollution: A Convention Proposal,” Protocol for a Space Debris Risk and Liability Convention, http://www.pon.org/downloads/ien16.2.Senechal.pdf</span>

<span class="Underline">The time is right for … poison relations between major powers.</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">I**ncreased debris collapses every major economic sector**</span>
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Ansdell 10 – PhD Candidate @ GWU</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Megan Ansdell, Graduate Student @ GWU, 2010, “Active Space Debris Removal,” Princeton Publications, http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2010/Space-Debris-Removal.pdf</span>

<span class="Underline">Although the probability of catastrophic … networks, and global communications</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Pace 2009). </span>

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Nuclear war</span>**
**<span class="cite">Harris and Burrows 9</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer is a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]</span></span>
Increased Potential for Global Conflict

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of course, the report encompasses … </span><span class="underline0">a more dog-eat-dog world. </span>

===Debris (Hegemony Impact)=== 
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Each new space launch drastically increases the risk of space debris</span>**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Australian Space Academy 7</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Briefing on Space Law,” ASA, http://www.spaceacademy.net.au/spacelaw/spacelaw.htm</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Since the start of the … </span><span class="Underline">collision hazards to active spacecraft</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">We are at critical mass – new launches create a pollution cloud that limits any economic benefit from space</span>**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Sénéchal 7 – PhD from Columbia</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thierry Sénéchal, PhD from Columbia University, 2007, “Space Debris Pollution: A Convention Proposal,” Protocol for a Space Debris Risk and Liability Convention, http://www.pon.org/downloads/ien16.2.Senechal.pdf</span>

<span class="Underline">The time is right for … poison relations between major powers.</span>

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Space debris collapses hegemony</span>**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Imburgia 11 – Lt. Col. and Judge Advocate in Air Force</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Joseph S. Imburgia, J.D., University of Tennessee College of Law (2002); LL.M., The Judge Advocate General’s Legal Center & School, U.S. Army, Charlottesville, Va. (2009)), a Judge Advocate in the United States Air Force and is presently assigned as a legal exchange officer to the Directorate of Operations and International Law, Defence Legal, Australian Defence Force, Canberra, Australia, 2011, “Space Debris and Its Threat to National Security: A Proposal for a Binding International Agreement to Clean Up the Junk,” Scholar</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">These gloomy </span>prognostications about the … <span class="Underline">capabilities </span>should<span style="font-size: 8pt;">also</span>be vital<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Hegemony checks nuclear conflict**
**Zhang and Shi <span style="font-size: 8pt;">1/22/</span>11** **<span style="font-size: 7pt;">– *Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C.; Lin Shi is from Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C. (America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/)</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Paul Kennedy was probably right: … devoid of unrivalled US primacy.</span>**

===RESTORE (Dowling, Economy Impact)=== 
<span class="Underline">**The Restore Act will pass, but political capital is key–Obama’s pushing it now**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Alpert 12/8** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bruce, Washington D.C. reporter for the Times-Picayunce (“BP oil spill fines may not flow easily to Gulf Coast states,” 12/8/11, [[http://www.nola.com/news/gulf-oil-spill/index.ssf/2011/12/bp_oil_spill_fines_may_not_flo.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON -- </span>Two influential House Republicans … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">money to the Gulf Coast. </span>

**Increased discretionary spending saps capital – space exploration is far from a political priority.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Handberg 11 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">professor and chair of the department of political science at the university of central florida (rodger, “</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">small ball or home runs: the changing ethos of us human spaceflight policy,” the space review, 1/17, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1759/1)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The us space program remained … ball approach becomes your mantra.</span>

**The RESTORE Act jumpstarts investment nationwide—gains resources and jobs that are key to save the economy**
**Wall Street Journal 12/5** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(12/5/11, “RESTORE Act Fines Could Provide Job Opportunities in Gulf Coast, 32 Other States.” The Environmental Defense Fund is a leading national nonprofit organization that creates transformational solutions to the most serious environmental problems, </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.marketwatch.com/story/restore-act-fines-could-provide-job-opportunities-in-gulf-coast-32-other-states-2011-12-05-114000]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, accessed 12/8/11)</span>

__The Clean Water Act penalties … (American Association of Port Authorities, 2009)__

**Economic collapse leads to multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict**
**Friedberg and Schoenfeld**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 20</span>**08**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Aaron, Prof. Politics. And IR @ Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School and Visiting Scholar @ Witherspoon Institute, and Gabriel, Senior Editor of Commentary and Wall Street Journal, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, 10-28, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Then there are the dolorous … </span>__internal travails with external adventures.__

===RESTORE (Dowling, Biodiversity Impact)=== 
<span class="Underline">**The Restore Act will pass, but political capital is key–Obama’s pushing it now**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Alpert 12/8** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bruce, Washington D.C. reporter for the Times-Picayunce (“BP oil spill fines may not flow easily to Gulf Coast states,” 12/8/11, [[http://www.nola.com/news/gulf-oil-spill/index.ssf/2011/12/bp_oil_spill_fines_may_not_flo.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON -- </span>Two influential House Republicans … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">money to the Gulf Coast. </span>

**Increased discretionary spending saps capital– space exploration is far from a political priority.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Handberg 11 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">professor and chair of the department of political science at the university of central florida (rodger, “</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">small ball or home runs: the changing ethos of us human spaceflight policy,” the space review, 1/17, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1759/1)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The us space program remained … ball approach becomes your mantra.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Gulf spill bill will be passed soon, is key to the economy and environment, and now is key**</span>
<span class="Underline">**King 12/7** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ledyard, reporter for the Gannett Washington Bureau (“Congress tackling BP spill bill,” 12/7/11, [[http://www.pnj.com/article/20111207/NEWS01/111207033/Congress-tackling-BP-spill-bill?odyssey=tab%7Cmostpopular%7Ctext%7CFRONTPAGE]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON — </span><span class="Underline">Business owners and officials … acts and negligence of others.” </span>

**Without restoration, continuing oil damage destroys wetlands that are key to global biodiversity**
**WI 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Wetlands International, global nonprofit for wetland aid, “Gulf of Mexico oil spill destroying coastal wetlands,” [[http://www.wetlands.org/Aboutus/Whatarewetlands/Threatenedwetlandsites/GulfofMexicoOilSpill/tabid/2229/Default.aspx]], accessed 12/8/11)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The two massive underwater plumes … </span>__conservation consequences throughout the region.__

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Loss of biodiversity leads to extinction </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Diner 94 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Major David N.; Instructor, Administrative and Civil Law Division, The Judge Advocate General's School, United States Army) "The Army and the Endangered Species Act: Who's Endangering Whom?" 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161l/n</span>

Biologically diverse ecosystems are characterized … edging closer to the abyss<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===Keystone (MBA)=== 
<span class="Underline">**Obama has 60 days to make a final decision on the Keystone pipeline and he will reject it in the status quo.**</span>
**Restuccia 12/28** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Andrew, The Hill, “Greens say President Obama has no choice but to kill Keystone XL pipeline,” [[http://thehill.com/blogs/e2-wire/e2-wire/201529-greens-obama-has-no-choice-but-to-kill-keystone-pipeline]], accessed 1/5/2012)</span>

__Republicans who lobbied aggressively for__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a … </span>__pipeline will NOT be approved.”__

**But, space is perceived as poor economic leadership.**
**Crandall 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – William Crandall is an MBA and founder of Space Wealth. Larry Gorman is a Ph.D. and professor of Finance at Cal. Poly. Peter Howard is a Ph.D. and Senior Scientist and Exelixis Inc.; 2-23-11; “Is Profitable Asteroid Mining A Pragmatic Goal?”; http://spacewealth.org/files/Is-P@M-Pragmatic-2011-02-23.pdf; June 23, 2011; K.C.</span>
<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt;">Viable space programs must satisfy “… current state of the economy</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”16</span>

**And, Obama will concede on the environment to gain points in the economy—empirics prove.**
**AFP 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - ("Obama dismays backers with air pollution U-turn," AFP (hosted on Terra Daily), www.terradaily.com/reports/Obama_dismays_backers_with_air_pollution_U-turn_999.html, 9/2/11, accessed 12/17/11)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Environmental concerns are particularly important … as a repudiation of his leadership.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Implementation of Keystone is game over on climate change.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Treehugger 11**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- cites Dr. James Hansen, total boss and leading climate scientist ("Top U.S. Climate Scientist: "Tar Sands are the Critical Juncture," Tree Hugger: A Discover Company, www.treehugger.com/climate-change/top-us-climate-scientist-tar-sands-are-critical-juncture-video.html, 11/7/11, accessed 12/17/11)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dr. James </span>__Hansen, of NASA's … climate system as we know it.__

**Warming is the only existential risk.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Deibel 7</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – (Terry Deibel, Professor of National Strategy at the National War College, Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today, Google books)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally, </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">there is one major … of life on this planet</span>__</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"> </span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"> </span>
===Elections (IFL State)=== 
**A. Uniqueness: Obama will win the 2012 election, but it will be close – independents are critical.** 
**Metzler 2/15** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Rebekah, U.S. News & World Report, “Improving Economy Driving Independents Back to Obama: Analysts say increased Obama support tied to job growth,” http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/sns-201202151018usnewsusnwr201202140214obamafeb15,0,4698940.story)</span>

__A recent poll__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> released by … Obama's 57 percent, according to Pew.</span>


**B. Link:** 
**1. Obama is hinging the election on REDUCING spending – the plan causes independents to vote Republican.** 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kirchgaessner, ’11</span> (Stephanie, “Obama looks to independent voters,” April 15 2011, http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/7dd54d5c-678c-11e0-9138-00144feab49a.html#axzz1T844vB9m

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Barack </span>Obama is betting that … **the deficit required immediate actio**<span class="Underline">**n.**</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**2. Space programs are unpopular – the plan upsets voters.**</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Launius 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- graduated from Graceland College received the M.A. and Ph.D. degrees in at Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, with major fields in American frontier and military history (Roger, “Exploding the Myth of Popular Support for Project Apollo” August 16, 2010, http://launiusr.wordpress.com/2010/08/16/exploding-the-myth-of-popular-support-for-project-apollo/)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Because of the on-going dispute … the finish line before collapsing. </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>

**C. Impact:**
**1. A republican victory destroys global warming regulations.** 
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Capiello 5/27</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, (5/27/11, Dina, Associated Press, MSNBC, “GOP Presidential Hopefuls Shift on Global Warming” http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/43192439/ns/politics-decision_2012/t/gop-presidential-hopefuls-shift-global-warming/) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON — </span>For Republican presidential contenders … limit pollution threaten the economy<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**2. <span class="Underline">Climate change causes extinction</span>**
<span class="Underline">**Doebbler 11.**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Curtis, International Human Rights Lawyer.( Two threats to our existence. Ahram Weekly. July 2011. </span>[[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2011/1055/envrnmnt.htm]])

__Climate change is widely acknowledged …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">. They continue in this vein.</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"> </span>
==<span style="line-height: 19px;"> </span>== 
==K== 
===Astropolitik (v1)=== 
<span class="Underline">**The Aff’s vision of space as a realm to be controlled results in an extension of violence and militaristic domination—This turns the aff by encouraging very anti-democratic wars they hope to prevent**</span>
<span class="Underline">[Note—this is a space control link—insert specific links if its not relevant]</span>
<span class="Underline">**MacDonald 07,** Fraser MacDonald, Professor of Anthropology, Geography, and Environmental Studies at Melbourne University in Australia, “Anti-Astropolitik – outer space and the orbit of geography,” //Progress in Human Geography,// 2007, Pages 592-615.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Two things should now be … of exception’ (see Gregory, 2004; Agamben, 2005). </span>


**The aff turns the US into Big Brother—anyone, anywhere is subject to surveillance and attack—The impact is violent total domination of the globe**

**Havercroft and Duvall 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jonathan, Ph.D. Minnesota) specializes in political theory. His primary research focus is on the historical transformation of sovereignty in the discourses of political philosophy from the 17th century to the present. He has also published essays grappling with conceptions of freedom, power, and sovereignty in early modern and contemporary political thought. His work has appeared in </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Constellations</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Review of International Studies</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and Raymond, professor of political science at the University of Minnesota, “Critical astropolitics: The geopolitics of space control and the transformation of state sovereignty” From //Securing Outer Space,// pg. 56-57) RF</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Conclusion: (bare) life under empire of </span>**the** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">future </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In his </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Astropolitik </span>//__Dolman calls … Earth, is **very slim indeed.**__

**Our alternative is to reject the affirmative and their re****presentations of space as a place to be securitized and controlled.**
**Our representation strategy matters and works—images of space as a site for control justifies and makes more likely the wars they hope to prevent**

**Grondin, 06** David Grondin Assistant Professor, School of Political Studies, University of Ottawa (as of July 2006) Paper presented at the ISA Convention, San Diego March 25, 2006 Panel “Reading Outer Space I: The International Politics of Outer Space - Approaches and Themes” THE (POWER) POLITICS OF SPACE: THE US ASTROPOLITICAL DISCOURSE OF GLOBAL DOMINANCE IN THE WAR ON TERROR

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Indeed, </span>__we have no way … **be possible, if not inevitable.**__

**Our framework is to put how we conceptualize space first—our interpretation of events in space is wholly dependent on our mindset—the kritik is a prior question**

**Stuart 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Fellow in Global Politics in the Department of Government at the London School of Economics and Political Science (Jill, “Unbundling sovereignty, territory and the state in outer space Two approaches” From //Securing Outer Space,// Edited by Borrman and Sheean—Chapter 1)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">In regards to the study … unique politics of outer space.</span>

===Astropolitik (v2 Generic)=== 
**Representations of space as a place to be controlled justify and make intelligible a violent imperialist project**
**Havercroft and Duvall 9**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Jonathan, Ph.D. Minnesota) specializes in political theory. His primary research focus is on the historical transformation of sovereignty in the discourses of political philosophy from the 17th century to the present. He has also published essays grappling with conceptions of freedom, power, and sovereignty in early modern and contemporary political thought. His work has appeared in Constellations and Review of International Studies, and Raymond, professor of political science at the University of Minnesota, “Critical astropolitics: The geopolitics of space control and the transformation of state sovereignty” From //Securing Outer Space,// pg. 45-47)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Such scholarly work of </span>__critical …__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">mode of protection and security. </span>

**This makes nuclear war and extinction inevitable – power is exercised as a total war to live and let die**
**Foucault 78**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Michel, History of Systems of Thought chair at University of Paris, “The History of Sexuality”, p 136-137)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">This death that was based … </span>__large-scale phenomena of population.__

**VOTE NEGATIVE - the role of the intellectual is not to provide a static alternative, but instead to question power relations – renegotiation is critical to opening space for individuals to empower themselves**
**Owen 94**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> David, Professor of Social and Political Philosophy @ University of Southampton, (Morality and Modernity, 1994, pp 208-210; swp)</span>
__The ‘universal’ intellectual__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, on Foucault’s … </span>__others can speak for themselves.__
==Past Strategies== 
===Valley=== 
<span class="Underline">Kent Denver BJ (China Coop)</span>
<span class="Underline">China Currency DA</span>
<span class="Underline">Militarization DA (2NR)</span>
<span class="Underline">Code of Conduct CP (2NR)</span>
<span class="Underline">T—its, increase=preexisting, beyond</span>

Dowling SE (Brilliant Pebbles)
Militarization DA (2NR)
PPWT CP (2NR)

U of Chicago Lab KL (Lasers BMD/weaponization)
Code of Conduct CP (2NR)
Debris DA
===St. Mark's SHD=== 
Colleyville Heritage FG (Debris- suborbital water payload)
<span class="Underline">T-beyond</span>
<span class="Underline">Prizes CP</span>
<span class="Underline">China Currency DA</span>
<span class="Underline">Astropolitik K (2NR)</span>

Reagan AP (Asteroid detection)
China Currency politics DA (2NR)
Prizes CP
Asteroid threat K

College Prep FG (China Coop)
T- its and increase=preexisting
Russian aerospace DA (2NR)
Renewable energy coop CP (2NR)
Debris DA

===New Trier=== 
SFL JY (Shuttle)
Astropolitik K
Debris DA (2NR)
SPS CP

Valley DT (ORS)
Debris DA
Code of Conduct CP (2NR)
Astropolitik K

Lincoln Park PD (SPS)
Weaponization DA (2NR)
Advantage CP (RPS, gas tax, carbon capture and sequestration) (2NR)
Debris DA

===Caucus=== 
Bloomington GH (D&G nomadism)
Frontier Myth K
Oceans CP (2NR)
Debris DA (2NR)

Highland Park (MN) PW (TSATs)
Weaponization DA
Code of Conduct CP
Astropolitik K (2NR)

Wayzata JN (Asteroid mining)
REM Advantage CP (2NR)
Debris DA (2NR)
Astropolitik K
Spending DA

===Michigan=== 
GBN KaMe (ASATs)
Code of Conduct CP
Astropolitik K (2NR)
Supercommittee politics

Mukwonago FL (free internet)
T-its
Vagueness
Russia CP (2NR)
Spending DA (2NR)

Chattahoochee DT (nanosats)
T-humans
Astropolitik K
Code of Conduct CP (2NR)
Weaponization DA (2NR)

===Glenbrooks=== 
UChicago YZ (ASATs)
Debris DA
Code of Conduct CP (2NR)
Astropolitik K

Niles West NL (SPS)
Prizes CP (2NR)
Spending DA (2NR)
Weaponization DA

Berkeley Prep DD (AEHF)
Inherency violation
T-its (2NR)
F-35s CP

===Dowling=== 
GBN TC (ASATs)
Code of Conduct CP
Astropolitik K
RESTORE politics

Greenwood HS (SPS)
Military alternative energy and carbon sequestration CP (2NR)
RESTORE politics (2NR)
Astropolitik K

GBN SL (ASATs)
Astropolitik K
Taiwan arms sale cancellation and F-35s CP (2NR)
RESTORE politics (2NR)

SFL EP (Shuttle)
RESTORE politics
F-35s CP (2NR)
Astropolitik K
Russian aerospace DA (2NR)

===Blake=== 
SF Roosevelt MS (JWST)
Inherency violation (2NR)
RESTORE politics (2NR)
Visas and limit JWST funding CP (2NR)

Lexington CY (Lunar property rights)
T-its
Consult Russia CP (2NR)
RESTORE politics

Dowling DN (Asteroids)
T-humans
Heidegger K (2NR)
Russia CP
RESTORE politics

Bronx Science DG (ORS)
F-35s CP
Keystone politics
Astropolitik K (2NR)

===MBA=== 
Fort Lauderdale MT (SSA)
EU CP (2NR)
Astropolitik K
Keystone politics (2NR)

Brophy College Prep MS (SPS)
Weaponization DA
Astropolitik K
Keystone politics (2NR)
RPS CP (2NR)

St. Vincent de Paul FS (D&G cosmic egg)
Framework (2NR)
T-exploration/development
Within stratosphere CP (2NR)
Ozone DA (2NR)

===East Iowa NFL Districts=== 
Iowa City VG (asteroid mining)
Astropolitik K
Ground-based REM and asteroid detection CP
RESTORE politics (2NR)

CR Wash BH (asteroids)
Astropolitik K
PTC politics
Russia CP
(2NR was condo good)

===HoFlo=== 
Iowa City FW (asteroids and SPS)
Elections DA
Weaponization DA (2NR)
SPS PIC (2NR)

Lane Tech JP (D&G nomadism)
Framework (2NR)
T-beyond (2NR)
Below mesosphere & without music CP with seizures NB
Ozone and debris DA (2NR)

Iowa City VG (asteroid mining with nanotech)
China competitiveness DA
Weaponization DA (2NR)
Asteroid mining & F-35s & CFE Treaty CP (2NR)
Heg bad

===IFL State=== 
Marshalltown VC (aliens defense)
Consult Russia CP
Elections DA
Astropolitik K (2NR)

Dowling WS (Constellation)
Elections DA
F-35s CP
Astropolitik/frontier myth K (2NR)

Dowling EB (PACs)
Astropolitik K
PPWT CP (2NR)
Elections DA (2NR)