[[toc]]
=Contact Information= 
Aff Cites: [[mailto:jacob.bergquist@gmail.com|jacob.bergquist@gmail.com]]
Neg Cites: [[mailto:andrewjayhayes@gmail.com|andrewjayhayes@gmail.com]]

If we're not responding, email: julie.ikeda@gmail.com, and she'll yell at us to send you what you want.
=Affirmative= 
===JWST=== 
====1AC – JWST==== 





**Plan: The United States federal government should fully fund and launch the James Webb Space Telescope with a fully operable Star Shade.**




**Observation 1 is Inherency**



**JWST will be cut in the status quo – delay kills the program**
**Clark, 11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> - writer @ spaceflight now (Stephen, 7/14/11, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.spaceflightnow.com/news/n1107/14jwst/index.html</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">) JPG</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">One week after </span>__a House …__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">anything by doing it." </span>



**Funding is the only barrier – we have the tech**
**Borowitz, 11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> - research analyst @ space foundation, July 2011, PhD candidate @ university of Maryland, (Mariel John, July 2011, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.spacefoundation.org/docs/James_Webb_Space_Telescope_-_A_Worthy_Investment.pdf</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">) JPG</span>

__Technical performance in …__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the secrets of the universe.</span>


**Advantage 1 is Knowledge**
**We’ll isolate a couple scenarios**

**First is STEM Education**

**US is losing top STEM students – Webb is key to reclaim them**
**Overbye, 11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Dennis, writer @ NYT, 7/7/11, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.nytimes.com/2011/07/07/science/07webb.html?_r=1</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">) JPG</span>


<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The announcement of the … </span> __in full living color__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.” </span>



**Webb is key to the __perception__ of American science leadership which is necessary for science engagement of the public**
**Risa, 11 –** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Writer @ Discover (“Decline of America, One in a Continuing Series Why We Need the James Webb Space Telescope” 7/7/11, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://blogs.discovermagazine.com/cosmicvariance/2011/07/07/james-webb-space-telescope/</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">) </span>




__JWST is a 6.5 meter IR-optimized … leadership in major projects.__

**Astronomy leadership is key to STEM education**
**Blandford, et. al, 10**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – a Pehong and Adele Chen Professor of Physics and director of the Kavli Institute for Astrophysics and Cosmology at Stanford University [Roger D. Blandford, Chair, Committee for a Decadal Survey of Astronomy and Astrophysics National Research Council, //New Worlds, New Horizons in Astronomy and Astrophysics//, 2010, ISBN: 9780309158008, pg. 103-5]</span>

__Astronomy offers a high … over the coming decade__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>


**STEM education is the key internal link to the US economy**
**Johnson, 11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – US Congresswoman, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Saint Mary's College</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, BA @ </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">TCU</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, MPA @ SMU (Rep. Eddie Bernice, The Hill “U.S. economic future needs STEM education”, 3-31-11, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/campaign/153037-us-economic-future-needs-stem-education, AHayes</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">The U</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">S</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates has </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">begun …</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> than their White counterparts. </span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Independently - Funding the Webb is key to spur economic growth </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;"> Lieberman, 11</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Director of SPIE - SPIE = The International Society for Optical Engineering. (R. A. Lieberman, August 5, 2011, [[http://www.aura-astronomy.org/news/2011/JWST%20Statement%20-%20August%202011.pdf]], RH)</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">5 August 2011 – SPIE, the international … </span><span class="underline0">__America's leadership in__</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> space </span><span class="underline0">__science__</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>


**Economic collapse results in global nuclear wars**
**Harris and Burrows, 9**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> - PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) & member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Mathew, and Jennifer “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis”</span> <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Of course, the report … </span>__<span style="color: #000000;"> states in a more dog-eat-dog world.</span>__


**Scenario 2 is Science Leadership**

**Webb is key to Science Leadership – two internal links**

**First is Confidence**
**Gough, 11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Myles, writer @ Cosmos Science Magazine, 7/21/11, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.cosmosmagazine.com/features/online/4541/will-cost-kill-hubble%E2%80%99s-successor?page=0%2C0</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">) JPG</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> "</span>__Such a proposal threatens … We must see the mission through."__



**Second is Outsourcing**
**Bullock, 11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">—director of the Southern California Center for Galaxy Evolution, professor of physics and astronomy @ UC Irvine, 9/6/11 (James Bullock, //LA Times,// “Reaching for the stars,” September 6, 2011, [[http://articles.latimes.com/2011/sep/06/opinion/la-oe-bullock-hubble-telescope-20110906]])</span>

__The United States is still … a bridge to the edge of the universe itself.__



**Science leadership is critical to science diplomacy which solves wars and the economy**
**Federoff, 8**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> - professor @ Penn State, National Medal of Science Recipient, Master @ Syracuse University, PhD @ Rockefeller University, National Science Board, Science and Technology Adviser to Sec. of State (Nina V., Statement before Congress, “Making Science Diplomacy More Effective”, 4-2-11, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-110hhrg41470/html/CHRG-110hhrg41470.htm</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, JS)</span>


<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Chairman Baird, Ranking Member Ehlers, …</span> __U.S. interests in foreign policy.__





<span style="font-size: 16px;">Science diplomacy prevents all their impacts from escalating</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;"> The Royal Society, 10</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – a Fellowship of more than 1400 outstanding individuals from all areas of science, mathematics, engineering and medicine, who form a global scientific network of the highest calibre. The Fellowship is supported by over 130 permanent staff with responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Society and its activities. (January, 2010, “New frontiers in science diplomacy”)</span>

<span class="underline0">__Cooperation on the scientific …__</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> foreign ministry and embassy staff.</span>

**Advantage 2 is Discovery**

**JWST is uniquely key to discover exoplanets –**

**We’ll Isolate 3 internal links -**


**First is __structural advantages__ – other satellites fail**
**Mountain, 11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – the current Director of the Space Telescope Science Institute, Ph.D in astronomy (Matt, “The James Webb Space Telescope—It’s Complicated, but so Is Leadership,” vol 28, issue 1, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">https://blogs.stsci.edu/newsletter/2011/02/07/the-james-webb-space-telescope%E2%80%94it%E2%80%99s-complicated-but-so-is-leadership/</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, CT)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The recent release of … </span> __If not us, then who?__


**Second is __Spectra Gathering Capabilities__ – its the only way to discover habitable exoplanents**
**Spotts, 11 -** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">staff writer @ Christian Science Monitor (Pete, “Space exploration: Will budget cuts stall search for other Earths?”, 6/17/11, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.csmonitor.com/Science/2011/0617/Space-exploration-Will-budget-cuts-stall-search-for-other-Earths</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">) </span>




__The hunt for planets__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">…</span> __during five years of observing.__


**Third is the __Star Shade__ – Webb is uniquely key to confirm discoveries.**
**Mullen, 11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – writer @ Astrobiology (Leslie, //Astrobiology Magazine,// “The James Webb Telescope Will See Earth-Like Worlds” Oct 25, 2011, [[http://www.spacedaily.com/reports/The_James_Webb_Telescope_Will_See_Earth_Like_Worlds_999.html]], AHayes) </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">If the Hubble Space Telescope's … So it's very frustrating. </span>



**That sparks a new era of space colonization – exoplanets are key**
**Harrold, 8**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – staff writer for the Gazette (July 18, 2008, Max Harrold, The Gazette, “Earth's twin coming into view; Scientists believe habitable planet will be spotted soon,” Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> With less fanfare than H.G. … </span> __said it's okay to look."__

**Space colonization solves extinction**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Matheny, 7 – </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Research Analyst @ FHI, Analyst @ the Center for Biosecurity, Analyst @ Center for Global Development, and on national security projects for the US government. PhD @ John Hopkins, MBA @ Duke, BA @ UChicago (Jason G., “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” December 7, 2007//, Risk Analysis: Volume 27, Issue 5//, pages 1335–1344, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1539-6924.2007.00960.x/full</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, DA 7/16/11)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> As for astronomical risks, </span><span class="Underline">…</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> compared to extinction. </span>


**Failure to colonize risks hundreds of trillions of lives**
<span class="UnderliningChar">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bostrum</span>**</span>**, 2**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Department of Philosophy, Yale University, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University (Nick, “Astronomical Waste: The Opportunity Cost of Delayed Technological Development,” Preprint, Utilitas Vol. 15, No. 3, pp. 308-314, http://www.nickbostrom.com/astronomical/waste.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> As I write these words</span> __… of our supercluster__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.[6]</span>

===Exploration?=== 
====1AC - Exploration?==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">This year’s resolution asks for the exploration of space, the quintessential example of uncertainty and possibility in the world. Outer space reveals how we conceptualize space in this world, in relation to positioning and our interest in the very space we mentally construct. This is a co-constitutive relationship to create meaning in the world.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Horne, 1</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael Horne, North Pacific Institute for Analytical Psychology, “Opening Space in Space: Insights from Infant Observation”, in Cambridge 2001: proceedings of the Fifteenth International Congress for Analytical Psychology, p. 100-101)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Spaceis the mystery …</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> twenty-first century." </span>


<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt; text-align: left; text-decoration: none;">And, From the neoconservative call for space militarization to the liberal export of cosmopolitan values, competing narratives of space remain essentially the same in their maintenance of technical rationality and domination when confronted with the ontological anxiety that has been revealed by outerspace</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt; text-align: left; text-decoration: none;">Grondin, 9</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: left; text-decoration: none;">(David, assistant prof of Political Studies @ U of Ottawa, “The (power) politics of Space: The US astropolitical discourse of global dominance in the War on Terror”, Securing Space, 116-119)</span>




<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="underline0"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">This inquiry leads me</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> ….</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> still be possible, if not inevitable.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">And, We are aware of the uncertainty in space and the world. Our choices, random events, and all the uncontrollable details result in a limitless amount of possibilities in our lives. Recognizing this “potentiality-for-being” induces anxiety.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Gordon, 3</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Kerry, Spring 2003, PhD in psychology of philosophy, director of research center on chaos, “The Impermanence of Being: Toward A Psychology of Uncertainty Journal of Humanistic Psychology 2003; 43; 96, http://www.ce.mahidol.ac.th/multi-media/download/sp/sp184.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Heidegger (1962), however, … </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">creative, mode of existence.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">And, Anxiety is not fear; it comes from facing the indeterminate bustling spectacle that is the world. Anxiety reveals who we are, as individuals, in contrast to everyone, and everything else.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Critchley, 9</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Simon, philosopher, professor at The New School in New York, “Being and Time, part 5: Anxiety,” July 6, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/belief/2009/jul/06/heidegger-philosophy-being)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Dasein is being-in-the-world… </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> and becomes self-aware. </span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">And, Faced with the anxiety provoked by outer-space, this emphasis on technical rationality has bracketed the question of Being in favor of constant progress. This ontological move eradicates the space for ethics and has historically resulted in atrocity.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Peoples, 9</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Columba, Lecturer in I.R. at the U of Bristol, “Haunted dreams: Critical Theory, Technology and the militarization of Space”, Securing Space)</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">It might be wondered</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, however,</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> … </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">US space policy as illustrated above.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">But, current policies invoke the precautionary principle in the face of uncertainty in an attempt to avoid perceived crises. This politics of zero risk turns any suspicious threat into an a-priori responsible enemy, leading to an endless state of paranoia.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Aradau and Van Munster ‘5</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Claudia, Rens, Faculty of Social Sciences at the University of Southern Denmark, 2005, “Governing Terrorism and the (Non-) Politics of Risk,” Political Science Publications No. 11, pg 11-13)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The precautionary principle asks … </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">itself to an armed attack.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">And, Constantly trying to rid our environment of the things that make us uncomfortable affects our perception of the world. The questions we ask and the solutions we prescribe are tainted with our inability to accept what we consider strange. This necessitates violence against the unknown.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Der Derian</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">93</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (James, 1993, “The value of security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard,” The Political Subject of Violence, pg. 102-105)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The desire for security is … </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, not also diminished?</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Andrew and I affirm space as possibility, an endless amount of choices and potential and thus stand resolved by proposing the following question: Should the United States federal government substantially increase its exploration of space beyond the Earth’s mesosphere? </span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Resolve is not to be found in a willful action, but as a steadfastedness to allow the revelations of being. This allows for a new mode of political action outside the arbitrary whims of the sovereign ego</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Pezze, 6 </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Barbara, PhD Philosophy at Honk Kong U, “Heidegger on Gelassenheit”, //Minerva//, vol .10)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Let us pause for a moment to … der Gelassenheit]. (Heidegger 1966a, p. 81) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Our questioning resolve in the face of modern technological enframing allows for a new relationship of being. Our questioning remains open to new modes of thought. This is a pre-requisite for new forms of political action to emerge from the standing reserve. </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Joronen 10 </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Mikko, prof of geography at the University of Turku, “The Age of Planetary Space: On Heidegger, Being, and Metaphysics of Globalization, pg 97-100)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">What Heidegger obviously rejects … </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> be-ing lost by the tradition of its oblivion</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">And, Including anxiety in our decision-making prevents senseless violence. We become responsible for our actions on a personal, ethical, level, leading to a self-reflective and conscious thought process. We no longer have to control the unknown, but can respect it as a contingency of being.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Ronell ‘8</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Avital, Professor of Philosophy @ European Graduate School, Professor of German, comparative literature, and English @ York University, transcript of Astra Taylor’s interview of Ronell in her film “The Examined Life: Philosophy is in the Streets”)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">One thing I want to ask you about … You have to let it live in a sense. </span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">There is no thought/action split—resolve is the highest form of action. </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Joronen, 10 </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Mikko, Dept of Geography and Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences, U of Turku, The Age of Planetary Space: On Heidegger, Being, and Metaphysics of Globalization, pg 107-9)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Secondly, besides affording … takes place by encountering their thoughts. </span>

==LOL @ the person who put this here== 
==A2 West Heidegger aff== 
Line by line
First on the Horne Evidence, it doesn’t talk about the exploration of space at all. It just talks about how we see space. They link this card to the resolution by some unwarranted analysis in the tag. Their impact in the card is also unwarranted and just talks about whenever we feel a loss of orientation that any impact happens. They also have a huge problem with their card being based off of Heidegger puts them in a double bind. Either, their evidence awful because Heidegger wrote his book 7 years before the exploration of space or Heidegger was talking about Earth Space and especially the space in the mind. This means that they aren’t topical. This is a voter for Fairness and Topic Education. They don’t specify and leave “Space” to mean space beyond the mesosphere. Vote them down on vagueness. Their own author doesn’t support Outer Space and the article has is “Insights from Infant Observation.” This has no relevance to the debate.

On their Grondin card, it’s power tagged and they don’t read anything that has to do with Militancy, Ontology or anxiety. At best, they just talk about politics and decisions and the card should be evaluated as such. This destroys the link to anxiety and they can get no solvency because their cards don’t support their affirmation statement. Neither the words ontology or anxiety are mentioned once in the card but only a shady link with “Others.” This doesn’t link to any evidence and should be shot down. Don’t listen to this card. There is no ontological anxiety. And the entire card is power tagged so they can somehow try to fit it in. Vote them down.

On to Gordon. Their tagline is all based off of some highlighted lines in the card that aren’t read. The things they say don’t even make coherent sense. Don’t grant them this. And the card talks about the inherent anxiety in uncertainty but they can’t solve for this because they are unsure that their own affirmation will pass. They link to their own cards just as much as we do. If you were to vote for this, you would be advocating no choice for anything because that links to anxiety. This is explicitly stated in the card. They also never explain what the potential for being is or why it is bad to have this potential. At best, Heidegger wasn’t talking about anxiety relating to space politics or any space affairs because they didn’t exist in his time. They loose another link to the Chain of the plan.

On to Critchly, this card just contradicts the one above it. This is a performative contradiction and a reason to vote them down. They say before that anxiety is bad and in this card they advocate it, helps find our peace, and say it is needed to find our being. This is the key link to their evidence but it doesn’t support there’s at all. It advocates anxiety instead of the framework of reducing anxiety. This also goes completely against the next People’s card that talks about how outerspace anxiety is bad

On to Peoples. They power tagged this one as well. They say it talks about stopping being but the card never once talks about being. The only thing it talks about is domination partially by technology. There is no impact and the card doesn’t talk about ontology as they say it does. The impact is terminally non-unique because it’s the status quo and hasn’t resulted in atrocity and the card just talks about how having dangerous weapons could blow stuff up. They say this is exemplified in Vietnam which was nothing. There is no atrocity. No impact

On to Aradua and Van Munster. I think you can assume the cards are all power tagged. They say it leads to paranoia but the card actually says that there are things we don’t know. It doesn’t go to label these things as good or bad. It also labels human life as bad and leads to dehumanization. In the world that we don’t try to stop bad things from happening and improving life, we lose our own humanity which turns all of their ontology arguments. We can save ourselves and look to ontology later

On to Der Derian, This card has no link to the one above it. There is no link of Violence to the Zimmerman card below either. The most it talks about is that security comes at the cost of things that make life worthwhile. They make an ad hominid argument. You should reject them for this. The card also talks about fear but only in the context that we fear of being rejected. This just links them harder into anxiety and they still fear being rejected.

On to Zimmerman. This talks about dehumanization and links directly into their Aradua and Van Munster that we impact turned. This card’s ultimatum is that we will be dehumanized but if we are already having problems this means that either the time has passed and nothing happen or that the impact has no timeline and we should look to other impacts and scenarios because this one is a long time in coming. They also skew the tag because this only talks about what would happen if we destroyed nature

On to the stuff we can almost call framework
First onto the Pezze. This card turns itself. It talks about how we need to be resolute yet we need to be open. It also talks about in order to be resolved that there has to be a replacement. They don’t say what and thus they cannot solve for the Resolved. This doesn’t make sense and yet strengthens perf con.

On to Joronen. They can’t solve. They say that questioning can solve for Tech thought. This card never once talks about tech thought. It only talks about things like preparatory thought It makes no sense to the tag as the card deals with being and no political action like they claim

On to Ronell. They put themselves in a double bind. Either we have anxiety in our politics right now and their impacts should have happened or we don’t and we will never be able to and no impacts will never happen. This loss just goes to make life less again tying to Zimmerman and that they cause all of their own impacts.

On to the next Joronen. I’m getting tired saying that they keep making analytics to put this together. It talks about how thought it an action but says nothing about resolved. This card however turns their impacts by showing that a loss of being can be survived. They also never explain Gelannsenheit so you can’t give them any impacts based on this and whatever this has with Resolved

On to next Joronen. This card says nothing about Ontology and maybe they can find something but this isn’t a reason that you should accept it. This card just talks about how doing nothing is useful and then says that as long as non-violence is accepted its political activism. This doesn’t link and is the final argument against them in the Plan’s death by Perf Con

On to Burke. This is another wrongfully tagged. This talks about how our ontology is like war but never goes and connects it with politics. This card is just referring to biopower. They cannot solve and their analytics are unwarranted


Onto
They never explain and won’t explain why our Ontology is bad but will ask you as the judge to extend it and evaluate it first. You can only look to this in the world that they explain how our “being” is bad and especially in this round and then explain why looking to being comes first beyond the power tagged cards in the 1AC. Even though they are going to argue that they have tons of cards that aren’t answered. If they don’t explain it, don’t give them credit.

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Science is needed for good ontology and they destroy it. Scientists are rooted in technological thought. Our Ontology is a priori, a top-level ontology. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Fonseca and Martin 07</span><span style="font-family: Arial-BoldMT,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Fonseca, F. and J. Martin (2007) "Learning the Differences Between Ontologies and Conceptual Schemas Through Ontology-Driven Information Systems," </span>//<span style="font-family: Arial-BoldItalicMT,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">JAIS - Journal of the Association for Information</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Arial-BoldItalicMT,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Systems - Special Issue on Ontologies in the Context of IS </span>//<span style="font-family: Arial-BoldMT,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Volume 8, Issue 2, Article 3, pp. 129–142,</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial-BoldMT,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">February 2007 – preprint version http://www.personal.psu.edu/faculty/f/u/fuf1/publications/Fonseca_Martin_Ontologies_and_Schemas_Abstract.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">There is a deeper question that, albeit not thoroughly discussed here, needs to be mentioned. The question is “what is our universe of discourse and how can we know about it? Wand and Weber [2004] point to the quality of our knowledge as a potential problem saying that some ontologies created by information systems scholars “are not always rooted in a sound foundation of more fundamental constructs like things and properties”. Smith [2003] speaks of</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">good and bad ontologies</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">and how </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Science can help us build the former</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">He says that</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> “</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">our best candidates for good conceptualizations will, however, remain those of the natural sciences</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">– so that we are, in a sense, brought back to Quine, for whom the job of the</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">ontologist coincides with the task of establishing the ontological commitments of scientists, and of scientists alone</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">”</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(p.163). Milton’s [1998] main question is related to</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">top-level ontologies, which may be “used to provide theoretical underpinning for representation and modeling in information systems</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">”</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Milton, 1998 p.85]. Top-level ontologies are created from a philosophical perspective and are suggested as a basis for domain ontologies. The idea is that if we follow the rigid methods of philosophy we will come up with good top-level ontologies. All other ontologies, including computational ontologies, should be derived from the top-level ontologies. Milton [1998] distinguishes between</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> __ontologies that are theory focused and those that are pragmatically oriented__</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">. </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">For Milton, theory focused ontologies are the ones created using the philosophical theory. The other type of ontologies, according to Milton, are very common in the practice of IS and are targeted to specific domai(philosophical) ontological tools and pragmatic purposes. This odd combination may result in incompatible philosophical underpinnings being used in the same pragmatically oriented ontology. Both Milton and Wand & Weber are looking at which kind of philosophical work should become the foundation for the ontologies of IS while the main focus of this paper is to distinguish between computational ontologies and conceptual schemas. Thus although recognizing the importance of their research question we leave it out of this work. Computational ontologies and conceptual schemas have some similarities as well as some differences. Consider, for instance, an ontology of banking and the conceptual schema of Citibank’s information system. Are those two the same thing? How similar and different are they? Which criteria can we use to investigate the differences and similarities between the two? In the next section, we propose a framework to understand better the differences and similarities between computational ontologies and conceptual schemas.</span>



=Negative= 
==Topicality== 
===**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">T-Substantially</span>**=== 

**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Substantially increase must be 50%</span>**

**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Shifrin 87</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Carole Shifrin, writes for Aviation Week & Space Technology, staff writer at the Washington Post, 1987, “Soviets Consider Possible Mars</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Rover, Sample Return Missions”) </span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Allen cited the space station science program and ....</span>__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">of budget pressures</span>__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> that existed in the past."</span>

===T-Human=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Exploration means to expand human presence in space</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Logsdon, 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> - professor of political science at George Washington, former director of the Space Policy Institute (John, “Fifty Years of Human Spaceflight Why Is There Still a Controversy?,” [[http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20100025875_2010028362.pdf]])</span>



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Exploration as a Compelling Rationale … of the several “secondary objectives.”</span>

===T-its=== 
“Its” means belonging to it or that thing

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Oxford English Dictionary, 1989</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (second edition, online)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Its</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">A. As adj. poss. pron. </span><span class="underline" style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Of or …</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the own, it own, were used: see OWN.</span>

==<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Disadvantages </span>== 


===Earth Science Tradeoff DA=== 

**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">NASA’s scientific program budget is constrained </span>**
**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Santini, 11</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Jean-Louis Santini, Sciences correspondent at Agence France Presse, Febuary 14, 2011, “Obama: Five-year freeze on NASA budget”,</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">[[http://www.physorg.com/news/2011-02-obama-five-year-nasa.html]]</span>)</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">US President Barack Obama unveils his 2012 budget ....the system nor when it will be operational.</span>


**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Plan forces NASA to cut other programs </span>**
**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Svitak, 11</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Amy Svitak, staff writer for space news, March 4, 2011, “NASA Budget Outlook Relegates Flagship Probes to Back Burner”</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">[[http://www.spacenews.com/civil/110304-nasa-flagship-probes-back-burner.html]]</span>)</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">WASHINGTON — NASA and the science community are ....soon under the budgetary scenario NASA now faces.</span>


**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">NASA will cut the Earth science programs funding to finance further space exploration</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Whittington, 11</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Mark Whittington, writer for the Washington Post, USA Today, the LA Times, and the Houston Chronicle, March 20, 2011, “GOP Lawmakers: Cut NASA Earth Science, Fund Human Space Exploration”</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">[[http://news.yahoo.com/s/ac/20110320/sc_ac/8103220_gop_lawmakers_cut_nasa_earth_science_fund_human_space_exploration]]</span>)</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">One aspect of a drive for an austerity ....been rolled over tend to have long memories.</span>


**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Earth Science programs climate info and policy change </span>**
**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Berger, 7</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Brian Berger, Space news staff writer, February 19, 2007, “Scientists to NASA: Study Earth”,</span> <span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.space.com/3486-scientists-nasa-study-earth.html]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Two climate scientists and a former Republican governor warned the House Science and Technology Committee Feb. 13 that the U.S. Earth-observing satellite system is in danger of collapse without a substantial and immediate reinvestment.</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">"At a time when the need has ....go dark with no replacements on the way.</span>

**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Warming causes extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Deibel 7</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Professor of IR @ National War College, 2007 (Terry L., “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft” pages 397-8)</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Finally, there is one major existential threat ....the continued existence of life on this planet.</span>

=====2NC – Yes Tradeoff===== 


**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">JWST proves tradeoff </span>**
**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Kelly, 11</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (John Kelly, space industry columnist, June 5, 2011, “Telescope debacle devours NASA funds”,</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">[[http://www.floridatoday.com/article/20110605/NEWS01/110604013/Telescope-debacle-devours-NASA-funds]]</span>) </span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">NASA’s next great space telescope will costtaxpayers....too many to meet the budget or schedule.</span>









=====2NC – SPS link===== 

**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">No funding for NASA means SPS trades off with other programs</span>**
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">George I.</span> **__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Seffers</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, representative from Northrop Grumman and an internal communications specialist with Raytheon Technical Services Company, Dec. 20</span>**__<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">10</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, “Space-Based Solar Power Comes Closer to Reality”,</span> <span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.afcea.org/signal/articles/anmviewer.asp]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">?</span>



<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">a=2461&print=yes</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">The decades-long dream of harnessing the ....in space using traditional, proven docking methods.</span>



===Militarization DA=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Huntley, 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, [[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">as is well understood, the space policies of the Bush administration were decidedly ….. the strategy remain to be developed.18 Many devils may lurk in these details. </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Unilateral U.S. SSP causes an international backlash against hegemony</span>**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Glaser, 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 10.6667px;"> - aerospace engineer, vice president at Arthur D. Little, consulting on consulting projects in aerospace, solar energy, and materials science (Peter, Ad Astra, Interview, “An energy pioneer looks back”, Spring, [[http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf]]) //DH</span>

<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 10.6667px;">Glaser: Since it would be such a huge ….. a network of power satellites built by an international effort. </span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Unilateral action alienates allies and shatters other areas of cooperation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Sabathier et. al 6</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">— senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program and former senior fellow and director of CSIS space initiative (September 18, 2oo6 ,Vincent G. Sabathier, D.A. Broniatowski, G. Ryan Faith, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “The Case for Managed International Cooperation in Space Exploration”, [[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/060918_managed_international_cooperation.pdf]] , FS)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">International cooperation is …….possibility of future beneficial cooperation would be more likely. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war</span>**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Hitchens, 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 10.6667px;"> – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, [[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]])</span>


__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Perhaps of even greater concern is that ……</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> their strong self-interest in preventing the testing and use of orbital weapons. The nations of Earth must soon decide whether it is possible to sustain the predominantly peaceful human space exploration that has already lasted half a century. The likely alternative would be unacceptable to all.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Space control is impossible, countermeasures override deterrence and risk nuclear escalation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Krepon et al, 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, also Theresa Hitchens, Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and Michael Katz-Hyman, Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Security and South Asia Projects (Michael, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">While some have compared space to another "global commons," the high seas, …….Paradoxically, the preservation and growth of U.S. spacepower will be undercut by the use of force in space.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">War is space occurs through miscalculation, risks extinction</span>**
**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Mitchell, et al 1</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, [[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> A buildup of space weapons might begin with noble …… </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">the most destructive military conflict ever seen</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">.</span>**

=====2NC Weaponization link===== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Weaponization causes global insecurity and arms races, risking rapid nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Hoey, 6</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> - Research Associate at the Institute for Defense and Disarmament Studies, writer for the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, [Mathew, Space Review, “Military Space Systems: The Road Ahead” February 26, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/563/1]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">]</span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Many people believe that a … , this potential development could become a reality.</span>



===Ice Age DA=== 

**Action now is key - solar studies indicate that an ice age is approaching.**
**Hecht 11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Laurence, Editor of 21st Century Science & Technology, 6-24, http://www.21stcenturyscience tech.com/Articles_2011/WeakSun.pdf, 7-1-11, AH)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Three independent U.S. … </span> **__for the survival of civilization__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>



<span class="Underline">**Ice age is coming now and causes extinction – fossil fuels are key to solve cooling** </span>

<span class="Underline">**Littlejohn, 11**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – dailymail jornailist, degree @ Deacons School (Richard, “The Ice Age is coming... don't panic!” 17th June 2011, [[http://www.dailymail.co.uk/debate/article-2004463/Cooler-Earth-The-Ice-Age-coming--dont-panic.html#ixzz1gGIskCEu|http://www.dailymail.co.uk/debate/article-2004463/Cooler-Earth-The-Ice-Age-coming--dont-panic.html#ixzz1gGIskCEu]], AH) </span>



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">At last, some good news for polar ... </span><span class="Underline"> repeat the mistakes of the past. </span>




**Fossil fuels produce CO2 which prevents ice age.**
**Thompson 7** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Andrea, Live Science, 9-7, http://www.livescience.com/1846-global-warming-good-news-ice-ages.html, 6-29-11, AH)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Finally, </span>**__there’s some …. can have the opposite effect__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>


**The Holocene is ending, the brink is now- an ice age would lead to extinction.**
**Chapman 8** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Phil, NASA Astronaut, Geophysicist and Astronautical Engineer, 4-23, http://www.theaustralian.com.au/news/sorry-to-ruin-the-fun-but-an-ice-age-cometh/story-e6frg73o-1111116134873, 6-29-11, AH)</span>

**__It is time to__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> … </span> **__and on a large enough scale__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>




=====2NC Ice Age Coming===== 


<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Earth is projected to reach another ice age by 2030, solar activity proves. </span>
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Landscheidt 10 </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Dr. Theodor, Schroeter Institute for Research in Cycles of Solar Activity, 2-4, http://bourabai.narod.ru/landscheidt/new-e.htm, 6-29-11, AH)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Analysis of the sun's … the respective event.</span>




<span class="Underline">**Ice Age extinction imminent by 2022 – warming key to delay, and adaption solves your impacts**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Marsh, 8**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> - physicist from the Argonne National Laboratory and a former consultant to the Department of Defense on strategic nuclear technology and policy in the Reagan, Bush, and Clinton Administration (Gerald Marsh, WinningGreen, 2008, “The Coming of a New Ice Age,” http://www.winningreen.com/site/epage/59549_621.htm)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Contrary to the conventional … a will-o-the-wisp. </span>



=====2NC – Impacts===== 

<span class="Underline">**Timeframe is six months – extinction comparatively faster** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Leake, 9**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> - Science Editor of The Sunday Times, quoting William Patterson, a geological sciences professor (Jonathan Leake, The Sunday Times, 15 November 2009, “Climate change catastrophe took just months,” http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/news/science/earth-environment/article6917215.ece)</span>
Six months is all it took to … last 10,000 years.

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Cooling could easily trigger WWIII and lead to the rise of despotic governments. </span>
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Calvin 98 </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(William H, Theoretical Neurophysiologist at the University of Washington, January, http://williamcalvin.com/1990s/1998AtlanticClimate.htm, 7-1-11, AH)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">FUTURISTS have learned to bracket … would be very slow.</span>


<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Ice age would cause mass migrations, leading to resource shortage and war. </span>
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Kohler 9 </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Rickard, Essay cited by Dr. Ferit Bingel -- </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Middle East Technical University of Marine Sciences, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">1-26, http://www.behav.org/student_essay/climate/gulf%20stream_Kohler/gulf%20stream_ Kohler.htm, 6-30-11, AH)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Within recent months, … decades and even centuries.</span>

===2012 Politics=== 

**Obama will win now**
**Gorenstein, 9-14**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Peter, “Obama Will Win “Lesser of Two Evils”, http://finance.yahoo.com/blogs/daily-ticker/obama-win-lesser-two-evils-election-gerald-celente-194420560.html, AHayes) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, </span>__odds are Obama will win__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span>__for the "lesser of two evils."__

**Increased space funding unpopular with the public and independents**
**__Crandall et. al.,11__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(William Crandall is an MBA and founder of Space Wealth. Larry Gorman is a Ph.D. and professor of Finance at Cal. Poly. Peter Howard is a Ph.D. and Senior Scientist and Exelixis Inc.; 2-23-11; “Is Profitable Asteroid Mining A Pragmatic Goal?”; http://spacewealth.org/files/Is-P@M-Pragmatic-2011-02-23.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Viable space programs … the current state of the economy</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”16</span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Independents are key for Obama’s reelection</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Sweet,</span>****<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">(Lyn, “Obama re-election: Beyond ‘hope’ and ‘change’”, 4/4/2011, http://www.suntimes.com/news/4638733-418/obama-re-election-beyond-hope-and-change.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">I’ve been interviewing Obama … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and an organizing bonanza for Obama. </span>

**Republican takeover in 2012 leads to Middle East conflict**
**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Curiel, 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">(Jonathan, journalist in San Francisco and the author of Al’ America: Travels Through America’s Arab and Islamic Roots, former Reuters Foundation Fellow at Oxford University, taught journalism as a Fulbright Scholar at the University of the Punjab, honored by Columbia University's Graduate School of Journalism,What Might Just Happen of Obama Loses in 2012”, http://trueslant.com/jonathancuriel/, 7/28/2010, accessed 6/24/2011 aw) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Less than four months from now, the … front for insurgency against the United States. </span>

**Nuclear war – conflicts spill over**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">TA, 7</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“Tempers must remain cool as the Middle East heats up”, http://www.theage.com.au/news/editorial/tempers-must-remain-cool-as-the-middle-east-heats-up/2007/09/23/1190486129857.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">THE torturous road to peace …. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">diplomacy than in any military solution.</span>
=====2NC Warming===== 

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Republican 2012 kills climate policy </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Becker, </span>****<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> - Director of the Presidential Climate Action Project</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Bill, “In 2012, vote for climate courage”, 5/18/2011, http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2011/05/18/208113/2012-vote-climate-courage/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Almost </span><span style="background-color: fuchsia; font-size: 10pt;">every</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> prominent Republican … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> real estate he wants to sell us.)</span>

=====2NC Link – Perception===== 


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">1. Plan perceived as wasteful spending – kills public support </span>
**<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Powell, 8</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stewart M., “ NASA popular, but tax hike for funding isn't, poll finds / Most not concerned about China's program, gap in U.S. manned flights”, Houston Chronicle, 6/18/2008, accessed 6/23/2011 http://www.chron.com/CDA/archives/archive.mpl?id=2008_4586430)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> WASHINGTON - </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Key arguments … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> launch of the Constellation program in 2015. </span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">2. Government spending is the root of public dissatisfaction </span>
**Dorning, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mike, is a staff writer for Bloomberg; 6-22-2011; “Poll: 44% of Americans Worse Off Under Obama”; http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-22/americans-worse-now-than-when-obama-inaugurated-by-44-34-margin-in-poll.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Two years after the official start of the … a result of a deal to curb the deficit.</span>
==Counterplans== 

===Advantage Counterplans=== 


====STEM CP==== 


Text: The United States federal government should set uniform proficiency standards in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics career and technical education under Title I.


The current lack of national standards undermines successful STEM education
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Quaid, 9 -</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> staff writer @ Washington Times (Libby Quaid, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">“</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: Arial; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Academic standards vary by state, U.S. study finds,” 2-20-09, [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2009/feb/20/academic-standards-vary-by-state-us-study-finds/]], CT)</span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 15pt; text-align: justify;">__<span style="background: aqua; color: black; mso-bidi-font-family: Arial; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-highlight: aqua;">Some schools deemed </span>____<span style="color: black; mso-bidi-font-family: Arial; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> … state to the next.”</span>__</span>

STEM education is critical to overall competitiveness
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Reuters, 2/28</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> (“<span style="border: none windowtext 1.0pt; color: #1a1a1a; mso-border-alt: none windowtext 0in; padding: 0in;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/02/28/bush-official-raymond-orb_n_829342.html|Ex-Bush Official Raymond Orbach: Cutting Science Puts U.S. At 'Distinct Disadvantage']]</span><span style="color: black;">”, 2/28/11, Huffington Post Business, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/02/28/bush-official-raymond-orb_n_829342.html)</span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 6.0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="color: black;">WASHINGTON: </span>__<span style="background: fuchsia; color: black;">Proposed </span>____<span style="color: black;">… </span>__<span style="color: black;">its current form.</span></span>



**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">STEM education is also the key internal link to the US economy </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Johnson, 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> – US Congresswoman, <span style="color: black;">Saint Mary's College</span>, BA @ <span style="color: black;">TCU</span>, MPA @ SMU (Rep. Eddie Bernice, The Hill “U.S. economic future needs STEM education”, 3-31-11, <span style="color: black;">http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/campaign/153037-us-economic-future-needs-stem-education, AHayes</span>)</span>


<span class="underlineChar">The U</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">nited </span><span class="underlineChar">S</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">tates has </span><span class="underlineChar">begun …</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> than their White counterparts. </span>


=====2NC Low Now===== 



**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">STEMs low now – college grads </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Light & Silverman, 11/9</span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> – staff writers @ WSJ (Joe, Rachel, “College Students Find Math, Science, Engineering Just Too Hard”, 2011, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970203733504577026212798573518.html?mod=WSJ_Careers_CareerJournal_2]], AHayes) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Ms. Zhou's dilemma is one that … </span>__long term as a career__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," he says. </span>



====**Heg CP**==== 


**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Text: The United States federal government should substantially expand the size and capability of the Navy. </span>**

**<span style="background: white; color: black;">CP Solves – Naval power is way more badass then space power. The CP solves deterrence, global economy, alliances, trade, and war fighting.</span>**
**<span style="background: white; color: black;">Ealgen and McGrath, 5/16</span>**<span style="background: white; color: black;"> (Mackenzie Eaglen, is Research Fellow for National Security in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, at The Heritage Foundation. Bryan McGrath is a retired naval officer and the Director of Delex Consulting, Studies and Analysis in Vienna, Virginia. On active duty, he commanded the destroyer USS Bulkeley (DDG 84) and served as the primary author of the current maritime strategy. (5/16/11, Mackenzie, Bryan, “Thinking about A Day Without US Sea Power: Implications for US defense Policies”, [[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2011/05/Thinking-About-a-Day-Without-Sea-Power-Implications-for-US-Defense-Policy]]) AT</span>

//__<span style="background: white; color: black;">America is a maritime power, and a strong U.S. Navy is …..</span>__//__<span style="background: white; color: black;">demonstrate how rapidly a navy can become hollow and unable to influence events abroad</span>__

===Agent Counterplans=== 

[[#Negative-Counterplans-Agent_CPs-Russia_C]]
====**ESA CP**==== 

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Plan: The European Space Agency should __.</span>**

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Counterplan solves the case</span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Brauer and Monte, 5 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: TimesNewRoman; mso-bidi-font-size: 5.0pt;">(Gerard and Luca del, Gerard is the head of the ESA, “<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">European Space Research and Developmentfor the Security and Military Sectors” pdf)</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The above described scenario suggests that the [...] serve defence requirements.</span>


====**DOD CP (SPS)**==== 


**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The Department of Defense should implement Solar Powered Satellites. </span>**

DOD sponsors SPS in the SQ, transition would be easy.
McLinko & Sagar 9 <span style="font-size: 8.0pt; font-weight: normal; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">(Ryan & Basant, MIT Professors, 11-30, http://web.mit.edu/basant/www/ SSP_McLinko_Sagar.pdf, 6-28-11, AH)</span>

<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Launching … </span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> Falcon 9 or similar rocket.</span>


The DOD can adapt to NASA technology.
Belvin et al 10 <span style="font-size: 8.0pt; font-weight: normal; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">(Keith W, John T. Dorsey & Judith J. Watson, NASA Langley Research Center, Winter, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/belvin.html, 6-28-11, AH)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">In 1995 NASA's Advanced Concepts … systems is crucial to achieving economical designs.</span>




===Other Counterplans=== 


====China Quid-Pro-Quo==== 


Text: The United States federal government should co-operate with China on [the plan] if and only if China agrees to not weaponize space.

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Only the CP solves—China is willing to deweaponize and the QPQ establishes a more strategic relationship that’s key to space cooperation</span>**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Cheng et. al 6 </span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 8.0pt;">(Dean, Chinese Affairs, 8-6, </span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">http://www.highfrontier.org/Archive/hf/Finkelstein%20China's%20Space%20Program.pdf, accessed 6-30, JG)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Despite much recent talk … those with Russia, and those with India. </span>


<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">Turns the case—a weapons agreement is the lynchpin of establishing a functional relationship</span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Walsh 7 </span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">(Frank, Akin Gump Strauss Hauer Feld, "Forging a Diplomatic Shield for American Satellites: The Case For Reevaluating The 2006 National Space Policy in Light of a Chinese Anti-Satellite System.", LexisNexis, accessed 7-2, JG)</span>

<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The ASAT security … in the context of ASAT abolition</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


=====2NC Net-Benefit===== 


The CP solves militarization
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Blazejewski 8</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> (Kenneth, received his master’s degree in public affairs from the Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton University and his JD degree from the New York University School of Law, " Space Weaponization and US-China Relations." Spring, http://www.au.af.mil/au/ssq/2008/Spring/blazejewski.pdf, AD 6/29/11) AV </span>

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Third, <span class="underline0">the United States … </span></span><span class="underline0">__US net security gain__</span>__.__


=====2NC A2: China Says No===== 



Now is key – China views cooperation has an incentive to ban weaponization
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Blair & Yali 10 </span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; font-weight: normal;">(Bruce, President of the World Security Institute, Chen,Washington Observer, 5-24, http://www.chinasecurity.us/pdfs/Issue2full.pdf, accessed 6-30, JG)</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Conversely, the continuing isolation … as well as talk.</span>


Double bind—either China will agree to deweaponize or they won’t cooperate at all
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Krepon 5 </span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">(Michael, Space Scholar @ Univ. of Virginia, 4-11, http://www7.georgetown.edu/sfs/publications/journal/Issues/sf04/Forum%20Krepon.pdf, accessed 6-30, JG)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Transparency measures … not yet ripe for accomplishment.</span>


=====2NC A2: Solvency Deficit—Heg===== 


U.S. offering the ban on weaponization ensures a global leadership position
Briggs 10 <span style="font-size: 8.0pt; font-weight: normal; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">(Michael, Major USAF, March, “Policy Recommendation For The United States Regarding The Weaponization Of Space”, 6-29, JG)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The significant developments … <span class="underline0">and sustainable for decades to come</span>.</span>


====Ka-boom CP 1NC==== 



**Text: The United States federal government should blow up the moon.**



**Increased dependency on the moon results in lunar tyranny which makes Extinction inevitable**

**CABUM, 6** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Citizens Association to Blow Up the Moon, http://meinekleinefabrik.blogspot.com/2007/04/romantics-need-not-apply-citizens.html) </span>

**__The Moon is a harsh … Extinction is inevitable.__**





**Scientific studies confirm our hypothesis– the moon underlies all global problems – Destruction solves**

**Dobson, 7**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – writer @ The Independent (Roger, //The Independent//, “How the Moon Rules Your Life”, 1-21-07, link that works: http://www.rayebrahm.com/?p=274, CT)</span>



**__For eons, folklore has … rock remains in the sky.__**





**You must reject every instance of tyranny**

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Petro, 74</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> - Professor of Law @ Wake Forest University (University of Toledo Law Review Spring 1974, page. 480)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">However, one may still insist, echoing Ernest Hemingway… </span>**__and resisted with undying spirit.__**

=====2NC A2: Can’t Ka-boom===== 



**We have the tech**

**__CABUM, 6__** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">([[http://boards.theforce.net/your_jedi_council_community/b10008/14643467/p1/]])</span>



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Our most recent … </span>__near future.__





=====2NC A2: Perm===== 

**Uh… The moon is gone? Seems pretty mutually exclusive.**



=====2NC Net-Benefit – Lycanthropy===== 



**The moon causes lycanthropy – hundreds of deaths a yea**

**__CABUM, 6__** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">([[http://boards.theforce.net/your_jedi_council_community/b10008/14643467/p1/]])</span>

**__The ancients knew …__** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> end to the Lycanthrope Menace.</span>





**Expert consensus - moon is direct cause of lycanthropy**

**__York, 10__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Vickie, correspondent, Weekly World News, 11/28 http://www.angelfire.com/wy/werewolves/blowupmoon.html)</span>



**__Lycanthropy, or werewolfism__**, … endocrinologist who treats the disease.





**Blowing up the moon __solves__ lycanthropy**

**__York, 10__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Vickie, correspondent, Weekly World News, 11/28 http://www.angelfire.com/wy/werewolves/blowupmoon.html)</span>



<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">"We certainly weren't thinking … </span> **__it a side benefit."__**



==Kritiks== 


===Capitalism=== 


<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">The plan is a last ditch effort at averting crisis by making an ‘outer spatial fix’ to resolve the core contradictions of capitalism</span></span>


<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Dickens 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> (Peter, Affiliated Lecturer in the Department of Sociology, Faculty of Politics, Psychology, Sociology and International Studies , University of Cambridge, "The Humanization of the Cosmos—To What End?," [https://monthlyreview.org/2010/11/01/the-humanization-of-the-cosmos-to-what-end] AD: 6-29-11, jam)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">The Cosmos: Capitalism’s New “Outside” <span class="underline">Instead of indulging … <span style="background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">make their own cosmic “fixes.”</span> </span></span>




<span class="tagChar"><span style="mso-ansi-font-size: 11.0pt;">The search for outer spatial fixes to capitalism causes Star Wars- whole societies will be obliterated</span></span>

<span class="tagChar"><span style="mso-ansi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Dickens and Ormrod 7</span></span> (Peter, Affiliated Lecturer in the Department of Sociology, Faculty of Politics, Psychology, Sociology and International Studies , U of Cambridge, and J.S., Senior Lecturer of Applied Social Science @ U of Brighton, "Cosmic society: towards a sociology of the universe," book, p. 63-64, jam)

<span style="tab-stops: 314.25pt;"><span class="underline"><span style="background: yellow; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-highlight: yellow;">Outer spatial fixes</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">: for … <span class="underline"> accumulation may be started</span>. </span></span>


<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">Our alternative is to vote negative to refuse to participate in activities which support capitalism. We must hollow out capitalist structures by refusing to invest our energy in reforms and rescue operations</span>

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Herod 4</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">(James, Getting Free, http://site.www.umb.edu/faculty/salzman_g/Strate/GetFre/06.htm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> It is time to try to describe, at … <span class="underline"><span style="background: fuchsia; mso-highlight: fuchsia;">possibly even to extinction.</span> </span></span>

=====2NC Link - SPS===== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Solar powered satellites are an attempt to find an outer space fix to capitalism – guarantees nothing more than greater efficiency of the killing-machine. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dickens and Ormrod 7</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Peter, Affiliated Lecturer in the Department of Sociology, Faculty of Politics, Psychology, Sociology and International Studies , U of Cambridge, and J.S., Senior Lecturer of Applied Social Science @ U of Brighton, "Cosmic society: towards a sociology of the universe," book, p. 72, jam) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Private corporations have always ... </span><span style="background-color: #ffff00; font-size: 9.5pt;"> further expansion of capitalism</span><span style="background-color: #ffff00; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

=====2NC - A2: Perm===== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The Revolution must be infinite resistance to the dictates of capital – demands on the state always takes capitalism for granted, ensuring cooptation.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Holloway 5</span> (John, teacher at the Institute for Humanities and Social Sciences at the <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Autonomous_University_of_Puebla|Autonomous University of Puebla]]</span>, “Can we change the world without taking power?” Znet, August 16, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.zcommunications.org/can-we-change-the-world-without-taking-power-by-john-holloway]]</span> Accessed 7/13/11)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I don’t know the answer. Perhaps … </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> reconciliation with capital.</span>



===Subversive Ideology K=== 



**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Ideological transgression is a continuation of the existing order—the power of the protest structurally depends upon the continued authority of the system. The critique functions as a carnivalesque reversal of authority—we make a gesture of non-compliance that posits us as the “real” masters of fate.</span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Zizek 95</span>** (Slavoj, International Director of the Birkbeck Institute for the Humanities, president of the Society for Theoretical Psychoanalysis, LAW AND THE POSTMODERN MIND: SUPEREGO BY DEFAULT, Cardozo Law Review, 1995, 16 Cardozo L. Rev. 925)


__In the traditional patriarchal …. precisely with the national thing__?



**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Critiques uphold the existing system because they are a safe outlet for transgression, which is a necessary supplement to any system of power. </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Zizek 95</span>** (Slavoj, International Director of the Birkbeck Institute for the Humanities, president of the Society for Theoretical Psychoanalysis, LAW AND THE POSTMODERN MIND: SUPEREGO BY DEFAULT, Cardozo Law Review, 1995, 16 Cardozo L. Rev. 925)


The proper way to approach "psychoanalysis and law… with a specific form of enjoyment).




**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Lacanian politics are a genuine political alternative. If it is impossible to fully represent the real, then we have no choice but to institutionalize the Lack or design politics around doubt and uncertainity. This will result in more radically democratic politics</span>**.
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Stavrakakis, 99</span>** (Yannis, //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">Lacan and the Political,</span>// Visiting Professor, Department of Government, University of Essex, pages p 96-98).


According to my reading, Bellamy,.. __transformed ethical framework.__

=====2NC Link - Fear===== 
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Fear of the other is a form of collective psychosis which endangers everyone.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Gleisner, 83 </span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 7pt;">(John, consultant psychiatrist at the North Western Regional Health Authority in Greater Manchester, new internationalist 121, March, [[http://www.newint.org/issue121/enemy.htm]]l).</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Many were shocked to hear British ... </span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> reasons that we fear them</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

===Technological Feminism K=== 

**The affirmative’s fascination with technology mutes the maternal voice which makes technology a tool by which male defense intellectuals can fulfill their fantasies of world domination and control**
**Honey et. al. 96** - <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Director of EDC's Center for Children and Technology, Katherine McMillan Culp - Assistant Director for Research @ Center for Children and Technology, Fred Carrigg - Executive Director of Academic Programs @ Union City New Jersey public schools (Margaret, //CCT Reports,// “The Maternal Voice in the Technological Universe”, May 1996, Issue No. 6., ID) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In a related study, I (Honey, 1988) investigated … one does not exist without the other. </span>

**Their technological discourse, method, and ideology, leave behind the human world – the affirmative is just another instance in which defense intellectuals try to propagate new technologies and ignore the representations and effects of their discourse and methodology**
**McKenna & Graham, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - School of Communication @ Queensland University of Technology BA, PhD @ The University of Queensland, BEd @ Queensland University of Technology , Department of Management @ University of Queensland. (Bernard J. McKenna, Philip Graham, //Journal of Technical Writing and Communication,// “Technocratic discourse: A primer”, 6-10-2010, 30, (3): 219-247. [[http://www.umass.edu/accela/llc/794d/pdf/technocratic%20discourse%20a%20primer.pdf]], CT) </span>
__The absence of human ….__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> example </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lowering interest rates Leads to share price rises.</span>//

**The alternative is to vote negative to reject the affirmative and its technological discourse – this allows us release ourselves from the tyranny of its concepts**
**Cohn, 87**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – PhD, Director of the Consortium on Gender, Security and Human Rights (Carol, //Within and Without: Women, Gender, and Theory, “//Sex and Death in the Rational World of Defense Intellectuals”, Summer 1987, Pg. 687-718, [[http://genderandsecurity.umb.edu/Carol%20Cohn%20Sex%20and%20Death%20in%20the%20World%20of%20Rational%20Defense%20Intellectuals.pdf]], CT) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Suffice it to say that </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">the issues</span>__ __…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the weapon from being deployed at all). </span>

=====2NC Link – Weapons===== 

**Technostrategic discourse humanizes weapons - this move makes eradication of human lives possible - their ideas of "vulnerability" become about weapons, not people**
**Cohn, 87**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – PhD, Director of the Consortium on Gender, Security and Human Rights (Carol, //Within and Without: Women, Gender, and Theory, “//Sex and Death in the Rational World of Defense Intellectuals”, Summer 1987, Pg. 687-718, [[http://genderandsecurity.umb.edu/Carol%20Cohn%20Sex%20and%20Death%20in%20the%20World%20of%20Rational%20Defense%20Intellectuals.pdf]], CT) </span>
__In the ever-friendly, even … <span style="background-color: #ffff00;">survival of weapons systems, not people.</span>__

=====2NC Link – Missle Defense / Prolif===== 

**Missile discourse is inherently technostrategic and masculine – the affirmatives conflation of missiles and the phallic inevitably result in a erotic fantasy leading to use, turning case**
**Cohn, 87**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – PhD, Director of the Consortium on Gender, Security and Human Rights (Carol, //Within and Without: Women, Gender, and Theory, “//Sex and Death in the Rational World of Defense Intellectuals”, Summer 1987, Pg. 687-718, [[http://genderandsecurity.umb.edu/Carol%20Cohn%20Sex%20and%20Death%20in%20the%20World%20of%20Rational%20Defense%20Intellectuals.pdf]], CT) </span>

__Feminists have often suggested … act of boyish mischief__.

=====2NC Framework===== 

**Policymaking debate is the epitome of technostrategic discourse – our alternative is a necessary solution**
**Cohn, 87** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– PhD, Director of the Consortium on Gender, Security and Human Rights (Carol, Within and Without: Women, Gender, and Theory, “Sex and Death in the Rational World of Defense Intellectuals”, Summer 1987, Pg. 687-718, http://genderandsecurity.umb.edu/Carol%20Cohn%20Sex%20and%20Death%20in%20the%20World%20of%20Rational%20Defense%20Intellectuals.pdf, CT) </span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Entering the world of defense intellectuals</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> … that </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">even scalpels spill blood." </span>__



==__Some Specific Rounds?__== 

(Some of these I forget which rounds they are / team names. This is just some stuff I've gone for before)

(**Note**: Y0 E$J - You know I'm too lazy / forgetful to update this, it takes 2.56 minutes to find my speeches / flows. But if you have //actual// questions about specific rounds and cites email me; I'll find my flows and speeches, because I <3 you. I save all of them, so yeah, guurrrllll)

__Round 1: vs. I don't Remember__
Aff: Lunar Mining
Adv's: Freedom, Heg, Education

1NC: T - Substantial
2012 Politics (2NR)
Space Mil
Stem CP (2NR)
Subversive Ideology K
Lots of Case Defense


__Round 3: vs. I don't Remember__
Aff: Asteroidz (Not like NEO though, I don't know what it was)
Adv's: Impact Framing, Asteriods?

1NC: T - Staffed
2012 Politics
Different Solvency Mech. [Lazerz/techy stuff] CP (2NR)
Tech DA (2NR)
Security K
Case Defense / Better impact Framing