=1AC Harvard= 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its space based Maritime Domain Awareness capabilities beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.</span>



1AC Cooperation
<span class="cite">MDA satellites promote global space cooperation.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Earles, 10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Marion “Rick”, Owner of E&A; Executive Director for CANEUS US at Earles & Associates and CANEUS US, CANEUS USA, International Collaborative Aerospace Development Micro-Nano-Technologies: From Concepts to Systems, CANEUS International is a unique non-profit organization of professionals involving public/private partnership, serving primarily the needs of aeronautics, space and defense communities by fostering the coordinated, international development of MNT (Micro-Nano- Technologies) for aerospace and defense applications. CANEUS Shared Small Satellites CSSP Workshop Committee, “International Space-Based AIS and Data Extraction Backbone High Level Requirements”, [[http://www.caneus.org/sharedsmallsats/downloads/International_Space-Based_AIS_and_Data_Extraction_Backbone-High_Level_Requirements.pdf]], Accessed 11/8/11, Scott</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">The potential for international collaboration … subsequent articles in this series. </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Solves extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hays 10</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Peter, PhD, Director of the Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Studies, Visiting Fellow, Institute for National Strategic Studies, National Defense University, senior policy analyst supporting the plans and programs division of the National Security Space Office, retired Lieutenant Colonel, “Space Law and the Advancement of Spacepower”, http://www.ndu.edu/press/space-Ch28.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Other impediments to further developing … improve our odds for survival.</span>

<span class="cite">Scenario 1 is Naval Power</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US maritime strategy is collapsing from budget cuts and a weaker fleet – US naval power is the check on global conflict escalation.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Whiteneck and Clark, ’11</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> [Commander Bryan Clark U.S. Navy (Retired) and Dr. Dan Whiteneck, “Strategic Choices at the Tipping Point”, [[http://www.usni.org/magazines/proceedings/2011-02|Proceedings Magazine - February 2011 Vol. 137/2/1,296]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">In light of global economic … </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">indeed be at a “tipping point.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">MDA cements cooperation and creates global partnerships over naval security – allows the US to address maritime security.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Truver, ’11</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> [</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">Dr. Scott C. Truver is Director, National Security Programs, Gryphon Technologies, Greenbelt, Maryland. In addition to his support to national security and defence organisations in government and industry, he supports the US Navy’s MDA programmes in research , analysis and engagement efforts. Edward Feege of Gryphon’s National Security group assisted in the research for this overview. “On the Other Side of the Hill? Global Partnerships for Maritime Domain Awareness…The View from the United States”, by NMCO on NOVEMBER 9, 2011, __<span style="color: blue;">http://www.mda.gov/2011/11/09/on-the-other-side-of-the-hill/</span>__, Accessed 11/23/11</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">]</span>
||   ||   ||   ||


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Cooperation is the lynchpin of effective naval power in a world of budget cuts</span>
<span class="underline0">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Moore 10 </span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[Charles C. Moore, Naval Aviator, Western Pacific Experience, has a Masters from the US Army War College and Georgetown, currently commanding office at the Naval Air Station in Meridian. "Revitalizing the Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower, 2007, http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/Parameters/Articles/2011summer/Moore.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">US strategic retrenchment is inevitable and Global naval cooperation is critical to manage it – allows to manage global stability in a world without a global US presence and avoid the flaws of offshore balancing </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hoffman, ’08</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> [November 2008, From Preponderance to Partnership: American Maritime Power in the 21st Century, Frank Hoffman is a retired Marine officer with 30 years of experience in policy development, strategy and force analysis, and consulting]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Monteiro 2012 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Nuno M., Assistant professor of Political Science at Yale University, Unrest Assured, International Security, Vol. 36, No. 3 (Winter 2011/12), pp. 9–40, [[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/Unrest_Assured.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Scenario 2 is South China Sea</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">US built MDA solves maritime energy nationalism and war.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Collins and Erickson 2011</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Gabe and Andrew S., Associate Professor in the Strategic Research Department at the U.S. Naval War College and a founding member of the department’s China Maritime Studies Institute (CMSI), Energy Nationalism Goes to Sea in Asia, the national bureau of asian research nbr special report #31 | september 2011, http://www.nbr.org/publications/specialreport/pdf/Free/SR31_EnergySecurity.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">South China Sea engagement solves relations and Chinese aggression in the long term.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Heydarian 2011 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Richard Javad, Foreign Policy in Focus contributor, The South China Sea Conundrum – Analysis, September 2011, http://www.eurasiareview.com/09092011-the-south-china-sea-conundrum-analysis/</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">South China Sea war escalates, causes extinction. Only relations solves.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wittner 11-30-11</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Lawrence, Professor of History emeritus at SUNY/Albany, Is a Nuclear War With China Possible?, Huffington Post, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/lawrence-wittner/nuclear-war-china_b_1116556.html</span>


=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">1AC Ports</span>= 

= = 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Plan is key to solve West Africa maritime domain.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Raidt et al. 10</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(John Raidt, Director and Senior Fellow on the Horizon Project; Kristen E. Smith, Assistance Director of Michael S. Ansari Africa Center; Nancy J. Walker, Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Michael S. Ansari Africa Center, The Atlantic Council. November 30, 2010. “Advancing U.S., African, and Global Interests: Security and Stability in the West Africa Maritime Domain,”)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Maritime domain awareness (MDA), a key enabler of maritime security, ... share electronic data generated from ship-borne identification beacons, coastal radar, and AIS.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Plan is key to monitor West African drug trade. Solves international terrorism, and African instability, and oil theft.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Raidt et al. 10</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(John Raidt, Director and Senior Fellow on the Horizon Project; Kristen E. Smith, Assistance Director of Michael S. Ansari Africa Center; Nancy J. Walker, Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Michael S. Ansari Africa Center, The Atlantic Council. November 30, 2010. “Advancing U.S., African, and Global Interests: Security and Stability in the West Africa Maritime Domain,”)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">Although open-source information ... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">complex chain of illegal activities. </span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">African instability escalates and draws in great powers</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Deutsch ’02 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Jeffrey Deutsch Founder @ Rabid Tigers Project, 2002, "Rabid Tiger Newsletter, Vol. II, No. 9 - The Nuclear Family Has Become Over-Extended," [[@http://list.webengr.com/pipermail/picoipo/2002-November/000208.html]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">The Rabid Tiger Project ... to follow their client states.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">West African instability and terrorism causes WMD smuggling into US ports.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Raidt et al. 10</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(John Raidt, Director and Senior Fellow on the Horizon Project; Kristen E. Smith, Assistance Director of Michael S. Ansari Africa Center; Nancy J. Walker, Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Michael S. Ansari Africa Center, The Atlantic Council. November 30, 2010. “Advancing U.S., African, and Global Interests: Security and Stability in the West Africa Maritime Domain,”)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">The West African maritime domain ... and address the threat.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Maritime terrorism short circuits your defense and makes __nuclear__ terrorism possible – port sections are uniquely vulnerable for exploitation by containers.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Konkel 05</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Todd, Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University, 2005, “Container Security: Preventimng a Nuclear Catastrophe.” irps.ucsd.edu/assets/004/5372.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">A fundamental factor contributing ... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">to improve security at all 361 U.S. seaports. 2 </span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Port attack collapses the economy – political reaction ends global maritime trade</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Flynn, 3. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Stephen, Commander, U.S. Coast Guard (ret.), Jeane J. Kirkpatrick Senior Fellow in National Security Studies and Director, Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force on Homeland Security Imperatives, 3-20-03, “The Fragile state of container security,” Testimony before the Senate, [[http://www.cfr.org/defensehomeland-security/fragile-state-container-security/p5730]] Mkoo)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">A year later I joined with former senators ... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">that make up international trade. </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Economic collapse causes global nuclear war.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Merlini 2011 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Cesare, Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Italian Institute of International Affairs & fellow @ brookings, A Post Secular World, Survival, 53: 2, 117 — 130, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/articles/2011/04_international_relations_merlini/04_international_relations_merlini.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">Two neatly opposed scenarios for the future of the world ... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">perception of rising influence and power</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">. </span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Retaliation and tension from the terrorist attack would escalate to nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ayson 10</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Robert, professor of strategic studies and director of the center for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Online Mkoo)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">A terrorist nuclear attack ... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">This might not help the chances of nuclear restraint. </span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Oil theft leads to destructive oil spills.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Nwilo and Badejo 2006</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Dr. Peter C. Nwilo and Olusegun T. Badejo Department of Surveying and Geoinformatics Faculty of Engineering University of Lagos. September 22, 2006. “Impacts and Management of Oil Spill Pollution along the</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Nigerian Coastal Areas.”)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Oil spill incidents have occurred in various parts ... loading and unloading oil vessels.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Nigerian oil spills cause biodiversity loss.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Nwilo and Badejo 2006</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Dr. Peter C. Nwilo and Olusegun T. Badejo Department of Surveying and Geoinformatics Faculty of Engineering University of Lagos. September 22, 2006. “Impacts and Management of Oil Spill Pollution along the Nigerian Coastal Areas.”) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Since the discovery of oil in Nigeria in the 1950s, ... to sustain this use</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (Nwilo &Badejo 2005). </span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Biodiversity loss causes extinction – their resiliency arguments and their defense is only possible with diverse ecosystems</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Young</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> PhD coastal marine ecology, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">10</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Ruth, “Biodiversity: what it is and why it’s important”, February 9th, [[http://www.talkingnature.com/2010/02/biodiversity/biodiversity-what-and-why/]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Different species</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;"> within ecosystems </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">fill particular roles ... </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">protection of biodiversity maintains this service.</span>