[[toc]]
Will put up non 1AC/1NC cites up as requests come rolling in.

2A- Richard Hwang
2N- Daniel Masterson - [[mailto:daniel.masterson63@gmail.com|daniel.masterson63@gmail.com]]
=Affirmative= 
==Space Laser Aff (Grapevine)== 
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention One Inherency:</span>__**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Because of funding cuts, there are no plans for space based missile defense</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Mackenzie Eaglen 2010**(Research<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Fellow for National Security Studies at the Allison Centery for Foreign Policy Studies at the Heritage Foundation. “Why Missile Defense is Still Needed” </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.riponsociety.org/forum310g.htm]]</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">)</span>**</span></span>

__The administration’s plan …__ __eliminated for space.__
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**__Advantage One is Star Wars:__**</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Space weaponization is inevitable- Other nations have the capability and it’s causing U.S. dominance in space to slip which is key to heg. Future conflict from this arms race is a certainty.** </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kitfield 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Senior Correspondent @ The National Journal, writer for Air Force Magazine, B.A. Journalism, University of Georgia, distinguished writer on defense, national security, and foreign policy, author of two books on national security, [James, Air Force Magazine, “Crowded Congested Space” August 2010, http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2010/August%202010/0810space.aspx]</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the “commons” </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the report concluded.</span></span></span>


**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Scenario One: Arms Race</span>__**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A Space arms race results in nuclear war.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hitchens 2K3</span>**
(Theresa, Editor of Defense News, Director of Center for Defense Information, Former director of British American
Security Information Council -think tank based in Washington and London. October 2.
http://www.cdi.org/friendlyversion/printversion.cfm?documentID=1745)
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The __negative consequences …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> arms control treaties.</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The U.S. must weaponize space first so they can deter other nations from weaponizing space</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolman</span>**, Everett C. "Strategy Lost: Taking the Middle Road to Nowhere." High Frontier Journal. Vol. 3, No. 1
Winter, **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2K5</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Common to all …</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> follows its counsel.</span>__
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**__Scenario Two: Heg__**</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Heg protects the global economy, prevents great power conflict, terrorism, and nuclear war – no alternatives – intervention is inevitable, only a question of effectiveness** </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Kagan 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Robert, </span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">contributing editor to The Weekly Standard and a senior fellow in foreign policy at the Brookings Institution, Robert, Jan 24, “The Price of Power”, 1-24, Vol. 16, No. 18,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> http://www.weeklystandard.com/print/articles/price-power_533696.html, Dmasterson]</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Today the international </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">…</span>__built and defended.__ </span></span>

**__Advantage Two is China:__**
**China will use Anti-Satellite weapons to attack US assets in space**
**Choong 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Senior Writer @ The Strait Times, The International Institute of Strategic Studies, [William, The Strait Times, “Reading too much into the stars?,” May 12, 2009, LexisNexis,]</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">LAST month, China …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and 1969 respectively.</span>

**Economy dependent on satellites**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Dowd 02,** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(World and I May 1, 2002 SECTION: No. 5, Vol. 17; Pg. NA ; ISSN: 0887-9346 HEADLINE: Taking the high ground – </span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 9pt; text-align: left;">The U.S. Military Marches Into Space. BYLINE: Dowd, Alan W,)</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">__Space already plays … ever- increasing speed.__</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Economic decline causes extinction.**</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> T.E. </span>**Bearden** **2k** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">LTC U.S. Army (ret) Director of Association of Distinguished American Scientists and Fellow Emeritus, Alpha Foundation’s Institute for Advanced Study, The Unnecessary Energy Crisis: How to Solve It Quickly, 6-24-2k, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.seaspower.com/EnergyCrisis-Bearden.htm#_blank|http://www.seaspower.com/EnergyCrisis-Bearden.htm#_blank]]</span></span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">History bears out …</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> for many decades.</span></span></span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space BMD dissuades China from attacking US satellites.</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ashley </span>**__Tellis 07__****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 2007. 'China's Military Space Strategy', Survival, 49:3, 41 – 72, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/tellis_china_space1.pdf]]</span></span></span>

__This has led … US space assets.__
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Space BMD stops ASATs** </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Howard </span>**Kleinberg**, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">member of the graduate faculty of the Department of Public & International Affairs at University of North Carolina Wilmington, April 20</span>**11**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">. US Army Field Artillery Association, “A Global Missile Defense 'network': Terrestrial High-Energy Lasers and Aerospace Mirrors,” </span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fortunately, this recently -revealed, …</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> stop any ASAT</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
**__Advantage Three is Asteroids:__**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Asteroid threat is realistic and we need to get ready**</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**__Shiga 2009__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(David) (New Scientist; 9/26/2009, Vol. 203 Issue 2727, p30-33, 4p)</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">They can strike …</span> __it come to pass.__</span></span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We have the ability to track asteroids, but not the ability to stop them, DE lasers are key</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rogers </span>**Nov. **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">97</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lieutenant Colonel Mark Rogers, USAF, a 1976 graduate of the USAF Academy where he majored in physics, has been involved in defense-oriented research and development for the past twenty years, focusing primarily on applications of lasers for military systems. LASERS IN SPACE TECHNOLOGICAL OPTIONS FOR ENHANCING US MILITARY CAPABILITIES “Center for Strategy and Technology “</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.fas.org/spp/starwars/program/occppr02.htm </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The threat of</span> __…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on the laser system. </span></span></span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Asteroid strike causes extinction.</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Sidle ‘7**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">(Roy, Slope Conservation Section, Geohazards Division, Disaster Prevention Research Institute, Kyoto University, Chapter 23: Hazard Risk Assessment of a Near Earth Object, in //Comet/Asteroid Impacts and Human Society: An Interdisciplinary Approach//, SpringLink)</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: left;">Very large asteroids … regional coastal flooding.</span></span>


**Thus the Plan:**

**The United States Strategic Command should develop a constellation of directed-energy laser weapons beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.**



**__Contention Two is Solvency:__**
**Directed energy weapons key to successful weapon advantage and ballistic missile defense**
<span style="color: #171717; font-size: 8pt;">Bayram</span>**Deveci**<span style="color: #171717;">, </span><span style="color: #171717; font-size: 8pt;">Doctorate at Naval Postgraduate School</span><span style="color: #171717;">, </span>**07** <span style="color: #171717; font-size: 8pt;">[Naval Postgraduate School, “Directed-Energy Weapons: Invisible and Invincible?”, September 2007, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA473993&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf ]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1. Advantages of Directed-Energy …</span> __damage and degradation__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">STRATCOM has the authority over the aff</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">STRATCOM.mil 10</span>__**(October, http://www.stratcom.mil/about/)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">US</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">STRATCOM </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">combines … those threats rapidly.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**STATCOM is efficient and it’s authority bypasses the legislative, the judicial and international bodies**</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Rinne**,<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Tim 20</span>**09**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">-08-0 6 United Nations association, Nebraska Chapter http://www.afterdowningstreet.org/node/45020, Dmasterson</span></span></span>

__<span style="color: #14000a;">The agility and … it on CNN.</span>__
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**SBLs prevent all forms of WMD attacks**</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Hardesty**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Captain David C. is is a member of the faculty of theNaval War College’s Strategy and Policy Department **’05** (Naval War College Review, “Space-Based Weapons: Long-Term Strategic Implications and Alternatives”, Spring 2005, Hopkins)</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Space-based weapons, …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> this important mission. </span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
**The weapons would be developed secretly by 2012**
**Pugliese 04** – <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[David. Military journalist for the Ottawa Citizen newspaper “New Space Race afoot: Work in Secret. Weapons in orbit by 2012” The Gazette Pg.A13 June 1, 2004. Electronic accessessed 8/3/2011 via lexis nexis]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The U.S. has …</span>**__orbit by 2012.__**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">.</span></span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US Space Based BMD would deter all conflict</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lambakis, 07</span>__** (Steven, national security and international affairs analyst specializing in space power and policy studies, Managing Editor of Comparative Strategy, a leading international journal of global affairs and strategic studies, fellow at the National Institute for Public Policy. “Missile Defense From Space” 2-17-07.
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">The policy benefits … participate in operations. </span>


==Space Laser Aff (UT)== 
===1AC Plan Text=== 

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan- </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The United States Strategic Command should develop a constellation of twelve directed-energy weapons beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.</span>



===1AC Space Race ADV=== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Advantage One is Space Race:</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Advantage of space weaponization makes it inevitable. Doing it first is the only way to prevent others from weaponizing.</span>**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolman and Cooper 11</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, and Henry, Former Deputy for the Strategic and Space Systems of the DOD and Chairman of High Fronteir, a non-profit organization studying issues of missile defense and space, “Chapter 19: Increasing the Military Uses of Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]]) </span>

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Space is too vast to be controlled. …</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> some day, </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">will make the attempt</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
It’s happening now- Other nations have the capability and it’s causing U.S. dominance in space to slip which is key to heg. Future conflict from this arms race is a certainty.
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kitfield 10</span>__**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">-Senior Correspondent @ The National Journal, writer for Air Force Magazine, B.A. Journalism, University of Georgia, distinguished writer on defense, national security, and foreign policy, author of two books on national security, [James, Air Force Magazine, “Crowded Congested Space” August 2010, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2010/August%202010/0810space.aspx]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">That incident followed another worrisome …the commission warned, would invite a "space Pearl Harbor." </span>

A Space arms race results in nuclear war.
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hitchens 3</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Theresa, Editor of Defense News, Director of Center for Defense Information, Former director of British American Security Information Council -think tank based in Washington and London. October 2.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.cdi.org/friendlyversion/printversion.cfm?documentID=1745)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The negative consequences of a space …of verification under arms control treaties.</span>
Heg is key to global stability and accesses every major impact , retrenchment causes great power wars
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thayer 6</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Professor of Strategic Studies,Associate Professor of Defense and Strategic Study @ Missouri State University, Former Research Fellow @ International Security Program @ Harvard Belfer Center of Science and International Affairs (Bradley, “In Defense of Primacy,” The National Interest, November/December)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">A grand strategy based on American primacy …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">of American primacy due to the economic prosperity it provides. </span>




<span style="font-size: 10pt;">No heg turns- The plan would result in a more benign form that solves backlash to primacy</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolman 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment,” September, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576, EMM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There is little reason to believe the United …</span><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 11pt;"> by the</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">specter of a future</span><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 11pt;">American empire</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

Intervention is inevitable, only a question of effectiveness
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kagan 11</span>__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Robert, contributing editor to The Weekly Standard and a senior fellow in foreign policy at the Brookings Institution, Robert, Jan 24, “The Price of Power”, 1-24, Vol. 16, No. 18, http://www.weeklystandard.com/print/articles/price-power_533696.html, DM]</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Thanks to Haass’s clever formulation, </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">there has …and the U</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">S</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">tateshas </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">intervened again.</span>__


===1AC ASATs ADV=== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Advantage Two is China:</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">China will use Anti-Satellite weapons to attack US assets in space</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Choong 9</span>__**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">- Senior Writer @ The Strait Times, The International Institute of Strategic Studies, [William, The Strait Times, “Reading too much into the stars?,” May 12, 2009, LexisNexis,]</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">LAST month, China lofted a navigational … former </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Soviet Union</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">in 1962 and 1969 respectively.</span>


**Even a failed attack results in nuclear war with china**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Forden 8</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Geoffrey, PhD and Research Associate at MIT, “How China Loses the Coming Space War (Pt. 2),” 1/10, [[http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2008/01/inside-the-ch-1/]], EMM)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The U</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">S</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">has</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> five</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">satellites in</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">…</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> nuclear war</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> without a clear military goal. </span>


**Extinction**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Strait Times 2k</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ching, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">THE high-intensity scenario postulates a … </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">we would see the destruction of civilization.</span>__

**Space BMD dissuades China from attacking US satellites.**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tellis 07</span>__****,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ashley, Senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 2007. 'China's Military Space Strategy', Survival, 49:3, 41 – 72, [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/tellis_china_space1.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This has led some observers, such as … from asymmetric attacks on US space assets. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space BMD stops ASATs </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kleinberg 11,</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Howard, member of the graduate faculty of the Department of Public & International Affairs at University of North Carolina Wilmington, April. US Army Field Artillery Association, “A Global Missile Defense 'network': Terrestrial High-Energy Lasers and Aerospace Mirrors,” </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fortunately, this recently -revealed, … with which </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">to</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">try to</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">stop any ASAT</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>




===1AC Asteroids ADV=== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Advantage Three is Asteroids:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Asteroid impact is 100% certain and could occur at any time</span>**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">VERSCHUUR 1996</span>__**<span style="background-color: white;"> (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 158)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the past few years, the comet impact … human nature that will determine our fate.</span>

Recent studies prove high risk of a strike
Easterbrook, 8
[Gregg, American writer, lecturer, and a senior editor of The New Republic June 2008, Atlantic Magazine, “ The Sky Is Falling,” [[http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2008/06/the-sky-is-falling/6807]]]

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Breakthrough ideas have a way of …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">it’s like the entire human race is riding on the plane.” </span>




We have the ability to track asteroids, but not the ability to stop them, DE lasers are key
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rogers 97</span>__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lieutenant Colonel Mark Rogers, USAF, a 1976 graduate of the USAF Academy where he majored in physics, has been involved in defense-oriented research and development for the past twenty years, focusing primarily on applications of lasers for military systems. LASERS IN SPACE TECHNOLOGICAL OPTIONS FOR ENHANCING US MILITARY CAPABILITIES “Center for Strategy and Technology “</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.fas.org/spp/starwars/program/occppr02.htm </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The threat of </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">an</span>____<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">asteroid</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> or large … that imposes demanding requirements on the laser system. </span>
Asteroid strike causes extinction and accesses all environmental impacts
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sidle 7</span>__** <span style="font-size: 11pt;">(</span>Roy, Slope Conservation Section, Geohazards Division, Disaster Prevention Research Institute, Kyoto University, Chapter 23: Hazard Risk Assessment of a Near Earth Object, in //Comet/Asteroid Impacts and Human Society: An Interdisciplinary Approach//, SpringLink)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Very large asteroids (> several km) have impacted Earth in …could cause sea level rise and regional coastal flooding.</span>


===1AC Solvency=== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Directed energy weapons key to successful weapon advantage and ballistic missile defense</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Deveci</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> **07**</span>__<span style="color: #171717; font-size: 8pt;">Bayram</span><span style="color: #171717; font-size: 12pt;">, </span><span style="color: #171717; font-size: 8pt;">Doctorate at Naval Postgraduate School</span><span style="color: #171717; font-size: 12pt;">,</span><span style="color: #171717; font-size: 8pt;">[Naval Postgraduate School, “Directed-Energy Weapons: Invisible and Invincible?”, September 2007, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA473993&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf ]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1. Advantages of Directed-Energy Weapons There are several reasons … enabling attacks on buried </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">bunkers, as well as targets in space</span>__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


A constellation of 12 DE-weapons provides global coverage- can’t be overwhelmed
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Independent Working Group</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> **09**</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">,</span>__** “Independent Working Group on Missile Defense, the Space Relationship, & the Twenty-First Century 2009 Report,” Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, , p. 31.

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Because any one </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">space-based directed-energy platform</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span>__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">simultaneous missile launches could be intercepted.</span>__




**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space weapons are technologically feasible – only a question of policy</span>**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolman and Cooper 11</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, and Henry, Former Deputy for the Strategic and Space Systems of the DOD and Chairman of High Fronteir, a non-profit organization studying issues of missile defense and space, “Chapter 19: Increasing the Military Uses of Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]])</span>


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bluntlynegative scientific opinion on the … merely chases the technology wherever it may go?</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">STRATCOM has the authority over the aff</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">STRATCOM.mil 10</span>__**(October, http://www.stratcom.mil/about/)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">US</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">STRATCOM</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">combines the synergy of the U.S. …and the means to respond to those threats rapidly.</span>

SBLs prevent all forms of WMD attacks
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hardesty 05</span>__**Captain David C. is is a member of the faculty of theNaval War College’s Strategy and Policy Department (Naval War College Review, “Space-Based Weapons: Long-Term Strategic Implications and Alternatives”, Spring 2005, Hopkins)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Space-based weapons, like all space … be logical for this important mission. </span>




Missile Defense deters all conflict, MAD theory fails
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Spring and Bendikova 11</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">([[http://www.heritage.org/about/staff/s/baker-spring|Baker, F. M. Kirby Research Fellow in National Security Policy]] [[http://www.heritage.org/about/staff/b/michaela-bendikova|Michaela, Research Assistant for Missile Defense and Foreign Policy in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies,]] //<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">November 1, ‘</span>//America Needs a 1-2-3 Plan for Missile Defense’, [[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/11/3-step-plan-for-us-missile-defense-system]], DM)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">One approach to confronting these risks …, including nuclear and conventional strategic weapons.</span>


No risk of backlash, plan would be secret until launched
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pugliese 04</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> – </span>[David. Military journalist for the Ottawa Citizen newspaper “New Space Race afoot: Work in Secret. Weapons in orbit by 2012” The Gazette Pg.A13 June 1, 2004. Electronic accessessed 8/3/2011 via lexis nexis]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The U.S. has renewed its interest in …</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> test version of the weapon could be in orbit by 2012. </span>

==Space Laser Aff (Regionals) [Most Recent 1AC]== 
===Plan Text=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan: The United States Strategic Command should develop a constellation of twelve directed-energy weapons beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space Race Adv</span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Advantage of space weaponization makes it inevitable. Doing it first is the only way to prevent others from weaponizing.</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolman and Cooper 11</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, and Henry, Former Deputy for the Strategic and Space Systems of the DOD and Chairman of High Fronteir, a non-profit organization studying issues of missile defense and space, “Chapter 19: Increasing the Military Uses of Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]])</span>

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Space is too vast to be controlled. …</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> some day, </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">will make the attempt</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Other nations are weaponizing now- the impacts are heg collapse and an arms race in space**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kitfield 10</span>__**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">-Senior Correspondent @ The National Journal, writer for Air Force Magazine, B.A. Journalism, University of Georgia, distinguished writer on defense, national security, and foreign policy, author of two books on national security, [James, Air Force Magazine, “Crowded Congested Space” August 2010, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2010/August%202010/0810space.aspx]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">That incident followed another worrisome …the commission warned, would invite a "space Pearl Harbor."</span>

**A Space arms race results in nuclear war.**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hitchens 3</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Theresa, Editor of Defense News, Director of Center for Defense Information, Former director of British American Security Information Council -think tank based in Washington and London. October 2.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.cdi.org/friendlyversion/printversion.cfm?documentID=1745)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The negative consequences of a space …of verification under arms control treaties.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Heg decline causes great power war</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Zhang and Shi</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">11</span>__**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – 1/22 Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C.; Lin Shi is from Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C. (America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Defining </span>__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">this US-centred system</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> … devoid of unrivalled US primacy.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Plan prevents arms race and solves backlash. US interventionism is inevitable; plan only makes it effective and benign</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Dolman March 1st 2012</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award “New Frontiers, Old Realities” Strategies Studies Quarterly, Vol. 6, No. 1, Spring 2012]</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Seizing the initiative and </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">securing [LEO]</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> specter of a future American empire.</span>__



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan solves backlash to US imperialism</span>**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dolman March 1st 2012</span>__**[,Everett , PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award “New Frontiers, Old Realities” Strategies Studies Quarterly, Vol. 6, No. 1, Spring 2012]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hence, the argument that the … to engage in an imperial manner.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">China Adv</span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">China is currently developing anti-satellite weapons to attack US satellites- The impact is complete military annihilation and economic collapse</span>**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MacKinnon </span>__**<span class="bodycopy">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">March 7th 2012</span>__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Douglas, long-time consultant on space issues, as well as a former White House and Pentagon official, “China is winning the space arms race”, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://washingtonexaminer.com/opinion/op-eds/2012/03/china-winning-space-arms-race/347101]], DM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Why is </span><span class="bodycopy">__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">China</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> so anxious to establish … </span><span class="bodycopy">__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">space</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> between the Earth and the moon.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Economic decline causes extinction.**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 11pt; text-align: left;">T.E.</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Bearden</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">2k</span><span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: left;">LTC U.S. Army (ret) Director of Association of Distinguished American Scientists and Fellow Emeritus, Alpha Foundation’s Institute for Advanced Study, The Unnecessary Energy Crisis: How to Solve It Quickly, 6-24-2k, [[http://www.seaspower.com/EnergyCrisis-Bearden.htm#_blank|http://www.seaspower.com/EnergyCrisis-Bearden.htm#_blank]]</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">History bears out …</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> for many decades.</span></span>
**Even a failed attack results in nuclear war with China**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Forden 8</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Geoffrey, PhD and Research Associate at MIT, “How China Loses the Coming Space War (Pt. 2),” 1/10, [[http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2008/01/inside-the-ch-1/]], EMM)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The U</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">S</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">has</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> five</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">satellites in</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">…</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> nuclear war</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> without a clear military goal.</span>

**Extinction**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Strait Times 2k</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ching, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">THE high-intensity scenario postulates a … </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">we would see the destruction of civilization.</span>__

**Space BMD dissuades China from attacking US satellites.**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tellis 07</span>__****,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ashley, Senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 2007. 'China's Military Space Strategy', Survival, 49:3, 41 – 72, [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/tellis_china_space1.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This has led some observers, such as … from asymmetric attacks on US space assets.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space BMD stops ASATs</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kleinberg 11,</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Howard, member of the graduate faculty of the Department of Public & International Affairs at University of North Carolina Wilmington, April. US Army Field Artillery Association, “A Global Missile Defense 'network': Terrestrial High-Energy Lasers and Aerospace Mirrors,”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fortunately, this recently -revealed, … with which </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">to</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">try to</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">stop any ASAT</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Negotiations fail and allow China to continue unchallenged**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gertz 11</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">3/9 - national security editor and a national security and investigative reporter for The Washington Times (2011, Bill, “Inside the Ring,” Washington Times, http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/mar/9/inside-the-ring-846232496/)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">China used a top-secret</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> SC-19 …</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> space weapons</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and missile defense </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">program</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">s. </span>

===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Asteroids Adv</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Asteroid impact is 100% certain and could occur at any time</span>**



**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">VERSCHUUR 1996</span>__**<span style="background-color: white;"> (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 158)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the past few years, the comet impact … human nature that will determine our fate.</span>



**Recent studies prove high risk of a strike**

Easterbrook, 8

[Gregg, American writer, lecturer, and a senior editor of The New Republic June 2008, Atlantic Magazine, “ The Sky Is Falling,” [[http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2008/06/the-sky-is-falling/6807]]]



<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Breakthrough ideas have a way of …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">it’s like the entire human race is riding on the plane.”</span>



**Asteroid strike causes extinction and accesses all environmental impacts**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sidle 7</span>__** <span style="font-size: 11pt;">(</span>Roy, Slope Conservation Section, Geohazards Division, Disaster Prevention Research Institute, Kyoto University, Chapter 23: Hazard Risk Assessment of a Near Earth Object, in //Comet/Asteroid Impacts and Human Society: An Interdisciplinary Approach//, SpringLink)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Very large asteroids (> several km) have impacted Earth in …could cause sea level rise and regional coastal flooding.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space-Based lasers are key to detecting and deflecting asteroids</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hindustan Times </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">March 20, 20</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">07</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Tuesday 12:24 PM EST Lightweight lasers can eliminate Earth-striking asteroids Report from the Asian News International brought to you by the Hindustan Times Nexis AW</span>



__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Researchers</span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> at the University of Alabama</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> start funding the mission now, says Fork. </span>

===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Solvency</span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Directed energy weapons key to successful weapon advantage and ballistic missile defense</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Deveci</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> **07**</span>__<span style="color: #171717; font-size: 8pt;">Bayram</span><span style="color: #171717; font-size: 12pt;">, </span><span style="color: #171717; font-size: 8pt;">Doctorate at Naval Postgraduate School</span><span style="color: #171717; font-size: 12pt;">,</span><span style="color: #171717; font-size: 8pt;">[Naval Postgraduate School, “Directed-Energy Weapons: Invisible and Invincible?”, September 2007, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA473993&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf ]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1. Advantages of Directed-Energy Weapons There are several reasons … enabling attacks on buried </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">bunkers, as well as targets in space</span>__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**A constellation of 12 DE-weapons provides global coverage- can’t be overwhelmed**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Independent Working Group</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> **09**</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">,</span>__** “Independent Working Group on Missile Defense, the Space Relationship, & the Twenty-First Century 2009 Report,” Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, , p. 31.

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Because any one </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">space-based directed-energy platform</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span>__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">simultaneous missile launches could be intercepted.</span>__


**Plan can be developed in 4 years**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Taylor 06</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Fred D., Jr, Major, USAF, “</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “The Quest for Security: The Space-Based Missile Defense Debate”, April 2006-Air University Research Management System)np</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Technical Considerations. Many </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">experts … there was a political will</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to do so. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">New launchers mean plan can be launch within 24 hours after development, speedy replacements solve hacking</span>**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Innovation News Daily 11</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">11/7</span>

News Staff, MSNBC, “US military seeks to turn planes into satellite launchers”,<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/45195990/ns/technology_and_science-innovation/#.TtTmu3N5uoA|http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/45195990/ns/technology_and_science-innovation/#.TtTmu3N5uoA]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">U.S. military operations rely heavily …almost </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">any airfield as a possible launch site.</span>__


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">STRATCOM has the authority over the aff</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">STRATCOM.mil 10</span>__**(October, http://www.stratcom.mil/about/)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">US</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">STRATCOM</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">combines the synergy of the U.S. …and the means to respond to those threats rapidly.</span>

SBLs prevent all forms of WMD attacks
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hardesty 05</span>__**Captain David C. is is a member of the faculty of theNaval War College’s Strategy and Policy Department (Naval War College Review, “Space-Based Weapons: Long-Term Strategic Implications and Alternatives”, Spring 2005, Hopkins)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Space-based weapons, like all space … be logical for this important mission.</span>




Missile Defense deters all conflict, MAD theory fails
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Spring and Bendikova 11</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">([[http://www.heritage.org/about/staff/s/baker-spring|Baker, F. M. Kirby Research Fellow in National Security Policy]] [[http://www.heritage.org/about/staff/b/michaela-bendikova|Michaela, Research Assistant for Missile Defense and Foreign Policy in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies,]] //<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">November 1, ‘</span>//America Needs a 1-2-3 Plan for Missile Defense’, [[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/11/3-step-plan-for-us-missile-defense-system]], DM)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">One approach to confronting these risks …, including nuclear and conventional strategic weapons.</span>


No risk of backlash, plan would be secret until launched
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pugliese 04</span>__**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> – </span>[David. Military journalist for the Ottawa Citizen newspaper “New Space Race afoot: Work in Secret. Weapons in orbit by 2012” The Gazette Pg.A13 June 1, 2004. Electronic accessessed 8/3/2011 via lexis nexis]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The U.S. has renewed its interest in …</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> test version of the weapon could be in orbit by 2012.</span>


<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 20pt;">Digger 1AC</span>**</span></span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Space exploration and development currently represents an ontological position that assumes complete mastery over the Earth and transports that ideology into the cosmos, annihilating meaning throughout the universe.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Thiele ’95 (</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Leslie, Professor of Political Science at the University of Florida, Timely Meditations: Martin Heidegger and Postmodern Politics, pg 201-203)</span>



**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">With everything standing in reserve ...</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> become dormant. According to </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"><span style="font-size: 26px; line-height: 46px;"> </span>
</span></span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span></span>

<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Debaters been framed exploration as the desire to experience the cosmos. This is nothing more than a symptom of technicity - Attempts to measure and control the universe constantly encounter the limits of modernity’s attempt to grasp being. Technological thinking becomes our only frame for thinking and humanity is reduced to nothing more than standing reserve.</span>**</span></span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Soccio ’09</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Douglas, Writes textbooks for philosophy at Wadsworths Cengage Learning and was professor of philosophy at Shasta College,__Archetypes of Wisdom: An Introduction to Philosophy__, pg 514-516)</span>**



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">For Heidegger,</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">the supreme danger ...</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> the call of a more primal truth."</span>





<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"><span style="font-size: 26px; line-height: 46px;"> </span>
</span></span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Technological enframing outweighs all other impacts—not only does it produce a short-sighted approach to space, but it eradicates the essence of Being by divorcing it from all alternative ways of thinking that do not adhere to scientific rationality. The devastation of Being is the precondition for all those forms of violence. Nuclear violence becomes a mere confirmation of our ontological destruction.</span>**</span></span>

<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">John **__Caputo__**, Professor of Philosophy at Villanova University, **__in__** 19**__93__**</span></span></span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (2) In his essay "The Thing" ...</span> profound, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">essential</span>, authentic, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">ontological destruction.</span>

<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span></span>

<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span></span>





===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The result of this eclipse of Being is a Will which reduces the world to a stable and predictable “Standing Reserve” to be called upon as it benefits the Self and refuses to value the world as anything else. This ontology represents a constant consumption which renders all beings objects—setting the tone for global warfare in the wake of the rejection of Being itself.</span>=== 

Zimmerman, '81 <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Michael E. Zimmerman, Tulane University. //Eclipse of the Self: The Development of Heidegger's Concept of Authenticity//. 220-224. // myost]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In 1951 Heidegger noted ... </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">gone mad, the capitalist is a rational miser.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"><span style="font-size: 26px; line-height: 46px;"> </span>
</span></span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Rather than abandon the resolution in steadfast rejection we release ourselves towards the topic allowing it to reveal itself to us in a multitude of alternative ways by resolving: </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.5pt;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its exploration and/or development of space beyond the earth’s mesosphere.</span>**</span></span>



<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **__Odysseos 2k7__**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Louiza, Senior Lecturer in International Relations at the University of Sussex, __The Subject of Coexistence: Otherness in International Relations__, pg 108)</span></span></span>

<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">What is of concern is whether the ....coexistence in chapter 3. </span></span></span>





<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"><span style="font-size: 26px; line-height: 46px;"> </span>
</span></span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Our releasement reconceptualizes our very understanding of the political- which cannot be viewed as an instrument for mastering the world. Rather than attempt to renegotiate specific political procedures. We question the foundation of what it means to be political in favor of infinite potentiality. </span>**</span></span>



<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **__Geiman 2k1__** (Clare Pearson, A Companion to Heidegger’s “Introduction to Metaphysics,” pg. 178-180)</span></span></span>

<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">With the move to poetic thinking</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">, __...__</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Poetic thinking points to just such a move. </span></span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>




<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">We affirm the existence of new possibilities that lie beyond our narrow scope of perception. It is the call for quick fixes and final solutions that re-creates ever-escalating catastrophes. This impulsive logic </span>**</span></span>

<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">McWhorter 92 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Ladelle, Professor of Philosophy and Women’s Studies at Richmond, //Heidegger and the earth: Essays in environmental philosophy//, Thomas Jefferson University Press, pp. vii-viii)</span></span></span>

<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">When we attempt to think ...</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> or know, it all; we can never manage everything</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"><span style="font-size: 26px; line-height: 46px;"> </span>
</span></span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Framework arguments that exclude our Aff technologically enframe debate to ensure its routine reproduction of old forms. New modes of debate and thinking are central to exploring ways of knowing that are not traditionally available and are absolutely necessary given the planetary domination of technological thought.</span>**</span></span>

<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Shannahan and Heidegger ’93 “</span>**//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Debater's Research Guide”</span>//</span></span>

<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Policy has a stranglehold on ...</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> the possibility that new perspectives will open remains above.</span></span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>

=Negative= 
===Nietzsche K 1NC=== 
**The affirmative is a misguided attempt to extirpate disorder and insecurity by molding the world into an ideal form**
**__Saurette 1996__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Paul, Prof of Political Studies @ U Ottawa, “I Mistrust All Systematizers and Avoid Them: Nietzsche, Arendt, and the Crisis of the Will to Order in International Relations Theory” Millenium 25.1)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">According to Nietzsche, the philosophical foundation …</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> the fundamental philosophical principle of modernity.</span>


**The aff’s expansion into space does not guide the future, it protests the present**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kilgore 3</span>__****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> - </span>** Associate Professor of English and American and Cultural Studies at Indiana University.
//(De Witt Douglas Kilgore, University of Pennsylvania Press, 2003, “Astrofuturism: Science, Race, and Visions of Utopia in Space,”)//

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However disparate their political agendas… as a persistent feature of American thought. </span>

**Predictions fail and magnify the impact of catastrophic events**
**__Der Derian, '5__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[James Der Derian, Director of the Global Security Program and Research Professor of International Studies at the Watson Institute for International Studies at Brown University. “National Security: An Accident Waiting to Happen.” Harvard International Review 27.3 (Fall 2005): 84-85. //myost]//</span>

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It often takes a catastrophe to reveal …management; in other words, "planned disasters."</span>//

//**The aff is only another breaking news story warning us of the chaos surrounding us and compelling us towards resolving that chaos. Their attempts at securing the world are doomed to fail because international politics are unpredictable. The aff rejects what makes life worth living.**//
//**__Der Derian 93__**//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(James, Watson Institute research professor of international studies (Brown University, 1993, “The political subject of violence”)</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nietzsche transvalues both Hobbes's and Marx's …</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> tribe new advantages and new strength. </span>__//


//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The world is will to power and nothing besides. The image of the dangerous other we must protect ourselves against is a power seizure; it is the realization of only one possibility. Instead of accepting this as moral law, we should see it for what it is, merely an expression of one will to power.</span>**//

//**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Aydin 2k7</span>__**//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ciano Aydin lecturer in Phil @ Radbound U "Nietzsche on Reality as Will to Power: Toward an Organization–Struggle Model” </span>//The Journal of Nietzsche Studies 33. Spring 2007. Project Muse, DMasterson)//
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We can begin with some elaboration of</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">phase in which there is no chaos anymore</span>


**The alternative is to do nothing in the instance of the plan. This ontological disarmament in the face of dangerous others is the only means to real peace which only exists within the mind. Living life is more important than deffering death. Their threat constructions are the root cause of the very wars they oppose.**
__**Nietzsche 1878**__
(The anti-christ. Human, All too Human. Aphorism #284)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The means to real peace. No government …</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> comes from a cloud- and from up high. </span>__

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Focus on assuring survival gets the founding question of politics backwards – we must first answer the question of what warrants survival</span>**</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Conway 97</span>__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Daniel W. (professor and department head of philosophy at Texas A&M). Nietzsche and the Political. Page 2-3. Dmasterson</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The difficulty of </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nietzsche</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">’s political thinking … future as a viable, thriving species</span>

===AT: Nietzsche Links to Topicality=== 

**Put away your “Nietzsche hates topicality” arguments; rules enable productive competition by allowing an equal contest between two sides**
__**Acampora, '2**__ (Christa Davis Acampora, CUNY, “Of Dangerous Games and Dastardly Deeds.” <http://christaacampora.com/uploads/news/id18/Dangerous%20Games.pdf>. // myost)
The agonistic game is organized around ... slavish morality illuminates well that concern.
==Past 2NRs== 
**Grapevine-**
Rd1-
XO CP, SKFTA DA, Case(util good,vtl inev, onto bad) against kritikal satellite monitoring aff
Rd-3
XO CP, SKFTA DA against policy satellite monitering aff
Rd-5
T-Increase against SBSP aff

**Washburn Rural-**
Rd-2
Cap K against Space Weapons aff
Rd-4
Space Debris DA and Case against some policy aff I cant remember
Rd-6
Cap K against SBSP aff

**St. Marks-**
Rd-1
Nietzsche against Space Elevators Aff
Rd-4
Nietzsche against SBSP aff
Rd-6
Nietzsche against SBSP aff

**KCKCC-**
Rd-1
XO CP and Asia Summit DA- Nanotech SBSP aff
Rd-3
Asia Summit DA and Case- cant remember
Rd-5
Nietzsche K- Shuttle Aff
Doubles
Nietzsche K and Case- BMD aff
Octos
Policy Framework- Constellation Neoliberalism aff

UT-
Rd-1
XO CP, Payroll Tax DA, and Inherency- Westwood RP's defense capabilities aff
Rd-4
Weaponization DA, Solvency- SPS
Rd-6
T-increase- Environment Monitoring

Heritage Hall
Rd1-
T Mesosphere- St. Marks ST's space effects aff
Rd3-
Ban Nuclear Propulsion CP, Debris DA, Case turn as NB to cp- Marshfield's ionic propulsion aff
Rd6-
Framework- Pembroke Heidegger aff
Semis-
Nietzsche- Shawnee Mission BMD aff
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]