[[toc]]
=Some Notes= 
Cite requests: email [[mailto:liampirate@gmail.com|liampirate@gmail.com]]

If you want local tournament info for any ingraham team:
[[pnwcasebook/Ingraham|http://pnwcasebook.wikispaces.com/Ingraham]]
=Affirmative= 
===1AC - Whitman=== 
Contention 1 is Inherency-
SBSP is drastically underfunded-this kills effectiveness.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hamilton, 2007</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;"> (Tyler, “Space-based solar power back in play,” Oct. 15, The Toronto Star, lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">High oil prices, … </span><span class="Underline0" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">dumped into fusion</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">.</span>

Plan: The United States Department of Defense should develop and launch Solar Powered Satellites.

Contention 2 is the advantages
Advantage one is Warming-
SPS solves warming entirely, it’s comparatively better than all other solutions.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NSS ’11,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;"> National Space Society June 3, 2011, “Space Solar Power: Limitless clean energy from space”, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The United States … needs of our planet.</span>

SPS solve warming – Green energy production
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Komerath 05</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Nayaranan, Professor School of Aerospace Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, An Evolutionary Model for Space Solar Power, Introduction, http://www.adl.gatech.edu/archives/adlp06020701.pdf, JG)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The key feature … with many applications.</span>

SPS solves global warming and co2 emissions
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space solar power workshop 11</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Georgia Institute of Technology, //Silent Power//, pg. 41-42, JT)</span>
“<span class="underline">Human activities are</span> … are available today.

Warming is real and is caused by humans, all scientific consensus goes aff and your authors are //paid off//.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Suzuki 10</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;"> (David, Chair of the David Suzuki Foundation, is an award-winning scientist, Environmentalist, Science deals blow to deluded climate change deniers, http://www.bclocalnews.com/opinion/98758379.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">It must be difficult, … clean energy technology.</span>

Warming from fossil fuels causes extinction
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tickell 8</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Oliver, Environmental Researcher, The Guardian, August 11, [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]], JMB, accessed 6-23-11)</span>
<span class="underline">We need to … a similar hothouse Earth </span>

Advantage 2 is Agriculture

First, all other alternative energy takes up space for farm land-only SSP avoids this.
<span class="cite">NSS 7</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[National Space Society, October, “Space Solar Power—Limitless clean energy from space”, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/index.htm]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Unlike coal and … daylight, or wind speed. </span>

And, space solar panels are the best way to provide energy to remote areas of the world and provide energy 24/7-that’s key to small farms, maximizes agricultural productivity, and eliminates the need for pesticides.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">McMahon ‘7,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Robert McMahon-Founder of Mr. Solar Power, a prominent solar advocacy source, Solar Powered Energy, Solar Power Energy, Solar Water Heating, Newsletter-June 2007, http://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&q=cache:aqklnz_MZdUJ:www.mrsolarenergy.com/index2.php%3Foption%3Dcom_content%26do_pdf%3D1%26id%3D35+%22space+solar+power%22+%22small+farms%22&hl=en&gl=us&pid=bl&srcid=ADGEESgFj7mk58EZakIEY0ou45yuNbS5R8la-tGrpiv-xCTkAD9a-D1XX3np3caeWcq2-FkLvD2NKTWLADPb8UMI_xI5Ssns_Yr4fYuaKtUJvqFIXcdAe_OP-93U1viO5b5Vx6gcDZKp&sig=AHIEtbTEykZdUZTaRUVrPgCrbBIujeeKgQ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Experts predict</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> that </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">… 24 hours a day in space</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


Small farms are key to sustain genetic diversity and food security-impact is extinction.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Boyce ‘4</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;"> – dept. of Economics & Political Economy Research and Environmental research at the University of Massachusetts (James K, July, “A Future for Small Farms? Biodiversity and Sustainable Agriculture”. Political Economic Research Institute, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://ideas.repec.org/p/uma/periwp/wp86.html]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">, RG) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">There is a … northwestern United States.</span>

Small farms minimize the magnitude of inevitable agricultural diseases-large scale farms ensure its spread.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kohnen 2K</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">, Anne Kohnen, Responding to the threat of Agro-terrorism: Specific Recommendations for the United States Department of Agriculture, Published by Harvard, http://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&q=cache:TPLGcqWqp1IJ:belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/responding_to_the_threat_of_agroterrorism.pdf+%22small+farms</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Trends in the agricultural … expose several thousand others.</span>

Independently, Disease spread risks extinction.
<span class="cite">Daswani ’96 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Kavita, Interviewing an Israeli doctor, “Leading the way to a cure for AIDS,” South China Morning Post, January 4, LN]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Dr Ben-Abraham said: …</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> the human race</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">," he said.</span>


Pesticides cause toxic damage-spills over to other ecosystems and tanks global biodiversity.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Oliver ‘1</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">, Jan Oliver, Prof @ Cal, Pesticides and Biodiversity, http://dp.biology.dal.ca/reports/zoliver/oliverst.html</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Pesticides can </span><span class="Underline0" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">enter non-agricultural …hundreds of kilometers away. </span>

Biodiversity loss causes extinction.
<span class="cite">Diner, 94</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> [David, Ph.D., Planetary Science and Geology, "The Army and the Endangered Species Act: Who's Endangering Whom?," Military Law Review, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">To accept that …</span> closer to the abyss.

And, pollution from pesticides collapses the world water supply.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bachtell 02</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;"> [John Bachtell, “Life in the balance: Capitalism at war with nature and humanity,” Opening to the National Board June 20, 2002, pg. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cpusa.org/article/articleview/465/1/47/edlee]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">A large amount enters …over water resources.</span>

Collapsing global water supply causes extinction.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Maude Barlow, Spring 2001</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">National Chairperson of the Council of Canadians and IFG Committee on the Globalization of Water. “BLUE GOLD: The Global Water Crisis and the Commodification of the World's Water Supply,” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ratical.org/co-globalize/BlueGold.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Perhaps the most … </span><span class="Underline0" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> and,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> eventually, "</span><span class="Underline0" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">global collapse</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">."</span>

Advantage 3 is Hegemony

Coming energy crisis threatens to collapse U.S. heg by cutting off vital resources.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Draiman ‘8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Jay, “Mandatory Renewable Energy: The Energy Evolution”, Energy Consultant and Energy Development Specialist with over 20 years experience in energy research, http://environment.newscientist.com/channel/earth/energy-fuels/dn12774-pentagon-backs-plan-to-beam-solar-power-from-space.html, DeFilippis]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">"We strive to … </span><span class="Underline0" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> to catastrophic consequences. </span>

SBSP key to allied credibility—that’s key to heg.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NSS 7</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">[National Space Society, October 10, “Space-Based Solar Power as an opportunity for Strategic Security”, Architecture Feasibility Study, the National Security Space Office, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/nsso.htm]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">For the DoD specifically</span><span class="Underline0" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, … secure energy supply.</span>

SPS is key to space leadership
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">national security space office 7</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Report to the director, October 10, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf]]</span>, p. 15-16, accessed: 24 June 2011, JT)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Aerospace Commission … </span><span class="underline"> of this imperative</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

SPS key to heg—solves dependency, the economy, and competitiveness
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nansen 95</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Ralph, Pres. Solar Space Industries, National Space Society, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/sunpower/sunpower09.html]]</span>, accessed 6-24-11, CH)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Some of the very … </span><span class="underline"> massive commercial development</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">. </span>

Heg solves genocide, ethnic cleansing and mass violence globally
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lieber 5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">– PhD from Harvard, Professor of Government and International Affairs at Georgetown, former consultant to the State Department and for National Intelligence Estimates (Robert, “The American Era”, pages 51-52, WEA)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The United States possesses … more recent example.</span>

Heg is key to democracy promotion
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thayer 7 –</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Associate Professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies, Missouri State University (Bradley A., American Empire, Routledge, pages 42-3)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The American Empire …</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> of my presidential DNA.”59</span>

Democracy solves several scenarios for extinction.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Diamond 95</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Larry, Prof @ Stanford University, Promoting Democracy in the 1990’s”)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The experience of this … </span><span class="underline"> prosperity can be built. </span>

Contention 3 is Solvency:

SPS solves Energy
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NSSO, 2007</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, SBSP Study Group, 2007, 10 October 2007, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(National Security Space Office, Space-Based Solar Power, As an Opportunity for Strategic Security, Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study, [[http://www.acq.osd.mil/nsso/solar/SBSPInterimAssesment0.1.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">A single kilometer-wide …</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> 5-10 gigawatts of electric power.</span>


SSP IS TECHNOLOGICALLY FEASIBLE AND CAN MEET OUR ENERGY NEEDS
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NSSO 8</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (National Security Space Office, otrans.3cdn.net/38b615154ce6479749_p9m6bn37b.pdf,November 23, DA 6/23/11, OST)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Immensely Scalable — </span><span class="underline">SSP can …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 22nd Centuries, and beyond.</span>

SPS IS COMPARATIVELY BETTER THAN OTHER SOURCES OF ALTERNATIVE ENERGY
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NATIONAL SPACE SOCIETY 7</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (October 2007, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nss.org/legislative/positions/NSS-SSP-PositionPaper.pdf]]</span>, p.2, accessed: 23 June 2011, JT)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While all viable … global energy needs. </span>

The SPS <span class="cite">technology</span> works
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chao & Chang 8</span>(Kevin, Earth and Atmospheric studies@Georgia Institute of Technology, James, proj. manager Oceans and Coasts, Design for Development, 20 February, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://design4dev.wetpaint.com/page/Solar+Power+Satellites]]</span>, accessed: 23 June 2011, JT)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Solar Powered Satellite … improve the quality of life. </span>

Contention 3 is Impact Framing

We control the only existential risks to humanity:

Nuclear war is survivable
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nyquist 99</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (JR, writer and expert, http://www.wnd.com/news/article.asp?ARTICLE_ID=19722, da: 7-4-2011, dw: 7-5-1999, lido)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">As I write about … </span><span class="underline"> Nuclear Explosions"</span> (Science, December 1983).

We solve all their impacts: SPS solves the number one cause of wars – resources.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">DINERMAN 9</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Taylor, writer for The Space Review, The Space Review, September 15, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1209/1]], accessed: 24 July 2011, JT)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While politicians in … </span><span class="underline">routes will diminish</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


Here’s the best card you’ll read today: <span class="underline">Nuclear wars will never happen – all states </span><span class="cite">understand</span><span class="underline"> that they would destroy themselves, empirics</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tepperman 9</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">(Jonathon, Newsweek, staff, Learning to Love The Bomb; Obama wants to rid the world of nuclear weapons. Why that might be a big mistake., dw: 9-14-2009, da: 7-6-2011, lexis, lido)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The argument that … to do to avoid it.</span>

No Great Power Wars
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Moore 7</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Carl, blogger, http://www.carolmoore.net/nuclearwar/index.html#Threats, dw: May 2007, da: 7-4-2011, lido)</span>
<span class="underline">The 1945-1989 "Cold War" …withdrawing them from Turkey.</span>




===1AC - Golden Desert=== 
Contention 1 is Inherency
The government is a puppet to oil companies, which shuts down any transition to alternative energy in the status quo.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Justmeans 10’(Justmeans, green business news website, Solar Feeds, Hermann Scheer: A German Solar Hero, Saturday, 23 October, 2010, http://www.solarfeeds.com/justmeans/14821-hermann-scheer-a-german-solar-hero)phol</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The government behaved </span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> … </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the hand of these power companies.</span>

Questions surrounding the energy system are controlled exclusively by energy companies.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Scheer 06’(Hermann Scheer, German member of parliament, Energy Autonomy : The Economic, Social and Technological Case for Renewable Energy. London, , GBR: Earthscan, 2006. p 133 http://site.ebrary.com/lib/northwestern/Doc?id=10167744&ppg=151)phol</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The hegemonic position … sought and respected</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span>__

Contention 2 is Fossil Fuel
Under the veil of economic rationality, the fossil fuel industry has systematically erased renewable energy from becoming a genuine alternative.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Scheer 06’(Hermann Scheer, German member of parliament, Energy Autonomy : The Economic, Social and Technological Case for Renewable Energy. London, , GBR: Earthscan, 2006. p 141-142 http://site.ebrary.com/lib/northwestern/Doc?id=10167744&ppg=151)phol</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In her book Power Play, … </span>__pseudo-liberalization as a vehicle for self-interest.__

The ultimate conclusion of the fossil fuel dominated market state is the elimination of civic resistance and democratic institutions. Values become impossible to articulate in this world.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Scheer 06’(Hermann Scheer, Member of the German Bundestag for the SPD, President of EUROSOLAR, Energy Autonomy : The Economic, Social and Technological Case for Renewable Energy, London, GBR: Earthscan, 2006. P 285, http://site.ebrary.com/lib/northwestern/Doc?id=10167744&ppg=294)phol</span>

Such a development, … on a transnational ‘energy state’.



Current political discussions surrounding energy are corrupted by die-hard denialists from the right who demand that an oil based economy is necessary in the name of sustaining capitalist agendas.
Klein<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Naomi, </span>11/9<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/11, an award-winning journalist, syndicated columnist, fellow at The Nation Institute and author of the international and New York Times bestseller The Shock Doctrine: The Rise of Disaster Capitalism. Published worldwide in September 2007, The Shock Doctrine is slated to be translated into seventeen languages to date. The six-minute companion film, created by Alfonso Cuaron, director of Children of Men, was an Official Selection of the 2007 Venice and Toronto International Film Festivals and a viral phenomenon as well, downloaded over one million times. Klein's previous book No Logo: Taking Aim at the Brand Bullies was also an international bestseller, translated into more than twenty-eight languages, with over a million copies in print, “Capitalism V.S. the Climate”, The Nation,November 28th 2011 edition, http://www.thenation.com/article/164497/capitalism-vs-climate?page=full</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There is a question from a gentleman in the …</span><span class="Underline"> one of these conferences.”</span>

And they’re right. The market reordering of a renewable energy economy is antithetical to their “free market” belief system. The creation of a viable alternative energy source would overhaul the way the economy functions and make us re-evaluate the exploitative ethic that underpins capitalism as well as reclaim politics from the radical right.
Klein<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Naomi, </span>11/9<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/11, an award-winning journalist, syndicated columnist, fellow at The Nation Institute and author of the international and New York Times bestseller The Shock Doctrine: The Rise of Disaster Capitalism. Published worldwide in September 2007, The Shock Doctrine is slated to be translated into seventeen languages to date. The six-minute companion film, created by Alfonso Cuaron, director of Children of Men, was an Official Selection of the 2007 Venice and Toronto International Film Festivals and a viral phenomenon as well, downloaded over one million times. Klein's previous book No Logo: Taking Aim at the Brand Bullies was also an international bestseller, translated into more than twenty-eight languages, with over a million copies in print, “Capitalism V.S. the Climate”, The Nation,November 28th 2011 edition, http://www.thenation.com/article/164497/capitalism-vs-climate?page=full</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If the carbon these … as the neoliberal right.</span>

Capitalism reduces everything to market abstractions—negates value to life and makes extinction inevitable

Kovel 2(Joel, Professor of Social Studies at Bard , “The Enemy of Nature,” p140-141)
__The precondition of an … been carried out so impersonally__.

Capitalist drive for profit neglects environmental concerns
Magdoff and Magdoff 5 (Approaching Socialism [[http://monthlyreview.org/author/harrymagdoff|Fred]] is a professor emeritus of plant and soil science at the University of Vermont in Burlington and a director of the Monthly Review Foundation; Harry worked for the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Department_of_Commerce|United States Department of Commerce]] [[http://monthlyreview.org/2005/07/01/approaching-socialism]])
Ecological degradation occurred in …<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,” //Monthly Review//, May 2004).</span>

Warming from fossil fuels causes extinction

Tickell 8(Oliver, Environmental Researcher, The Guardian, August 11, [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]], JMB, accessed 6-23-11)
We need to <span class="underline0">…</span> similar hothouse Earth


Independently, SPS solves global warming and co2 emissions
Space solar power workshop 11 (Georgia Institute of Technology, //Silent Power//, pg. 41-42, JT)
“<span class="underline0">Human activities are</span>… are available today.


SPS solves Energy
__NSSO, 2007__, SBSP Study Group, 2007, 10 October 2007, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(National Security Space Office, Space-Based Solar Power, As an Opportunity for Strategic Security, Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study, [[http://www.acq.osd.mil/nsso/solar/SBSPInterimAssesment0.1.pdf]])</span>

__A single kilometer-wide band …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">delivering 5-10 gigawatts of electric power. </span>




SPS IS COMPARATIVELY BETTER THAN OTHER SOURCES OF ALTERNATIVE ENERGY

NATIONAL SPACE SOCIETY 7 (October 2007, [[http://www.nss.org/legislative/positions/NSS-SSP-PositionPaper.pdf]], p.2, accessed: 23 June 2011, JT)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While all viable energy … meet our global energy needs. </span>

The SPS technology works
Chao & Chang 8(Kevin, Earth and Atmospheric studies@Georgia Institute of Technology, James, proj. manager Oceans and Coasts, Design for Development, 20 February, [[http://design4dev.wetpaint.com/page/Solar+Power+Satellites]], accessed: 23 June 2011, JT)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Solar Powered Satellite … improve the quality of life. </span>







<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Thus, Ysabel and I advocate: The United States federal government should develop and deploy a fleet of Solar Powered Satellites.</span>



<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Contention 3 is the new perspective</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Our current energy ideology kills critical thinking and relegates the mind to one-dimensional thought. Rethinking our stance on energy is key to dissolving these restrictions. We can’t talk about energy without confronting these issues.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Scheer 06’(Hermann Scheer, German member of parliament, Energy Autonomy : The Economic, Social and Technological Case for Renewable Energy. London, , GBR: Earthscan, 2006. p 131-132 http://site.ebrary.com/lib/northwestern/Doc?id=10167744&ppg=151)phol</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In the energy system, … </span>__and their specific consequences.__

In round discourse about energy is a prior question to their impacts because rethinking renewable energy would change everything about the way we think economically and politically about the world
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Scheer 06’(Hermann Scheer is a Member of the German Bundestag for the SPD, President of EUROSOLAR, The post-fossil future, Le Monde diplomatique, June 2006, http://www.hermannscheer.de/en/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=133&Itemid=11)phol </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This opportunity for a …</span>__can be overcome.__

A new approach to energy includes more than just switching technologies---policy changes that fail to include a holistic approach will only serve to entrench existing systems of domination.
Bookchin 93’ (Murray Bookchin , What is social ecology?. In: M.E. Zimmerman, J.B. Callicott, G. Sessions, K.J. Warren and J. Clark, Editors, Environmental Philosophy, Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ (1993))
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">To prioritize any …</span>__advertising and customer relations__

Activists have an important role in the transition to a solar economy. The 1AC is a speech act that holds the government accountable.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lewis 02’(Sandra, Information and Action Addressing Public Policy for an Ecologically Sustainable WorldVolume 2, Number 2) “The Dark Side Of Our Dependence On Fossil Fuels: Time For Quakers To Take A Stand, March 2002, [[http://www.quakerearthcare.org/Publications/QuakerEcoBulletin/QEBArchive/QEB-PDF/QEB2-2-energy.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Toward Sane Energy …</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> for enacting such </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">policies.</span>
Renewable energy is fundamental to the preservation of human values. Failure to speak out against the status quo makes you complicit in a system that is killing us all.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">WREA 05’(World Renewable Energy Assembly (WREA), November 26th to 30th, 2005, Bonn/Germany, 3rd World Renewable Energy Forum, The Human Right to Renewable Energy[[http://www.hermannscheer.de/en/images/stories/pdf/WREA_2005_final_communique_en.pdf]], World Renewable Energy Assembly (WREA) 2005)phol</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">“All human beings are … also for our inaction.</span>__



<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Contention 4 is The Lens</span>

The only way to break the single dimensional thinking the energy system has created is to illuminate the reason for its formation---the affirmative is a prerequisite to effective education and policymaking

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Scheer 06’(Hermann Scheer, German member of parliament, Energy Autonomy : The Economic, Social and Technological Case for Renewable Energy. London, , GBR: Earthscan, 2006. p 131-132 http://site.ebrary.com/lib/northwestern/Doc?id=10167744&ppg=151)phol</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In the energy system, too, __… their specific consequences.__</span>

Without changes to the focus and content of education, as well as a uniting of the political and educational, any viable notion of politics is impossible.
Giroux 11, Henry A, currently holds the Global TV Network Chair Professorship at McMaster University in the English and Cultural Studies Department. His most recent books include: Youth in a Suspect Society (Palgrave, 2009); Politics After Hope: Obama and the Crisis of Youth, Race, and Democracy (Paradigm, 2010); Hearts of Darkness: Torturing Children in the War on Terror (Paradigm, 2010); The Mouse that Roared: Disney and the End of Innocence (co-authored with Grace Pollock, Rowman and Littlefield, 2010); Zombie Politics and Culture in the Age of Casino Capitalism (Peter Lang, 2011); Henry Giroux on Critical Pedagogy (Continuum, 2011). His newest books: Education and the Crisis of Public Values (Peter Lang) and Twilight of the Social: Resurgent Publics in the Age of Disposability (Paradigm Publishers) will be published in 2012). Giroux is also a member of Truthout's Board of Directors, “American Democracy Beyond Casino Capitalism and The Torture State”, [[http://www.truthout.org/american-democracy-beyond-casino-capitalism-and-torture-state/1305143581]]

If the legacy of … to take it back.
Affirming higher education as a space for criticism of these institutions is the only way to empower youth to eventually change them.
Henry Giroux Global TV Network Chair English and Cultural Studies McMaster University “Higher Education Under Siege: Implications for Public Intellectuals” The NEA Higher Education Journal Thought & Action Fall <span class="cite">200</span>6http://www2.nea.org/he/heta06/images/2006pg63.pdf
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In this article, after .,..</span>and social agency.
Failure to confront dominant systems of power ultimately culminates in extinction.
Michael Dillon, Professor of Politics at the University of Lancaster, <span class="cite">200</span>4, Sovereign Lives: Power in Global Politics, p. 41
Power is commonly … promise of politics.






<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
=Negative= 

===Neg Strats – Whitman=== 
Rd 1 v Timberline (China coop)
(WIN)
1NC: T-its, Ozone DA, Africa Trade politics DA, Fem K, Advantage CP, case D
2NC: Ozone, politics, CP
1NR: T and case
2NR: Ozone and case

Rd 3 v St Georges KR (ISS Shuttles)
(WIN)
1NC: T-its/development, Ozone DA, Africa Trade politics DA, Fem K, Advantage CP, case D
2NC: CP, case, politics
1NR: T, Ozone DA
2NR: T

Rd 6 v Holy Names SW (replace not working shuttles)
(WIN)
1NC: T-should=must (no conditions), Ozone DA, Africa Trade politics DA, Fem K, Advantage CP, case D
2NC: Fem K, CP, case
1NR: T, Ozone DA
2NR: T

Finals v St Georges MV (Solar Storms)
(LOSS)
1NC: T-substantially, Ozone DA, Africa Trade politics DA, Fem K, Advantage CP, case D
2NC: Fem K, CP, Case
1NR: Ozone DA
2NR: Ozone, CP

===Fem K - Whitman=== 
**<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">The gendered assumption built into exploration and development policies ensure insecurity and patriarchy.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Griffin 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Penny, Senior Lecturer - Convenor, MA International Relations, ‘The Spaces Between Us: The Gendered Politics of Outer Space’, in Bormann, N. and Sheehan, M. (eds), Securing Outer Space. London and New York: Routledge, pp.59-75.)</span>

The discursive deployment <span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">as, perhaps, 'bounty hunters' (2004: 10). </span>

**B. This gendered security discourse causes inevitable violence and war that turns the case. The alt is to reject the 1AC. This opens up space for a feminist reconceptualization of security.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Shepherd 2007</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Laura J., Department of Political Science and International Studies, University of Birmingham, “Victims, Perpetrators and Actors’ Revisited:1 Exploring the Potential for a Feminist Reconceptualisation of (International) Security and (Gender) Violence,” //BJPIR//: 2007 VOL 9, 239–256]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As Spike Peterson and Jacqui … I am in excellent company.</span>


===Ozone DA - Whitman=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Current launch rates wont affect the ozone – the plan pushes emissions</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> over the brink and kills the ozone</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ross et. al. 9</span> (Martin – environmental Systems Directorate @ Aerospace, Ph.D. @ UCLA in Earth and planetary sciences, Darin Toohey, Manfred Peinemann and Patrick Ross, Volume 7, Issue 1 January 2009 , pages 50 – 82, informaworld) JPG<span class="underline"> … </span><span style="font-family: Times,serif;"> “</span><span class="underline">green”</span><span style="font-family: Times,serif;"> in this sense.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ozone depletion means extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Festive Earth Society, 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(February 26, “The Ozone Layer,” http://festiveearth.com/content/view/96/54/index.html, JM)</span>
The ozone layer is <span class="underline">… it, to exist</span>.

===Politics - Whitman=== 

Africa Bill will pass – Coons comments, contains China
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cannon 11-2</span> (Ellen, dw: 11-2-2011, da: 11-3-2011, http://www.examiner.com/homeland-security-in-chicago/durbin-for-tripling-u-s-exports-to-africa-builds-jobs-and-contains-china, lido)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Senator Durbin the …</span><span class="underline">of Chinese-African trade.</span>

**The plan will spark backlash – seen as wasteful spending**
**Moran, 11** – PJM Chicago editor, Blog Editor at The American Thinker, and a frequent contributor to FrontPage.com [July 10, 2011, Rick Moran, “Webb telescope may be axed,” http://www.americanthinker.com/blog/2011/07/webb_telescope_may_be_axed.html]

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">It is one of the …the report said.</span>

Political capital key to agenda—presidential authority
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schier 09</span>
Schier 09<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> (Steven E., professor of political science at Carleton College, “Understanding the Obama Presidency”, The Forum, Vol. 7, Issue 1, http://www.bepress.com/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1283&context=forum)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">At the center of … powers face serious challenge</span>__.__



Africa trade bill key to economy
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Coons 11-1</span> (Chris, US senator, dw: 11-1-2011, da: 11-3-2011, http://allafrica.com/stories/201111021445.html, lido)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">America's extensive public-… </span> Americans and Africans.

ECONOMIC COLLAPSE CAUSES EXTINCTION
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">BEARDEN 2K</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Army, www.cheniere.org/techpapers/Unnecessary%20Energy%20Crisis.doc) ET</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Bluntly, we foresee these …</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> least for many decades. </span>