<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[toc]]
</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Cite Requests - Email: </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[mailto:heballa7@gmail.com|heballa7@gmail.com]]</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Chetan)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">or <span style="background-color: initial;">[[mailto:somya.tirath@gmail.com|somya.tirath@gmail.com]]</span> (Somya)</span>

=<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">***Affirmative </span>= 

==<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 17pt;">Dispossessed Aff</span>== 

===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">1AC - Wake Forest</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Observation One: The Status Quo</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The libertarian visions of Golden Age science fiction exert a strong influence on American culture and policy- left wing utopian hopes have receded in the popular imagination.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Smith 2002</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Jeremy Adam, managing editor of <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.greatergoodmag.org/|Greater Good]]</span> magazine, “Libertarians in Space”, May 20, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.alternet.org/story/13167/libertarians_in_space/?page=entire]]</span> Accessed 9/3/11 GAL)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">During my junior year of high school, I was a libertarian. My primary influence was not Ayn Rand......everyone has to grow up sometime.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This libertarian ideology is implicitly incompatible with space exploration- civilization can’t be sustained without mutual aid and interdependent systems.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Stross 8/2/10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Charlie, Hugo Award winning author, “Space Cadets”, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.antipope.org/charlie/blog-static/2010/08/space-cadets.html]]</span>, Accessed 9/3/11 GAL]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Attempts to discuss the prospects of human exploration ..... myth of the American frontier.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The capitalist 'end of history' vision is bad - rather than accept that the current system is perfect, we must engage in "heterotopias" - an achievable dynamic utopia that can fix current problems with class, gender and race</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Kilgore 3</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (De Witt Douglas, Teaches English @ Indiana Univ., Astrofuturism: Space, Race, and Visions of Utopia in Space, p. 226-7 GAL)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Tyson's criticisms and hopes.....developers of new worlds.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This eternal projection of capitalism into the future is a denial of the challenge of historical time- the slogan “there is no alternative” is mindlessly repeated as the “end of history” is declared. This attempt to maintain the eternal present as the ideal of history ignores vast structural inequalities and ongoing genocidal wars, threatening human survival.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Meszaros 2008</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Istvan, professor emeritus @ U Sussex, The Challenge and Burden of Historical Time, p. 21-24 Emphasis in original, GAL)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The apologists of capital...........shall be only a bad memory.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The sheer arrogance required to declare the present moment the end of history is mind-boggling- never before, in absolute figures, have violence, inequality, exclusion, famine, and extermination affected so many people on earth.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Pomeroy 2004</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Anne Fairchild, Associate Professor of Philosophy and Religion Vice-President of the Stockton Federation of Teachers Co-Coordinator of the Radical Philosophy Association, “Marx and Whitehead: process, dialectics, and the critique of capitalism”, p. 163)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Our “economy” is our system ....... to promote human life?</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Thus, we affirm the utopian possibilities latent in the resolution through the exploration of Urras and Anarres.</span>**


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Observation Two: The Dispossessed</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ursula K. Le Guin’s novel</span>**//**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Dispossessed</span>**//**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">tells a story of Urras and Anarres, a double planet system. Urras is dominated by a competitive libertarian worldview. The Urrasti are obsessed with status, wealth, and power-- the society has descended into an insatiable quest for material possession in spite of the vast inequality and poverty plaguing the planet.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Anarres is a barren moon, colonized by those who have left Urras to escape the greed, war, and oppression. Here they have constructed a society without government, completely decentralized and founded on principles of mutual aid, altruism and self-sacrifice. There is no poverty on Anarres. Despite the scare resources the Anarresti have ensured that all are treated equally - no one will eat while the other starves.</span>**

//**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Dispossessed</span>**//**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">tells the story of Shevek, a brilliant Anarresti physicist who travels to Urras to develop a General Temporal Theory. Over the course of the novel, Shevek witnesses first hand how profit and the wish for power corrupt every person and every action – but he also realizes that both the Urrasti and Anarresti society have stagnated because of the walls built up between them.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Terra, Earth, is also represented in the novel, but only as a dead world spoiled by humanity, now governed by total centralization.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The story is a warning- Terra and Anarres are both possible futures for the United States. Anarres is a not a blueprint for a perfect static utopia, but offers the hope as an ongoing process of freedom and mutuality. However, Anarres cannot come to us- the United States must initiate the journey of exploration on its own.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Stillman 5</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Peter G. Stillman is Professor of Political Science at Vassar College “ The New Utopian Politics of Ursula K. Le Guin’s The Dispossessed” – pg. 68-69, Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In the face of those difficulties, The Dispossessed gives readers a warning..... and make the attempt.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Dispossessed disrupts the idea of time as a linear progression towards the “end of history”— the story of the past is never finally told and the future is never fully closed.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Only uniting past, present, and future can save either world. The wall built up between the real world of Urras and the utopia of Anarres prevents change in both societies- Anarres loses its connection with past history on Urras, and Urras loses the utopian hope represented by the possible future of Anarres.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Davis 2005</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Laurence, PhD in Politics @ Oxford, The New Utopian Politics of Ursula K. Le Guin’s The Dispossessed, Ed. Davis and Stillman, p. 3-9 GAL]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Dispossessed is a utopia,.........the reason to go on changing.14</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Regardless of alternative solvency, you have an ethical obligation to attempt to transcend capitalism-- utopian thinking is key to the value of life</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Marsh 95</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (James L., Professor of Philosophy at Fordham University, Critique, Action, and Liberation p. 331-336 GAL)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">However, such a conception of reason........it lies in not having the veil pierced.</span>


===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">1AC - Milton</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Everything's the same as above except for the addition of this card</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Capitalism is a non-generalizable condition- if everyone consumed at the rate of advanced capitalist states, the system would instantly collapse.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Meszaros 95</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Istvan, prof emeritus @ U of Sussex, “Beyond Capital” Pg. xv-xvi)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">If it is true, as they, **that ‘there is no alternative’……**be considered feasible and sound</span>






===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">2AC Framework</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Counter-interpretation: exploration is a sustained examination of a theme</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Freedictionary 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [The Free Dictionary by Farlex, Princeton Univertysity, http://www.thefreedictionary.com/exploration]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">exploration - a systematic consideration; "he called for a careful exploration of the consequences" consideration - the process of giving careful thought to something</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Gap Disad - Policymakers ignore the influence of Sci-Fi at their own peril- neglecting the political questions about the present raised by speculation about the future undermines any future space policy.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Delgado 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Laura M., Space Policy Institute @ GWU, 10/19, “A Popcorn-bred Perspective of Space Commercialization” http://www.spacenews.com/commentaries/101019-blog-popcorn-perspective-space-commercialization.html Accessed 9/7/11 GAL)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Even as the space policy community seems ....... well, who can blame her?</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Counter-interpretation – the USFG is not just centralized bureaucracy it includes citizen participation and deliberative democracy</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">We are the government – it’s not a distant foreign body</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Raney 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Gary Raney – Ada County Sherriff, “ Ada County Sheriff Gary Raney Response to Inquiry regarding Oathkeepers”, October 25th, 2010, http://wearechangeidaho.org/CategoryArticles.php?id=1]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">First premise:“They” – the federal government – are not a distant body beyond our control.We are a republic and we are the federal governmentby the power of our vote.It is disingenuous for people to talk about the government as something foreign, like an enemy.In my opinion, it is our general apathy as voters that, by an omission of a vote, allow our government to do things we don’t want them to do.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Double Bind -</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A. Their fiat-based model for demands on the state is bad- they have no actual voice in the formation of policy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Herod</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> 1(James, “A Stake, Not a Mistake: On Not Seeing the Enemy”, October, http://www.jamesherod.info/index.php?sec=paper&id=9&print=y&PHPSESSID=4387a9147ad42723ea101944dd538914)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Let's take another example. Russell Mokhiber and Robert Weissman, otherwise very sensible writers, complain that "bombing a desperately poor country under the yoke of a repressive regime is a wrongheaded response.....they could begin to see another way.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">B. Even if they are right about their interpretation – we can still win that our aff is good for politics because politicians should contemplate the themes in the science fiction and the Dispossessed</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Delgado 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Laura, M.A. @ Space Policy Institute GWU, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics SPACE 2010 Conference & Exposition, “The Commercialization of Space in Science Fiction Movies: The Key to Sustainability or the Road to a Capitalist Dystopia?”, p. 8-9 GAL)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">After discussing these two trends of thought – one revealed in space science fiction movies.....the debate may already show some initial points of encounter.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Counter-interpretation: the resolution is a science fiction text – our aff is the only way to engage in future speculations</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Any move to methodologically bracket out our discussion cannot be viewed as value neutral, it is the worst form of conservatism favoring the established order at the expense of the oppressed.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Meszaros 89</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Istvan, likes Marx not Adam Smith. The Power of Ideology, p 232-234 GAL)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Nowhere is the myth of ideological neutrality .....which no social theory or philosophy can escape.</span>


===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">2AC - Cap Bad</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">1. Mostly extending some 1ac bidness</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2. Even if they win that cap is good for some, 5/6ths of humanity can’t benefit from it</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">DeSoto 0</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Hernando, president of the institute for liberty and democracy, “The Mystery of Capital: why capitalism triumphs in the West and fails everywhere else” Pg. 5-8 JF)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In this book I intend to demonstrate that.....their domestic capitalism work.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">3. Capitalism causes genocide and nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Internationalist Perspective 2k</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> - “Capitalism and Genocide,” http://www.geocities.com/wageslavex/capandgen.html</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Mass death, and genocide, the deliberate and systematic extermination of whole groups......World War I: socialism or barbarism.</span>



==<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 17pt;">Lunar Quarantine Aff</span>== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Full text is on Ofir Stolarski and Poonam Dalwadi's wiki</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">1AC</span>=== 

**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Contention 1 is Inherency</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A Mars Sample Return mission is inevitable - NASA’s cooperation with the ESA will send the Aurora mission to Mars in 2018</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">LaunchBase 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [“Aurora Programme Information”, September 27th, 2011, http://www.launchbase.net/aurora_programme/encyclopedia.htm, Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In recent years ……future planetary exploration[4].</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">NASA is contracting the re-entry mission now – however its containment system doesn’t quarantine or sterilize the soil</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Aurora Flight Sciences 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [“Aurora Flight Sciences Wins NASA Contract for a Mars Orbiting Sample Retrieval External Orbit Capture (MOSR/EXOCAP)”, March 21st, 2011, http://www.aurora.aero/Communications/Item.aspx?id=apr-270, Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Cambridge, MA, March 21, 2011 – The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) has awarded Aurora Flight …..for later this decade.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should construct a lunar scientific outpost using the DIRECT launch mechanism.</span>**


**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Advantage 1 is Mars Sample Return</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The current plan for MSR return is a Catcher's Mitt strategy to crash land the vehicle – risking planetary contamination</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">DiGregorio 1</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Barry E. DiGregorio is a research associate of the Cardiff Centre for Astrobiology in Wales and is the founder and executive director for the International Committee Against Mars Sample Return. “The Quarantine And Certification Of Martian Samples”, May 31st, 2001, http://www.spacedaily.com/news/mars-life-01g.html, Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">NASA's sole contender ……things can and do go wrong.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Mars samples are way too dangerous to feel safe – they must be quarantined and analyzed for potential microbial life and diseases</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">DiGregorio 1</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Barry E. DiGregorio is a research associate of the Cardiff Centre for Astrobiology in Wales and is the founder and executive director for the International Committee Against Mars Sample Return. “The dilemma of Mars sample return”, June 2001, http://pubs.acs.org/subscribe/journals/ci/31/special/digreg/08digregorio.html, Chetan]</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Several other notable scientists …..whether life ever arose on Mars.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The impact is the wipe-out of Earth – we have no defenses against potential space microbes</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Butler 7</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Jeb, “Unearthly Microbes and the Laws Designed to Resist Them” - 41 Ga. L. Rev. 1355, Summer 2007 (lexis), Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">a. Back Contamination…….a second exposure could prove deadly.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">AND - The MSR spacecraft will be powered by RTGs – re-entry accident or crash landing risks the death of millions</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Rodrigue 2</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Christine M. Rodrigue - Professor and Chair Department of Geography California State University, “Emerging Risk Assessment and Management Controversies in the Mars Sample Return”, July 2002, http://www.csulb.edu/~rodrigue/bldrmars.html, Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">For a number of years, I have investigated ….. and Nuclear Power in Space (no date).</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A lunar quarantine facility solves</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">DiGregorio 6</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Barry E. DiGregorio is a research associate of the Cardiff Centre for Astrobiology in Wales and is the founder and executive director for the International Committee Against Mars Sample Return. “A Planetary Quarantine Laboratory On The Moon” (pg. 9), Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In consideration of all …..to the Moon.</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Advantage 2 is Lunar Science</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Global warming is real and undeniable, isolated incidents of cold spells don’t speak to the trend of climate change</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Jones 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Jenny, Administration of Air and Water Resource and Solid Waste Management Programs, “NOAA Offers Extensive Proof of Global Warming”, Civil Engineering (08857024); Sep2010, Vol. 80 Issue 9, p36-36, 1p, Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Global warming is undeniable…… following a 30-year trend.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Two internal links -</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">First, studying lunar regolith allows us to read ‘the solar record’ – letting us understand how climate change happens on Earth and what impact the Sun has on global warming</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Spudis 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Paul Spudis is a Senior Scientist at the Lunar and Planetary Institute, has a Masters Degree from Brown Univeristy in Planetary Geology. “The Moon’s Role in Climate Science”, March 22nd, 2011, http://blogs.airspacemag.com/moon/2011/03/the-moons-role-in-climate-science/, Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A recent article about the role…… waits for us on the Moon.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">AND – the Moon is the perfect laboratory for isolating the solar effect on terrestrial warming – predicting future climate change necessitiates an understanding of solar radiation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Huang and Pollack 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Shaopeng and Henry N. - Department of Geological Sciences, University of Michigan, “The Moon - A Witness to the Anthropogenic Effect of Global Warming on Earth”, July 23rd, 2010, http://www.geo.lsa.umich.edu/~shaopeng/msgc01-poster.pdf, Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">It is widely believed ……temperature versus depth.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Second, a climate observatory on the Moon gives us the observation angle to compare solar and terrestrial radiation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Huang 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Shaopeng - Department of Geological Sciences, University of Michigan, “Surface temperatures at the nearside of the Moon as a record of the radiation budget of Earth’s climate system”, Advances in Space Research Volume 41, Issue 11, 2008, Pages 1853-1860, Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Understanding the balance between ……of terrestrial climate change.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">These views of the Earth are critical to useful climate models</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Schmitt 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Dr. Harrison Schmitt is a former astronaut. He received a bachelor of science degree in science from the California Institute of Technology, a doctorate in geology from Harvard University and was the project chief at the U.S. Geological Survey's Astrogeology Center for lunar field geological methods and participated in photo and telescopic mapping of the Moon. “Observations Necessary for Useful Global Climate Models” – White Paper submitted to NASA, http://www.lpi.usra.edu/decadal/leag/DecadalClimate.pdf, Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Critical differences exist between scientists ……whether warming or cooling.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">AND - Cap and trade legislation is inevitable – changing attitudes toward climate change</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Murray 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [James, “Despite Senate defeat, US cap-and-trade hailed as "inevitable"”, June 9th, 2008,http://www.businessgreen.com/bg/news/1802154/despite-senate-defeat-us-cap-trade-hailed-inevitable, Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The bill was defeated …..pollution is inevitable."</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">However, an incomplete understanding of warming, lack of assessment data and accurate models are hurting its chances</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Lewis et al. 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf, Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Climate change is a global problem….respond to the climate</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Cap and trade is by and large the most effective way to cap emissions and solve warming</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Pew 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [The Pew Center on Global Climate Change is a non-profit, non-partisan, independent organization dedicated to providing credible information, straight answers, and innovative solutions in the effort to address global climate change. “Climate Change 101 Cap and Trade”, January 2009, http://www.pewclimate.org/docUploads/Climate101-CapTrade-Jan09.pdf, Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Cap-and-trade……GHG reduction program.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Data is key – US is essential for global climate consensus</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Lewis et al. 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [James A., Director and Senior Fellow, Technology and Public Policy Program – CSIS, Sarah O. Ladislaw, Senior Fellow, Energy and National Security Program – CSIS, Denise E. Zheng, Congressional Staffer - Salary Data, “Earth Observation for Climate Change,” June, http://csis.org/files/publication/100608_Lewis_EarthObservation_WEB.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Slowly, painfully, we are developing……rumored and uncertain landmarks.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Warming is the most likely scenario for extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Deibel 7</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Terry L. Professor of IR @ National War College, 2007. “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Finally, there is one major existential threat…..but potentially to the continued existence of life on this planet.</span>


**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Contention 2 is Solvency</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">DIRECT’s utilization of Shuttle infrastructure reduces launch time, requires only two launches, and will have humans on the Moon within the decade</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Seedhouse 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Erik Seedhouse is an aerospace scientist. He gained his Ph.D. in Physiology while working at the German Space Agency's Institute for Space Medicine in Cologne between 1996 and 1998 and recently worked as an astronaut training consultant for Bigelow Aerospace in Las Vegas. He is a Fellow of the British Interplanetary Society and a member of the Aerospace Medical Association. “Lunar Outpost – the Challenges of Establishing a Human Settlement on the Moon” (pg. 234), Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">DIRECT architecture advantages …..being even further delayed.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Jupiter launch systems have more than enough launch capacity for a lunar base</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Seedhouse 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Erik Seedhouse is an aerospace scientist. He gained his Ph.D. in Physiology while working at the German Space Agency's Institute for Space Medicine in Cologne between 1996 and 1998 and recently worked as an astronaut training consultant for Bigelow Aerospace in Las Vegas. He is a Fellow of the British Interplanetary Society and a member of the Aerospace Medical Association. “Lunar Outpost – the Challenges of Establishing a Human Settlement on the Moon” (221-222), Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Jupiter 120 and Jupiter 232 …….IMLEO requirement by 40 tonnes!</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Lunar base in the South Pole is optimal – resolves most issues with human settlement</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Seedhouse 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Erik Seedhouse is an aerospace scientist. He gained his Ph.D. in Physiology while working at the German Space Agency's Institute for Space Medicine in Cologne between 1996 and 1998 and recently worked as an astronaut training consultant for Bigelow Aerospace in Las Vegas. He is a Fellow of the British Interplanetary Society and a member of the Aerospace Medical Association. “Lunar Outpost – the Challenges of Establishing a Human Settlement on the Moon” (124-125), Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The site of NASA's outpost…..recent radar data.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Lastly, policy analysis should precede discourse—it’s the most effective way to challenge power.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Jill **Taft-Kaufman 95**, Professor in the Department of Speech Communication And Dramatic Arts at Central Michigan University, 1995 (“Other ways: Postmodernism and performance praxis,” The Southern Communication Journal, Volume 60, Issue 3, Spring)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">If the lack of consistency…..the budgets that fuel them.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Michigan Plan Text</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should use the DIRECT launch mechanism to construct a lunar scientific outpost which includes a quarantine facility which will receive any future Mars sample return missions.</span>**

===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">2AC - Politics Link Turns</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Congressional support overwhelms opposition to spending</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Raju and Bresnahan, 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (4/20/11, Manu Raju and John Bresnahan, Politico, “Shooting for the moon amid cuts,” http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0411/53495.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">For all the rhetoric about cutting government spending, NASA’s space mission remains sacred in Congress….. NASA no longer was on the same page.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Turn – the public is terrified of a Mars sample mission</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Joyce et al 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Sarah Joyce, Chantal Ferguson, Philip Weinstein</span> <span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif; font-size: 10pt;">∗</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> School of Population Health, University of Western Australia, “ Public support for Mars missions: The importance of informing the next generation”, Acta Astronautica; Apr2009, Vol. 64 Issue 7/8, p718-723, 6p, Chetan]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">MSR = Mars Sample Return</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">3.4. Concerns regarding MSR Respondents …..to protect Earth (56.9% vs. 48.7%; p = 0.000).</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Public unpopularity cripples the agenda and outweighs popularity</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Edwards 97</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [George C. Texas A&M Polisci Prof, Congress and the Presidency, Volume 25, number 2, pg 121]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Widespread support should….. he loses crucial “leeway.”</span>


==Planetary Defense Aff== 

===1AC - Emory=== 
**Contention 1: Things that don’t cause extinction**

**No nuclear winter- this evidence assumes Robock’s new models**
**Seitz 6** - <span style="font-size: 10pt;">former associate of the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard University’s Center for International Affairs (Russell, “The' Nuclear Winter ' Meltdown Photoshopping the Apocalypse”, http://adamant.typepad.com/seitz/2006/12/preherein_honor.html)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">All that remains of Sagan's ….. for so long?</span>

**Nuclear winter theory is empirically wrong and based on KGB disinformation**
**Earley 11** (Pete, From Interviews with former KGB/SVR agent Sergei Tretyakov, Comrade J: the untold secrets of Russia’s master spy in America after the end of the Cold War, p. 177 GAL)

Sagan never backed down. …. believed was true."


**Climate change, disease, nuclear war, ozone depletion and other things don’t cause extinction.**
**Muehlhauser 11** (Luke, - Researcher at Singularity Institute, “Potential Causes of Total Human Extinction in the Next 200 Years”, 3/20/11 http://commonsenseatheism.com/?p=14936 Accessed 1/26/11 GAL)

Non-Prospects for Total Human Extinction …. facilities and military bunkers.


**Technological innovation and the democratic peace mitigate war, genocide, and climate change.**
**Peiser 7** (Benny, Social Anthropologist at Liverpool John Moores University, UK and scientific adviser to the Lifeboat Foundation, November 15, “Existential Risk and Democratic Peace”, http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/science/nature/7081804.stm Accessed 1/26/12 GAL)

Doomsday argument …. hitherto stage of history.

**Contention 2: Things that do cause extinction**

**Scenario 1 is Near-Earth Objects**

**First, high risk of a strike - new research and history prove strikes happen often and a planet killer could come at any time**
**Easterbrook 8** (Gregg, fellow at Brookings, June, the Atlantic Magazine, “The Sky is Falling”, http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2008/06/the-sky-is-falling/6807/2/, 12-10-11, SRF)

Breakthrough ideas have … is riding on the plane.”

**NEO strike causes extinction**
**McGuire 2** (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 159-168)

The Tunguska events pale into insignificance … comet heading in our direction.


**Fortunately, detection is improving—we’ll discover thousands of potentially hazardous NEOs**
**Jones 8** (Thomas, fellow at the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, “Asteroiddeflection: Planning for the inevitable,” Aerospace America, October, lexis)

AS NASA's Spaceguard Survey … surrounding most impact calculations.


**However, NASA’s tight budget means we have no deflection strategy now**
**Friend 11** [Tad – Department of Cosmic Debris, “Vermin of the Sky; Who will keep the planet safe from asteroids?”, The New Yorker, Lexis, Chetan]

NASA, for its part, is … regressed to being worse than the sixties."


**Scenario 2 is Invasion**

**Earth is in range of hundreds of thousands of intelligent civilizations- conservative inputs to the Drake equation suggest we should be visited at least once every human’s lifetime. We haven’t been attacked yet because humans have only been detectable for about 100 years.**
**Taylor and Boan et al 11** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth, pg. 16-21 ]</span>

We have produced electromagnetic spectra … broken down into a bar graph formal.


**AND - They are more likely to be hostile than friendly**
**Taylor and Boan et al 11** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth, pg. 108-110] edited for gendered language</span>

Before we address intentions it is …assuming the world governments are not doing so).


**Hostile contact would wipeout our civilization - they would be far more technologically advanced**
**Baum et al 11** - Seth D. Baum, Department of Geography, Pennsylvania State University, Jacob D. Haqq-Misra, . Department of Meteorology, Pennsylvania State University & Shawn D. Domagal-Goldman, NASA Planetary Science Division, “Would Contact with Extraterrestrials Benefit or Harm Humanity? A Scenario Analysis”, Acta Astronautica, 2011, 68(11-12): 2114-2129, Somya

If contact between humans and ETI … help solve many of our problems.



<span style="color: #000000;">**__Plan:__ The United States federal government should covertly develop planetary defense capabilities beyond the Earth's mesosphere, including development of advanced in-space propulsion technologies.**</span>


**The most serious deficiency in planetary defense capabilities is lack of propulsion development - only the plan solves**
**Taylor and Boan et al 11** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth, pg. 159-161] edited for gendered language</span>

The Most Serious Deficiency in …limited by sensor and computer technology. .


**Plan solves- secret efforts to develop nuclear thermal propulsion are essential to planetary defense**
**Taylor and Boan et al 11** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth, pg. 161-164]</span>

Breakthrough Physics Propulsion In … large untouchable budget to fuel those efforts.

**NTR propulsion is the only way to deflect a large asteroid**
**Zhang et al 11** - X-L Zhang, E Ball, C Granier, L Kochmanski and S D Howe - Centre for Space Nuclear Research, Idaho National Laboratory, “Near-Earth Object Interception Using Nuclear Thermal Rocket Propulsion”, Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Part G: Journal of Aerospace Engineering 2011 225: 181, Somya

Selecting the optimal thrust … circumstances should apply to many NEO hazard scenarios.

**Must act now to solve extinction- and, even if the invasion never occurs, the plan solves all other impacts.**
**Taylor and Boan et al 11** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth, pg. 185-186]</span>

As far as why there is a need … our options more seriously.


**Development of in-space propulsion is critical to solve both planetary invasion and NEOs**
**Taylor and Boan et al 11** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth, pg. 95 - 96]</span>

•There are Many Technologies … to support the costs for two separate sets of weapons.


**Secret unilateral action by the United States to promote space development is key- we have the best military, and multilateral or public efforts would become politicized and fail.**
**Taylor and Boan et al 11** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth, pg. 139 – 145]</span>

We must prepare as a nation. ... longevity of the human race.


===1AC - Harvard=== 

__**Contention 1: Things that don’t cause extinction**__

**No nuclear winter- this evidence assumes Robock’s new models**
**Seitz 6** - <span style="font-size: 10pt;">former associate of the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard University’s Center for International Affairs (Russell, “The' Nuclear Winter ' Meltdown Photoshopping the Apocalypse”, http://adamant.typepad.com/seitz/2006/12/preherein_honor.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">All that remains of Sagan's ….. for so long?</span>


**Climate change, disease, nuclear war, ozone depletion and other things don’t cause extinction.**
**Muehlhauser 11** (Luke, - Researcher at Singularity Institute, “Potential Causes of Total Human Extinction in the Next 200 Years”, 3/20/11 http://commonsenseatheism.com/?p=14936 Accessed 1/26/11 GAL)

Non-Prospects for Total Human Extinction …. facilities and military bunkers.


**Technological innovation and the democratic peace mitigate war, genocide, and climate change.**
**Peiser 7** (Benny, Social Anthropologist at Liverpool John Moores University, UK and scientific adviser to the Lifeboat Foundation, November 15, “Existential Risk and Democratic Peace”, http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/science/nature/7081804.stm Accessed 1/26/12 GAL)

Doomsday argument …. hitherto stage of history.

**No nuclear war - UN peacekeeping and psychological shift make nuclear war extremely unlikely**
**Contreras 12** [Dominic, "Winning the War on War?." News, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Harvard Kennedy School, February1,2012,http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/21707/winning_the_war_on_war.html?breadcrumb=%2Fproject%2F52%2Fintrastate_conflict_program, Somya]

Moderated by Harvard University Distinguished …. bear out the hopeful view.


<span style="color: #000000;">**__Plan:__ The President of the United States should covertly develop planetary defense capabilities beyond the Earth's mesosphere, including development of advanced in-space propulsion technologies.**</span>


__**Contention 2: Things that do cause extinction**__

<span style="color: #ff0000;">**Scenario 1 is Near-Earth Objects**</span>

**First, high risk of a strike - new research and history prove strikes happen often and a planet killer could come at any time**
**Easterbrook 8** (Gregg, fellow at Brookings, June, the Atlantic Magazine, “The Sky is Falling”, http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2008/06/the-sky-is-falling/6807/2/, 12-10-11, SRF)

Breakthrough ideas have … is riding on the plane.”

**NEO strike causes extinction**
**McGuire 2** (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 159-168)

The Tunguska events pale into insignificance … comet heading in our direction.


**Fortunately, detection is improving—we’ll discover thousands of potentially hazardous NEOs**
**Jones 8** (Thomas, fellow at the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, “Asteroiddeflection: Planning for the inevitable,” Aerospace America, October, lexis)

AS NASA's Spaceguard Survey … surrounding most impact calculations.


**However, NASA’s tight budget means we have no deflection strategy now**
**Friend 11** [Tad – Department of Cosmic Debris, “Vermin of the Sky; Who will keep the planet safe from asteroids?”, The New Yorker, Lexis, Chetan]

NASA, for its part, is … regressed to being worse than the sixties."



**NTR propulsion is the only way to deflect a large asteroid**
**Zhang et al 11** - X-L Zhang, E Ball, C Granier, L Kochmanski and S D Howe - Centre for Space Nuclear Research, Idaho National Laboratory, “Near-Earth Object Interception Using Nuclear Thermal Rocket Propulsion”, Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Part G: Journal of Aerospace Engineering 2011 225: 181, Somya

Selecting the optimal thrust … circumstances should apply to many NEO hazard scenarios.

<span style="color: #ff0000;">**Scenario 2 is Invasion**</span>

**Extraterrestrial intelligent life exists – the Drake Equation predicts at least 10,000 other civilizations, and that’s an underestimate.**
**<span style="color: #000000;">Nadis</span> 10** - Steve Nadis – Editor for Astronomy Magazine, former staff researcher for the Union of Concerned Scientists, Nadis has also been a research fellow at MIT and a consultant to the World Resources Institute, the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, and WGBH/NOVA, Astronomy; Apr2010, Vol. 38 Issue 4, , “How many civilizations lurk in the cosmos? (cover story),” p24-29, EBSCO, Somya

To serve as an agenda, Drake devised an equation ….. before finding anything.

**Conservative inputs to the Drake equation suggest we should be visited at least once every human’s lifetime. We haven’t been attacked yet because humans have only been detectable for about 100 years.**
**Taylor and Boan et al 11** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth, pg. 16-21 ]</span>

We have produced electromagnetic spectra … broken down into a bar graph formal.


**AND - They are more likely to be hostile than friendly**
**Taylor and Boan et al 11** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth, pg. 108-110] edited for gendered language</span>

Before we address intentions it is …assuming the world governments are not doing so).


**Hostile contact would wipeout our civilization - they would be far more technologically advanced**
**Baum et al 11** - Seth D. Baum, Department of Geography, Pennsylvania State University, Jacob D. Haqq-Misra, . Department of Meteorology, Pennsylvania State University & Shawn D. Domagal-Goldman, NASA Planetary Science Division, “Would Contact with Extraterrestrials Benefit or Harm Humanity? A Scenario Analysis”, Acta Astronautica, 2011, 68(11-12): 2114-2129, Somya

If contact between humans and ETI … help solve many of our problems.


**Reducing existential risk by even a tiny amount outweighs every other impact — the math is conclusively on our side.**
**Bostrom 11** - Nick Bostrom, Professor in the Faculty of Philosophy & Oxford Martin School, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute, and Director of the Programme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, recipient of the 2009 Eugene R. Gannon Award for the Continued Pursuit of Human Advancement, holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from the London School of Economics, 2011 (“The Concept of Existential Risk,” Draft of a Paper published on ExistentialRisk.com, Available Online at http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.htm)

Holding probability constant, risks become more serious ….benefit of such an action.[13]


__**Contention 3 is Solvency**__

**The most serious deficiency in planetary defense capabilities is lack of propulsion development - only the plan solves**
**Taylor and Boan et al 11** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth, pg. 159-161] edited for gendered language</span>

The Most Serious Deficiency in …limited by sensor and computer technology. .


**Plan solves- secret efforts to develop nuclear thermal propulsion are essential to planetary defense**
**Taylor and Boan et al 11** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth, pg. 161-164]</span>

Breakthrough Physics Propulsion In … large untouchable budget to fuel those efforts.


**Must act now to solve extinction- and, even if the invasion never occurs, the plan solves all other impacts.**
**Taylor and Boan et al 11** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth, pg. 185-186]</span>

As far as why there is a need … our options more seriously.


**Secret unilateral action by the United States to promote space development is key- we have the best military, and multilateral or public efforts would become politicized and fail.**
**Taylor and Boan et al 11** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth, pg. 139 – 145]</span>

We must prepare as a nation. ... longevity of the human race.


**The president has the authority to do the plan**
**Taylor and Boan et al 11** <span style="font-size: 9px;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth, pg. 147-148]</span>
***DSC = director Sixth Column

Of course the DSC should have deputies … the Sixth Column’s birth.


===1AC - Varsity States (New Plan Text)=== 

__**Contention 1: Things that don’t cause extinction**__

**No nuclear winter- this evidence assumes Robock’s new models**
**Seitz 6** - <span style="font-size: 10pt;">former associate of the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard University’s Center for International Affairs (Russell, “The' Nuclear Winter ' Meltdown Photoshopping the Apocalypse”, http://adamant.typepad.com/seitz/2006/12/preherein_honor.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">All that remains of Sagan's ….. for so long?</span>


**Climate change, disease, nuclear war, ozone depletion and other things don’t cause extinction.**
**Muehlhauser 11** (Luke, - Researcher at Singularity Institute, “Potential Causes of Total Human Extinction in the Next 200 Years”, 3/20/11 http://commonsenseatheism.com/?p=14936 Accessed 1/26/11 GAL)

Non-Prospects for Total Human Extinction …. facilities and military bunkers.


**Technological innovation and the democratic peace mitigate war, genocide, and climate change.**
**Peiser 7** (Benny, Social Anthropologist at Liverpool John Moores University, UK and scientific adviser to the Lifeboat Foundation, November 15, “Existential Risk and Democratic Peace”, http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/science/nature/7081804.stm Accessed 1/26/12 GAL)

Doomsday argument …. hitherto stage of history.

**No nuclear war - UN peacekeeping and psychological shift make nuclear war extremely unlikely**
**Contreras 12** [Dominic, "Winning the War on War?." News, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Harvard Kennedy School, February1,2012,http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/21707/winning_the_war_on_war.html?breadcrumb=%2Fproject%2F52%2Fintrastate_conflict_program, Somya]

Moderated by Harvard University Distinguished …. bear out the hopeful view.


<span style="color: #000000;">**Plan: The President of the United States should covertly develop planetary defense capabilities beyond the Earth's mesosphere, including development of advanced in-space propulsion and signal-intelligence technology**</span>



__**Contention 2: Things that do cause extinction**__

<span style="color: #ff0000;">**Scenario 1 is Near-Earth Objects**</span>

**First, high risk of a strike - new research and history prove strikes happen often and a planet killer could come at any time**
**Easterbrook 8** (Gregg, fellow at Brookings, June, the Atlantic Magazine, “The Sky is Falling”, http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2008/06/the-sky-is-falling/6807/2/, 12-10-11, SRF)

Breakthrough ideas have … is riding on the plane.”

**NEO strike causes extinction**
**McGuire 2** (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 159-168)

The Tunguska events pale into insignificance … comet heading in our direction.


**Fortunately, detection is improving—we’ll discover thousands of potentially hazardous NEOs**
**Jones 8** (Thomas, fellow at the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, “Asteroiddeflection: Planning for the inevitable,” Aerospace America, October, lexis)

AS NASA's Spaceguard Survey … surrounding most impact calculations.


**However, NASA’s tight budget means we have no deflection strategy now**
**Friend 11** [Tad – Department of Cosmic Debris, “Vermin of the Sky; Who will keep the planet safe from asteroids?”, The New Yorker, Lexis, Chetan]

NASA, for its part, is … regressed to being worse than the sixties."



**NTR propulsion is the only way to deflect a large asteroid**
**Zhang et al 11** - X-L Zhang, E Ball, C Granier, L Kochmanski and S D Howe - Centre for Space Nuclear Research, Idaho National Laboratory, “Near-Earth Object Interception Using Nuclear Thermal Rocket Propulsion”, Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Part G: Journal of Aerospace Engineering 2011 225: 181, Somya

Selecting the optimal thrust … circumstances should apply to many NEO hazard scenarios.

<span style="color: #ff0000;">**Scenario 2 is Invasion**</span>

**Extraterrestrial intelligent life exists – the Drake Equation predicts at least 10,000 other civilizations, and that’s an underestimate.**
**Nadis 10** - Steve Nadis – Editor for Astronomy Magazine, former staff researcher for the Union of Concerned Scientists, Nadis has also been a research fellow at MIT and a consultant to the World Resources Institute, the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, and WGBH/NOVA, Astronomy; Apr2010, Vol. 38 Issue 4, , “How many civilizations lurk in the cosmos? (cover story),” p24-29, EBSCO, Somya

To serve as an agenda, Drake devised an equation ….. before finding anything.

**Conservative inputs to the Drake equation suggest we should be visited at least once every human’s lifetime. We haven’t been attacked yet because humans have only been detectable for about 100 years.**
**Taylor and Boan et al 11** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth, pg. 16-21 ]</span>

We have produced electromagnetic spectra … broken down into a bar graph formal.


**AND - They are more likely to be hostile than friendly**
**Taylor and Boan et al 11** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth, pg. 108-110] edited for gendered language</span>

Before we address intentions it is …assuming the world governments are not doing so).


**Hostile contact would wipeout our civilization - they would be far more technologically advanced**
**Baum et al 11** - Seth D. Baum, Department of Geography, Pennsylvania State University, Jacob D. Haqq-Misra, . Department of Meteorology, Pennsylvania State University & Shawn D. Domagal-Goldman, NASA Planetary Science Division, “Would Contact with Extraterrestrials Benefit or Harm Humanity? A Scenario Analysis”, Acta Astronautica, 2011, 68(11-12): 2114-2129, Somya

If contact between humans and ETI … help solve many of our problems.


**Reducing existential risk by even a tiny amount outweighs every other impact — the math is conclusively on our side.**
**Bostrom 11** - Nick Bostrom, Professor in the Faculty of Philosophy & Oxford Martin School, Director of the Future of Humanity Institute, and Director of the Programme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, recipient of the 2009 Eugene R. Gannon Award for the Continued Pursuit of Human Advancement, holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from the London School of Economics, 2011 (“The Concept of Existential Risk,” Draft of a Paper published on ExistentialRisk.com, Available Online at http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.htm)

Holding probability constant, risks become more serious ….benefit of such an action.[13]


__**Contention 3 is Solvency**__

**The most serious deficiency in planetary defense capabilities is lack of propulsion development - only the plan solves**
**Taylor and Boan et al 11** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth, pg. 159-161] edited for gendered language</span>

The Most Serious Deficiency in …limited by sensor and computer technology. .


**An increase in signal intelligence capabilities is essential to preparing our defenses when ETs arrive**
**Taylor and Boan et al 11** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth, pg. 163-171] </span>

We need to collect intelligence to the extent possible about ET. … downlinks of other satellites.



**Must act now to solve extinction- and, even if the invasion never occurs, the plan solves all other impacts.**
**Taylor and Boan et al 11** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth, pg. 185-186]</span>

As far as why there is a need … our options more seriously.


**Secret unilateral action by the United States to promote space development is key- we have the best military, and multilateral or public efforts would become politicized and fail.**
**Taylor and Boan et al 11** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth, pg. 139 – 145]</span>

We must prepare as a nation. ... longevity of the human race.


**The president has the authority to do the plan**
**Taylor and Boan et al 11** <span style="font-size: 9px;">[Dr. Travis S., PhD in Optical Science and Engineering, and has Masters degrees in both Physics and Aerospace Engineering all from U Alabama-Huntsville, Masters degree in Astronomy from U of Western Sydney, and a Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering from Auburn University. Has worked for the DoD and NASA for 16 years on advanced propulsion, space telescopes, space beamed energy systems, future combat technologies and systems, and next generation space launch concepts. Dr. Bob Boan, PhD from the Florida Institute of Technology, has worked on a variety of staffed/unstaffed space programs over the past 25 years, expert on SIGINT, IMINT, and Communication systems and concepts and also has significant MASINT experience. Other contributing authors: Charles R. Anding, engineer for many Spacelab missions, has designed electronics and systems for space, military, industrial, and medical products and Dr. Thomas Conley Powell, PhD in mechanical engineering from UKy, Senior scientist with BAE systems in Huntsville, former faculty member at the Space Institute, June 2011, Alien Invasion: How to Defend Earth, pg. 147-148]</span>
***DSC = director Sixth Column

Of course the DSC should have deputies … the Sixth Column’s birth.

===Johns Creek Policy on Access to Taylor and Boan Cards=== 
this is from our coach geoff lundeen, if you have any questions about it you can email him at lundeeng@gmail.com

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">"The Taylor and Boan 2011 book is available as an ebook at this site: <span style="color: #2a5db0;">[[@http://www.baen.com/author_catalog.asp?author=bboan]]</span></span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">If you would prefer not to pay for it, I recommend trying to inter-library loan a copy of the 2006 version (An Introduction to Planetary Defense), which aside from a few updates is almost exactly the same book.</span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">You might also be able to find a cheap used copy of either version on Amazon."</span>//

=***Negative= 

==<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 17pt;">Social Justice Disad</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">1NC</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Funding for the plan is an unjust use of resources. The affirmative’s choice to fund space programs trades off directly with funding for social services – leaving those homeless and starved helpless</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Yost 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Keith Yost, staff columnist for The Tech, MIT's oldest and largest newspaper published by the undergraduate and graduate students of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 2010 (“Point: Spaceman, go home. The U.S. should reduce spending on space exploration,” Published on April 9, 2010 (Volume 130, Issue 18) Available Online at <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://tech.mit.edu/V130/N18/nasap.html]]</span></span>]

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The White House has announced plans to host a conference in Florida on April 15….. planting flags on planets</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This failure of prioritization creates social alienation, a limiting of political solutions and options, and the possibility of total annihilation—we need to focus on social safety nets, or extinction is inevitable. Every instance of resistance is key.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Duarte 5</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Andre, Prof of Philosophy at Universidade Federal do Parana Curitiba, Brazil. “Biolopitics and the dissemination of violence: the Arendtian critique of the present.” <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.hannaharendt.net/research/biopolitics.html]]</span></span>]

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Towards the notion of biopolitics in Arendt’s thought… of extending hospitality and solidarity towards others.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">2NC - Social Justice</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ensuring that every human has the bare necessities is the biggest moral question – must be a prerequisite</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Pogge 02</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Thomas Pogge, Leitner Professor of Philosophy and International Affairs at Yale University, World Poverty and Human Rights, November 2002, pages 50-51, MC</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Acceptance of such a universal… preeminent moral task of our age.</span>




==<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 17pt;">Ozone Disad</span>== 

===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">1NC</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Increased rocket launches crush the ozone – the status quo is sustainable</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ross et. al. 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Martin – environmental Systems Directorate @ Aerospace, Ph.D. @ UCLA in Earth and planetary sciences, Darin Toohey, Manfred Peinemann and Patrick Ross, January, http://www.makealeap.org/node/41204) JPG</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The global market for rocket launches ……could become significant.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ozone depletion means extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Festive Earth Society, 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (February 26, “The Ozone Layer,” http://festiveearth.com/content/view/96/54/index.html, JM)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The ozone layer is essential for human life. …….allows life, as we know it, to exist</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">2NC - Turns Case</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Mass ozone depletion turns the case – leads to a ban on space travel</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Foust 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – Editor of Space Review Jeff Foust, editor and publisher of The Space Review, 6-15-2009, “Space and (or versus) the environment,” The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1395/1</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In an op-ed in last week’s issue of Space News……restrictive regulation is high.”</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ozone depletion leads to regulations that collapse the space industry – turn the affirmative</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Page 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Lewis Page, Register Space Staff, 4-1-2009, “Space launches could be capped to save ozone layer,” The Register, pg. A6</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Toohey's co-authors ………how different rocket types affect the ozone layer."</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">2NC - Food Impact</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">UV damages crop yield threatening global food supply</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) June 23, 2011,</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Ozone - Good Up High Bad Nearby, http://www.epa.gov/oar/oaqps/gooduphigh/good.html#4</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ozone depletion …….supplies from the oceans.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Famine kills half the Earth</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Brown 05</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Founder and President Earth Policy Institute (Lester R.;) 2/7 "Falling Water Tables 'could hit food supply'" http://www.peopleandplanet.net/doc.php?id=2424§ion=3]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Many Americans see terrorism …….is the overriding concern.</span>




===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">2NC - Uniqueness</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Current launch rates wont affect the ozone – the plan pushes emissionsover the brink and kills the ozone</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ross et. al. 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Martin – environmental Systems Directorate @ Aerospace, Ph.D. @ UCLA in Earth and planetary sciences, Darin Toohey, Manfred Peinemann and Patrick Ross, Volume 7, Issue 1 January 2009 , pages 50 – 82, informaworld) JPG</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Combustion emissions from rocket launches…… no rocket engine is perfectly “green” in this sense.</span>
===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">ORS Link</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Link magnifier- create additional space opportunities, increasing launches</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dubie, ’11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Brian, Vermont lieutenant governor and chair of the Aerospace States Association, “Importance of maintaining Affordable and Assured Space Power”, Aerosapce States Assocation, 4/3/2011, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[@http://aerostates.org/wp-content/uploads/Resolution_109-104.pdf]]</span></span>, LH)
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">WHEREAS, at a time….and the U.S. space workforce;</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Plan lowers launch costs</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Magnuson 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Stew Magnuson, staff writer. Air Force Embraces Small Satellites As Budget Outlook Grows Dim, National Defense. July 2011.NP.<span style="background-color: initial;">[[@http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/archive/2011/July/Pages/AirForceEmbracesSmallSatellitesAsBudgetOutlookGrowsDim.aspx]]</span></span> DM)

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">While operationally responsive space……according to industry publication Space News.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">NEO Link</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">All space-based survey telescopes need launches</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Griggs 09</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – CNN staff writer (12/14/09, CNN, NASA launches infrared telescope to scan entire sky, http://articles.cnn.com/2009-12-14/tech/wise.spacecraft.launch_1_wide-field-infrared-survey-explorer-galaxies-asteroids?_s=PM:TECH, EA]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">NASA launched a new…….of a booster steering engine.</span>

==Code of Conduct CP== 
===1NC - Shell=== 
**__Text:__ The United States federal government should initiate a strategic dialogue with the government of China where the United States will**
**- Explicitly ban further funding and development of __ (action of the plan)**

**- Remove all national missile defense systems around China**

**- Make China a partner in the International Space Station in exchange for Chinese agreement to negotiate a Code of Conduct over acceptable uses of outer space, including an agreement to not engage in intentional behavior to release space debris or other measures that contribute to the weaponization of space.**
**- And broaden this dialogue to other outer space parties and offer to negotiate a similar offer, and seek reciprocal, conditional verification agreements with all parties**


**Insecurity over US weaponization caused the ASAT test – the counterplan solves Chinese fears and prevents an arms race**
**Hagt 7** [Director of the China Program at the World Security Institute, Editor–In–Chief of China Security [Eric, China’s ASAT Test: Strategic Response, China Security, Winter]

In the past decade, China has … not only equitable but inevitable.
**Without a 100% signal that the US will not weaponize space, China cannot hope to see space as a sanctuary**
**Modinger 8** [John Hodgson Modinger - Centre for Military and Strategic Studies. “Hegemony over the Heavens: the Chinese and American Struggle in Space”, (pg. 293-294), Chetan]

Assume for a moment that, … feel compelled to launch.

=== === 


==<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 17pt;">Cap K</span>== 

===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">1NC</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The plan is a last ditch effort at averting crisis by making an ‘outer spatial fix’ to resolve the core contradictions of capitalism</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dickens 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Peter, Affiliated Lecturer in the Department of Sociology, Faculty of Politics, Psychology, Sociology and International Studies , University of Cambridge, "The Humanization of the Cosmos—To What End?," [https://monthlyreview.org/2010/11/01/the-humanization-of-the-cosmos-to-what-end] AD: 6-29-11, jam)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Cosmos: Capitalism’s New “Outside….. companies attempting to make their own cosmic “fixes.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The search for outer spatial fixes to capitalism causes Star Wars- whole societies will be obliterated</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dickens and Ormrod 7</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Peter, Affiliated Lecturer in the Department of Sociology, Faculty of Politics, Psychology, Sociology and International Studies , U of Cambridge, and J.S., Senior Lecturer of Applied Social Science @ U of Brighton, "Cosmic society: towards a sociology of the universe," book, p. 63-64, jam)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Outer spatial fixes: for war or peace? …….accumulation may be started.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Our alternative is to vote negative to refuse to participate in activities which support capitalism. We must hollow out capitalist structures by refusing to invest our energy in reforms and rescue operations</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Herod 2004</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (James, Getting Free, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://site.www.umb.edu/faculty/salzman_g/Strate/GetFre/06.htm]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">It is time to try to describe, at first abstractly and later concretely, a strategy for destroying capitalism…. possibly even to extinction.</span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 17pt;">Blindness K</span>== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Blind” metaphors always exploit and diminish the experiences of those who live it</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Gallagher ‘6</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Deborah, PhD – College of Education – UNI, “On Using Blindness as Metaphor and Difficult Questions: A Response to Ben-Moshe,” Disability Studies Quarterly, v26, #2, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.dsq-sds.org/article/view/690/867]]</span>]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Blindness cannot be used as a signifier…..the people who experience, blindness.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Voting Issue – Ableist Speech strengthens oppression and destroys the purposes of public debate – the impacts trump the other warrants in their arguments</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Wheelchair Dancer</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, 4/28/**8** (“On Making Argument: Disability and Language”, http://cripwheels.blogspot.com/2008/04/on-making-argument-disability-and.html Accessed: 2/10/11 GAL)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">If you are feeling a little bit of resistance….speak out in the first place.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">2NC - Rejection</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Preemptively, their censorship arguments and claims that language is a trivial concern are wrong- rejecting ableist speech has tremendous emancipatory potential</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Tremain 97</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Shelley, Book Review: The Rejected Body by Susan Wendell, Hypatia, Vol 12, No 2, Spring, p. 222-3 GAL)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">I take exception, nonetheless…..oppressive discursive practices.</span>


==<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 17pt;">Heg Bad</span>== 

===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Defense</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Heg doesn’t solve war</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Christopher **Preble 10** (director of foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute) August 2010 “U.S. Military Power: Preeminence for What Purpose?” <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/u-s-military-power-preeminence-for-what-purpose/]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Most in Washington still…..country pick up the tab.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">No relationship between US capabilities and peace</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Fettweis 10 –</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Professor of national security affairs @ U.S. Naval War College. [Christopher J. Fettweis, “Threat and Anxiety in US Foreign Policy,” Survival, Volume 52,</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Issue 2 April 2010 , pages 59 – 82//informaworld]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">One potential…… expenditure are unrelated.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Heg doesn’t solve war – US lacks influence</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Mastanduno 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Michael, Professor of Government at Dartmouth, World Politics 61, No. 1, Ebsco,)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">During the cold……getting its own way.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">1NC - Unsustainable</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Heg is unsustainable – rising powers, overstretch and loss of economic power</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Layne 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Christopher Layne is the Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University and Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute. “The unipolar exit: beyond the Pax Americana”, Cambridge Review of International Affairs, 24:2, 149-164, Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In this article I challenge Brooks and Wohlforth. …..the outlines of which already are visible.</span>


===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">2NC - Unsustainable</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">India and China are now overtaking US power – shift in economic growth</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Layne 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Christopher Layne is the Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University and Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute. “The unipolar exit: beyond the Pax Americana”, Cambridge Review of International Affairs, 24:2, 149-164 – June2011, Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">There is increasing ……Thompson 2009).</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">China’s economic influence and regional alliances ensure our foreign policy goals are obstructed</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Rachman 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Gideon, chief foreign-affairs commentator for the Financial Times and author of Zero-Sum Future: American Power in an Age of Anxiety. Foreign Policy, “ Think Again: American Decline,” <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/01/02/think_again_american_decline]]</span>, KHaze</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">"We've Heard All This About American Decline Before." …….That is just a taste of things to come.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Imperial overstretch drains resources and tanks international credibility – this over-extension makes heg decline impossible to overcome – these constraints empower rivals which exacerbates our overreach</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Layne 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Christopher Layne is the Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University and Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute. “The unipolar exit: beyond the Pax Americana”, Cambridge Review of International Affairs, 24:2, 149-164 – June2011, Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Today, the United States is saddled with the responsibility……This is the geopolitical reality which the United States likely will confront in the next two decades.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Economic decline SEVERLY handicaps US clout by destroying the power of the dollar and proving to other countries that the US is not capable of supporting the global economy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Layne 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Christopher Layne is the Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University and Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute. “The unipolar exit: beyond the Pax Americana”, Cambridge Review of International Affairs, 24:2, 149-164 – June2011, Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The meltdown’s real significance ….domestic political pressure to make steep cuts in defence spending is likely to increase.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The dollar’s vunerability sucks big time because China’s going to bail on it</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Layne 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Christopher Layne is the Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University and Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute. “The unipolar exit: beyond the Pax Americana”, Cambridge Review of International Affairs, 24:2, 149-164 – June2011, Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Concerns about the ……Wines 2010).</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Heg Bad - Terrorism</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Primacy inevitably results in more terror attacks against the US.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Christopher **Layne 7**, Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University and Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute, 2007["The Case Against the American Empire," American Empire: A Debate, Published by Routledge, ISBN 0415952034, p. 69-70]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Terrorism: ….like at Qaeda.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Morgan/Speice/Sid-Ahmed</span>



===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Heg Bad - Prolif</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">1. Primacy spurs proliferation among non-state and rogue state actors.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Steven Weber et al 07</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Professor of Political Science and Director of the Institute for International Studies at the University of California-Berkeley, et al., with Naazneen Barma, Matthew Kroenig, and Ely Ratner, Ph.D. Candidates at the University of California-Berkeley and Research Fellows at its New Era Foreign Policy Center, 2007 [“How Globalization Went Bad,” Foreign Policy, Issue 158, January/February, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Academic Search Premiere, p. 51-52]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The world is paying a heavy price …..it is fast becoming a necessity.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Utgoff</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">A2: Heg Solves</span>==== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Heg forces other nations to acquire nukes and undercuts US influence- turns case</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Maddock 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Shane J, PhD from the University of Connecticut in US history and teacher at Stonehill College, author of multiple books concerning American Foreign Relations, “Nuclear Apartheid”, The University of North Carolina Press, Print)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Throughout the nuclear age, the United States….. power in the international system.</span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">LSP Neg </span>== 

===Space Race Advantage=== 

**Japan won’t invest in LSP- they are already swimming in debt**
**Tucker 11** (Patrick, Senior Editor of The Futurist and director of communications for the World Future Society, http://www.wfs.org/content/solar-power-moon, April)

Hickman is curious about ….,” says Hickman.


**The plan costs 32 trillion to start with plus recurring annual costs of 13 trillion. That’s twice the entire GDP of the United States. This would triple US debt overnight. The plan will literally bankrupt the United States.**
**Rapp 7** (Donald, Research Professor @ Viterbi School of Engineering @ USC with 50 years of post-doctoral experience, PhD in Chemical Physics @ Berkeley, formerly employed at the NASA JPL in Pasadena, expert in requirements, architectures and transportation systems for space missions, with particular emphasis on impact of in situ resource utilization, “Solar Power Beamed from Space”, Astropolitics 5: 63-86 GAL)

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">[MATH: 1,000 billion = 1 trillion</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">22 trillion in 1995 dollars is 32.2 trillion in 2011</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">9 trillion 1995 dollars is 13.17 trillion in 2011</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Inflation calculations performed using http://www.dollartimes.com/calculators/inflation.htm]</span>


In order to produce one GW at Earth…. are unclear.



**Construction of LSP requires withdrawal from the OST- it violates the ban on national appropriation.**
**Tucker 11** (Patrick, Senior Editor of The Futurist and director of communications for the World Future Society, http://www.wfs.org/content/solar-power-moon, April)

John Hickman, a member …. its sovereign national territory.”




===Solvency=== 

**No Solvency- numerous barriers to in-situ production of lunar solar cells.**
**Rapp 7** (Donald, Research Professor @ Viterbi School of Engineering @ USC with 50 years of post-doctoral experience, PhD in Chemical Physics @ Berkeley, formerly employed at the NASA JPL in Pasadena, expert in requirements, architectures and transportation systems for space missions, with particular emphasis on impact of in situ resource utilization, “Solar Power Beamed from Space”, Astropolitics 5: 63-86 GAL)

Several references discuss …The practicality of this approach is uncertain.


**Even Criswell concedes- much more research needs to be done before LSP is ready, and the ISS doesn’t have the resources to do it.**
**Tucker 11** (Patrick, Senior Editor of The Futurist and director of communications for the World Future Society, http://www.wfs.org/content/solar-power-moon, April)

Criswell is a long-time advocate for using the Moon as a power station. … power production.”


**LSP fails– it’s mostly dark on the Moon**
**Peace Review 10** (Quarterly, multidisciplinary, transnational journal of research and analysis, focusing on the current issues and controversies that underlie the promotion of a more peaceful world, All review papers in this journal have undergone editorial screening and peer review., The New Arms Race in Outer Space (22.1, Spring 2010), http://www.scientainment.com/lwilliams_peacereview.pdf)

Although evidence of water … other two weeks.





<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 19pt;">***Strats</span></span>
==<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 17pt;">Wake Forest</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Round 2 - Neg vs Westminster (Asteroids)</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">1NC: Cap K, Ozone Disad, Social Justice Disad, ESA CP, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NC: Ozone Disad, Social Justice and Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">1NR: Cap</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NR: Launch Disad, Case</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Round 3 - Neg vs Cathedral Prep (JWST)</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">1NC: T-Human, Euclid CP, Social Justice, Ozone DA, Cap, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NC: Euclid, Social Justice, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">1NR: Ozone DA and Cap</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NR: Euclid CP, Case</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Round 6 - Neg vs River Hill (ORS)</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">1NC: T-Vagueness, Ozone Disad, Weaponization Disad, Cap K, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NC: Ozone and Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">1NR: Cap</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NR: Ozone and Case</span>