<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
=<span style="font-size: 1.6em;"> Plan Text</span>= 
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span class="Underline">**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase funding for Space Based Space Surveillance satellites.**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Advantage 1 is Transparency </span>__**</span></span>

**Space Based Surveillance Satellites will not be funded in the status quo – but it is key to observation**
**Fletcher 11** [Emmet Fletcher has been involved in flight dynamics, space situational awareness and satellite surveillance for the majority of his professional career. He is currently the manager of the Space Surveillance and Tracking segment of Europe’s Space Situational Awareness programme at the European Space Agency.] Reluctance to fund additional SBSS systems BY EMMET, ON FEBRUARY 20TH, 2011 http://www.emmetfletcher.com/blog/2011/02/20/reluctance-to-fund-additional-sbss-systems/
The US Pentagon ....... attenuation, no weather effects.


**Current verification methods fail**
**DeSutter 08** [Paula A. DeSutter has an extensive background in verification and a career focus on national security and intelligence. She served for over four years as a Professional Staff Member of the U.S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. Ms. DeSutter was professional staff liaison to Senator Jon Kyl and was responsible for legislation and oversight of intelligence collection, analysis, and activities related to proliferation, terrorism, arms control, the Persian Gulf States, India, Pakistan, China, and Afghanistan.] Is an Outer Space Arms Control Treaty Verifiable? By Paula A. DeSutter Assistant Secretary of State for Verification, Compliance, and Implementation http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/592.pdf

I am suggesting that __....__ latent or covert capability.

**Only SSA enforces cooperation and transparency in space**
**Shafran 2/24** (Maj. Stacie 14th Air Force Public Affairs; “JFCC-Space commander highlights need for improved space situational awareness;” Us Air Force; http://www.af.mil/news/story.asp?id=123244041
Delivering a speech at ..... of Israel can be proud."

**We will isolate 2 impacts –**
**1st is China**

**SSA forces Chinese transparency – key to broader relations – forces accountability**
**Delgado 2010**
Laura M., September 12, International Cooperation is Good, But China Presents Challenges, Conference Participants Conclude, http://www.spacepolicyonline.com/pages/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=1099:international-cooperation-is-good-but-china-presents-challenges-conference-participants-conclude&catid=99:news&Itemid=92

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bruce MacDonald, who </span>**__...at least translucent."__**

**Transparency key to relations and prevents war**
**Brown 09** Peter J Brown is a satellite journalist from Maine USA. (Copyright 2009 Asia Times Online (Holdings) Ltd. All rights reserved. Please contact us about sales, syndication and republishing.) [[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/KB04Ad02.html]]
In the first few ... __on the ground."__

**That war causes extinction: ASATs, EMP, and SSO destruction. Kills all satellites, causes space debris, and turns the economy**
**Weeden 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Brian. "How China "Wins" a Potential Space War." China Security. Vol. 4, No. 1 (Winter 2008): 134-147. [ 7 quotes ] </span>
__There is no reason ....__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> affect U.S. space power. </span>

**Economic Collapse Causes Nuclear War**
**Mandelbaum ‘5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor and Director of the American Foreign Policy Program at Johns Hopkins – 2005</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Michael, The Case for Goliath: How America Acts As the World’s Government in the Twenty-First Century, p. 224]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At best, an American......</span> __of nuclear weapons__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**2nd is Treaties:**

**Treaties are inevitable, but fail without verification**
**Kueter** **<span style="font-size: 9pt;">2</span>007**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Jeff, China’s Space Ambitions-And Ours, The New Atlantis Spring 2007, President of the George C. Marshall Institute, Masters in PoliSci and Security Policy/Science and Technology Studies, http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/chinas-space-ambitions-and-ours</span>
Another diplomatic tack ....... proof enough of that.)

**Only SSA verification resolves treaties**
**Baines and Cote 2009**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Phillip J. and Adam, Promising confidence- and security-building measures for space security [[http://www.unidir.org/pdf/articles/pdf-art2906.pdf]] Philip J. Baines is Deputy Director of the Non-proliferation and Disarmament Division at the Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade Canada. Adam Côté is a researcher in the same division and an MA candidate at the Norman Paterson School of International Affairs at Carleton University.</span>
__Verification and governance .......__ __in outer space.__

**Only SSA solves verification**
**Lewis ’11** – Senior Fellow and Director, Technology and Public Policy Program, Center for Strategic and International Studies (James A, “Engagement and Sustainability in the 2010 National Space Policy,” February, Vol. 7, Num. 2, <span style="color: black;">http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf</span>, RBW)
__Increased space situational ..........__ __could reinforce norms__.

**Only a space code of conduct solves the risks of weaponization and de-escalates the drive towards a space arms race**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Wright, 7</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> - co-director of the Global Security Program at the Union of Concerned Scientists (David, Boston Globe, “Protecting our future in space”, 10/3, [[http://www.boston.com/news/globe/editorial_opinion/oped/articles/2007/10/03/protecting_our_future_in_space/]])</span>

<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">So, in looking forward,.........</span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> security on Earth.</span>__

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Advantage 2 is Information</span>__**</span></span>

**Current Data System is unreliable- means we give faulty satellite information**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NSTAC 09 (</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The President’s National Aecurity Telecommunications Advisory Committee, “NSTAC Report to the President on Commercial Satellite Communications Misson Assurance,” November 2009, http://www.ncs.gov/nstac/reports/2009/NSTAC%20STF%20Report%20FINAL%2011302009.pdf)</span>
__Operators continuously and accurately .........__ <span style="color: black;">__appropriately skilled technicians.__</span>

**SSA solves deterrence by information**
**Harrison et al 9** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[“Space and Defense Scholarly Journal of the United States Air Force Academy Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Studies” Volume Three ▪ Number One ▪ Summer 2009 Eisenhower Center for Space and Defense Studies G. Harrison, Deron R. Jackson, and Collins G. Shackelford] http://web.mac.com/rharrison5/Eisenhower_Center_for_Space_and_Defense_Studies/Space_Deterrence_files/Space_and_Defense_3_1%20Space%20Deterrence.pdf</span>
__Deterrence depends upon ..........__ __their SSA capabilities.__

**Specifically, creates a credible U.S. nuclear deterrent**
**Morgan 10** [Forrest E. Morgan Senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation, //Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space A Preliminary Assessment,//Prepared for the United States Air Force 2010]
__While many options ..........__ __space deterrence regime__.

**Nuclear deterrence is key to hedge against transition wars and great power conflicts --- it creates a background of stability that facilitates economic integration and peace.**
Patrick M. **Morgan, and** T.V. **Paul**, **2009**. professor of political science and the Tierney Chair in Peace and Conflict Studies at the University of California, Irvine; and Professor of International Relations at McGill University. Complex Deterrence: Strategy In the Global Age, p. 9-11.
__Among the great powers__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ......... expansion of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.</span>

**SSA key to effective decision making and ISR**
**Berkowitz ’07** – Former Assistant Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Space Policy (Marc J, “Protecting America’s Freedom of Action in Space,” March, The High Frontier Journal, Vol. 3, Num. 2, [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-070322-103.pdf]])
__Policy-makers will want ........__ __policy and operational responses__.

**That’s key to preventing war conventionally**
**DOD 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissancehttp://space.au.af.mil/guides/stg/stg_isr.pdf)</span>
Joint Vision 2020 depends ......... __warfighters and other users.__

**Deters great power global war**
**Horowitz and Shalmon 09** - Professor of Political Science @ University of Pennsylvania & Senior Analyst @ Lincoln Group, LLC. [Michael C. Horowitz and Dan A. Shalmon, “The Future of War and American Military Strategy,” __Orbis__, Spring 2009]
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">It is important to ....... about defense strategy </span>__occurs__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Pg. 307-308</span>

**Heg is the best system – there is no alternative**
**<span style="color: black;">Kagan, 7 - </span>**<span style="color: black;">senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">This is a good thing,........ will provide an easier path.</span>

**Even if decline is inevitable, delaying it is crucial to prevent transition wars**
**<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 13pt;">Pape 9</span>** – Robert A., Professor of political science at the University of Chicago (Jan-Feb. 2009, “Empire Falls,” [[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m2751/is_99/ai_n32148803/?tag=content;col1]] originally from The National Interest)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">All of </span>__this has led ........__ __accelerating our own downfall.__

**All their turns are inevitable - zero chances of willful US restraint – we’ll inevitably be engaged globally – the only question is effectiveness**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Shalmon and Horowitz 09</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Dan, total badass, Mike, less of a badass, Orbis, Spring)</span>
**__It is important to ........__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> role in the global order.24 </span>


=Contention 3 is Solvency= 

**Preliminary Tests of SBSS show success**
**Brinton 10** (Turner. Staff Writer covering military space and missile defense; “SBSS Satellite Sending Back Healthy Signals from Orbit;” http://www.spacenews.com/military/1002927-sbss-sending-signals-orbit.html)
WASHINGTON — __The U.S. Air ......__correct the problem.

**Space Based Space Surveillance solves Space Situational Awareness – tracking, intelligence, economy, and security**
**Ray 10** [Justin Ray is editor of Spaceflight Now, an online website based at Cape Canaveral that has documented U.S. and international space news since 1999.] Space surveillance project successfully blasts off BY JUSTIN RAY SPACEFLIGHT NOW Posted: September 26, 2010 http://spaceflightnow.com/minotaur/sbss/
__"SBSS will help make .....__ up there," Citron said.

**SBSS is the only way to solve SSA and is vital to prevent space security, solve transparency, and deterrence.**
**Ridout 10** ([[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/timothy-a-ridout/post_1288_b_785375.html]]. Space-Monitoring Satellite Will Enhance Global Security. November 18th, 2010. Timothy A. Ridout. A Massachusetts native, Tim Ridout majored in government at Wesleyan University. In May 2011, he received a master's degree in law and diplomacy from the Fletcher School at Tufts University. At Fletcher, he focused on international security studies and US foreign policy.)
In September, the .... __of the future.__

**Cooperative SSA policies mean plan solves transparency**
Maj. Stacie **Shafra 11** JFCC-Space commander highlights need for improved space situational awareness Maj. Stacie Shafra 14th Air Force Public Affairs 2/23/2011 http://www.stratcom.mil/news/2011/221/JFCC-Space_commander_highlights_need_for_improved_space_situational_awareness/

__The framework to .....__ said General Helms.