[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
Tech barriers to SPS have been resolved – all that remains is government inaction
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 16px;">Edmonton Journal 11</span></span></span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">[[http://www.edmontonjournal.com/technology/Solar+satellites+green+energy/4933251/story.html//jchen]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">With gas prices...in outer space.</span>

Now is key – SPS is inevitable, it’s only a question of who gets there first
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Shea 2010</span>
[[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/shea.html]]
<span style="font-size: 13px;">The timing would...</span>in space solar power? 

Solar technology leads to global energy independence—removes the need for foreign oil
<span style="font-size: 16px;">NSS 2007</span>
[[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/index.html]]
<span style="font-size: 13px;">The United States...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">within economic reach.</span>



Continued oil dependence leads to global instability, terrorism, and economic collapse

Ron <span style="font-size: 16px;">Bengston 2008</span>
[[http://www.americanenergyindependence.com]]
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">A powerful idea...</span>of Islamic terrorism.


SPS solves water shortages – powers desalination plants
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Smith/Cohn 2009</span>
[[http://www.energysmith.net/articles/spacepower.pdf]]
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">In addition to...</span><span class="DebateUnderline">reality</span>, claims Sage


Water wars go nuclear
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Weiner 1990</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">“The Next One Hundred Years”, page 270</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px;">If we do...</span>stockpiled since Trinity.


Water Shortages are a form of structural violence driven by colonialism and present day corporations Plan breaks down oppression
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mukherjee 2007</span>
[[http://www.palgrave-journals.com/development/journal/v50/n2/full/1100376a.html]]
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Current </span><span style="font-size: 13px;">global inequalities...perpetuate social injustice.</span>



SBSP creates jobs and increases tax revenues, stimulating the economy

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Garretson 2010 </span>
“Sky’s No Limit: Space-Based Solar Power, The Next Major Step In The Indo-US Strategic Partnership?”, pages17-18
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">The significance of...</span><span style="font-size: 13px;">national tech base.</span>



SPS provides economic stability – continuous energy supply safeguards against supply shocks

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Jenkins 2009</span>
[[http://www.intechopen.com/articles/show/title/development-of-space-based-solar-power/]]
<span style="font-size: 13px;">The rate of...</span>range economic impact.


Continued economic decline will result in global war.
Mead 2009
[[http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]]
Frequently, the crisis...have to fight.


SPS development in particular will strengthen US soft power.
NSSO 2007
[[http://www.nss.org/sttlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf]]
The interim review...a framework immediately.


Soft power prevents resentment and enables the US to confront all the global issues.
Nye/Armitage 2007
[[http://www.csis.org/media/csis/pubs/071106_csissmartpowerreport.pdf]]
The twenty-first century... allies it grows.


The USfg is key to aerospace competition - export controls and mergers have weakened the private sector
ICAF 2007
[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDDoc?AD=ADA475093&location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]
The U.S. government...and technology development.


Initial government funding is key to private industry investment - lowers financial risk.
Daily Tech 2007
[[http://www.dailytech.com/The+Pentagon+Wants+Space+Solar+Power+for+US+Allies/article9275.htm/]]
The plan also...of clean energy.


No risk of space debris - SPS DE-orbite them.
NASA 2007
"Space Based Solar Power as an Opportunity for Strategic Security" Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study
The technology to... Forward's StarWisp Concept.


Funding isn't enough - government R&D is key to successful SPS
Friedman 2011
[[http://books.google.com/books?id=y55plTzPTw8YC&pg=PA235&dq=Space]]
At the same... dreams quietly expressed.

<span style="line-height: 0px; overflow: hidden;"> </span>[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]