[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Pennsbury 1AC - SPS</span>== 

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Bronx 1AC - SPS-Plan Text]]Plan Text</span>=== 

The United States Federal Government should develop and demonstrate space-based solar power in non-geostationary orbit.


===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Bronx 1AC - SPS-Contention One is Hegemony –]]</span>=== 
=1AC – Hegemony= 
First is aerospace – The U.S industry and competitiveness has tanked, their defense is a feel good mantra
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fareed 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Fareed Zakaria is host of CNN’s flagship international affairs program—Fareed Zakaria GPS, Editor at Large of TIME, a Washington Post columnist, and a New York Times bestselling author. He was described in 1999 by Esquire Magazine as “the most influential foreign policy adviser of his generation 10/9/11 http://globalpublicsquare.blogs.cnn.com/2011/10/09/america-is-getting-soft/?hpt=hp_bn4]</span>
Barack Obama has apparently …<span class="UnderlineChar">sounds like - desperate optimism</span>.


And, collapse of the industrial base tanks U.S. competitiveness and innovation
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Albaugh 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jim Albaugh, Executive Vice President of The Boeing Company, President and Chief Executive Officer of Boeing Commercial Airplanes, former President and Chief Executive Officer of Boeing Integrated Defense Systems, former President and CEO of Boeing Space and Communications, former President of Rocketdyne Power & Propulsion, Honorary Fellow of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, serves as Board Chairman of the Aerospace Industries Association, B.A. in Mathematics and Physics from Willamette University, M.A. in Civil Engineering from Columbia University, 4/27/11, “Keeping America’s Lead in Aerospace””, http://www.aia-aerospace.org/assets/speech_042711_albaugh.pdf | AK)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today </span><span class="UnderlineChar">we take ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, that’s unconscionable.</span>

Independently, SPS expands the workforce and fosters innovation key to U.S. competitiveness
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NSSO 7</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (National Security Space Office, 10/10/07, “Space</span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif; font-size: 8pt;">‐</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security”, http://science.ksc.nasa.gov/shuttle/nexgen/Nexgen_Downloads/SBSPInterimAssesment0.1.pdf | AK)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">FINDING: The SBSP Study ..</span><span class="UnderlineChar">American Competitiveness Initiative.</span>

That’s key to U.S. economic stability and growth
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Herrnstadt 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Owen E. Herrnstadt, director of the Trade and Globalization Department at the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, 4/17/08, “OFFSETS AND THE LACK OF A COMPREHENSIVE U.S. POLICY: What Do Other Countries Know That We Don’t?”, http://www.sharedprosperity.org/bp201/bp201.pdf | AK)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">Aerospace is an ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> let alone implemented (Aerospace Industries Commission 2002, 8-12).</span>

Economic decline causes global nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedberg and Schoenfeld 8</span> (Aaron, prof. of politics and IR at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School, and Gabriel, senior editor of Commentary, visiting scholar at the Witherspoon, 10/21/08, “The Dangers of a Diminished America,” [[http://online.wsj.co...4012352571.html]] // KX)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With the global financial...</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> the camel's back.</span>

Federal investment into SPS is necessary to secure U.S. aerospace dominance – signals a commitment to space leadership
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NSSO 7</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (National Security Space Office of the United States Federal Government, 10/10/07, “Space</span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif; font-size: 8pt;">‐</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security”, http://science.ksc.nasa.gov/shuttle/nexgen/Nexgen_Downloads/SBSPInterimAssesment0.1.pdf | AK)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">FINDING: The SBSP Study ...</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"> expression of this imperative.</span>

And, aerospace dominance secures U.S. leadership and hegemony
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Walker 2</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert Walker, Chair of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners, November 2002, “Final Report of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners”, http://www.trade.gov/td/aerospace/aerospacecommission/AeroCommissionFinalReport.pdf | AK)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">Defending our nation ... preeminent military power.</span>

Hegemony solves all global problems – prefer it to all other alternatives
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thayer 6</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Bradley Thayer, Associate Professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University, “In Defense of Primacy”, The National Interest, December (lexis)]</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">THROUGHOUT HISTORY, peace ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> economic prosperity it provides.</span>
=1AC – Environment= 
Contention 2 is the Environment
We’ll isolate two internal links:
First is warming – limiting atmospheric CO2 now is key to stop runaway warming
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Deibel 7</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Terry L. Deibel, Professor of IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft,” pages 397-8, 2007]</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Finally, </span>__there is ...____on this planet.__
Runaway warming will make adaption impossible – emission cuts now are key
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hansen 8</span> (Professor of Earth and Environmental Science James E. Hanson, head of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York City and adjunct professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Science at Columbia University, Al Gore’s science advisor, “Briefing before the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming,” US House of Representatives, 6-23-2008, “Twenty years later: tipping points near on global warming,” [[http://www.columbia.edu/~jeh1/2008/TwentyYearsLater_20080623.pdf]])

Fast feedbacks—<span class="UnderlineChar">changes...</span> will be wildlife.

SPS replaces fossil-fuel consumption – solves warming
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hsu 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Dr. Feng Hsu, Sr. Vice President of Systems Engineering & Risk Management Space Energy Group, 2010, Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap, <span style="color: black;">[[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">It has become increasingly ...</span> make a difference.




Independently, warming causes extinction
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tickell 8</span><span class="SmallChar" style="font-size: 8pt;">(Oliver Tickell, Environmental Researcher, 2008, “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction”, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We need to get ...</span>__**similar hothouse Earth**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Warming is real and human-induced – we cite the most qualified sources possible – their authors are all driven by political interests
<span class="CiteChar">THE LAMP 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (The Lamp, that piff, Vol. 68, No. 4, May 2011: 18-19 | JJ)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Lancet report is…</span>interests or dogma’<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">.</span>


Second is Terrorism:
Other energy sources will inevitably run out – only SPS provides enough output to sustain life on earth
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nansen 10</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Ralph Nansen is the Founder of SSI, and a world leader in designing, developing and promoting Solar Power Satellites. Nansen spent 31 years with The Boeing Company, primarily working in space engineering, December 2010, “Low Cost Access to Space is Key to Solar Power Satellite Deployment,” [[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/nansen.html]] ]</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">Today we face ... well before 2100</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">."[2]</span>
SPS solves global energy independence – removes the need for oil that is hsu 10 from global warming

Continued oil dependence causes terrorism
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bengston 8</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Ron Bengston writer for American Energy Independence, a website dedicated towards the concept of US energy independence, compilation of articles from: U.S. News & World Report, The Saudi Connection, Friedman (Pulitzer Prize winning columnist), New York Times, Center for Strategic and International Studies, The Detroit Economic Club, and Brookings Institution on U.S. Energy Security, 2008, [[http://www.americanenergyindependence.com]] ]</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">A powerful idea ...</span> __which terrorists prey.__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">” </span>

That independently causes extinction
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sid-Ahmed '04</span> [Mohamed Sid-Ahmed, a political analyst for the 'Al-Ahram' newspaper, 9/1/2004, "Extinction", pg. online @ http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm// ]

<span class="UnderlineChar">The advent of ...all be losers.</span>

Withdrawal increases chances of terror and genocide due to oil dependence
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Damon 12/12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Arwa Damon is a ideo correspondent for CNN International and CNN based in Beiru , she covered the Middle East as a freelance producer working with CNN, PBS, Fox News12/12/12 [[http://www.cnn.com/2011/12/12/world/meast/iraq-oil/index.html?hpt=hp_bn4]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"</span><span class="UnderlineChar">It's turned out ... blessing into a curse</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

=1AC – Solvency= 
Contention ___ is Solvency
Initial government demonstration is key to catalyze full private sector development of an SPS industry
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NSSO 7</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (National Security Space Office, 10/10/07, “Space</span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif; font-size: 8pt;">‐</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Based Solar Power: As an Opportunity for Strategic Security”, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA473860&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The SBSP Study ...</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"> incentivize its development.</span>
SPS is technologically viable
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lior 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Noam Lior, University of Pennsylvania, Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, Philadelphia, PA, April </span><span class="Author-Date" style="font-size: 8pt;">2011</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “Solar orbital power: Sustainability analysis”, http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360544210005931, Date accessed June 24, 2011)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We have analyzed ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> sustainable energy sources.</span>

SPS demonstration costs only at 1-10 million
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Foust 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Dr Jeff Foust is an aerospace analyst, journalist and publisher. He is the editor and publisher of The Space Review 11/8/10 “Space solar power’s Indian connection” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1721/1)</span>

Advances in technology,...<span class="UnderlineChar">more: $20–50 million</span>.
Non-geostationary orbit is key - makes SPS cost competitive and avoids your disads
Jones 10<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Royce, Space Technology Entrepeneur, BA in Construction Management, Computer Programming, and Computer Aided Design, Former Marine Corps NCO, Expert on SPS, " Alternative Orbits: A New Space Solar Power Reference Design," Online Journal of Space Communication, Winter, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/jones.html, EMM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This paper offers a …</span>SSP satellite mass<span class="UnderlineChar">.</span>


New tech solves launch costs
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reed and Willenberg 9</span> [Kevin and Harvey J., SESCRC/Welsom Space Solar, Seestetten, Vilshofen, Germany, American Aerospace Advisors, Inc, “Early commercial demonstration of space solar power using ultra-lightweight arrays,” Acta Astronautica, Volume 65, Issues 9-10, http://www.spacefuture.com/archive/early_commercial_demonstration_of_space_solar_power_using_ultra_lightweight_arrays.shtml]

<span class="UnderlineChar">As the … operational space environment.</span>

=Negative= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">XO CP</span>== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">TEXT: The President of the United States should <<<INSERT PLAN ACTION>>></span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Observation 1: Competition</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A. Definitional: “The” means all parts – they’re definitionally bound to defending all branches</span>**
<span class="Heading3Char" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">Merriam-Webster's</span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Online Collegiate Dictionary, </span><span class="Heading3Char" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 16px;">No Date</span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">,</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.m-w.com/cgi-bin/dictionary]]</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">used</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;"> as a function word before a noun or a substantivized adjective </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">to indicate reference to a group as a whole</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;"> <the elite> </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B. Resolutional – Resolved means legislative action</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 16px;">Lousiana House of Representatives 5</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> ([[http://house.louisiana.gov/house-glossary.htm]])</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Resolution A legislative instrument that</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;"> generally </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">is used for</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;"> making declarations, stating </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">policies</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">, and making decisions where some other form is not required. A bill includes the constitutionally required enacting clause; a resolution uses the term "resolved". Not subject to a time limit for introduction nor to governor's veto. ( Const. Art. III, §17(B) and House  Rules 8.11 , 13.1 , 6.8 , and 7.4)</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Observation 2: Solvency</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><<<INSERT SPECIFIC AFF SOLVENCY>>></span>**


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Observation 3: Net Benefit</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><<<INSERT SPECIFIC NET BENEFIT IF NECESSARY>>></span>**

=Weapons DA= 
a. Obama is pursuing space cooperation now—US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Huntley, 11</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Wade, senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As is well understood,... lurk in these details. </span>
SSP directly causes space weaponization
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ramos 2k</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Kim, US Air Force Major, Thesis submitted for the AIR COMMAND AND STAFF COLL MAXWELL Air Force Base, “Solar Power Constellations: Implications for the United States Air Force,” April, http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA394928)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Force ApplicationUnited States ...</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> the RF beam</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
c. Multilateral cooperation against weaponization prevents miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hitchens, 8</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;"> – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">Perhaps of even ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> unacceptable to all.</span>
d. Space wars occur through miscalculation and cause extinction
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mitchell, et al 1</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">A buildup of ...</span>conflict ever seen.

=Security= 
Discourse of danger. The aff’s construction of threats produces securitization
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Grondin 4</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David, Masters in Political Science & Ph.D. Candidate – University of Ottawa, “(Re)Writing the ‘National Security State,’ Center for United States Studies)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Approaches that deconstruct ...of existence are generated18.</span>
Security discourse causes endless apocalypse in the name of survival
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Coviello 1</span> (Peter Coviello, Asst Prof of English – Bowdoin, Queer Frontiers, ed. Boone, author’s italics)

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Perhaps. But </span><span class="UnderlineChar">to claim that ...</span> be done without<span class="UnderlineChar">.</span>


Reject the plan - opens up the space necessary for emancipation from endless securitization
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Neocleous 8</span> (Mark, Professor of the Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History Brunel Univ, Critique of Security, 185-6)

The only way out...<span class="UnderlineChar"> to return the gift."' </span>

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]