[[toc]]
=Kritiks= 
==Capitalism K== 
===1NC Policy Affs=== 

**The aff cannot hide behind their good intentions – our argument is structural. The plan doesn’t take place in the vacuum of space itself, but in the political economy of the status quo, in which NASA represents massive corporate interests who over determine the way that plan is executed. They bloat the budgets of the same space-industrial complex that will ensure that the aff becomes a marketing strategy or a new resource pool**
Martin Parker, University of Leicester School of Management, 2009. [“Capitalists in Space,” //The Sociological Review,// Volume 57, Issue Supplement 1]
When David Scott went to the moon on ....in future – the beginnings of space tourism.

**Resisting the economic evaluation of populations is the ultimate ethical responsibility – the current social order guarantees social exclusion on a global scale while simultaneously anonymizing violence in a way that makes impact calculation impossible**
Slavoj Zizek is a professor of philosophy at ....Conversations with Zizek” pg 14-16]
For Zizek it is imperative that we cut ....of a 'glitch' in an otherwise sound matrix.

**Our alternative is and unconditional commitment to the communist idea as a necessary response to the affirmative’s naturalization of the ideology of capital. Infinite fidelity to the impulse of communism opens up the revolutionary potential of the communist hypothesis. The only other option is the self-annihilation of humanity by ecological catastrophe and domination.**
Slavoj Zizek 2009 Slavoj, First as Tragedy, Then as Farce page 87-94
In Kierkegaardian terms, a revolutionary process involves ....the world that has been sustaining us.5

===1NC K Affs=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Postmodern approaches to capital which focus on discourse and ontology instead of material truth collapse into relativism which makes confrontation with capital impossible</span>**
Rene <span class="Author-Date">Poitevin</span>, Assistant Professor at the Gallatin ..../is_200101/ai_n8932891)
A third feature of J.K. ....that constitute the episteme of a period.33

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**The primary ethical directive of politics is to fight against global capitalism. The large scale social exclusion and exploitation of entire groups of** people is rendered incalculable and hidden within the framework of capital.</span>
<span class="Author-Date">Zizek and Daly 04</span> (Slavoj, professor ....with Zizek, pg 14-16) JXu
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">For Zizek </span>it is imperative that we cut ....of a 'glitch' in an otherwise sound matrix.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The alternative is material criticism. This means rejecting both reformism and postmodern intellectualism</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Poitevin, Assistant Professor at the Gallatin School of Individualized Study, </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 10pt;">200</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">1</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Rene Francisco, “The end of ..../is_200101/ai_n8932891)</span>
Let me finish by addressing the "vision ....<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">agenda is not going to do it either</span>.

===<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Link-Colonization</span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The rhetoric of colonization conceals an agenda of capitalist exploitation and development. Colonization promotes exporting consumerism, materialism, and capitalism to space. This knowledge is synthesized from a skewed understanding of the history of the frontier that inevitably replicates the worst consequences of manifest destiny. </span>**
Billings, research associate with the SETI Institute, 20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">0</span>6 (Linda, “To the Moon, Mars, and Beyond: Culture, Law, and Ethics in Space-Faring Societies,” Bulletin of Science Technology & Society 2006 26: 430, Sage, [[http://bst.sagepub.com/content/26/5/430]], DS)
Although the social, political, economic, and cultural context for the U.S. civil space program has changed since the 1960s, the rhetoric, and, arguably, the substance, of space policy making has not. … In the current cultural environment, he concluded, “with neither a rambunctious imperialism nor an eager Enlightenment” (p. 12) the case for colonizing space is not “compelling” (p. 15).

===<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Link-Mars Colonization</span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Mars Colonization feeds the ever-hungry, insatiable appetite of capitalism. Starting not with the physical exploration to Mars, capitalism plagues the very ideologies at the start, leading to the launch of the first rocket</span>**
Phil Graham, is director of the Institute for Creative Industries and Innovation and Professor in Culture and Communication at QUT, and Christy Collis is a Senior Lecturer in Media and Communication in the Creative Industries Faculty, Queensland University of Technology, 20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">0</span>9, (Political geographies of Mars: A history of Martian Management, Management &amp; Organizational History 2009 4: 247)
Explorer missions set out, as do Mariners, Vikings, and Pathfinders. … And in schools around the world, children design Martian colonies as part of their homework, with teachers being trained in how best to bring Mars into the classroom (Middle 2006), and companies offering schools ready-made Martian exploration simulation programs (Space Explorers 2007).

===<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Link-Econ Collapse</span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Fear of economic crisis will always be exploited to prevent radical social change. These fears are not objective, but make sense only if we take for granted the logic of capitalism.</span>**
Žižek, 1997 [Slavoi, “MULTICULTURALISM, OR, THE CULTURAL LOGIC OF MULTINATIONAL CAPITALISM,”NEW LEFT REVIEW #224, P.45-47]
Today, financial crisis is a permanent state of things the reference to which legitimizes the demands to cut social spending, health care, support of culture and scientific research, in short, the dismantling of the welfare state. …It should rather be conceived as a proof of the privileged position Capital holds in the economic and political struggle, as in the situation where a stronger partner threatens that if you do X, you will be punished by Y, and then, upon your doing X, Y effectively ensues

===<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Link-Satellites</span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Satellite investment and control remains in the hands of western elites. The impact is continued exclusion of developing countries from the structure of the new economy</span>**
Kim Rathman has a doctorate in Ethics and Public Policy, 99 [“Outer space commercialization and its ethical challenges to international law and policy”]
This new era of commercial expansion into outer space…Considering these problems further, Marvin Soroos notes that the growing legal, political, and economic challenges generated for the global community by new space technologies cannot be solved by the usual policy approaches based purely on technical or engineering models of economics [11].

===<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Link-Generic/Impact-Space Wars</span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The exploration and development of space is smoke screen for the expansion of capitalism, a short-term solution to economic and societal crisis on Earth. The militarization of space leading to space wars over resources and the development of markets in the cosmos is an inevitable consequence of the aff.</span>**
Peter Dickens, teaches at the Universities of Brighton and Cambridge, UK, in 10 [“The Humanization of the Cosmos—To What End?”, Monthly Review, Vol. 62 No. 6, http://monthlyreview.org/2010/11/01/the-humanization-of-the-cosmos-to-what-end]
Instead of indulging in over-optimistic and fantastic visions, we should take a longer, harder, and more critical look at what is happening and what is likely to happen. … The stage would then be set for wars in outer space between nations and companies attempting to make their own cosmic “fixes.”

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Extending/Preserving US hegemony is only a mask to safeguard capitalist relations.</span>**
Spyros Sakellaropoulos is an assistant professor in the social policy department of the Panteion University specializing in the subject state and political theory, 2008 [“American Foreign Policy as Modern Imperialism: From Armed Humanitarianism to Preemptive War”]
American neoconservative thinkers have the virtue of not retorting to cosmopolitan rhetoric, when talking about U. S. foreign policy. … From now on the USA must act as the sole superpower by promoting its military dominance, including unilateral military action and pre-ehmptive use of force (Hoffmann, 2003).

===<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Impact-Disposable Earth</span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The drive towards space is just a replications of Capital’s control over the psyche – the affirmatives argument refuses to confront the crisis of exploitation</span>**
Julien Tort, UNESCO (Working paper for the Ethical Working Group on Astrobiology and Planetary Protection of ESA (EWG) July 28, 20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">0</span>5“Exploration and Exploitation: Lessons Learnt from the Renaissance for Space Conquest” [[http://portal.unesco.org/shs/en/ev.php-URL_ID=6195&URL_DO=DO_TOPIC&URL_SECTION=-465.html]]
The scenario in which extraterrestrial room is used as a response to the degradation of the terrestrial environment also leads us to the second question that may be asked when considering the parallel between the conquest of the West and the exploration of space. …In a way, the presentation of space as a new area for conquest and expansion tends to deny that the model of the limitless exploitation of natural resources is facing a crisis.
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This is the cause of species extinction, global warming, along with air and water pollution</span>**
Kortenkamp and Moore 20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">0</span>1 [University of Wisconsin – Madison – Ecocentrism and Anthropocentrism: Moral Reasoning About Ecological Commons Dilemmas http://wikisdis.inrs.ca/images/e/ec/Zz%C2%ABc.pdf]
Ecocentrism and anthropocentrism: moral reasoning about Ecological commons dilemmas Aldo Leopold, sometimes called the father of environmental ethics, expressed these ideas over 50 years ago in his revolutionary essay ``The Land Ethic.'' … As noted by Dawes (1980), many environmental issues can be construed as social dilemmas.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Reversing species extinction is key to survival</span>**
California Academy of Sciences 8/21/20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">0</span>4 ["http://www.calacademy.org/research/library/biodiv.htm"
http://www.calacademy.org/research/library/biodiv.htm]
Currently, more than 10,000 species become extinct each year and while precise calculation is difficult, it is certain that this rate has increased alarmingly in recent years. … And we lose not only this unique evolutionary experience, but emotionally, we lose the unique beauty, and the unique spirit, which mankind has associated with that life form.

===**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Impact-Heg</span>**=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The inevitable expansion of the Capitalist state inevitably overstretches their forces </span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Gowan 4(Peter, Peter Gowan is Professor of International Relations at London Metropolitan University, Triumphing toward International Disaster: The Impasse in American Grand Strategy, Critical Asian Studies, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.socialistresistance.co.uk/Triumphing%20toward%20International%20Disaster.pdf]]</span> or http://www.bcasnet.org/articlesandresources/article14_1.htm)</span></span>
The Iraq war and its aftermath have demonstrated the difficulties of achieving both the primacy rights and the multilateral support systems. … A characteristic pattern is that the allies who give in on issues like Iraq will seek compensating gains in other areas of policy.

===<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Impact-Econ</span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Capitalism division of labor creates a proletariat and consumer-based economy that will eventually fall back into Great</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Depression era economic conditions </span>**
Peet, prof. of economics @ London School of Economics, 75 (Richard Peet, prof of economics @ London School of Economics, 1975, “Inequality and Poverty: A Marxist-Geographic Theory”)
Marx also explained how the normal operation of capitalism necessarily produces a more-or-less permanent constantly to reduce costs of production through a greater division of labor and the introduction and improvement of machinery. … Marxist theory thus forecasts that the unfettered growth of capitalism generates a mass of unemployed workers, and will eventually lead to widespread detachment of workers from the mechanized means of producing income, an event which will create the necessary conditions for social revolution.

===<span style="font-size: 10pt;">2NC Take The Risk</span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Take the risk of their impact. Some things – like the prioritization of people over profit-are worth dying for. </span>**
Zizek, Prof. of Sociology, University of L 20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">0</span>3 (Slavoj, The Puppet and the Dwarf)
Insofar as "death" and "life" designate for Saint Paul two existential subjective positions, not "objective" facts, we are fully justified in raising the old Pauline question: who is really alive today'?... He must seek his life in a spirit of furious indifference to it; he must desire life like water and yet drink death like wine


===<span style="font-size: 10pt;">2NC Alt Solvency</span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Aligning with the communist hypothesis is only ethical question in the debate and comes before anything else because of the way capitalism creates conditions so that people are reduced to a state of animality. Even if we can’t align ourselves with the communist hypothesis vote negative because extinction is preferable to a world of capitalism.</span>**
Alain Badiou, former Chair of Philosophy at École normale supérieure, 20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">0</span>8. [The Meaning of Sarkozy, pp. 97-103]
I would like to situate the Sarkozy episode, which is not an impressive page in French history, in a broader horizon. I Let us picture a kind of Hegelian fresco of recent world history - by which I do not, like our journalists, mean the triad Mitterrand-Chirac-Sarkozy, but rather the development of the politics of working-class and popular emancipation over nearly two centuries. Since the French Revolution and its gradually universal echo, since the most radically egalitarian developments of that revolution, the decrees of Robespierre's Committee of Public Safety on the 'maximum' and Babeuf's theorizations, we know (when I say 'we', I mean humanity in the abstract, and the knowledge in question is universally available on the paths of emancipation) that communism is the right hypothesis. … For what we are witnessing in no way imposes such a renunciation of the communist hypothesis, but simply a consideration of the moment at which we find ourselves in the history of this hypothesis.

===<span style="font-size: 10pt;">AT: Cede the Politcal</span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Any attempt to use the state inevitably leads to the corruption of revolutionary politics. The time for looking to the state to implement change has passed; it is now the time for the workers to shape the world.</span>**
Balso, Professor of Poetry at the European Graduate School, 10 (Judith, “The Idea of Communism,” edited by Slavoj Zizek and Costas Douzinas, pgs 25-26, AU)
Politics proceeds on its own: I want to unpack that statement -with reference to several points. …What does facing up to war in this new mode of existence entail, when no revolution can any longer hope to conjure war away, and when no State desires peace any longer?

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Their framework produces worse policy making --- multiple incentives overwhelmingly favor problem-solving theory --- a focus on critical theory is more important – takes out uniqueness and turns – cosmopolitanism is the only way to recapture EFFECTIVE politics</span>**
Lee Jones, September 20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">0</span>9. Lecturer in International Relations at Queen Mary, University of London, BA Honors Univ of Warwick, MA in IR St Anthony’s, PhD IR Nuffield. “International Relations scholarship and the tyranny of ‘policy relevance’,” Journal of Critical Globalisation Studies Issue 1, http://criticalglobalisation.com/Issue%201/125_131_JCGS1_JONES_TYRANNYPOLICYRELEVANCE.pdf
Having conceded where Nye has a point, let’s now consider the ways in which he may simply be wrong. His assumption is that the academic should be, needs to be, policy-relevant. …Truly critical voices are worth more to the progress of human civilisation than ten thousand Deputy Undersecretaries of State for Security Assistance, Science, and Technology.

===AT: Ontology Focus Good=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ontological criticism is useless because it can never be applied to our specific time and place. That doesn’t mean we should give up, it only means that material criticism which recognizes its own contingency is key</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Thomassen, 2001</span> (Lasse, Professor in the Department of Politics at the University of London, “The Politics of Lack,” Review of //The Ticklish Subject//, Postmodern culture, 11:3, May)
As an alternative to the Cartesian subject and ....the gap between the ontological and the ontic.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The focus on ontology causes totalitarianism – separation from of ontology from politics is a tacit endorsement of the status quo exclusions</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Zizek 1999</span> (Slavoj, Senior Researcher at the Institute for Social Sciences in Ljubljana, The Ticklish Subject, p. 13-15)
Apropos of this precise point, I myself ....engagement is depreciated, loses its authentic dignity.
==Security K== 

===1NC=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The aff’s threats are inherently subjective – their construction of threats marginalizes Others to legitimize violence</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">David, Grondin (master of pol sci and PHD of political studies @ U of Ottowa) 2004 “(Re)Writing the “National Security State”: How and Why Realists (Re)Built the(ir) Cold War,” online @ http://www.er.uqam.ca/nobel/ieim/IMG/pdf/rewriting_national_security_state.pdf</span></span>
Adopting a more critical stance, David Campbell ....the states very conditions of existence are generated18.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Security discourse is performative, not natural. The rhetoric of impending risk is used to ensure astonishing violence – whole populations are eliminated in the name of stability</span>**
David Campbell**,** professor of international politics at the University of Newcastle. Writing Security, 1998, p. 199 – 202
Security and subjectivity are intrinsically linked, even ....: "The police's true object is man."

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The alternative is to reject the affirmative’s security discourse – the act of situating ourselves against security in all forms through the means of debate is the only way to be emancipated from the deep entrenchment of security in our minds and society</span>**
Mark Neocleous, Professor of Political Economy at Brunel University, 2008, “Critique of Security”, McGill-Queen’s University, pp. 184-186, Published 2008
The only way out of such a dilemma....be brave enough to return the gift.143

===1NC Asteroids Link=== 

**The threat of asteroids gives privilege to the military-science complex that places it in the role of unquestionable hero. This applies militaristic spatialization to the galaxy in an attempt to control the uncontrollable. This sparks a disciplinary attempt to control the global population in the name of planetary survival.**
Felicity Mellor, Lecturer in Science Communication at Imperial College London, research interests include the popularization of physics, the representation of science in the media, and the role of narrative within science, 2007, “Colliding Worlds : Asteroid Research and the Legitimization of War in Space” Social Studies of Science 2007 37: 499, sagepub // vkoneru
The asteroid impact threat was thus articulated within ....into ploughshares’ (quoted in Matthews, 1997).


===2NC Reps First=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Focusing on discourse is the only way to question the aff’s subjective discourse-positivism ignores this</span>**
Roland Bleiker 10-11-20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">0</span>9 [Millennium: Journal of International Studies, 2001. ISSN 0305-8298. Vol. 30, No. 3, “The Aesthetic Turn in International Political Theory,” pp. 521-522]
A slightly different way of conceptualizing postmodern approaches would be to draw attention to their aesthetic qualities. From such a perspective … free knowledge.55

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The way we discuss policy is more important than policy itself – only the alt alone can solve</span>**
Roxanne Lynn Doty, Assistant Professor in the Department of Political Science at Arizona State University, 1996(Imperial Encounters: The Politics of Representation in North-South Relations, University of Minnesota Press, Borderlines Series, ISBN 0816627622, p. 5-6)
This study begins …. economic power.

===2NC Deterrence Link=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Regardless of their policies intentions the representations of a certain nuclear war on the horizon invoke the doctrine of preemption which co-opts the affirmative into an excuse for first striking with nuclear weapons. The ideology of preemption is driven into the state epistemology of war – examining that epistemology is key to prevent certain extinction</span>**
Brian Massumi, Communication Department of the Université de Montréal , 20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">0</span>7, “Potential Politics and the Primacy of Preemption” muse
It is certain that there will be adjustments....balance necessary to achieve life-defining mutuality.

===2NC Heg Link=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">US leadership ensures destruction – we only believe it is stabilizing because we refuse to question it</span>**
Anthony Burke, Senior Lecturer @ School of Politics & IR @ Univ. of New South Wales, 20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">0</span>7, “Beyond Security, Ethics and Violence,” p. 231-2
Yet the first act … We're history's actors."

===2NC Asteroids Link=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The aff creates fear of militarized asteroids to justify continued development of space based weapons</span>**
Felicity Mellor, Lecturer in Science Communication at Imperial College London, research interests include the popularization of physics, the representation of science in the media, and the role of narrative within science, 2007, “Colliding Worlds : Asteroid Research and the Legitimization of War in Space” Social Studies of Science 2007 37: 499, sagepub // vkoneru
The asteroid impact … US defence policy.

===AT: Perm=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Broadening security without questioning underlying state centrism coopts the aff.</span>**
Pinar Bilgin, International Relations Professor @ Bilikent (Ankara) ‘<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">0</span>2 “Beyond Statism in Security Studies? Human Agency and Security in the Middle East” Review of International Affairs 2 (1), p. 105
The point here is that… environmental degradation).

===AT: Realism=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Realism is not inevitable, it is a product of a particular historical context that assumes discursive hegemony because it has been represented as such</span>**
Bleiker, 2001 (Roland, Millennium: Journal of International Studies Vol. 30, No. 3, pp. 509-533)
Nothing is harder …to the object' .

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Alternate narratives of IR are emerging all around us—theoretical reliance on realism excludes the voices of the**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **marginalized and makes violence inevitable.**</span>
Orford 1996 (Anne Lecturer, Faculty of Law, The Australian National University. THE POLITICS OF COLLECTIVE SECURITY winter lexis)
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">International lawyers</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">also… disciplining marginalized people.</span>

===2NC Alt Solvency=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The alternative can conceive of new possibilities for security. Provoking discussion is the key</span>**
Der Derian 95 (James, Prof of International Relations at Brown University, “The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard” On Security, 1995)
An easy defense is to … of international relations.

==Heg Good K== 
===1NC=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Critiquing American empire is dangerous whining. Embracing the aff is a recipe for decreasing hegemony</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Kagan</span> 19<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">98</span> – PhD, graduate of Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government, adjunct history professor at Georgetown, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, Foreign Policy, “The benevolent empire”)
Those contributing to<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the growing chorus of </span>antihegemony ....corks in celebration of the next American humbling.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Vote them down because their speech-act jeopardizes the lives of our soldiers. Complaining undermines vital resolve which is key to winning</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">EYAGO 05</span> Political Commentary – Sound Politics Reporter [7/8, http://www.soundpolitics.com/archives/004721.html, Sound Commentary on Current Events in Seattle, Puget Sound and Washington State]
Finally, I am <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">angry at </span>those who ....they do for political gain is completely unconscionable.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Threats are inevitable. Retreat from primacy magnifies every international problem and escalates conflict</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Thayer</span> 20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">06</span> – PhD, professor of security studies at Missouri State, Fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard Bradley, The National Interest, “In defense of primacy”)
A grand strategy based on American primacy means ....humanitarian missions are the equivalent of a blitzkrieg.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The alternative is to endorse and align yourself with American hegemony. The only tangible threat to US Primacy is isolationism – rhetoric of support is critical to preserving international stability</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Kristol & Kagan 96</span> (William Kristol – visiting professor in government at Harvard University and Robert Kagan – senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and PhD in American History, “Toward a Neo-Reganite Foreign Policy,” Foreign Affairs. July/August, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=276)
TWENTY YEARS later, it is time once ....foreign policy of military supremacy and moral confidence.

===2NC Turns Case=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Their criticism opens us up to a new generation of Hitlers and allows countries like Iran and North Korea to cause conflicts</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Sowell 7</span> [Thomas Sowell, Senior fellow at Stanford University’s Hoover Institution, “Morally Paralyzed,” 7-24-2007,
http://jewishworldreview.com/cols/sowell072407.php3]
"<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Moral paralysis" is a </span>term<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> that ....? Are we morally paralyzed, perhaps fatally?</span>

===2NC Link Wall=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Their naïve critique of US hegemony undermines domestic support for leadership</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Holmes 8</span> – Vice President, Foreign and Defense Policy Studies and Director, Institute for International Studies [Kim, 3/14, Liberty's Best Hope, http://www.heritage.org/Research/WorldwideFreedom/hl1069.cfm]
But there is a deeper<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, more homegrown ....</span>what you may find in the European Union<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This type of ivory-tower intellectualism empirically collapses civilizations</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hanson 3</span> – Professor Emeritus of Classics, California State (Victor, We Could Still
Lose,http://www.hoover.org/publications/digest/3050721.html)
Instead, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">we have the </span>leisure to engage ....<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the end, even as they pass away. </span>

===AT: Experts=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">We control empirics and the best studies </span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Wohlforth 8</span>, Daniel Webster Professor of Government, Dartmouth. BA in IR, MA in IR and MPhil and PhD in pol sci, Yale, William, Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War, October 2008, World Politics Vol. 61, Iss. 1; pg. 28, 31 pgs, Proquest
Despite increasingly compelling findings concerning the importance of ....<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">transition and other rationalist theories of hegemonic war. </span>

==Environment K== 
===<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">1NC</span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The affirmative’s presentation of environmental reform is not an objective measure of reality but rather a subjective knowledge of the world rooted in managerialism and informed by the motivations of global capitalism. Nature is transformed into a set of natural resources to be preserved for future consumption, leading only to more exploitation. </span>**
Timothy W. Luke, Department of Political Science at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, Eco-Managerialism: Environmental
Studies as a Power/Knowledge Formation, 20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">0</span>2, Aurora Online Magazine
Before scientific disciplines<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and industrial technologies </span>turn its' ....<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">thorough, rapid, and perhaps </span>intensive utilization.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This form of environmentalism is used as a justification for biopolitical control over populations. The discourse of sustainable development is used to legitimize restructuring of entire societies to fit the model of Western sustainable economies. </span>**
Timothy W. Luke, Department of Political Science at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, 1995, On Environmentality: Geo-Power and Eco-Knowledge in the Discourses of Contemporary Environmentalism, Cultural Critique, No. 31, The Politics of Systems and Environments, Part II.
No longer Nature nor even ecosystem, the ....can" and political "how-to."

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In response to the affirmative’s call for action, our alternative is to do nothing. This abandonment of mastery opens up space for new modes of thinking and allows nature to reveal itself to us on its own terms. The environmental management of the affirmative is the source of the problem, and makes ecological disaster inevitable. </span>**
McWhorter 92 (Ladelle, Assistant Professor of Philosophy at Northeast Missouri State University, "Guilt as Management Technology: A Call to Heideggerian Reflection" Heidegger and the Earth
Some might find this unnecessarily harsh. We ....<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">patterns of our current </span>ways of being human.