[[toc]]
=**Impact Defense**= 
**coming soon**
=**Case Negs**= 
**coming soon**
=**Impact Turns**= 
==**China War Good**== 
===**1NC War Good**=== 
**War now would be won by the United States and be a small conflict. Delaying the inevitable results in a future war that will escalate to nuclear extinction**
**Babbin and Timperlake 6** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jed and Edward” War with China: not only possible, but inevitable Here's a guide to how it may happen -- and how we can win Showdown: Why China Wants War with the United States”, [[http://www.conservativebookservice.com/products/BookPage.asp?prod_cd=c6926#continue|http://www.conservativebookservice.com/products/BookPage.asp?prod_cd=c6926#continue]] )</span>
**__Will the U.S. go to war …__** __run-up to World War II__
===1NC Impact D=== 
<span class="5Notunderlined">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The current war wouldn’t be too bad:</span>**</span>
**A. China has few actual working nuclear weapons**
<span class="Heading2Char">Lieber and Press 2007</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Keir A. Lieber and Daryl G. Press, Dartmouth professors, “Superiority Complex,” the atlantic monthly, July/Aug 2007, http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200707/china-nukes)</span>
__In the 1990s__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, with the … </span>__notice of an incoming attack__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**B. They wouldn’t use them**
<span class="Heading2Char">Sydney Morning Herald 4/8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jan Flemr, Alexander Osipovich, 4/8/10, "Obama and Medvedev cut nuclear arsenals, warn Iran")</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The US-Russia treaty is being … </span>circumstances<span class="Underline"> and at any time."</span>

===1NC Modernization DA=== 
**Turn – modernization:**
**A. War solves modernization**
<span class="Heading2Char">Ross ‘1</span>- Think tank, Author, and Editor of the National (Robert S., The Stability of Deterrence in the Taiwan Strait, Transaction Publishers, [[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m2751/is_2001_Fall/ai_79354158/pg_4/]])
The strategic costs to China … on preventing a Sino-American war.

**B. Chinese modernization would spur uncontrolled international proliferation**
<span class="Heading2Char">Sanders and Jing-Dong 00</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Phillip … as Japan, Russia, and India.</span>

**C. That causes extinction**
<span class="Heading2Char">Booth ‘7</span> (Ken, Dept. Head and Prof. Int’l. Pol. – U. Wales, “Theory of World Security”, p. 406, Google Print)
It is my clear view … **__age characterised by nuclear contagion__**.
==Heg Bad== 
===1NC Collapse Inevitable=== 

**Heg** **collapse inevitable** **–** **the aff only makes the transition violent**
**Pape 9** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Robert A. Pape, Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago, “The Empire Falls”, The National Interest, June 28, [[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=20484]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Clearly, major shifts in the … adopt more realistic foreign commitments. </span>


**Nations are off-shore balancing now**
**Newmann 08** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(William W. Newmann, political analyst, L. Douglas Wilder School of Government and Public Affairs, “Hegemonic Competition, Hegemonic Disruption, and the Current War,” All Academic, April 3, 2008, http://www.allacademic.com/one/prol/prol01/index.php?click_key=1&PHPSESSID=7d0a614d8092e39f85db5e5258663110)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">As the cold war ended, … </span>__in a cautious, but identifiable way.__

**Offshore balancing solves every reason why heg is good**
**Layne ’97**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Christopher Layne, Visiting Associate Professor at the Naval Postgraduate School, “From Preponderance to Offshore Balancing” International Security, Summer 1997)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In the early-twenty-first-… against, and contain, each other.89</span>
===2NC Collapse Inevitable=== 

**Heg is in terminal decline**
**Hunt ‘10** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Tam Hunt, attorney, consultant, and lecturer on Climate Change law and policy at UCBS’s Bren School of Environmental Science and Management, “Tam Hunt: The Unipolar Moment Reconsidered”, 6/20, Noozhawk, [[http://www.noozhawk.com/tam_hunt/article/061810_tam_hunt/]]) </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Columnist Charles Krauthammer wrote in 2004 … </span>__will further exacerbate these issues.__

===2NC Multipolarity Good=== 

**And, Multipolarity key to solve great power wars****<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – </span>****even the perception of US unipolarity will cause nations to balance against the threat**
**Newmann 8** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(William W. Newmann, political analyst, L. Douglas Wilder School of Government and Public Affairs, “Hegemonic Competition, Hegemonic Disruption, and the Current War,” All Academic, April 3, 2008, http://www.allacademic.com/one/prol/prol01/index.php?click_key=1&PHPSESSID=7d0a614d8092e39f85db5e5258663110)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">As the cold war ended, … in a cautious, but identifiable way.</span>


===1NC Heg Bad=== 

**Heg causes hotspots for conflict** **–** **multilaterialism solves the transition**
**Layne 6** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Associate Professor at the Bush School of Government and Public Service, Texas A&M University(Christopher “The Peace of Illusions” (p. 169- 171)</span>
__Rather than being instruments of … to prevent them from happening.__


**Heg cause prolif – multipolarity will solve it**
**Weber et al 07** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Professor of Political Science and Director of the Institute for International Studies at the University of California-Berkeley (Steven with Naazneen Barma, Matthew Kroenig, and Ely Ratner, Ph.D. Candidates at the University of California-Berkeley and Research Fellows at its New Era Foreign Policy Center, [“How Globalization Went Bad,” Foreign Policy, Issue 158, January/February])</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Axiom 3 is a story about the … is almost entirely America's burden.</span>

**Proliferation leads to nuclear war**
**Utgoff 02**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Deputy Director of the Strategy, Forces, and Resources Division of the Institute for Defense Analyses., Survival, vol. 44, no. 2, Summer 2002, pp. 85–102 “Proliferation, Missile Defence and American Ambitions” </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In sum, </span>__widespread proliferation is … cities or even whole nations.__

===1NC No Impact=== 

**Heg doesn’t solve conflict**
**Victor 8 –** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Professor on International Law and Relations @ University of California, San Diego (David G. Victor, “Blowhard in Chief”, Newsweek, May 1, 2008, pg. [[http://www.newsweek.com/2008/04/30/blowhard-in-chief.html]]>) </span>
__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Leadership matters when it …</span>delivery long in the future.__

**Heg can’t provide stability – power is inherently limited and its unsustainable – only multipolarity can solve**
**Weber et al 07** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Professor of Political Science and Director of the Institute for International Studies at Berkeley (Steven with Naazneen Barma, Matthew Kroenig, and Ely Ratner, Ph.D. Candidates at the University of California-Berkeley and Research Fellows at its New Era Foreign Policy Center, [“How Globalization Went Bad,” Foreign Policy, Issue 158, January/February,)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Axiom 1:</span>__Above a certain threshold of … means of constraining American power.__

==Warming Good== 
===1NC CO2 Good=== 

**CO2 is key to stop Ice Age which causes extinction**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">RCS 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Reporting Climate Science, independent climate science website, 10/26/2010, “Carbon Dioxide prevents Earth from becoming an ice world,” [[http://www.reportingclimatescience.com/news-stories/article/carbon-dioxide-prevents-earth-from-becoming-an-ice-world.html]], DS]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A computer model shows that </span>… Earth became an ice world.
**Extinction**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">EU Referendum 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [4/24/08, “The scariest photo” [[http://eureferendum.blogspot.com/2008/04/scariest-photo.htm]]] SV</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is time to put … </span>civilisation may be at stake.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"</span>

===2NC Overview=== 

**Ice age causes extinction**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">EU Referendum, 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (4/24/08, “The scariest photo” http://eureferendum.blogspot.com/2008/04/scariest-photo.htm)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is time to put … </span><span class="Underline">civilisation may be at stake.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">" </span>
===2NC Impact – Famine=== 

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Ice age causes famine – cooling cycles converge to destroy crop supplies</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Aym, ’10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – [Terrence, 12/30/2010, “Experts: Food and fuel shortages imminent as new Ice Age dawns,” [[http://www.helium.com/items/2051424-food-and-fuel-shortages-imminent-as-new-ice-age-dawns?page=2]], DS]</span>
<span class="Underline">With an Ice Age comes … and northern US grain regions.”</span>
**Moral obligation to stop famine – inaction locks in global poverty**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Singer, ’72 – </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Prominent utilitarian scholar [Peter, Philosophy and Public Affairs, “Famine, Affluence, and Morality,” [[http://www.utilitarian.net/singer/by/1972----.htm]], DS]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I do not think I need … </span><span class="Underline">everyone is almost equally involved. </span>
===2NC Impact – Global Nuclear War=== 

**Ice age increases international tensions, and ends in nuclear war**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Stipp 4</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (2/9/04. David, Staff writer. “The Pentagon's Weather Nightmare The climate could change radically, and fast. That would be the mother of all national security issues.” Fortune Magazine. [[http://money.cnn.com/magazines/fortune/fortune_archive/2004/02/09/360120/index.htm]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A total shutdown of the … </span>**__poised to use the bomb.__**

===2NC Impact – Resource Wars=== 

**Global cooling causes resource wars**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Schwartz and Randall 3.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(October 2003. Peter, futurist, author, and cofounder of the Global Business Network (GBN), an elite corporate strategy firm, specializing in future-think and scenario planning AND Doug, previous president of GBN. “An Abrupt Climate change scenario and its implications for united states national security” info.themicroeffect.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/01/3-Articles.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Human civilization began with the … </span><span class="Underline">pressure for action will grow. </span>




===2NC CO2 Solves Ice Age=== 
**CO2 is the only thing stopping the ice age – means the plan plunges humanity into the blizzard**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Inman, ‘8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – writer for National Geographic News [Mason, 11/12/2008, National Geographic News, “New Ice Age Predicted -- But Averted by Global Warming?,” [[http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/pf/29078080.html]], DS]</span>
<span class="Underline">Deep ice sheets would cover … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">thousands of years," she said. </span>

**CO2 is the control knob of Earth’s temperature—cutting it would lower temperatures**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Moore, 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (JC, retired physical chemist and teacher. 12/31/10. “Science, Global Warming, and the Ice Age Mystery” [[http://jcmooreonline.com/2010/12/31/science-global-warming-and-the-ice-age-mystery/]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In 1896, Svante Arrhenius, while still … </span><span class="Underline">Earth will surely get warmer. </span>
**CO2 is undeniably key to stop the ice age – exacerbates the greenhouse effect and stops runaway glaciation**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lacis et al, 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Ph.D’s, climatologists at NASA [10/15/10, Science Magazine, Andrew, Gavin Schmidt, David Rind, Ph.D., studies climate at NASA, Reto Ruedy; “Atmospheric CO2: Principal Control Knob Governing Earth’s Temperature,” http://www.sciencemag.org/content/330/6002/356.full, DS]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A direct consequence of this … </span><span class="Underline">Earth condition is also achievable. </span>
===AT: Ocean Conveyor=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ocean conveyor isn’t slowing down—their evidence doesn’t look to the long term</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Watts 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">.</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (3/29/10. Anthony, meteorologist. “Atlantic conveyor belt—still going strong and will be the day after tomorrow” Watts Up With That. http://wattsupwiththat.com/2010/03/29/atlantic-conveyor-belt-still-going-strong-and-will-be-the-day-after-tomorrow/) </span>**
<span class="Underline">The Gulf Stream does not … found any clear trend since 2004.</span>

**Gulf stream shutdown unlikely, and there is no impact even if it does**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The Guardian 11</span>**.**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (3/29/11. “Will the Gulf Stream slow down, freezing the UK and northern Europe?” http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2011/mar/29/climate-gulf-stream-atlantic-drift-thermohaline)</span>
__The Gulf Stream__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and North … days portrayed in the film. </span>

==Dedev== 
===1NC— Dedev Good —Generic=== 

**Studies in multiple fields prove that complex societies will inevitably collapse due to diminishing returns from innovation—infinite growth is literally impossible and attempts to innovate the way out of the crisis guarantee a collapse in the future. Only a partitioned collapse of human civilization can allow us to renew into less complex societies and avoid catastrophe.**




Deborah **Mackenzie 4/5** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– BBC Correspondant. Quotes Joe Tainter - an archaeologist at the University of Utah, Salt Lake City, and author of the 1988 book The Collapse of Complex Societies, and Yaneer Bar-Yam, head of the New England Complex Systems Institute in Cambridge, Massachusetts 4/5/2008 (“Are WE doomed?” Ebsco)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">DOOMSDAY. The end of civilisation. … </span>**__run this cannot be sustainable.__**

**Collapse now creates a mindset shift towards small local civilizations**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lewis 2k</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Ph.D. University of Colorado at Boulder (Chris H, “The Paradox of Global Development and the Necessary Collapse of Global Industrial Civilization” [[http://www.cross-x.com/archives/LewisParadox.pdf]])</span>

__With the collapse of global … **themselves face collapse and ruin.**__

===1NC—Dedev Good—Warming=== 

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Economic growth accelerates greenhouse gas emissions leading to further warming – studies prove</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Associated Press 07 </span>(“Climate Change happening faster, scientist says”, October 7, 2007, <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[@http://www.thestar.com/News/World/article/264903]]</span>, K . Ward)
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Worldwide economic growth has accelerated … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">reports published earlier this year.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Global warming will reach a tipping point within the decade – positive feedbacks would raise sea levels, threaten food security, collapse states, and end civilization.</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Brown 8—</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Director and Founder of … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">unravel</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7.5pt;">under these extreme stresses.</span>

===2NC— Dedev Good —Warming=== 

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Economic growth drives biodiversity loss and global warming</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rosales 08 – Department of Environmental Studies at St. Lawrence University </span>(Jon, “Economic Growth, Climate Change, Biodiversity Loss: Distributive Justice for the Global North and South”, June 10th, 2008, Ebsco, K. Ward)
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Economic growth drives climate change, … by 60% between 2000 and 2025 (</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Baumert & Pershing 2004).</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">An alternative economic system is necessary to stop global warming and biodiversity loss</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rosales 08 – Department of Environmental Studies at St. Lawrence University </span>(Jon, “Economic Growth, Climate Change, Biodiversity Loss: Distributive Justice for the Global North and South”, June 10th, 2008, Ebsco, K. Ward)
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Although much uncertainty remains about … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">, one must turn to ethics.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Continued growth will put us past the tipping point of warming.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Speth 08</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">—</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Rhodes Scholar @ Oxford University, Chairman of Council on Environmental Quality for Executive Office, Founder of World Recourses Institute (Think-Tank), Led the Western Hemisphere Dialogue on Environment and Development, Administrator of United Nations Development Program, Dean of Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies, Leader of the President’s Task Force on Global Recourses and the Environment, Holds multiple awards—National Wildlife Federation’s Recourse Defense Award and Lifetime Achievement Award of Environmental Law Institute, and Blue Planet Prize [James, “The Bridge at the Edge of the World”, 21-</span>

<span style="font-size: 7.5pt;">In short, there is little … , as well as a good example.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Warming disproportionally harms the Third World, creating violent tensions, which escalate globally.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Speth 08</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">—</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Rhodes Scholar @ Oxford University, Chairman of Council on Environmental Quality for Executive Office, Founder of World Recourses Institute (Think-Tank), Led the Western Hemisphere Dialogue on Environment and Development, Administrator of United Nations Development Program, Dean of Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies, Leader of the President’s Task Force on Global Recourses and the Environment, Holds multiple awards—National Wildlife Federation’s Recourse Defense Award and Lifetime Achievement Award of Environmental Law Institute, and Blue Planet Prize [James, “The Bridge at the Edge of the World”, 21-</span>
<span style="font-size: 7.5pt;">At the same time, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the … increasing source of international tension.</span>__
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Economic reforms for efficiency can solve warming.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Speth 08—</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Rhodes Scholar @ Oxford University, Chairman of Council on Environmental Quality for Executive Office, Founder of World Recourses Institute (Think-Tank), Led the Western Hemisphere Dialogue on Environment and Development, Administrator of United Nations Development Program, Dean of Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies, Leader of th</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">e President’s Task Force on Global Recourses and the Environment, Holds multiple awards—National Wildlife Federation’s Recourse Defense Award and Lifetime Achievement Award of Environmental Law Institute, and Blue Planet Prize [James, “The Bridge at the Edge of the World”, 21-</span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Stern Review</span>__<span style="font-size: 7.5pt;">, The Economics … their own significant risks.3l</span>

===2NC—Mindset Shift=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Society collapse inevitable – this is the only way to solve poverty because capitalist policies are inherently biased and only a new system based on morals can solve that</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Klassen 4</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> - former senior editor with Adbusters magazine, and now a senior partner at Biro Creative (Nicholas “Islamic Economics” July [[@http://www.somaliaonline.com/cgi-bin/ubb/ultimatebb.cgi?ubb=get_topic;f=8;t=000555;p=0]]) MGM</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Picture</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> it. </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In the</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> not-too-… tools for an alternative system.</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Economic collapse prevents inevitable extinction</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Djordjevic 98</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> – Interdisciplinary Minor in Global Sustainability Senior Seminar University of California, Irvine, (Johnny, March, “Sustainability,” [[@http://www.dbc.uci.edu/sustain/global/sensem/djordj98.html]]) MGM</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Max Weber believed in the … consciousness leading to </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">a sustainable society.</span>__

**it’s try or die for us—there is only a chance a world post collapse would be better**
**Barry 08** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">president and founder of Ecological Internet, Economic Collapse and Global Ecology (Dr. Glen, ,1/14, Counter Currents, http://www.countercurrents.org/barry140108.htm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Humanity and the Earth are … </span>more fragile than it looks.


**None of their “mindset shift won’t happen args” matter—collapse FORCES a change**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lewis 2k</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Ph.D. University of Colorado at Boulder (Chris H, “The Paradox of Global Development and the Necessary Collapse of Global Industrial Civilization” [[http://www.cross-x.com/archives/LewisParadox.pdf]])</span>

__A__ __more hopeful cause of … **, and ecosystem services aren't sustainable.**__

**And, policy makers will learn from past mistakes and shift towards local solutions**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lewis 2k</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Ph.D. University of Colorado at Boulder (Chris H, “The Paradox of Global Development and the Necessary Collapse of Global Industrial Civilization” [[http://www.cross-x.com/archives/LewisParadox.pdf]])</span>

__The only alternative we now …__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">web of life on earth.</span>

===2NC—Mindset Shift Good—Sustainability=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Collapsing a growth-based economy opens up a world that can create sustainability.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Trainer 02</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">—Senior Lecturer of School of Social Work @ University of New South Wales [Ted, “If you want affluence, prepare for War,” Democracy & Nature: The International Journal of Inclusive Democracy, July, Vol. 8 Issue 2, p. 281-299, ebsco]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The logically inescapable implication from … the radical changes in values.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">**Localized self sufficient societies solve**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">**Trainer 07**— Senior Lecturer of School of Social Work @ University of New South Wales [Ted, “Renewable Energy Cannot Sustain A Consumer Society”, p. 125-159]</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Local self-sufficiency means we … we will soon be sorry.</span>__
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">A world post-collapse would be focused around supportive communities, based on ethical connections with another and give each of us a higher quality of life.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Trainer 07</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">— Senior Lecturer of School of Social Work @ University of New South Wales [Ted, “Renewable Energy Cannot Sustain A Consumer Society”, p. 125-159]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The third essential characteristic … __pursue their own private interests.__</span>



===2NC AT: Growth Solves War=== 

Economic collapse increases possibility of war—our evidence assumes the most advanced models.

**Bennet and Nordstrom 2k**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—Professors of Political Science @ Pennsylvania State [Scott and Timothy, “Foreign Policy Substitutability and Internal Economic Problems in Enduring Rivalries,” Journal of Conflict Resolution, proquest]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In this article, we applied … as a precursor to manifest conflict behavior within states.</span>


Economic decline doesn’t cause war

**Deudney 91** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Hewlett Fellow in Science, Technology, and Society at the Center for Energy andEnvironmental Studies, Princeton (Daniel, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, Ebsco)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Poverty Wars. In a second scenario, … </span>__industrial products and surplus wealth__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



===2NC AT: Transition Wars=== 

Transition wars are unlikely and the chance of reaching sustainable society outweighs any risk

**__Trainer 2__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Lecturer, School of Social Work, University of New South Wales (Ted, “Debating the Significance of the Global Eco-village Movement: A Reply to Takis Fotopoulos” Democracy & Nature, Vol. 8, No. 1, 2002)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However </span>__I am not …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and of legitimacy.</span>


Economic decline doesn’t cause extinction

**__Heinberg 4__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – journalist, teaches at the Core Faculty of New College of California, on the Board of Advisors of the Solar Living Institute and the Post Carbon Institute (Richard, “Power Down”, Published by New Society Publishers, pg. 149-150)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">These are the lessons of the …wanted by pressing buttons.</span>


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]