[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
Contention 1: Disasters

Natural and technical disasters are increasing at an alarming rate. The globe is becoming a field of intensifying death and destruction.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brunsma and Picou 08</span> (David, University of Missouri, and J. Steven, University of South Alabama, Disasters in the Twenty-First Century: Modern Destruction and Future Instruction Social Forces Volume 87, Number 2, December 2008)

Sociologists are becoming […] the broader discipline.

The refusal to engage in disaster preparedness exacerbates the global vulnerability to environmental change, ensuring the global poor can never escape the devastating cycle of poverty
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Briceño 08</span> (Sálvano Director, United Nations, International “Strategy for Disaster Reduction Linking Disaster Risk Reduction and Poverty Reduction”)

Disasters are often […] on a wider scale.

Thus Aparna and I present the following plan,

Resolved: The United States federal government should substantially increase its environmental monitoring satellites through microsatellites.

Contention 2: Solvency

Microsatellites allow for effective disaster mitigation – data is key
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sweeting 11</span> (Sir Martin, Director of the Surrey Space Centre as well as the CEO of Surrey Satellite Technology Limited, 2011, “Affordable and Responsive Space Systems” Ch 29 of __Toward a Theory of Spacepower [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/space-Ch29.html]]__ //wr-ajs)

In the civil […] of the weather.

Only the investment in Earth Observation Satellites allow us to respond to catastrophe not retrospectively, but rather through a connection to our shared communities that provides the basis for the preparation for global environmental change, mitigating inegalitarian sacrifice
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wigbels et al 08</span>
(Lyn, G. Ryan Faith, and Vincent Sabathier; Senior Fellow/Assistant Professor at the Center for Aerospace Policy Research at George Mason University; research analyst at the space foundation at CSIS; senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program EARTH OBSERVATIONS AND GLOBAL CHANGE Why? Where Are We? What Next?, A Report of CSIS Space Initiatives, csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/080725_wigbels_earthobservation_web.pdf)

Is it possible [..] a routine basis.

Earth Observation Satellites decentralize the state monopoly on information, allowing citizen groups to be meaningfully engaged in state politics
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Litfin 1999</span> (Karen T., Professor of Political Science, University of Washington, The Status of the Statistical State: Satellites and the Diffusion of Epistemic Sovereignty, Global Society, Vol. 13, No.1, 1999 [[http://faculty.washington.edu/litfin/research/litfin-status.pdf]] //wr-ajs)

The ability to […] and political control.

And such mechanisms of participatory democracy are crucial to the creation of responsible and engaged citizens. The alternative is injustice and powerlessness
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Giroux 09</span> (Dr. Henry, Global Television Network Chair in English and Cultural Studies @ McMaster University; Received his Doctorate from Carnegie-Mellon in 1977. “Obama's View of Education Is Stuck in Reverse,” TruthOut, July 24th, Available at [[http://www.truthout.org/072409A]])

Situated within a […] the bottom line.(6)

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Without a strong public sphere, extinction is inevitable</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Giroux ‘6</span>**,
(Henry A. Giroux currently holds the Global TV Network Chair Professorship at McMaster University in Canada. “Dirty Democracy and State Terrorism: The Politics of the New Authoritarianism in the United States,” Comparative Studies of South Asia, Africa and the Middle East 26.2 (2006) 163-177.)

While it would […] leave their homes.16

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">You should adopt</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> encouragement of civic engagement and participatory democracy </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">as a performative framework for this debate- leverages the debate community as a weak public that can ethically influence strong public decisionmaking- best method for wider policy transformation </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">K</span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">urasawa ‘4</span>**
(Fuyuki, Assistant Prof. of Sociology @ York University, __Cautionary Tales__, //Constellations// Vol. 11, No. 4, Blackwell Synergy)
Rather than bemoaning […] via strong publics.7

And, absent our framework reactive foreign policy ensures error replication and neo-con takeover- 9/11 proves foresight key and our disaster impacts are disads to any alternative methods of understanding the community’s role
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chusid 07</span> (Ron, Commentator for Liberal Values Blog, The Culture of Fear Undermines America, [[http://liberalvaluesblog.com/?p=1287]])

One consequence of […] the Patriot Act.

Recognizing that we can’t see the future means we should try even harder to predict and avoid natural disasters—we have an ethical responsibility even if we don’t always guess correctly
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kurasawa 04</span> (Fuyuki, Assistant Prof. of Sociology @ York University, Cautionary Tales, Constellations Vol. 11, No. 4, Blackwell Synergy wr-ajs)

When engaging in […] and shorter-term responses.

Contention 3: Impact Framing

The distinction between war and peace creates trade-offs in the fight against structural violence – that makes it impossible to resist the root cause of violence
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cuomo</span>, Professor of Philosophy, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1996</span> Chris, Hypatia 11.4, proquest

Philosophical attention to […] and identifiable decisions.

The doom saying of the negative is a knee jerk reaction meant to make you feel good about ignoring the 1AC harms – vote affirmative to align yourself with social justice – not propaganda
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Martin 82</span>
Brian Martin, associate prof in <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/ssmac/sts/index.html|Science, Technology and Society]]</span> at the University of Wollongong, 1982, Critique of nuclear extinction, Journal of Peace Research, Vol. 19, No. 4, pp. 287-300 <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/82jpr.html]]</span>

(e) Exaggeration to justify […] and the like.

Good decision-making requires you to reject their fixation on worst-case scenarios
Rescher 83
[Nicholas, Risk Analysis BadassRisk: A Philosophical Introduction to the Theory of Risk Evaluation and Management, Pg 50]

The "worst possible […]situation of hazard.

Poverty outweighs and is the root cause of all impacts- prefer our large and probable impacts over their improbable short term scenarios
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gilligan 96</span> **(**James Gilligan, M.D., Former Director of the Center for the Study of Violence and the Institute of Law and Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School, __Violence: Our Deadly Epidemic and Its Causes__, 1996, pgs. 195-196)

The 14 to […] cause to effect. 
=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]