[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

Contention 1 is Inherency
Space defense is under-funded – our current support is all talk

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Sheldon 08</span>__****,** **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fellow at the Marshall Institute [John Sheldon - was program director for Space Security at the Centre for De-fence and International Security Studies, Washington Roundtable on Science & Public Policy, “Deterrence in Space”, Nov. 13, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/622.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Accessed July 14 2011]</span>

There are, of course….<span style="font-size: 9pt;">vulnerabilities remain unaddressed</span>__.__

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Plan Text: The United States Federal Government should pursue a defensive space control strategy that emphasizes satellite hardening, replacement, redundancy, and stealth.</span>

Contention 2 is Hegemony
Space weaponization and conflict is inevitable—the question is if the US is ready.
**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Kitfield 10</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">-Senior Correspondent @ The National Journal, writer for Air Force Magazine, B.A. Journalism, University of Georgia, distinguished writer on defense, national security, and foreign policy, author of two books on national security, [James, Air Force Magazine, “Crowded Congested Space” August 2010, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2010/August%202010/0810space.aspx]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>

In the “commons….<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> conflict,"</span> the report concluded.
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">The brink is now—US satellites are at risk of ASAT attacks and assets have no defensive capabilities </span>
<span class="Underline0">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">Schendzielos, 08</span>__**</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> – major in the USAF, School of Advanced Military Studies (April 30, 2008, Major Kurt Schendzielos, “Protection in Space: A Self-Defense Acquisition Priority for U.S. Satellites”, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA485553]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">On balance, the …. time to act is now. 59 </span>
Reconstitution is critical to hegemony – crippled satellites undermine power projection – we are vulnerable now

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Schendzielos 08</span>__<span style="color: black;"> - </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">major United States Air Force, Command and General Staff Colleg**e**</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> [ Kurt M. Schendzielos, 30-04-2008, Protection in Space: A Self-Defense Acquisition Priority for U.S. Satellites, http://www.stormingmedia.us/35/3555/A355584.html access date: July 13, 2011] </span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">All aspects ….</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;"> even world economy.</span>

And, the U.S. is heavily dependent on its vulnerable space assets which make them an attractive target for attack
**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Wilson 01</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - </span>Vice President and General Manager of Spacecraft Systems and Services <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Tom, January, “Threats to United States Space Capabilities”, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.fas.org/spp/eprint/article05.html</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> WSX)</span>
Introduction The employment ….<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> counterspace threat situations</span>__.__

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">The plan’s defensive capabilities key to stopping space race, increasing diplomacy, and space leadership</span>
<span class="Underline0">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">Schendzielos 08</span>__**</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> – major in the USAF, School of Advanced Military Studies (April 30, 2008, Major Kurt Schendzielos, “Protection in Space: A Self-Defense Acquisition Priority for U.S. Satellites”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA485553)</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The first and most ….</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> against ASATs and space weapons.</span>
Hardening space assets makes our satellites less vulnerable to attack and can maintain our military dominance
**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Haddick 11</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Robert, Managing Editor of Small Wars Journal, “Lost In Space” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/02/11/this_week_at_war_lost_in_space?page=0,1</span>

The U.S. Department of Defense released its first-ever ….. for the Pentagon's budget masters.
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">It also maintains our war fighting capabilities which sustain our hegemony </span>
**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Ahearn 06</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Dave "</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">U.S. Military, Commercial Space Assets Vulnerable To Attack: Experts</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">". Defense Daily. FindArticles.com. 29 Jun, 2011. http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_6712/is_58_230/ai_n29277012/ </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">*Cites Michael Ohanlon who is a senior fellow at The Brookings Institution, specializing in defense and foreign policy issues</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">U.S. military and commercial …..</span>what ends, he said.

US leadership’s __essential__ to global stability --- solves numerous nuclear conflicts
__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Kagan, 07</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robert, senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, //Policy Review,// August/Sept, “End of Dreams, Return of History”)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">I</span><span class="smallcaps" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">f </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">the world is</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> …..will provide an easier path.</span>
Contention 2 is China!

Vulnerable space assets cause rising powers to challenge our hegemony.

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Tellis</span>__ 20****__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">07</span>__** - senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[specializing in international security, defense, and Asian strategic issues. PhD from U of Chicago Ashley J. Tellis, August, 30 2007, published online on September, 1 2007, “China's Military Space Strategy”, Survivial, </span><span style="font-size: 7pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/tellis_china_space1.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, accessed 7-14]</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">The strategic logic ……</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> through strategically encircling it.25</span>

Specifically - China’s space build up is intended to challenge US deployment protecting Taiwan – Space assets are key to sea power. US vulnerability will cause China to miscalculate in the Strait

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Dillon</span>__, 20****__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">08 </span>__–** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Naval Postgraduate School</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Matthew Master’s Candidate September 2008 </span><span style="font-size: 7pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://oai.dtic.mil/oai/oai?verb=getRecord&metadataPrefix=html&identifier=ADA488669]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Implications of the Chinese Anti-Satellite Test for the United States Navy Surface Forces Accessed July 12, 2011]</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">On January 11, 2007, China destroyed …..iterated every successive year.</span>9
China will miscalculate in Taiwan – they will not negotiate or cooperate if they think that they can hold our space assets at risk with their ASATs

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Dillon</span>__,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">20</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">08</span>__ –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Naval Postgraduate School</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Matthew Master’s Candidate September 2008 </span><span style="font-size: 7pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://oai.dtic.mil/oai/oai?verb=getRecord&metadataPrefix=html&identifier=ADA488669]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Implications of the Chinese Anti-Satellite Test for the United States Navy Surface Forces Accessed July 12, 2011]</span>

Offense dominance is the ….<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> ASAT weapon, the situation quickly spirals out of control. </span>

Taiwan is the most plausible scenario for Chinese ASAT attack
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">MacDonald 08</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">—</span>former assistant director for national security at the White House**.**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Bruce W. MacDonald, September 2008, “China, Space Weapons, and U.S. Security”, Council on Foreign Relations, Council Special Report No. 38, </span><span style="font-size: 7pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cfr.org/china/china-space-weapons-us-security/p16707]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, accessed 7-12-11]</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Looming in the background,</span> __….__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> militarily competitive space domain.</span>
This vulnerability will tempt China to attack

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Dillon</span>__**, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">08</span>__ –** Naval Postgraduate School<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Matthew Master’s Candidate September 2008 </span><span style="font-size: 7pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://oai.dtic.mil/oai/oai?verb=getRecord&metadataPrefix=html&identifier=ADA488669]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Implications of the Chinese Anti-Satellite Test for the United States Navy Surface Forces Accessed July 12, 2011]</span>
On January 11, 2007…. of an ASAT weapon attack.


Taiwanconflict leads to nuclear Armageddon
**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Strait Times 2K</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(June 25, “Regional Fallout: No one gains in war over Taiwan”, Lexis)</span>

THE DOOMSDAY SCENARIO THE high-intensity scenario ….<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> above everything else.</span>


=Negative= 
==Negative Stategies== 
Valley R1 vs East Kentwood Sat Hardening
1nc: cap k skfta t-increase t-substantial case
2nr: case cap k

Valley R4 vs SPC Bataille
1nc: t-increase ozone da space mil da on the ground cp case
2nr: ozone, cp

Valley R6 vs OPRF BMD
1nc: t-increase skfta should pic capk case
2nr: should pic, case


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]