[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
Contention 1 is Deterrence
First, decline of US power projection results in great power wars
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zhang and Shi</span>**, 1/22/**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span>** – Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C.; Lin Shi is from Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C. (America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/)
This does not necessarily … of unrivalled US primacy.
There is no alternative to hegemony—collapse goes nuclear
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ferguson 4—</span>history and business, Harvard MA and D.Phil from Glasgow and Oxford (Niall, A World Without Power, http://www.mtholyoke.edu/acad/intrel/afp/vac.htm, AMiles)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Critics of U.S</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. …from such a not-so-new world disorder.</span>
We solve – two internal links
Scenario 1 is Aerospace
First, current lack of US space policy prevents success in the aerospace industry – government action is key
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Maser 11</span>[Jim, Chair of the Corporate Membership Committee – American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics and President – Pratt & Whitney Rocketdyne, “A Review of NASA’s Exploration Program in Transition: Issues for Congress and Industry”, U.S. House Science, Space, and Technology Committee Hearing, 3-30, http://www.prattwhitney.com/media_center/executive_speeches/jim_maser_03-30-2011.asp]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Access to space … But </span><span class="underline">the clock is ticking</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


And, SPS and its spillover technology is the critical component to ensure that the US remains the aerospace leader.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NSSO</span>, National Space Security Organization, joint office to support the Executive Agent for Space and the newly formed Defense Space Council, 10/10/<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2007</span>, Space<span style="font-family: 'Academy Engraved LET';">‐</span>Based Solar Power As an Opportunity For Strategic Security, Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">FINDING: The SBSP Study Group …</span><span class="underline"> powerful expression of this imperative.</span>


And, aerospace power in space is key to US deterrence and international primacy
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Snead 07</span> **– [**Mike Sead Aerospace engineer and consultant focusing on Near-future space infrastructure development , “How America Can and Why America Must Now Become a True Spacefaring Nation,” Spacefaring America Blog, 6/3, http://spacefaringamerica.net/2007/06/03/6--why-the-next-president-should-start-america-on-the-path-to-becoming-a-true-spacefaring-nation.aspx, Caplan]
<span class="underline">Why is being …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> administration should exercise</span>
And, independently aerospace decline kills air power
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thompson 9</span> (David, President – American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, “The Aerospace Workforce”, Federal News Service, 12-10, Lexis)
<span class="underline">Aerospace systems are of considerable …our entire space sector relies on.</span>


Airpower deters multiple nuclear conflicts
Ashley J. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tellis</span> et al, Chung Min Lee, James Mulvenon, Courtney Purrington, and Michael D. Swaine, sources of conflict in the 21st century, availible via the rand website @ rand.org. chapter 3, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1998</span>
The first key implication …<span style="font-size: 10pt;">as in China, Indonesia, Myanmar, or North Korea.</span>

Scenario 2 is Mobility
First, current military supply lines are inefficient; SPS is key to elimination and forward deployment
Michael D. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lemonick</span> Professor of science journalism at Princeton University, Writer for Yale’s Environmental Journal and is the senior writer at Climate Central; 8/31/<span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span>,“Solar Power from Space:
Moving Beyond Science Fiction”; http://e360.yale.edu/content/feature.msp?id=2184, hhs-ab

But <span style="font-size: 10pt;">the military’s interest …</span> into the energy mainstream.
And, shifting to renewables is key to maintain forward deployment capabilities and sustain military power
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wald and Captain 09</span>General Charles F. Wald (USAF Ret) Director and Senior Advisor, Aerospace & Defense Industry, Tom Captain Vice Chairman, Global and U.S. Aerospace & Defense Industry Leader, “ Energy Security America’s Best Defense” 2009, http://www.deloitte.com/assets/Dcom-UnitedStates/Local%20Assets/Documents/AD/us_ad_EnergySecurity052010.pdf</span></span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span></span>
<span class="underline">Energy security and national …</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> accelerate the development and deployment of such technologies. </span>
Independently, that’s key to deter nuclear conflict and sustain US leadership internationally
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gerson 9</span> – Michael S. Gerson, Research analyst @ Center for Naval Analyses, a federally funded research center, where he focuses on deterrence, nuclear strategy, counterproliferation, and arms control, Autumn 2009, “Conventional Deterrence in the Second Nuclear Age,” Parameters
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Conventional deterrence</span> …<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> aggression and coercion.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 2 is Energy</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Scenario 1 is warming </span>**
Government funded SPS is the only solution to oil dependence and global warming- ensures global spillover
Jim <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wolf</span>, Reuters Journalist, 11/14/<span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span>, “Orbiting stations would harvest sun's energy” http://www.vancouversun.com/business/Orbiting+stations+would+harvest+energy/5706027/story.html#ixzz1eHiSBqgy; hhs-ab

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The sun's abundant energy…or by lasers, then fed into a power grid.</span>

<span class="Author-Date">We’re reaching the point of no return—beginning the transition to alternative energy is key </span>
Fiona <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harvey</span>, environment correspondent for the Guardian, “World headed for irreversible climate change in five years, IEA warns**,”** November 9, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2011</span>, http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2011/n ov/09/fossil-fuel-infrastructure-climate-change; hhs-ps
<span class="underline">The world is likely to…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, according to the IEA's calculations. </span>
And, there’s no question about warming—it’s real and anthropogenic
Stefan <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rahmstorf, </span>Professor of Physics @ Potsdam University, Member of the German Advisory Council on Climate Change, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008</span>(Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto, ed. Ernesto Zedillo, Prof. IR @ Yale, p. 42-49)

It is time to turn to statement B: <span style="font-size: 10pt;">… is a reality with which we need to deal.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> \</span>


<span class="Author-Date">Warming is real- your defense doesn’t assume new studies </span>
Richard <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Black</span>, Environment correspondent, BBC News “Global warming 'confirmed' by independent study,” 20 October <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2011</span> http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/science-environment-15373071)hhs-ps
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Earth</span>'s surface really <span style="font-size: 10pt;">…</span>, in order to construct a truly global dataset.
Extinction
Oliver <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tickell</span>, environmental researcher, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008</span>, 8/11, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange)
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">We need to get prepared …a similar hothouse Earth.</span>
Substantial U.S. action key to guarantee spillover
Trevor <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Houser et al</span>, visiting fellow at the Peterson <span class="CardsChar">Institute for International Economics; Shashank Mohan, research analyst with the Rhodium Group; --AND-- Robert Heilmayr, research analyst at</span> the World Resources Institute, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span>
[“A Green Global Recovery? Assessing US Economic Stimulus and the Prospects for International Coordination,” http://www.iie.com/publications/papers/houser0309.pdf]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The G-20 group of …</span><span class="underline">climate agreement</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Scenario 2 is Peak Oil </span></span></span>
Peak oil inevitable- consensusof studies
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Foster 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John Bellamy, Research devoted to critical inquiries into theory and history, focusing primarily on the economic, political and ecological contradictions of capitalism and imperialism, but also encompassing the wider realm of social theory as a whole. Teaching encourages in-depth, critical exploration of history and ideology, equipping students to learn to learn on their own.”Peak Oil and energy Imperialism.” http://www.cym.ie/documents/peak_oil.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In February … standpoint</span>
Oil dependence causes great power war
Richard <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Heinberg</span>, CORE FACULTY MEMBER AT NEW COLLEGE OF CALIFORNIA, The Party’s Over: Oil, War and the Fate of Industrial Societies, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2003</span>, p. 230
Today <span style="font-size: 10pt;">the average …most of the biosphere. </span>

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]