[[toc]]
=Anthropocentrism= 

**The Aff’s forgetting of the non-human world solidifies anthropocentric power relations**
**Bell and Russell, 00**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – *Graduate Student in the Faculty of Environmental Studies at York University AND **Graduate Student at the Ontario Institute Studies in Education at the University of Toronto (*Anne C. AND** Constance L., 2000, “Beyond Humans, Beyond Words: Anthropocentricism, Critical Pedagogy, and the Poststructuralist Turn, UTD McDermitt Library, KONTOPOULOS) PDF</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For this reason, the various ... (A. Gough, 1997; Russell, Bell, & Fawcett, 2000), </span>**__anthropocentrism passes unchallenged__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.1</span>

**That makes war inevitable and turns the case**
**Kochi, 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Sussex Law School (Tarik, October 2009, “Species War: Law, Violence and Animals”, Law Culture and Humanities, Vol. 5, No. 3, UTD McDermitt Library, KONTOPOULOS) PDF</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Grotius and Hobbes are sometimes ... </span>**__modern juridical ordering of war.__**

**Evaluate impact solvency based on who solves the root cause—proximate causes are useless and only __replicate__ their harms**
**Shaw and Wong, 89**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - *Ph.D., Health Economist and Program at Adviser of the Human Development Group at the World Bank AND **HSBC Distinguished Visiting Professor of International Business at the University of British Columbia (*R. Paul AND** Yuwa, 1989, Genetic Seeds of Warfare: evolution, nationalism and patriotism, Google Books, p. 11-12, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So far, we have synthesized ... reinforce propensities for warfare.</span>

**Alternative Text: Adopt an animal standpoint epistemology.**

**Only adopting an animal standpoint epistemology solves their impacts—it’s also mutually exclusive with the aff**
**Best, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Associate Professor of Humanities and Philosophy at the University of Texas at El Paso (Steven, 12/31/10, “Total Liberation: Revolution for the 21st Century”, [[http://drstevebest.wordpress.com/2010/12/31/total-liberation-revolution-for-the-21st-century-4/]], KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span>**__while people have ...__** **__domination over__** **__nonhuman animals.__**

=**Heidegger**= 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Any attempt to explore space is a misguided attempt to conquer universal truth. Seeking this point of objectivity will only replicate the Aff’s harms and destroy Being.</span>**
**Arendt 61**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> [Hannah, American political philosopher, student of Heidegger, “The Conquest of Space and the Stature of Man” The New Atlantis Fall 2007]</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">It is at this point, it seems to me, ...</span> <span style="font-size: 11pt;">but have been destroyed.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The alternative is to do nothing because only doing nothing allows for Being to reveal itself</span>**
**Harman in 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Graham, Professor of Philosophy @ American University in Cairo, “Cambridge Journal of Economics”, 2009, Vol. 34(1), __Technology, objects and things in Heidegger__ p.17-25) JM</span>
Another word in Heidegger's constellation... into a mere wish to know’<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Heidegger, 1994, pp. 71–2)</span>.

=**Heteronormativity**= 
**The politics of space are profoundly gendered – the discourse of exploration, development, and colonization reproduce heteronormative hierarchies and ensure the continuation of patriarchy in space.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Griffin 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Penny, Senior Lecturer - Convenor, MA International Relations, ‘The Spaces Between Us: The Gendered Politics of Outer Space’, in Bormann, N. and Sheehan, M. (eds), Securing Outer Space. London and New York: Routledge, pp.59-75.)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This chapter is about sex, ...</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> a heterosexualized, masculinized realm</span><span class="Underline">. </span>


**Reinforcement of the heteronormative power structure creates systematic oppression through violent resistance towards the LGBT community.**
**Luthra**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 20</span>**04**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Aman. Department of Geography at Syracuse University. “Interrupting Heteronormativity” (Un)Straightening the Syracuse University Landscape Page 45-54. http://www.syr.edu/gradschool/pdf/resourcebooksvideos/Heteronormativity.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Three years later, in October 2000, ...</span> relations within the community.

**Alt: Reject the Aff’s oppressive discourse creating a safe space for discursive resistance to Heteronormativity. We must break the silence.**
**Knox 6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Sher Knox. Exploring Heterosexual Hegemony in Health and Social Services: Critical Que(e)ries. 2006. University of Victoria, Victoria, Canada. http://www.uvic.ca/hsd/assets/docs/publications/variegations/vol-3/knox.pdf)</span>

One of the effects of ... that silence and isolate.

=Nietzsche= 
**The desire for security denies the basic principles of fear affirming a negative will to power causing nihilism.**
<span class="Underline">**Der Derian 93** ( </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">James, Watson Institute research professor of international studies and professor of political science at Brown University 1993“The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard*” http://library.northsouth.edu/Upload/On%20Security.pdf) </span>

The will to power<span class="Underline">,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> then, should ... mistrust and evil experiences." 3</span>

**Suffering is inevitable due to the human obligation to create memorable events**
<span class="underline0">Nietzsche 87</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">[Friedrich Nietzsche. 1887. “Genealogy of Morals”, second essay “Guilt…” pg. 497 in “The Basic Writings of Nietzsche”]</span>
__How can one create a ... momentary affect and desire.__

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The aff’s politics of resentiment focus outward to the “evil Other” preventing inward reflection preventing affirmation of anything else but its own slave morality</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Hunt 06 – Professor @University of Wisconsin–Madison</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Lester, “Thus Spake Howard Roark: Nietzschean Ideas in The Fountainhead”,1946,Philosophy and Literature, Volume 30, Number 1, April 2006, pp. 79-101 (Article)HGArReTt)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nietzsche presents his discussion ... these ideas in The Fountainhead.</span>

**The aff’s attempt to prevent suffering ignores suffering’s inevitability and embraces Christianity’s slave morality. The attempt to solve suffering ends our personal ability to overcome.**
**Kain 7 – Santa Clara profressor of Philosophy**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Philip, Nietzsche, Eternal Recurrence, and the Horror of Existence The Nietzsche journal.)</span>

__We have seen that in ...__ __strength through such suffering.__

**The Overcoming will allow us as individuals to be Ubermensch, a being as much greater to man as man is to ape. To attempt this, two things are necessary: Chaos and faith in the Earth. The aff ends both by reaching for stability and reaching for space past the Earth which is nihilistic. No other impact nor sympathy for it comes close to outweighing**
**Nietzsche 85**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Friedrich Nietzsche. German Philosopher. 1885. </span>__Thus Spoke Zarathustra__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Pages 3-4. http://www.holybooks.com/wp-content/uploads/Thus-Spoke-Zarathustra-by-F.-Nietzsche.pdf)</span>

__I teach you the overman. ...__ __the lightning, however, is called overman.__

**The aff’s security and existential risk is a nihilistic discourse proves the advent of the Last Man mentality. This is a world in which humans lose the goal of Overcoming and become most contemptible.**
**Johnston 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Philip Johnston. March 30, 2009. Philosophy Major at the University of Melbourne. “The Last Man, Friedrich Nietzsche.” http://phillip-johnston.suite101.com/the-last-man-friedrich-nietzsche-a106926)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In his book Thus Spoke... </span> __the "most contemptible man."__

<span class="Underline">**The judge has the obligation as a scholar to reject the aff by breaking free from prior constraints. This allows theory to become practice.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Kilgore 3 -** **Associate Professor of English and American and Cultural Studies at Indiana University.** </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(De Witt Douglas Kilgore, University of Pennsylvania Press, 2003, “Astrofuturism: Science, Race, and Visions of Utopia in Space,” Print)</span>

<span class="Underline">Haraway and Jenkins represent ...</span> the academic’s stock in trade<span class="Underline">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**By embracing the inevitability of suffering and our own innocence, we can affirm our own Becoming and break free from guilt. This is the overcoming. With death looming, accepting suffering is the best option.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Faulkner 8 – ARC Research Fellow in the School of History and Philosophy at the University of New South Wales**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Joanne Spring/Autumn 2008, “The Innocence of Victimhood Versus the “Innocence of Becoming”: Nietzsche, 9/11, and the “Falling Man””, The Journal of Nietzsche Studies, Project MUSE, umn-rks )</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Most significantly, for the purposes ... </span><span class="Underline">it must have felt like flying</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.” 33 </span>

**Embracing the eternal return allows you to love life.**
**Nietzsche 1882**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Friedrich Nietzsche. German Philosopher. </span>__The Gay Science__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Section 341: The Heaviest Burden. [[http://www.lexido.com/EBOOK_TEXTS/THE_GAY_SCIENCE_FOURTH_BOOK_.aspx?S=341]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Heaviest Burden. What </span>__if ...____this ultimate sanction and seal?__

**We must engage in the affirmation of a positive will to power, and thus suffering’s inevitability, to overcome politics of resentiment that leads to domination. This transcends humanity and nihilism. We must engage in personal overcoming rather than an external enemy.**
**Newman 2000**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Saul Newman. Doctorate in Political Science from the University of New South Wales. Postdoctoral Fellow at Macquarie University. “Anarchism and the Politics of Ressentiment.” From </span>__Theory and Event 4:3)__

__Rather than having an ... increasing the possibilities for freedom.__
=Orientalism= 
**<Add more specific link>**

**The current understanding of the East by society and the aff’s writers is a framework of Orientalism. This is integrated into all of American society as a form of domination over the Orient. The only way to break free from this cultural domination is to reject the affirmative and begin a discursive interrogation of Orientalism through a humanist lens.**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Said 3</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Edward, Prof. of English/Comparative Lit., Columbia U., “Preface.” Orientalism. P 3-4, date accessed: 7/9/2010) AJK</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Related to this academic tradition, ... body of texts I call Orientalist.</span>


=Social Ecology= 


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The root cause of environmental destruction is social problems in society. Acting without solving for social problems masks this root cause and kills any aff solvency.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bookchin 93</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Murray Bookchin. Cofounder and director emeritus of the Institute for Social Ecology. //Animal Rights to Radical Ecology//, “What Is Social Ecology.” http://dwardmac.pitzer.edu/Anarchist_Archives/bookchin/socecol.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">What literally defines </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">social ecology</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">is more cosmetic than curative. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Acting with the state will never solve for social problems. Vote neg to reject state action in favor of social anarchism to bring the power back to the communities</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Bookchin 98 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Murray, Cofounder and director emeritus of the Institute for Social Ecology. Left Green Perspectives, No. 38. [[http://www.social-ecology.org/1998/04/left-green-perspectives-38/]].</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">But </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">the state rarely bends ...</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> of society (which the system must resist). </span>