=Spheres Radical Affirmative rev2= 
//<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">(NOTE: This is a Radical Affirmative, based on poststructural radical aesthetism theory. It is not a “critical affirmative” as that signifies something that is of the critical theory tradition, which we understand derived out of the Frankfurt School. While these pioneers of thinking certainly were very important to our tradition, we understand that critique in the end was unable to transform society as had been hoped. Embracing new uncoverings in pedagogy, epistemology, hermeneutics and other theories of thinking and being, this case brings brand new theory into the event site of a debate round to actually DO SOMETHING, advocate something and extend this thinking in the manner that its explorers believe is perhaps the only way we can re-think what it means to be a being in society).</span>//

==1AC== 

Fasten your seatbelts and secure your spacesuit, because Chase and I are going to take you on a journey right here and right now to beyond the mesosphere. You can flow, scribble, fingerpaint, daydream or even float about the room in a bubble with us as we explore the strange spaces within and without because this won’t be a typical policy debate.

We’re going to have to leave the land of metaphysical magic aside. I know it’s really hard to believe, but Chase and I aren’t United States Senators and you’re not the three branches of government judging with a blank slate and no preconditions. We admit that as affirmatives we have no will-to-fiat and in spite of our best intentions no bill will be passed when the round concludes but we also believe we have to call that paradigm into question because pretending to be policymakers tends to reinforce some violent epistemologies that Chase and I are going to talk about have some really bad consequences.

As affirmatives, we choose to situate the debate right here within the event. In case you need to feel our exploration is legitimate to the form of debate, we’ll put your mind at rest as this debate is one that even a 1960s stock issues judge would recognize as valid or even an early twentieth century judge who grew up studying debate theory out of the definitive 1905 Laycock and Scales “Argumentation and Debate” would immediately know how to evaluate. We think you haven’t forgotten debate’s legacy and will work to show why rethinking the question of space exploration is material to this rethinking.

We’re not going to make demands but will defend three things:

1. TOPICAL ADVOCACY: That space beyond the mesosphere is a place we do not sufficiently explore today and that Chase and I believe this exploration is important. We think you will too and while we think the US Federal Government should advocate this through educational programs like the debate programs and even through educational instruction, we feel our plan is right here in this room, showing you and our opponents that this unexplored space is immediately accessible.


2. NO FIAT METAPHYSICS: We don’t need to defend a plan implemented through fiat because our plan’s right here and is real world and we’re doing it now. f we care about education and real-world experience, teaching debaters to pretend they can conjure up solutions to global problems through the magic of fiat is both educationally damaging and socially harmful. We will defend that this thinking is not only harmful to us in debate and education but causes us to make catastrophic decisions when we go out and work in global capital or government.


3. ROLE OF THE BALLOT: We advocate the act of exploring this space beyond the mesosphere and provide ground for a debate on epistemology, pedagogy and hermeneutics. We don’t have an obligation to be fair because in the history of thinking the emergence of new ideas never held back because it might be unfair to the broken old ones. We reject that “everyone gets a ribbon” mentality and ask that you evaluate this on educational grounds and sincerely explore the space we share with you in an authentic moment. This is a red pill, blue pill event. **If you think our plan for the space exploration for us beings in the room brings a positive net benefit, then you vote aff.** 


==Our FIRST CONTENTION is LAPUTANS== 

Before we launch to beyond the mesosphere we have to ask where we’re at inside. There’s a problem with grounding, the ground our launch pad rests on and I’m pretty certain its shaky, confused and old ground.

Professor Iain Thompson explains in ’11 that from the very beginning of humanity’s records of our asking questions about what it means to be, we’ve had a bipolar view that has caused us a lot of troubles. Philosopher Thales developed a theory of the most small things and grounded our view of the world into the very first documented meta-physics by explaining that the most fundamental element of nature was water. Starting at the most fundamental and small, Thales created a metaphysics of ontology.

Thales’ student Anaximander then came along and took the opposite end of thinking by declaring that //apeiron// or “the indefinite, unlimited and infinite” was what grounded our thinking and centered us on the largest of the large, constructing a totalizing metaphysics of theology, not meaning a system of God, but rather a theology where everything was understood in total from a God-like view and perspective of the entirety of the universe. 

Thompson explains through the narrative of Swift’s //Gulliver’s Travels// to illuminate this ontotheological crisis:

__Swift’s wonderful satire begins with Lemuel Gulliver recounting his famous experiences among the miniscule Lilliputians… a spectulative philosophy of the twin foci of which are pure mathematics and astronomy.__

We should already see a parallel to pure rational policymaker objectivity and the exploration of space.

__The distance between these everyday …philosophical fixations on mathematics and astronomy, “one of their eyes is turned inward and the other looks directly up to the zenith.”__

==Our Second Contention is Globes== 

Peter Sloterdijk looks at how this onto-theological thinking ends up creating metaphysical globes and shapes the societies we build. This leads us fiat policymakers to believe this metaphysical construct is true, carrying it into our careers in capital and government much to humanity’s dismay:

[Peter Sloterdijk, NSND, 2011]
__The central point of Globes concerns the revolution of the global …Over two thousand years of globe metaphysics cannot be discounted.__

The impact of this thinking that our contemporary practice of policymaker and fiat debate also finds itself trapped within is the root cause of globalism itself, not only preventing the exploration of outerspace but further causing it to disappear. Sloterdijk explains in 11:

[Sloterdijk 11, NSND, p. 199]
__The current phase of globalization is a consequence of the movement of speculative capital which, taking the form of information, turns in circles around the earth at the speed of light.…a consequence of speed and the primacy accorded to time – is bad news.__

==Our Third Contention is Bubbles== 

We all first come into the world, not as Individuals or Singularities, but as a member of a biune between mother and child, where a micro-sphere of this duo is the first reality we know and learn to construct meaning and language within. Daydream with us as we examine this first place we all knew in Sloterdijk in ‘11:

[Sloterdijk 11, NSND, p. 201]
__Human beings__ belong to a species of viviparous mammals __that need to overcome a “space problem,” …__To speak like Deleuze, humans are in a permanent game between tendencies of territorialization and of deterritorialization.

We create this interior space as a radically alternate fragile grounding – one that takes place right here, in the moment of the event – instead of projected into onto-theological fiat space. This inner space within the mesosphere is the bubble launch pad for our space journey. Sloterdijk 11:

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Peter Sloterdijk, professor , president of the State Academy of Design at the Center for Art and Media in Karlsruhe, //Neither Sun Nor Death//, with interviewer Hans-Jürgen Heinrichs, trans. Steve Corcoran. Los Angeles: Semiotext(e), 2011, p.139-140]</span>
__In placing the image of the bubble at the center of my reflections…works of art until the point that these colored things burst.__
==And thus we arrive at our Fourth Contention of Launch== 

By taking the bubbles of the most small and fragile, we want to challenge that word and concept GLOBAL and ask you to approach it from this moment on with great suspicion, allowing instead for the radical potential of GLOBE which projects from our fragile bubble of our first biunial relationship and grows through the event in each of our bubble relationships we form to construct a new outerspace we can explore. Grab your bubbles and blow as Sloterdijk explains this new world beyond the mesosphere:

[Sloterdijk 11, NSND, p. 199-200]
It is against this background that __I endeavored to undertake a sort of reconquest of space by postulating it as a good type of extension and a principle of discretion…“The world is round around the round Dasein.”__ __It is an astonishing remark, because it is foreign to contemporary sensibility. It claims__ an eutony, __an immunity, and an essential having-turned-out well for everything that is round__, as if it was already a morphological gospel in itself.

Chase and I ask you to join us in this outer space, beyond the metaphysical mesosphere. //(END OF AC)//