[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
Moral Engagement AC

V = Justice

Definition of Animal Rights
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Gary L. Francione [[http://www.animallaw.info/articles/arusgfrancione1997.htm]] “Animal Rights Theory and Utilitarianism: Relative Normative Guidance”. 3 Animal L. 75 (1997) </span>

Strong theories of ethics requires the inclusion of self-sanction, and psycho-social factors governing behavior
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Bandura, A. (1991). Social cognitive theory of moral thought and action. In W. M. Kurtines & J.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">L. Gewirtz (Eds.), Handbook of moral behavior and development (Vol. 1, pp. 45-103).</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Hillsdale</span>****<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">, NJ</span>****<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">: Erlbaum.</span>**

Prefer ethics that include the fallibility of human reasoning and innate human tendencies
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Zygmunt Bauman, Life in Fragments: Essays in Postmodern Morality (Oxford, 1995), 192-195.</span>

Vc = preserving moral engagement

Animals are stigmatized to be inferior to humans
//<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Psychology of Evil </span>////<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">by [[http://www.psichi.org/pubs/search.asp?searchString=Philip+Zimbardo&auth=yes|Philip Zimbardo]] - Stanford University (2000) </span>//

//<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Challenge the boundaries between human and animal to de-stigmatize the animal </span>//
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Sherryl Vint “Review: The Animal Is Us” Science Fiction Studies, Vol. 31, No. 1 (Mar., 2004), pp. 163-167 http://www.jstor.org/stable/4241246 </span>

==Negative== 
Naturalism Kritik
A: Link
1. Rights are anthropocentric,
<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">{{Tom Regan, Professor Emeritus of Philosophy, North Carolina State University, 2003, The Animal Ethics Reader, eds. Armstrong & Botzler, p. 456}}</span>

<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">“The rights view… include nonhuman animals.</span>

2. <span style="color: black; font-size: 11.5pt;">Humans have put themselves outside the natural order, becoming shapers rather than parts of the environment, Heise</span>
//<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">{{“Lost Dogs, Last Birda, and Listed Species: Cultures of Extinction” Ursula **__Heise__**, Stanford University **__2k11__**}}</span>//

//"//Humans live in... yet set foot."

<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">B. Impact—loss of biodiversity threatens existence both of humans and of animals, Heise 2</span>
<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">“Biologists estimate that… Year of Biodiversity”</span>

<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">C. Alt: Reject the anthropocentric notion that we need to extend rights to animals—human beings have an obligation to treat animals as they would in their natural environment and engage in the natural struggle for life that biology grants us.</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">{{Katz and Oechsli 93}}</span>**</span>{{<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">(Eric, Vice President of the International Society for Environmental Ethics, and Lauren, Biology at Columbia, //Environmental Ethics//, vol 15 no 1, 1993 “Moving beyond Anthropocentrism: Environmental Ethics, Development, and the Amazon”)</span>}}

<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">Neg is anti-animal rights not anti-animals.</span>


=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
===Evolution AC=== 
The only constant about what makes a human “good” is one that seeks self-preservation. **West,**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.discovery.org/a/9541]]. Discovery Institute — Center for Science and Culture. “DOES DARWINISM SUPPORT TRADITIONAL MORALITY?.” May 1, 2009. "However, before one... ...Aristotle and Aquinas."</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Self preservation is the basis of ethics. </span>**Rauscher**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“How a Kantian Can Accept Evolutionary Metaethics.” [[http://www.springerlink.com/content/?Author=FREDERICK+RAUSCHER|FREDERICK RAUSCHER]]. [[http://www.springerlink.com/content/0169-3867/|BIOLOGY AND PHILOSOPHY]]. 1996. [[http://www.springerlink.com/content/0169-3867/12/3/|Volume 12, Number 3]], 303-326. "The fourth application... ...mechanisms and behaviors."</span>


And, prefer my framework over normative ones, because under normative ethics, moral relativity is true. **<span style="color: #404040; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Mackie</span>**
J.L. Mackie, 1977, //Ethics Inventing Right and Wrong,//
<span style="color: #404040; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">[[https://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&pid=gmail&attid=0.1&thid=12980bd13cf06711&mt=application/pdf&url=https://mail.google.com/mail/?ui%3D2%26ik%3D5796fc7503%26view%3Datt%26th%3D12980bd13cf06711%26attid%3D0.1%26disp%3Dattd%26realattid%3Df_gb00kh020%26zw&sig=AHIEtbReTcCjs43W7SyZ46TtUO-ew5Rymg&pli=1]] "The argument from... ...of objective values."</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thus, my burden</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> for the round is to prove that lethal force in deliberate response to repeated domestic violence is an act of self-preservation, and as such is consistent with our morality.</span>


**<span style="color: #262626;">A) Risk Of Death: </span>****The Silent Witness National Initiative provides statistics on the number of victims killed by domestic abuse.**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Female murder victims are substantially more likely than male murder victims to have been killed by an intimate. In recent years - From US Department of Justice-Office of Justice Programs </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/bjs/homicide/intimates.htm%202004|http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/bjs/homicide/intimates.htm 2004 ]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">"about one third... ...and aggravated assaults."</span>


**B) Lethal force by definition is an act of self-preservation.**


**C)** <span style="color: black;">Running away does not solve the problem. This belief is supported empirically. Victims who try to leave their abusers are much more likely to be murdered. </span>**Buel**

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Sarah M. Buel [co-founder of the University of Texas Voices Against Violence co-founded the interdisciplinary University of Texas Institute on Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault. She is the faculty supervisor for the Survivor Support Network (SSN) and the student group, Society Encouraging Excellence Through Diversity (SEED)</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, American Attorney</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">] “Fifty Obstacles to Leaving, a.k.a., Why Abuse Victims Stay” AK</span>
===Law Based Morality AC=== 
v- morality
The legal system guides morality and defines its parameters.
Hart, (<span style="font-size: 11px;">Law, Liberty, and Morality H.L.A Hart Stanford University Press, 1963)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Both in England... jury) morally astray.</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">Wolfendum furthers, (The Report of the Departmental Committee on Homosexual Offences and Prostitution (better known as the Wolfenden report, after </span><span style="font-size: 11px;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Federick_Wolfenden|Lord Wolfenden]]</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">, the chairman of the committee) was published in Britain on 4 September 1957)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">...is to preserve... or mind, inexperienced.</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">The meaning of exploitation and corruption are defined by our moral values.</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Wimberly, (</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 11px;">Defending Victims of Domestic Violence Who Kill Their Batterers: Using the Trial Expert to Change Social Norms </span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman; font-size: 11px;">Vanderbilt University Law School 2007)</span>
<span style="font-family: Times-Roman; font-size: 11px;">Robinson recognizes that... to our laws.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times-Roman; font-size: 11px;">The standard is consistency with the legal system.</span>


My sole contention is that it is codified into law to use deadly force as self-defense in response to repeated domestic violence, making it legal.
Simons, (<span style="font-size: 11px;">Professor of Law, Associate Dean for Research, and The Honorable Frank R. KenisonDistinguished Scholar</span>//<span style="font-size: 11px;"> New Criminal Law Review</span>//<span style="font-size: 11px;">, Vol. 11, Number 1, pps 51–90. ISSN 1933-4192, electronic ISSN1933-4206. © 2008 by the Regents of the University of California)</span>



Standard American criminal... this basic structure.
Wimberly 2 furthers on the specifics of when deadly force is allowed. (ibid)
For example, taking... force or threat.

a) definitionally agree that domestic violence is rape or serious injury.

b)
Simons 2 furthers with empirics. (ibid)
Considering some examples... to be permissible.

Moreover, knowledge of meeting criteria for self-defense or use of deadly force prior to the deadly force being applied is not necessary.
Simons 3 (ibid)
On the conventional... at the moment.

===Moral Relativism AC=== 

v- morality
The standard is respecting divergent ethics.
1)
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 15px;">Attempting to universalize a moral concept that is not already universally accepted paradoxically means that the invasive viewpoint is universally immoral and illegitimate. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 15px;">Haste 98, </span>//<span style="font-size: 11px;">{{Helen, professor of Education at Harvard University, "Communitarianism and the Social Construction of Morality."The Office for Studies in Moral Development and Education at University of Illinois at Chicago. 1998.}}</span>//
<span style="font-size: 11px;">If social interaction... source of morality.</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">2) Divergent ethics prereq to meaningful moral discourse.</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px;">3) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 15px;">People have developed altruistic intuitions about morality which stand the test of time. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 15px;">Narveson, (J</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">AN NARVESON (Department of Philosophy, University of Waterloo) “Discussion-Review: Evolutionary Biology, Altruism, and Moral theory” Biology and Philosophy 15: 259–274, 2000.)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Again, it certainly... biology in particular.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">4) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Respecting divergent ethics and embracing that there is no absolute morality allows us to feel the anxiety of moral uncertainty, which is the only way morality can function. Claiming absolute morals contradicts morality. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Bauman, (</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">Zygmunt Bauman “Postmodern Ethics” Page 78 )</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">There is, however... not moral enough.</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">5) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 15px;"><span style="font-family: Arial;">E</span>pistemologically, respecting divergent ethics is a pre-requisite to conceptions of universal moral norms which boil down to subjective moral viewpoints anyway.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 15px;">MacIntyre, </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">(Alasdair MacIntyre[Famous Philosopher. After Virtue page 20. 1981.])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Yet the most... behind after all.</span>


My sole contention is that many moral agents agree that it is morally permissible for victims to use deadly force in response to repeated domestic violence, disproving any universal moral norm or rule against such.

Feminist and anti-patriarchal ideology defends the moral permissibility of using deadly force as a structural response to patriarchy.
Gelderloos, (Peter, How Nonviolence Protects the State, attended James Madison University, p. 66-8])
From another angle.. the short term.

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 15px;">Most people in America agree that it is morally permissible to use deadly force in response to repeated domestic violence**.** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 15px;">Carlson, (P</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial,Bold','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;">ublic Opinion about Domestic Violence Bonnie E. Carlson ; Alissa Pollitz Worden December 2002 Opinions or points of view expressed are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the official position or policies of the U.S. Department of Justice. University of Albany. (Sample size is over 10,000, taken randomly))</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial,Bold','sans-serif'; font-size: 11px;">The most common... would be justifiable.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 15px;">Furthermore, there is a culture of accepting self-defense as a morally permissible action among humans. </span>

Simons, (<span style="font-size: 11px;">Professor of Law, Associate Dean for Research, and The Honorable Frank R. KenisonDistinguished Scholar</span>//<span style="font-size: 11px;"> New Criminal Law Review</span>//<span style="font-size: 11px;">, Vol. 11, Number 1, pps 51–90. ISSN 1933-4192, electronic ISSN1933-4206. © 2008 by the Regents of the University of California)</span>

Standard American criminal... this basic structure.

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 15px;">AND, even if the minority of women use deadly force, this means they’re engaging in their moral selves even more than the majority. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 15px;">Zimbardo, (</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Philip Zimbardo (Hella Legit Social Psychologist @ Stanford). “The Lucifer Effect” 219-220)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Researchers have also... a valid cause.</span>









==Negative== 
===Nonviolence NC=== 
1) <span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">The negative’s burden is the converse of the affirmative’s that it is morally IMPERMISSIBLE to use deadly force in deliberate response to domestic violence. Key to ground. Fairness is a voter.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">2) Functional ethical theories seek own preservation, meaning that they cannot exclude actors from moral dialogue.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; line-height: 24px;">v- morality </span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; line-height: 24px;">Proportionality is a bedrock principle for morality.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"><span style="line-height: 24px;">Scott, (</span>Elizabeth S. Scott, & Laurence Steinberg, Law Professor-Columbia & Psychology Professor-Temple, 2008, Rethinking Juvenile Justice, p. 123 )</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">The starting point... surrounding the offense. </span>

Proportionality prereq to morality

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">My sole contention is that the AC allows for violent, lethal measures to be taken, which contradicts morality. </span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">The act of killing is always going to be disproportional to the domestic abuse because we don’t know what happens when we die. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Seligman, (</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Helplessness: On depression, development, and death. A series of books in psychology. Seligman, Martin E. P. New York, NY, US: W H Freeman/Times Books/ Henry Holt & Co. (1975). xv 250 pp. )</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">The most uncertain... one we kill.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Rather, I advocate that all communities strive towards peaceful coexistence to achieve the ends that lethal force seeks. Ahmed, (</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Dr. Husna Ahmad, Chief Executive of the Faith Regen Foundation, [[http://www.faithregenuk.org/|www.faithregenuk.org]] [[http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:hrBJIzRpFAUJ:www.faithregenuk.org/Reports/WomensConfReport.pdf+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us&client=firefox-a]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">With increased migration... members of society.</span>

===Mandatory Arrest CP=== 
**A – Text** Governments should reform their legal systems to include mandatory arrest and prosecution measures for instances of domestic violence. Victims should call law enforcement instead of using deadly force. I reserve the right to clarify.

**B – Competition –** I compete via mutual exclusivity: you can’t kill them and arrest them too. I also compete via net benefits

**C- Solvency**

First: The CP is inherent. The status quo is a procedural problem, not a behavioral problem – police are trained to mediate rather than arrest.
**Epstein ’99, (**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Epstein, Deborah. "EFFECTIVE INTERVENTION IN DOMESTIC VIOLENCE CASES: RETHINKING THE ROLES OF PROSECUTORS, JUDGES, AND THE COURT SYSTEM." Yale J.L. & Feminism (1999). HeinOnline. Web. 22 Mar. 2012)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Until recently, police.. damaged a vehicle.</span>

Second: Instituting “no-drop” policies solve – empirics prove.
**Epstein 2** (ibid)
As in San Diego... sixty-nine percent.

**D- Net Benefits**

First: Mandatory arrests solve violence and raise societal awareness about domestic violence, increasing the chance of its elimination.
**Strout,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Anna K Strout, University of Vermonet Honors College Thesis. Experiment. 2007-2012 [[http://www.uvm.edu/~honcoll/S09_Thesis/Strout_Anna_Thesis.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is argued... to stop it.</span>


Mandatory arrest policies prevent recidivism and solve violence – empirics prove.
**Buel ’88,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Buel, Sarah. "MANDATORY ARREST FOR DOMESTIC VIOLENCE." </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Harv. Women's L.J.</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (1988). </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">HeinOnline</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Web. 22 Mar. 2012.)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Evidence shows that... six-month follow-up period.</span>

Third: Mandatory arrest deters – empirics.
**Buel ’88** (ibid)
By ensuring that... incidents decreased 28%.

===Nonlethal Force CP=== 
**Text:** Nonlethal force used in direct response to repeated domestic violence is morally permissible
**Taylor furthers: (**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://articles.latimes.com/1993-07-19/local/me-14604_1_non-lethal-weapons]][[http://articles.latimes.com/1993/jul/19|July 19, 1993]]|WILLIAM J. TAYLOR JR. | William J. Taylor Jr. is senior vice president at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. )</span>
Non-lethality is a... cause temporary blindness.

<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">It's competitive via mutual exclusivity and net benefits.</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">It solves because the desired ends of the AC is to end DV, which is done through the CP, just with less force.</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Net benefits:</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">1) killing a moral actor is bad because it excludes them from moral dialogue, which destroys ethics</span>

===<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Permissibility Off</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Distinction between encouraged, required, permissible, and prohibited.</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Babic, (</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Jovan Babic, in "Justifying Forgiveness," found in </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Peace Review,</span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> March 2000)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Tolerance is the... of moral evaluation (in oneself).</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Babic 2 (ibid)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Intolerance signifies a.. good or bad.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Aff passes a moral judgment about which isn’t affirming the resolution because the resolution doesn’t question if it’s right but rather if we should morally indifferent towards it, that is pass no moral judgments.</span>




=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]