[[toc]]
Adam Pease = 1a/2n adampease1[at]gmail[dot]com
Robbie Manley = 1n/2a robbiemanley[at]gmail[dot]com


Note: If you debate us and have issues with our disclosure please e-mail us rather than jacking our cards and defacing our wiki. We're happy to send anyone who is interested cites, and we always update within a week of breaking a new aff. If you have problems with that please let us know rather than taking matters into your own hands.



=Stanford= 
=== === 
==Oops lol forgot our 1ac again== 
=SQUO= 

<span class="Underline">**Contention one is Inherency:** </span>

**Lack of a global transparent maritime information network is collapsing maritime domain awareness – recent satellite launches set the stage for effective integration but no plans have been made.** 
**Earles** **10** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Marion “Rick”, Owner of E&A; Executive Director for CANEUS US at Earles & Associates and CANEUS US, CANEUS USA, International Collaborative Aerospace Development Micro-Nano-Technologies: From Concepts to Systems, CANEUS International is a unique non-profit organization of professionals involving public/private partnership, serving primarily the needs of aeronautics, space and defense communities by fostering the coordinated, international development of MNT (Micro-Nano- Technologies) for aerospace and defense applications. CANEUS Shared Small Satellites CSSP Workshop Committee, “International Space-Based AIS and Data Extraction Backbone High Level Requirements”, http://www.caneus.org/sharedsmallsats/downloads/International_Space-Based_AIS_and_Data_Extraction_Backbone-High_Level_Requirements.pdf, //azp//)</span>

__With greater emphasis being placed on global situational awareness__, global asset monitoring, and environmental monitoring, __maritime__ and terrestrial sensor and __data acquisition systems are__ critical enabling capabilities that are __becoming more ubiquitous__. The need is driven by global security and safety initiatives responsive to the new face of conflict, which involves every sector of society and knows no geographic boundaries. Because __much of the Earth’s surface is “unwired” and governed loosely__, if at all, and because __illicit activity seems to flourish where transparency is lacking__, there may be important gains in collecting data and monitoring activity in just such places: the open seas, jungles, deserts, and the polar regions. We feel that __moving data out of these areas, which are not supported by electrical or communications grids, suggests the need for **a global space-based data collection and distribution backbon****e**__.. Furthermore, we feel that __creating such a system should be undertaken as an international collaborative effort, with no significant barriers to entry__. A number of national space agencies, consortia, and commercial interests have been active in deploying AIS receivers and data extraction capabilities on satellites; however, **__there currently exists no global partnership to coordinate and organize all the disparate efforts__** – especially one that ensures the availability of these capabilities to otherwise underserved countries. To further develop the concept of an internationally shared data collection and distribution backbone in space, CANEUS is organizing a workshop to explore technical, policy, and financial issues, and to frame an implementation plan. The eventual goal is to establish a public/private partnership that would create a low-cost, internationally shared data collection and distribution backbone in space with exceptionally low barriers to entry for participating nations.

**The plan: The United States federal government should deploy a constellation of satellites equipped with synthetic aperture radar and integrated into automatic identification system networks.** 

=ADV 1= 
**__Advantage one is Maritime Domain Awareness:__**

<span class="Underline">**Maritime domain awareness just took a huge step backwards – just switched from information objectives to intelligence based – cooperative data sharing like the plan is key.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Morales 2/1** (Cesar Morales, Maritime Domain Awareness Expert, Feb 1 2012, “A Step Backwards for Maritime Domain Awareness (MDA),” [[http://gcaptain.com/step-maritime-domain-awareness/?39062]], //azp//)</span>

<span class="Underline">On Jan 29th Rear Admiral (Select) Robert V. Hoppa, Director, National Maritime Intelligence Center, announced the renaming of the National Maritime Intelligence Center (NMIC) to the National Maritime Intelligence-Integration Office (NMIO). More important, and troubling, than the name change, is the consolidation of responsibilities… </span>The new NMIO will assume the responsibilities of the National Maritime Domain Awareness Coordination Office<span class="Underline"> (NMCO), which is currently charged with maritime information exchange within the unclassified sphere – NMCO was formerly known as the Office for Global Maritime Situational Awareness (OGMSA). </span>This consolidation of efforts, both illogical and unwise, is a significant step backwards for national MDA<span class="Underline">. Maritime Domain Awareness (**MDA) is built on information sharing, not on intelligence exchange or integration**. If asked, most mariners will tell what they need is ‘information,’ not ‘intelligence’- noting the distinct differences between the two. Where as ‘</span>intelligence’, by definition, is available to a select few<span class="Underline">, information moves freely, without restriction, among those that need and want it. As a former Chief of Naval Operations once stated, unclassified information exchange, and effective MDA, allows “the right people, to have the right information, at the right time….”. Clearly, </span>the efficient movement of maritime domain information should be the goal of national MDA.<span class="Underline"> In an affront to unclassified information exchange however, NMIO will work to coordinate all interagency MDA and information sharing – formerly the responsibility of the OGMSA/NMCO – behind the secure walls of in the Office of Naval Intelligence building in Suitland, MD. The OGMSA/NMCO, despite its failure as an interagency experiment (primarily due to budgetary limitations and the absence of interagency commitment), claimed several successes in enhancing national MDA by identifying interagency MDA capability gaps through the Interagency Solutions Analysis (IASA) and advancing the Maritime Safety & Security Information System (</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">MSSIS</span><span class="Underline">)program. The Maritime Safety & Security Information System (</span>MSSIS) is a freely-shared, unclassified, near real-time data collection and distribution network<span class="Underline">. </span>These successes were a direct result of<span class="Underline"> OGMSA/</span>NMCO’s focus on information exchange<span class="Underline"> in the unclassified environment – thus enabling OGSMA/NMCO to build relationships and networks within the vast spectrum of maritime stakeholders ranging from interagency and commercial entities to international partners. Relationships and networks enable information exchange and are therefore proven necessities for effective MDA. It remains to be seen how an intelligence organization (NMIO) will be able to facilitate the exchange of information between the numerous and varied members of the mariner community when only a fraction of these stakeholders have the ability to operate in a secure environment. Anyone who has operated with, or within, the walls of Suitland, knows that getting information to move outside those walls is a monumental, if not impossible task. It begs the question- how will an intelligence organization expand and enhance the networks critical to national MDA, if most of those networks are outside the IC community? Ultimately, </span>this move to create and rename a new MDA office is representative of the absence of alignment by the senior interagency leaders tasked with enhancing<span class="Underline"> and coordination of national </span>MDA<span class="Underline"> efforts. From the restructuring of the OGMSA to be the NMCO, to the creation of the NMIO and subsequent dismantling of the NMCO, these national MDA coordination efforts have been characterized by good intentions rather than by focused efforts. However, these MDA endeavors have proven that although many obstacles exist to effective information exchange, information exchange is the essential foundation for enhancing both MDA and national security. Sadly, placing this new NMIO **MDA office behind the walls of Suitland results in not just another potential obstacle to information exchange, but a significant step backwards for national MDA.** </span>

**Lack of awareness makes maritime terrorism inevitable.** 
**Raj 09** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Andrin Raj, visting research fellow, The Japan Institute for International Affairs (JIIA) Stratad Asia Pacific Research Center, 2009, “Japan’s initiatives in security cooperation in the straits of Malacca on maritime security and in southeast asia: piracy and maritime terrorism,”http://www2.jiia.or.jp/pdf/fellow_report/090331-Andrin_Raj.pdf, //azp//) </span>

Hence, the same objectives can be driven together in a more profound way in using maritime terrorism to shape its core ideological goals. Evidence gathered from Jemaah Islamiyah and supported by __Al Qaeda__ shows prove that the militant religious extremist group in this region __is indeed set out to make the Southeast Asia region an Islamic hegemony based on extremeness ideological beliefs__.xxiv In keeping with its ideological beliefs, JI will continue to act on all approaches in respect to the call for “Jihadism” towards the “West” and nations that are allied to the “West” in particular to the United States. __Singapore authorities uncovered plans of an attack on US naval vessels transiting the Johore Straits in 2001__. __Seized documents included maps; operational planning and video footage had been made for a maritime suicide attack on US naval ships__.xxv Information gathered from intelligence sources, as reported in the media, states that such possible maritime attacks are possible than initially imagined. The Director of Indonesia’s State Intelligence Agency in 2004 confirmed that such __attacks on shipping in the Straits of Malacca had been planned by captured JI operatives in detention who had admitted to it.__xxvi __US intelligence a__lso reported the same time that they had __intercepted__ JI’s __communication activities revealing a plot to seize a vessel using local pirates__. __The possibility of using the vessel and arming it with explosives to either direct it towards another vessel or just sinking it in the busy sea route of the Straits is something not to be overlooked__.xxvii **__This clearly determines a clear interest for these militant groups operating in the Southeast Asia region to pursue maritime targets with pirates operating in the Straits of Malacca or even around the SEA region__**. In light of __Singapore’s__ view on __the nexus of piracy and terrorism__, it is convinced by its intelligence report that **__piracy and terrorist have joined forces to target the island republics’ port and shipping facilities__** and hence in December of 2003 warned that **__an attack in the Straits is real and imminent__**. In the same statement it concluded that due to the number of pirate attacks at the southern end of the Straits made it extremely difficult to distinguish criminal acts of piracy from potential acts of terrorism and that no distinction should therefore be made between piracy and terrorism.xxviii The discourse from Singapore did not warrant a course of concern to either Malaysia or Indonesia, which viewed the issues as not a worrisome threat. __In 2000 the ASG landed on the island of Sipadan and kidnapped twenty-one Malaysian and foreign tourist from the resort island and took them hostage__. The incident was a watershed for __Malaysia__, has it __seemed incapable of safeguarding its sovereign territory from foreign intrusion__s. Prior to the press release on the above kidnappings and hostage takings, the authorities reported that it was “pure act of piracy” and it should not be considered as a terrorist operation. Further to this, __what was seen as a “pirate” attack, turned out to be a terrorist “modus-operandi”__ in full fledge camouflage outfits when they literally landed on the island, equipped with semi and automatic weapons. The fact also remained that they did not take food and other essentials was something to be concerned about, as usually pirates will take whatever they can get their hands on. __The reality of these attacks can very well justify the means of terrorist groups operating within the Southeast Asia region to be of a major threat to maritime operations and attacks along the coastal waterways of Southeast Asian waters__ on the Sea-Lines of Communication (SLOC).

**There are two impacts:**

**Scenario one is China,**

**Tensions in the South China seas are high – even small conflicts can lead to miscalculation.**
**Ross 10/25/11** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Robert S., professor of political science at Boston College and an associate at the John King Fairbank Center for Chinese Studies at Harvard University, Chinese Nationalism and Its Discontents, The National Interest, [[http://nationalinterest.org/print/article/chinese-nationalism-its-discontents-6038]], //azp//)</span>

THE TRUTH is China is neither particularly militarily strong nor particularly domestically stable. __Beijing’s combative diplomacy was not spurred by American economic weakness in the wake of the recession, and it was far from an indicator of growing Chinese confidence__. On the contrary, in recent years Beijing has not deployed and operationalized significant new advanced naval capabilities, and its domestic economic environment is worse today than at any time since the onset of the post-Mao economic reforms in 1978. Beyond its coastal waters, China’s naval capability remains dependent on its advanced diesel submarines, which were first deployed in the mid-1990s. By 2000, China’s submarine force had already begun to pose a formidable challenge to U.S. naval operations in the western Pacific Ocean. But since then it has not deployed any additional naval capabilities that pose consequential new challenges to the U.S. Navy or to America’s defense of its security partners. China still cannot independently manufacture advanced military aircraft, and it has yet to deploy a single Chinese-designed advanced aircraft. The J-15 and J-20 fighter planes are still in development. It has finally launched its first aircraft carrier, but it does not have aircraft for the carrier. Its antipiracy naval operations off the coast of Somalia are basic. Its protection of its claims in the South China Sea depends on coast-guard ships. China is developing potentially effective advanced-technology maritime access-denial capabilities, including an improved missile capability, but none of it has yet been adequately tested, much less deployed. Its antiship ballistic-missile program is not operational. China’s space program is making great progress, but the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) hasn’t developed the capacity to significantly challenge U.S. space-based communication capabilities or hasn’t built its own space-based war-fighting capability. The PLA is developing drones and air-based radar systems, but again these and other such defense projects remain relatively primitive or experimental. China will continue to modernize its military capabilities, and it will eventually deploy advanced systems that may challenge U.S. security and regional stability, but __Beijing’s new diplomacy cannot be explained by thirty years of defense spending and military modernization. Nor does the strident diplomacy reflect Chinese economic confidence__. At the height of the global financial crisis, the Chinese economy continued to grow at approximately 10 percent per year. But beneath this facade of prosperity, __China’s economy was weakening significantly. In October 2008, as the global recession deepened, Chinese leaders unleashed a massive but dysfunctional stimulus program.__ __Not only did it fail to resolve most of the deep-seated problems in the system, it also managed to foster many new__ ones. Despite the stimulus, unemployment in China remains high in rural areas and among urban college graduates. In 2010, Premier Wen Jiabao estimated that there were 200 million unemployed Chinese. Moreover, during the past two years, inequality—by international standards—has become extremely high. As a result of the stimulus, inflation has soared, affecting the price of food, housing and transportation. By last year__, China’s property bubble had significantly worsened, the condition of national banks had deteriorated more than at any time in the past ten years and local government debt had skyrocketed__. __Economic growth has increasingly relied on government-stimulated investment, not on consumption—which fuels even-greater inflation. More worrying still, the state-owned sector is expanding at the expense of the private sector, thus undermining innovation while politicizing economic policy making. These are all protracted problems which together suggest that social instability in China will grow and that the Chinese Communist Party’s economic-based legitimacy will **significantly** **erode**.__ Beijing’s problems are only exacerbated by the fact that the tools of Chinese repression are deteriorating. In the past five years, the number of spontaneous small- and large-scale demonstrations has mushroomed. More recently, the Internet has undermined the government’s ability to control information—and to minimize nationwide hostility toward the party. It has become an effective device for people to communicate their ire over unemployment and inflation, as well as over political and economic corruption, police brutality, criminal cover-ups, environmental degradation and property seizures. In addition, peer-to-peer microblogging (via Twitter and its Chinese equivalents) can facilitate large-scale, independent and impromptu mass protests. China made its first arrest for a microblog post back in September 2010 during the rallies against Japan’s detention of the Chinese fisherman. **__Economic instability and the erosion of the Communist Party’s control over society are occurring simultaneously__**. __This domestic weakness has forced the government to rely more and more on nationalism for regime legitimacy__—and it explains Beijing’s diplomatic blundering. As the Chinese people witness their relative position in the world increasing (particularly in light of the decline of Japan), __the United States is seen as the obstacle to China’s international acceptance as a great power, so that Washington is gradually replacing Tokyo as the focus of nationalist resentment.__ With its influence waning, the party is now more vulnerable to growing strident nationalist opposition. Since January 2010, on the web and in newspapers, nationalists have demanded Chinese international assertiveness before the government can even consider a policy, putting Chinese leaders on the defensive. Indeed, in recent years nationalism has become more widespread in urban areas, infecting not just the military and disaffected youth but also workers, intellectuals, civilian leaders and businesspeople. Moreover, Internet communication technologies enable Chinese nationalists to interact with each other and can facilitate popular protests against Chinese foreign policy, thus magnifying the importance of nationalism and the danger it poses to regime stability. China’s insecure rulers, preoccupied with domestic stability, are thus compelled to pay evermore attention to nationalist triumphalism as they formulate foreign policy. For the first time since the death of Mao Tse-tung, Chinese leaders have had to choose between using nationalism and strident diplomacy to accommodate their domestic audience and using China’s peaceful-rise strategy to accommodate the international community. Until recently, China opted for the latter. But since 2009 the party’s effort to appease __China’s nationalists has resulted in a bumbling foreign policy that has aroused global animosity and undermined China’s security.__ THIS NATIONALIST diplomacy bred considerable anxiety among America’s allies in East Asia. Did Washington have the will to sustain its strategic presence and balance China’s rise? A robust U.S. diplomatic response was in order. But __the United States went too far, challenging China’s security on its continental periphery, creating the potential for protracted great-power security conflict and heightened regional instabil__ity. __Following the North Korean sinking of the South Korean naval ship Cheonan in March 2010 and China’s failure to publicly condemn Pyongyang for the attack, the United States developed a series of effective initiatives in maritime East Asia designed to reaffirm its resolve to contend with the rise of China__. Many of these initiatives were necessary and constructive. In late June, for the first time since the end of the Cold War, three U.S. nuclear-powered submarines surfaced simultaneously in Asian ports. In July 2010, during former secretary of defense Robert Gates’s visit to Jakarta, the United States agreed to expand military cooperation with Indonesia. In November, during Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s trip to New Zealand, the United States agreed to reestablish full military cooperation with the Pacific island nation, despite New Zealand’s ban on visits by nuclear-powered ships to its ports. The United States expanded military relations with the Philippines and strengthened its commitment to the protection of Japan. During Sino-Japanese tension over the fishing-boat-captain incident, Hillary Clinton stated that the U.S.-Japan defense treaty covered military contingencies involving the disputed Senkaku Islands administered by Japan but also claimed by China. Subsequent to the release of the captain, Washington and Tokyo carried out their largest-ever joint naval exercise. Here then was a strong __America reassuring its allies—__this may have __encroached on China’s grand ambitions, but it was an expected and appropriate response__. But then there was the overly assertive Washington that launched, in Hillary Clinton’s formulation, its “forward-deployed diplomacy.” It was a volte-face of years of American policy, and it was seen as a growing—and very different sort of—challenge by Beijing. During the George W. Bush administration, the United States reduced its troops in South Korea by 40 percent, removed its forces deployed between the demilitarized zone and Seoul, dramatically reduced the size of the annual U.S.-South Korean joint military exercises and stated in the Department of Defense’s Quadrennial Defense Review that in 2012 the United States would transfer to Seoul operational command (OPCOM) of South Korean forces. These steps, regardless of the administration’s intentions, created a China that was more secure on its periphery. Now, the Obama administration has reversed course. The transfer of OPCOM to South Korea has been deferred for at least three years. Throughout 2010 the United States conducted a series of high-profile, large-scale military exercises with Seoul, including maritime drills in waters west of South Korea. Later in the year, the United States and South Korea signed the new “Guidelines for U.S.-ROK Defense Cooperation,” which called for enhanced combined exercises and interoperability between the two armed forces. These developments all suggested a determined U.S. interest in reestablishing a significant conventional military presence on the peninsula. __The U.S. security initiative with South Korea has eroded Beijing’s confidence over its strategic relationship with Seoul; China is now increasingly dependent on North Korea as its only reliable ally on the peninsula, and it has become more resistant to Korean unification for fear that it could lead to an expanded U.S. military presence closer to China’s borde__r__. Chinese leaders now place ever-greater value on stability in North Korea__. Rather than use its economic leverage on Pyongyang in cooperation with U.S. nonproliferation objectives, Beijing has increased its support of North Korean economic and political stability. And in July 2010, as a U.S.-South Korean naval exercise took place in the Yellow Sea, Hillary Clinton launched a new U.S. strategic initiative for Southeast Asia at an Asian regional-security meeting in Hanoi. After Washington held extensive consultations and planning with all of the claimants of the Spratly Islands except China, Secretary Clinton announced America’s support for a “collaborative diplomatic process” to resolve the dispute. The move constituted a sharp rebuke to Beijing, which has long claimed sovereignty over the territory, and suggested U.S. intervention in support of the other claimants, which have advocated multilateral negotiations. In addition, __the United States had previously expressed support for stability in the South China Sea, but only in Washington, DC, at the assistant-secretary level, and never through prior discussion with any of the involved nations. The administration’s forward-deployed diplomacy also includes strategic cooperation with Vietnam.__ For over twenty years Washington parried Vietnamese overtures, understanding that Indochina is not a vital interest. Yet, in August, after Clinton’s support in Hanoi for Vietnamese resistance to Chinese maritime claims, the U.S. Navy, including the aircraft carrier USS George Washington, held a joint training exercise with the Vietnamese navy for the first time. In October, Secretary Gates visited Hanoi, where he proclaimed the potential for expanded U.S.-Vietnamese defense cooperation and his hope that Vietnam would continue to participate in military exercises with the United States. Later that month, Clinton returned to Hanoi and declared U.S. interest in developing a “strategic partnership” with Vietnam and in cooperating with the country on “maritime security.” She then visited Phnom Penh and urged Cambodia to establish greater foreign-policy independence from China. In addition, for the first time the United States expressed support for the Indochinese countries’ efforts to constrain Chinese use of the headwaters of the Mekong River. __Beijing is now intent on punishing Vietnam for its hubris in cooperating with the United States. It wants to compel Hanoi to accommodate Chinese power__. __In 2011 it escalated the frequency and scale of its armed harassment of Vietnamese fishing ships operating in disputed waters__, causing increased bilateral tension and damage to the Vietnamese fishing industry. China also stepped up its naval harassment of Philippine economic activities in disputed waters. But __in response, the United States has only reinforced its commitment to the Southeast Asian countries__. In July 2011 it held another military exercise with Vietnam. Then it again sent an aircraft carrier to visit the country, and the Pentagon reached its first military agreement with the Vietnamese military. The Pentagon is also assisting the Philippines’ maritime intelligence capabilities in the South China Sea. __China’s deputy foreign minister__ Cui Tiankai recently __warned that some Southeast Asian countries were “playing with fire” and expressed his “hope that the fire will not be drawn to the United States.”__ **__Washington is thus engaged in an increasingly polarized conflict in Southeast Asi__**a. But more important, independent of the course of the South China Sea maritime disputes, U.S. collaboration with Vietnam’s effort to use America to oppose China is not only costly but also foolish. Vietnam’s common land border with China, its maritime vulnerability to the Chinese navy and its economic dependency on Beijing ensure that the United States will not be able to develop meaningful defense cooperation with Vietnam. But __having engaged China in this regional diplomatic tussle, any U.S. effort to disengage from the island conflict by encouraging moderation on the part of its Southeast Asian partners would risk being viewed as a strategic retreat.__ The Obama administration’s greater security cooperation with countries on the mainland’s perimeter is a disproportionate reaction to Chinese nationalism. It is not reflective of any recent improvements in Chinese naval capabilities that could challenge U.S. maritime dominance. Nor does it reflect an increased strategic importance of the Korean Peninsula or Indochina for U.S. security. Since 1997, the United States deployed increasing quantities of its most advanced weaponry to East Asia and consolidated security cooperation with its maritime security partners, all the while maintaining significant U.S.-China cooperation. That was a productive policy. But now Chinese leaders are reevaluating U.S. intentions. They have concluded that the United States is developing a forward-leaning policy of encirclement and containment. Regardless of Washington’s intent, recent American actions have provided ample evidence to support China’s claims. __BEIJING’S NATIONALIST diplomacy is dangerous. America’s ill-conceived response makes it even more so. China is militarily vulnerable to the United States, and the regime is vulnerable to internal instability__. At this point, Washington is embroiled in territorial disputes over worthless islands in the South China Sea and is expanding its strategic presence on China’s periphery. And __in an era when Chinese cooperation is increasingly important, Washington is needlessly challenging Chinese security.__ Just as America expects China to restrain its security partners in the Middle East and Asia from exacerbating conflict with the United States, America has the responsibility to rein in its security partners as well. __The balance of power in East Asia is a vital national-security interest, and the United States must reassure its strategic partners that it will provide for their security, despite the rise of China.__ __The United States military must continue to focus its weapons acquisitions and deployments on maintaining U.S. security in the region. The task at hand for American policy is to realize these objectives while maintaining U.S.-China cooperation__. Chinese nationalism will continue to challenge U.S. foreign policy for a long time to come. Thi__s will require the administration to acknowledge both America’s maritime superiority and China’s domestic and international vulnerabilities, and thus exercise confident restraint and resist overreaction to Beijing’s insecure leadership.__ 

**Waterways are a hair-trigger, lack of awareness makes conflict with China over energy inevitable.** 
**SPC-A 08** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(SPC-A, Sea Power Center – Australia, Official division of Royal Australian Navy, //Papers in Australian Maritime Affairs,// no. 23, “Asian Energy Security: Regional Cooperation in the Malacca Strait,” Collection of Articles by qualified maritime security experts, Asian Energy Security: Regional Cooperation in the Malacca Strait, //azp//)</span>

Fifth, __Asia’s growing energy demand is increasing the pressure on the sea lines of communication.__ Nearly 50 mbpd of oil is shipped by tanker. __The growing number of oil tankers and LNG carriers coming from the Arabian Gulf will increase pressure on already congested strategic chokepoints__; specifically the Strait of Hormuz, the Indian Ove rview of Globa l and Asian Energy Trends 9 Ocean, the Malacca Strait, and the South China Sea. The Malacca Strait, in particular, is a crucial chokepoint for the dangerously high number of energy-related tankers transiting it. It is projected that __tanker traffic will at least double from 10 mbpd in 2004 to over 20 mbpd in 2020.__ To ease pressure on the Malacca Strait, future tanker traffic could be partially routed through the Sunda or Lombok straits; or to avoid a destabilised Indonesia, they can be bypassed by sailing around Australia. However, natural gas transport cannot avoid the Indonesian archipelago, as the majority of LNG resources being exploited are centred in or around Indonesia, and the LNG carriers must also pass through the archipelago to reach the gas consumers: Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, and, in the future, China. Sixth, __given Asia’s voracious demand for energy, countries will be faced with multiple energy fronts, as opposed to the one or two they faced in the past few years. For example, in a decade India could import gas from three or four direction__s - from the Middle East, Central Asia, Bangladesh, and Southeast Asia. Or in the case of __China, its energy is already coming from all directions - the Middle East, Central Asia, the Russian Far East, Southeast Asia, Africa, and Latin America. Seventh, these multiple energy fronts will engender **significant security** **vulnerabilities** that present a wide range of military challenges__. __The growing dependence on long-haul sea lanes and offshore energy resources will ensure that energy strategies increasingly have a defensive military component, particularly with a naval focus__. __A growing pressure to protect energy transport routes will intensify if Indonesia destabilises or if incidents of maritime terrorism in the region increase__, which is also a growing concerns among the Asian states. Plans for ambitious pipelines projects, which are viewed as an alternative to dependence on the sea lanes, also present security challenges. The proposed pipelines are projected to cross rugged terrain, harsh climates, and politically unstable or remote areas. Pipelines linking the Russian Far East to China or Japan; Central Asia to China; the Caspian and Iran to India; or a complex gas pipeline network criss-crossing Southeast Asia could be targets for terrorist attacks or military competitors. This infrastructure will require protection and contingency plans for responding to disruptions. Even more vulnerable will be the expanding energy infrastructure across the region, such as refineries, LNG terminals, and sophisticated offshore exploration and production facilities throughout Southeast Asia, the South and East China seas, and the Bay of Bengal. These facilities cost millions, even billions of dollars, and in some cases, are located in remote locations, making them difficult to protect. American energy analysts argue that an attack on an LNG terminal, refinery, or offshore installation could take months to repair and bring back online and could cause severe environmental damage. In this context, __most regional militaries in Asia will face a growing energy security component to their missions. Such missions might include monitoring and protecting sea lanes from enhanced naval and missile threats as well as non-traditional threats, and defending energy infrastructures as a way to forestall threats or blackmail. If competition for energy resources increases, states may begin to develop an offensive component to their energy strategies, **with the intent of targeting another’s energy security.**__ 

**War over the South China Sea escalates and causes extinction – cooperation solves.** 
**Wittner 11/30/11** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Lawrence, Professor of History emeritus at SUNY/Albany, Is a Nuclear War With China Possible?, Huffington Post, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/lawrence-wittner/nuclear-war-china_b_1116556.html]], //azp//)</span>

While nuclear weapons exist, there remains a danger that they will be used. After all, for centuries international conflicts have led to wars, with nations employing their deadliest weapons. __The current deterioration of U.S. relations with China might end up providing us with yet another example of this phenomenon. The gathering tension between the United States and China is clear enough. Disturbed by China's growing economic and military strength, the U.S. government recently challenged China's claims in the South China Sea__, increased the U.S. military presence in Australia, and deepened U.S. military ties with other nations in the Pacific region. According to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, __the United States was "asserting our own position as a Pacific power."__ But need this lead to nuclear war? Not necessarily. And yet, there are signs that it could. After all, both the United States and China possess large numbers of nuclear weapons. The U.S. government threatened to attack China with nuclear weapons during the Korean War and, later, during their conflict over the future of China's offshore islands, Quemoy and Matsu. In the midst of the latter confrontation, President Dwight Eisenhower declared publicly, and chillingly, that __U.S. nuclear weapons would "be used just exactly as you would use a bullet or anything else." Of course, China didn't have nuclear weapons then. Now that it does, perhaps the behavior of national leaders will be more temperate__. But the loose nuclear threats of U.S. and Soviet government officials during the Cold War, when both nations had vast nuclear arsenals, should convince us that, even as the military ante is raised, nuclear saber-rattling persists. Some pundits argue that nuclear weapons prevent wars between nuclear-armed nations; and, admittedly, there haven't been very many -- at least not yet. But __the Kargil War of 1999, between nuclear-armed India and nuclear-armed Pakistan, should convince us that such wars can occur. Indeed, in that case, the conflict almost slipped into a nuclear war__. Pakistan's foreign secretary threatened that, if the war escalated, his country felt free to use "any weapon" in its arsenal. __During the conflict, Pakistan did move nuclear weapons toward its border__, while India, it is claimed, readied its own nuclear missiles for an attack on Pakistan. At the least, though, don't nuclear weapons deter a nuclear attack? Do they? Obviously, NATO leaders didn't feel deterred, for, throughout the Cold War, NATO's strategy was to respond to a Soviet conventional military attack on Western Europe by launching a Western nuclear attack on the nuclear-armed Soviet Union. Furthermore, if U.S. government officials really believed that nuclear deterrence worked, they would not have resorted to championing "Star Wars" and its modern variant, national missile defense. Why are these vastly expensive -- and probably unworkable -- military defense systems needed if other nuclear powers are deterred from attacking by U.S. nuclear might? Of course, the bottom line for those Americans convinced that nuclear weapons safeguard them from a Chinese nuclear attack might be that the U.S. nuclear arsenal is far greater than its Chinese counterpart. Today, it is estimated that __the U.S. government possesses over 5,000 nuclear warheads, while the Chinese government has a total inventory of roughly 300. Moreover, only about 40 of these Chinese nuclear weapons can reach the United States. Surely the United States would "win" any nuclear war with China. But what would that "victory" entail? An attack with these Chinese nuclear weapons would immediately slaughter at least 10 million Americans in a great storm of blast and fire, while leaving many more dying horribly of sickness and radiation poisoning__. The Chinese death toll in a nuclear war would be far higher. __Both nations would be reduced to smoldering, radioactive wastelands. Also, radioactive debris sent aloft by the nuclear explosions would blot out the sun and bring on a "nuclear winter" around the globe__ -- __destroying agriculture, creating worldwide famine, and generating chaos and destruction__. Moreover__, in another decade the extent of this catastrophe would be far worse. The Chinese government is currently expanding its nuclear arsenal, and by the year 2020 it is expected to more than double its number of nuclear weapons that can hit the United States__. The U.S. government, in turn, has plans to spend hundreds of billions of dollars "modernizing" its nuclear weapons and nuclear production facilities over the next decade. To avert the enormous disaster of a U.S.-China nuclear war, __there are two obvious actions that can be take__n. The first is to get rid of nuclear weapons, as the nuclear powers have agreed to do but thus far have resisted doing. __The second__, conducted while the nuclear disarmament process is occurring**__, is to improve U.S.-China relations. If the American and Chinese people are interested in ensuring their survival and that of the world, they should be working to encourage these policies__**.

**Scenario two is the economy,**

**Port terror collapses the global economy – the timeframe is three weeks.**
**Flynn** **03** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Stephen, Natl Sec Studies, “The Fragile state of container security,” testimony before the senate, March 20 [[http://www.cfr.org/publication.html?id=573]], //azp//)</span>

Based on statements by the key officials at U.S. Customs, the Transportation Security Administration, the U.S. Coast Guard, and the Department of Transportation, should a container be used as a “poor man’s missile,” the shipment of all containerized cargo into our ports and across our borders would be halted. As a consequence__, a modest investment by a terrorist could yield billions of dollars in losses to the U.S. economy by shutting down—even temporarily—the system that moves “just-in-time” shipments of parts and goods__. Given the current state of container security, it is hard to imagine how a post-event lock-down on container shipments could be either prevented or short-lived. __One thing we should have learned from the 9-11 attacks involving passenger airliners, the follow-on anthrax attacks, and even last fall Washington sniper spree is that terrorist incidents pose a special challenge for public officials__. In the case of most disasters, __the reaction by the general public is almost always to assume the event is an isolated one__. Even if the post-mortem provides evidence of a systemic vulnerability, __it often takes a good deal of effort to mobilize a public policy response to redress__ it. But __just the opposite happens in the event of a terrorist attack__—especially one involving catastrophic consequences__. When these attacks take place, the assumption by the general public is almost always to presume a general vulnerability unless there is proof to the contrary.__ Government officials have to confront head-on this loss of public confidence by marshalling evidence that they have a credible means to manage the risk highlighted by the terrorist incident. In the interim as recent events have shown, people will refuse to fly, open their mail, or even leave their homes. If a terrorist were to use a container as a weapon-delivery devise, the easiest choice would be high-explosives such as those used in the attack on the Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City. Some form of chemical weapon, perhaps even involving hazardous materials, is another likely scenario. A bio-weapon is a less attractive choice for a terrorist because of the challenge of dispersing the agent in a sufficiently concentrated form beyond the area where the explosive devise goes off. A “dirty bomb” is the more likely threat vs. a nuclear weapon, but all these scenarios are conceivable since the choice of a weapon would not be constrained by any security measures currently in place in our seaports or within the intermodal transportation industry. This is why __a terrorist attack involving a cargo container could cause such profound economic disruption. An incident triggered by even a conventional weapon going off in a box could result in a substantial loss of life. In the immediate aftermath, the general public will want reassurance that one of the many other thousands of containers arriving on any given day will not pose a similar__ risk. The President of the United States, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and other keys officials responsible for the security of the nation would have to stand before a traumatized and likely skeptical American people and outline the measures they have in place to prevent another such attack. In the absence of a convincing security framework to manage the risk of another incident, __the public would likely insist that all containerized cargo be stopped until adequate safeguards are in place.__ Even with the most focused effort, constructing that framework from scratch could take months—even years. Yet, **__within three weeks, the entire worldwide intermodal transportation industry would effectively be brought to its knees—as would much of the freight movements that make up international trade.__**

**The impact is global war.**
**Royal 10** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)</span>

Less intuitive is how **__periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict.__** Political science literature has contributed a moderate degree of attention to the impact of economic decline and the security and defence behaviour of interdependent states. Research in this vein has been considered at systemic, dyadic and national levels. Several notable contributions follow. First, on the systemic level, Pollins (2008) advances Modelski and Thompson's (1996) __work on leadership cycle theory, finding that rhythms in the global economy are associated with the rise and fall of a pre-eminent power and the often bloody transition from one pre-eminent leader to the next.__ As such, exogenous shocks such as **__economic crises could usher in a redistribution of relative power__** (see also Gilpin. 1981) __that leads to **uncertain****ty** about power balances, increasing the risk of **miscalculation**__ (Feaver, 1995). Alternatively, __even a relatively certain redistribution of power could lead to a permissive environment for conflict as a rising **power** **may seek to challenge a declining power**__ (Werner. 1999). Separately, Pollins (1996) also shows that global economic cycles combined with parallel leadership cycles impact the likelihood of conflict among major, medium and small powers, although he suggests that the causes and connections between global economic conditions and security conditions remain unknown. Second, on a dyadic level, Copeland's (1996, 2000) theory of trade expectations suggests __that 'future expectation of trade' is a significant variable in understanding economic conditions and security behaviour of states__. He argues __that interdependent states are likely to gain pacific benefits from trade so long as they have an **optimistic view of future trade** **relations**__. However__, if the expectations of future trade decline__, particularly for difficult to replace items such as energy resources, __the likelihood for conflict increases,__ as states will be inclined to use force to gain access to those resources. __Crises could potentially be the trigger for decreased trade expectations__ either on its own or because it triggers protectionist moves by interdependent states.4 Third, __others have considered the link between economic decline and external armed conflict at a national level__. Blomberg and Hess (2002) find a strong correlation between internal conflict and external conflict, particularly during periods of economic downturn. They write: The linkages between internal and external conflict and prosperity are strong and mutually reinforcing. **__Economic conflict tends to spawn internal conflict, which in turn returns the favour.__** Moreover, the __presence of a recession tends to **amplify** the extent to which international and external conflicts self-reinforce each other.__ (Blomberg & Hess, 2002. p. 89) __Economic decline has also been linked with an increase in the likelihood of terrorism__ (Blomberg, Hess, & Weerapana, 2004), which has the capacity to spill across borders and lead to external tensions. Furthermore, crises generally reduce the popularity of a sitting government. "Diversionary theory" suggests that, __when facing unpopularity arising from economic decline, sitting governments have increased incentives to fabricate external military conflicts to create a 'rally around the flag' effect.__ Wang (1996), DeRouen (1995). and Blomberg, Hess, and Thacker (2006) find supporting evidence showing that economic decline and use of force are at least indirectly correlated. Gelpi (1997), Miller (1999), and Kisangani and Pickering (2009) suggest that __the tendency towards diversionary tactics are **greater for democratic states**__ than autocratic states, due to the fact that democratic leaders are generally more susceptible to being removed from office due to lack of domestic support. DeRouen (2000) has provided evidence showing that __periods of weak economic performance in the United States, and thus weak Presidential popularity, are statistically linked to an **increase in the use of force**__. In summary, recent economic scholarship positively correlates economic integration with an increase in the frequency of economic crises, whereas political science scholarship links economic decline with external conflict at systemic, dyadic and national levels.5 This implied connection between integration, crises and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention.

**__Even if__ the attack fails perceived vulnerability creates irreversible bottlenecks and leads to protectionism.** 
**Nazery 08**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Nazery, Senior Research Fellow at Maritime Institute of Malaysia’s (MIMA), a think-tank that conducts maritime policy research for the Malaysian Government and the industry. The thrust of his center’s research is in the field of maritime economics, with a focus on ports, shipping, multimodal transport, freight logistics, offshore oil and gas, maritime supply chain, and maritime trade issues, “In ports We trust: the Economic consequence of Attacks on ports” Asian Energy Security: Regional Cooperation In The Malacca Strait, 2008, pg 88-92,http://www.navy.gov.au/w/images/PIAMA23.pdf, //azp//) </span>

Although it is a matter of debate whether ports present legitimate, high-value targets for terrorists, __the occurrence of various scenarios at ports could adversely affect the smooth flow of seaborne trade and therefore global trade__. __The toppling of structures__ like super post-Panamax cranes due to sabotage __could halt quay operations and cause berthing delays for ships and processing delays for carg__o. __The discovery of a shipment of weapons__ of mass destruction (WMD) materials such as uranium f__or the purpose of mounting terrorist attacks and even terrorist personnel inside container boxes can trigger the kind of panic and frantic response that can **paralyse the global maritime supply chain**__.2 __A suicide attack on a__ chemical __tanker__ or crude oil tanker at the entrance channel of a busy port __could result in its closure and disrupt shipping traffic and cargo delivery__. __All these could lead to bottlenecks forming along the maritime supply chain whose efficiency depends on the efficient running of its various sub-chains and components along it. A breakdown anywhere along the chain – as can arise from a single incident or a combination of several incidents – could disrupt the flow of the goods.__ 

**Economic interdependence solves __all war__ – protectionism creates conflicts, our evidence is reverse causal.** 
**Boudreux** **6** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Donald J. Boudreux, Chairman of the economics department at George Mason University, 11/20/06, “Want world peace? Support free trade,” [[http://www.csmonitor.com/2006/1120/p09s02-coop.html]], //azp//)</span>

Back in 1748, Baron de Montesquieu observed that ". **__Peace is the natural effect of trade__** __Two nations who differ with each other become **reciprocally dependent**__; for if one has an interest in buying, the other has an interest in selling; and thus __their union is founded on their mutual necessities__." If Mr. Montesquieu is correct that trade promotes peace, then __protectionism__ – a retreat from open trade – **__raises the chances of war__**. Plenty of empirical evidence confirms the wisdom of Montesquieu's insight: __Trade does indeed promote peace__. During the past 30 years, Solomon __Polachek__, an economist at the State University of New York at Binghamton, __has researched the relationship between trade and peace.__ In his most recent paper on the topic, he and co-author Carlos Seiglie of Rutgers University review the massive amount of research on trade, war, and peace. They find that "**__the overwhelming evidence indicates that trade reduces conflict__**." Likewise for foreign investment. __The greater the amounts that foreigners invest in the United States, or the more that Americans invest abroad, the lower is the likelihood of war between America and those countries with which it has investment relationships__. Professors Polachek and Seiglie conclude that, "The policy implication of our finding is that **__further international cooperation in reducing barriers to both trade and capital flows can promote a more peaceful world__**." Columbia University political scientist Erik Gartzke reaches a similar but more general conclusion: __Peace is fostered by economic freedom. Economic freedom certainly includes, but is broader than, the freedom of ordinary people to trade internationally__. It includes also low and transparent rates of taxation, the easy ability of entrepreneurs to start new businesses, the lightness of regulations on labor, product, and credit markets, ready access to sound money, and other factors that encourage the allocation of resources by markets rather than by government officials. Professor Gartzke ranks countries on an economic-freedom index from 1 to 10, with 1 being very unfree and 10 being very free. He then examines military conflicts from 1816 through 2000. His findings are powerful: __Countries that rank lowest on an economic-freedom index__ – with scores of 2 or less – __are 14 times more likely to be involved in military conflicts than are countries whose people enjoy significant economic freedom__ (that is, countries with scores of 8 or higher). Also important, the findings of Polachek and Gartzke improve our understanding of the long-recognized reluctance of democratic nations to wage war against one another. These scholars argue that the so-called democratic peace is really the capitalist peace. Democratic institutions are heavily concentrated in countries that also have strong protections for private property rights, openness to foreign commerce, and other features broadly consistent with capitalism. That's why the observation that any two democracies are quite unlikely to go to war against each other might reflect the consequences of capitalism more than democracy. And that's just what the data show. Polachek and Seiglie find that openness to trade is much more effective at encouraging peace than is democracy per se. Similarly, Gartzke discovered that, "When measures of both economic freedom and democracy are included in a statistical study, economic freedom is about 50 times more effective than democracy in diminishing violent conflict." These findings make sense. By __promoting prosperity, economic freedom gives ordinary people a large stake in peace.__ __This prosperity is threatened during wartime__. __War almost always gives government more control over resources and imposes the burdens of higher taxes, higher inflation__, __and other disruptions of the everyday commercial relationships that support prosperity__. When commerce reaches across political borders, the peace-promoting effects of economic freedom intensify. Why? It's bad for the bottom line to shoot your customers or your suppliers, so **__the more you trade with foreigners the less likely you are to seek, or even to tolerate, harm to these foreigners.__**

=ADV 2= 

<span class="Underline">**Advantage two is West Africa:**</span>

<span class="Underline">**West Africa is terminally unstable in the status quo – leads to massive refugee flows.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Dickingson 11** (Elizabeth Dickingson, “West Africa Lurches Toward War,” 3/11/11) http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/03/11/west_africa_lurches_toward_war?print=yes&hidecomments=yes&page=full</span>

<span class="Underline">The result has been </span>growing chaos on the Liberian side of the border<span class="Underline">, where </span>the flow of refugees increased by 90 percent <span class="Underline">in February. In just the last two weeks, the number of people who have entered Liberia from the Ivory Coast has jumped from 30,000 to 100,000. In the Ivory Coast, at least 200,000 have fled their homes in Abidjan, bringing the total number of displaced in the country to around 370,000. In thecountry's interior, the United Nations has very limited access to them. Meanwhile, U.N. agencies in the Liberian capital of Monrovia say they have contingency plans for housing as many as 250,000 refugees. But civilians aren't the only ones crossing the border. The U.N.'s top envoy in Liberia, Ellen Margaret Loj, confirmed that armed Ivorian fighters from both sides of the emerging conflict have recently attempted to enter the country. "</span>Some [were] trying apparently to use Liberia as a transit to re-enter into Cote d'Ivoire,others to come in and see if there were any defected fighter<span class="Underline">s among the refugees," she told me on March 9. The U.N. mission in Liberia, UNMIL, has so far turned those combatants away -- at least at formal border crossings. But along an unmanned, largely forested border that stretches across four Liberian counties, neither the United Nations nor the local military and police can be everywhere. Many fear that Liberia's hard-earned disarmament over the past several years may be put into jeopardy, Loj said. "The worry both on my side but certainly even more so on the government side is that people will come in with weapons from Cote d'Ivoire." In recent days, the number of men and boys among the refugee flows, which were originally dominated by women and children, has skyrocketed in what U.</span>N. officials say is a sign of how intense the fighting has become<span class="Underline">. Sulaiman Momodu, the local spokesman for UNHCR, the U.N. relief agency, told me on March 9 that many of these young men left for fear of being conscripted into pro- or anti-Gbagbo forces. Others, Momodu said, had seen fighting directly or heard gunfire. For now, Ouattara's troops are controlling the Ivorian side of the border with Liberia, but refugees from both political affiliations are literally running for their lives. Meanwhile, some Liberians are said to be going in the other direction. According to local radio reports and secondhand accounts, former combatants and other jobless young men are heading across the border to fight, lured by the promise of cold, hard cash. UNMIL can't confirm those rumors, Loj told me, "but I'm sure there's some truth to them." Certainly, money could lure plenty of recruits here in Liberia, where the vast majority are not formally employed, particularly in rural areas. During its disarmament program, the U.N. partnered with NGOs and the government to offer ex-combatants vocational training, but many are still without work. </span>Former soldiers are jobless, too<span class="Underline">, ever since the army -- tainted by the atrocities it committed during the decade and a half of fighting -- was disbanded after the war. The newly recruited and trained security forces that replaced them </span>are<span class="Underline"> still </span>struggling to maintain order<span class="Underline">. There are about 4,000 Liberian police, for example, but they don't yet operate independently, and their UNMIL trainers readily admit that outside Monrovia, police operations are even more remedial. In response to the violence and the refugee situation, UNMIL has redeployed some forces to the border, and four units of armed policemen (most police in Liberia are not armed) have been moved there as well. Relief workers seem overwhelmed by the burgeoning crisis. The U.N. refugee agency originally requested funds for the operation based on a maximum refugee population of 50,000 -- only half of the number present in Liberia's border region now. Of the nearly $19 million that the U.N. says it needs for the operation to function, only 10 percent of that -- $1.9 million -- is in hand. "We are losing the battle on the CNN effect. [In Libya,] geopolitical interests are more acute," says Isabel Crowley, UNICEF country director in Liberia, who expressed frustration that the situation in the Ivory Coast has failed to capture headlines. "If we don't get funds, people are going to start to die." </span>Supplies of food and water are running desperately low.<span class="Underline"> At the moment, the U.N. World Food program has enough provisions to feed some 72,000 people for 15 days at the rate of one meal per person per day; new supplies won't arrive until April 1. As for water, U.N. agencies and humanitarian organizations say they can meet the emergency needs of about 30,000 people and long-term needs of just 8,000. Worse yet, the rainy season will begin in a matter of months, making roads inaccessible and raising transportation costs. UNHCR has constructed one refugee camp, but only about 650 refugees have relocated there. Most of the refugees in Liberia are still close to the border, many camping outside or finding temporary shelter in schools or churches, says Crowley. Others are being taken into the homes of local Liberians, many of whom are the same ethnicity. The welcome wears out fast, however. "</span>We already have reports of tension between the refugee community and the host community<span class="Underline">," Loj reports. "You can be generous, but only so long when you have nothing to share, and then you start bickering and arguing, and we are watching that very carefully because it has the potential of threatening the security situation." Local radio stations are a mouthpiece for those fears, as talk shows feature local residents discussing their anxieties that incoming refugees will take scarce resources or jobs. In Liberia, all this is taking place against the backdrop of an upcoming presidential election in October. The incumbent, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, Africa's first elected female leader and a darling of international donors, has significant support, but her victory is far from a done deal. "If you analyze this, the situation in Cote d'Ivoire is a result of elections, disputed elections," Momodu of UNHCR said. "So as Liberia heads toward elections, there is a genuine fear in the population that what has happened in Cote d'Ivoire could also happen here." </span>Things in the Ivory Coast are likely to get worse before they get better<span class="Underline">. On March 10, Gbagbo rejected an African Union deal that would have created a unity government including both him and Ouattara, but with Ouattara as the official president. Other pressure on Gbagbo to resign has come to naught. Threats from the regional West African economic community, ECOWAS, to use force if necessary to remove Gbagbo have dimmed as regional giant Nigeria prepares for its own tricky elections in April. The one hope of the international community has been that economic sanctions could cripple Gbagbo's ability to pay his loyal military and civil service, come hell or high water. But he still seems to have cash. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Refugee flows makes instability go regional – that leads to WMD use and epidemic circulation.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**African Studies Centre et al 2003 (**The Transnational Institute, The Center of Social Studies, Coimbra University, and The Peace Research Center – CIP-FUHEM, “Failed and Collapsed States in the International System,” December, found at: http://www.globalpolicy.org/nations/sovereign/failed/2003/12failedcollapsedstates.pdf)</span>

In the malign scenario of global developments the number of collapsed states would grow significantly.<span class="Underline"> This would mean that several more countries in the world could not be held to account for respecting international agreements in various fields, be it commercial transactions, debt repayment, the possession and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the use of the national territory for criminal or terrorist activities. </span>The increase in failed states would immediately lead to an increase in international migration<span class="Underline">, </span>which could have a knock-on effect,<span class="Underline"> first </span>in neighbouring countrieswhich<span class="Underline">, having similar politico-economic structures, </span>could suffer increased destabilization<span class="Underline"> and collapse as well. </span>Developments in West Africa<span class="Underline"> during the last decade may </span>serve as an exampl<span class="Underline">e. Increased international migration would, secondly, have serious implications for the Western world. In Europe it would put social relations between the population and immigrant communities under further pressure, polarizing politics. </span>An increase in collapsed stateswould<span class="Underline"> also </span>endanger the security of Western states and societies.Health conditions could deteriorate as contagious diseases like Ebola or Sars would spread<span class="Underline"> because of a lack of measures taken in collapsed areas. </span>W<span class="Underline">eapons of </span>m<span class="Underline">ass </span>d<span class="Underline">estruction </span>could come into the hands of various<span class="Underline"> sorts of </span>political entities<span class="Underline">, be they terrorist groups, political factions in control of part of a collapsed state or an aggressive political elite still in control of a national territory and intent on expansion. Not only North Korea springs to mind; one could very well imagine such states in (North) Africa. Since the multilateral system of control of such weapons would have ended in part because of the decision of the United States to try and check their spread through unilateral action - a system that would inherently be more unstable than a multilateral, negotiated regime - one could be faced with an arms race that would sooner or later result in the actual use of these weapons. In the malign scenario, relations between the US and Europe would also further deteriorate, in questions of a military nature as well as trade relations, thus undercutting any possible consensus on stemming the growth of collapsed states and the introduction of stable multilateral regimes towards matters like terrorism, nuclear weapons and international migration. Disagreement is already rife on a host of issues in these fields. At worst, even </span>the Western membersof the Westphalian system<span class="Underline"> - especially those bordering on countries in the former Third World, i.e. the European states - </span>could be faced with direct attacks<span class="Underline"> on their national security. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Disease leads to extinction.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Yu 9 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Victoria, Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science, 5-22, http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate, 6-23-11)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Apandemic will kill off all humans</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10.6667px;">. In the past, humans have indeed fallen victim to viruses. Perhaps the best-known case was the bubonic plague that killed up to one third of the European population in the mid-14th century (7). </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">While vaccines have been developed for the plague and some other infectious diseases, new viral strains are constantly emerging — a process that maintains the possibility of a pandemic-facilitated human extinction. Some</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10.6667px;">surveyed students </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">mentioned AIDS as a potential pandemic-causing virus</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10.6667px;">. It is true that scientists have been unable thus far to find a sustainable cure for AIDS, mainly due to HIV’s rapid and constant evolution. Specifically, two factors account for the virus’s abnormally high mutation rate: 1. HIV’s use of reverse transcriptase, which does not have a proof-reading mechanism, and 2. the lack of an error-correction mechanism in HIV DNA polymerase (8). Luckily, though, there are certain characteristics of HIV that make it a poor candidate for a large-scale global infection: HIV can lie dormant in the human body for years without manifesting itself, and AIDS itself does not kill directly, but rather through the weakening of the immune system. However, for more easily transmitted viruses such as influenza, the evolution of new strains could prove far more consequential.</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">The simultaneous occurrence of antigenic drift</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10.6667px;">(point mutations that lead to new strains) </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">and antigenic shift</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10.6667px;">(the inter-species transfer of disease) </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">in the</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10.6667px;">influenza </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">virus could produce a new version of influenza for which scientists may not immediately find a cure</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10.6667px;">. Since influenza can spread quickly, this lag time could potentially lead to a “global influenza pandemic,” according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (9). The most recent scare of this variety came in 1918 when bird flu managed to kill over 50 million people around the world in what is sometimes referred to as the Spanish flu pandemic. Perhaps even more frightening is the fact that only 25 mutations were required to convert the original viral strain — which could only infect birds — into a human-viable strain (10).</span>

<span class="Underline">**African instability goes nuclear and escalates.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Deutsch, 2002** (Jeffrey, PhD from George Mason University, The Rabid Tiger Newsletter, Vol. II, No. 9, 11/18, http://www.rabidtigers.com/rtn/newsletterv2n9.html)</span>

<span class="Underline">The Rabid Tiger Project believes that **a nuclear war is most likely to start in Africa**. </span>Civil wars <span class="Underline">in the Congo (the country formerly known as Zaire), Rwanda, Somalia and Sierra Leone, </span>and domestic instability<span class="Underline"> in Zimbabwe, Sudan and other countries, as well as occasional brushfire and other wars (thanks in part to "national" borders that cut across tribal ones) </span>turn into a really nasty stew<span class="Underline">. We've got all too many rabid tigers and potential rabid tigers, who are willing to push the button rather than risk being seen as wishy-washy in the face of a mortal threat and overthrown. Geopolitically speaking, Africa is open range. Very few countries in Africa are beholden to any particular power. South Africa is a major exception in this respect - not to mention in that she also probably already has the Bomb. Thus, ou</span>tside powers can more easily find client states therethan<span class="Underline">, say, </span>in Europe<span class="Underline"> where the political lines have long since been drawn, or Asia where many of the countries (China, India, Japan) are powers unto themselves and don't need any "help," thank you. Thus, **an African war can attract outside involvement very quickly**. Of course, a proxy war alone may not induce the Great Powers to fight each other. But </span>an African nuclear strike can ignite a much broader conflagration<span class="Underline">, if the other powers are interested in a fight. Certainly, such a strike would in the first place have been facilitated by outside help - financial, scientific, engineering, etc. Africa is an ocean of troubled waters, and some people love to go fishing.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Illicit maritime activity consistently destabilizes West Africa – only new maritime domain awareness can resolve economic and social problems.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Raidt and Smith et al, 10** (11/30/2010, “ The Council embodies a non-partisan network of leaders who aim to bring ideas to power and to give power to ideas by stimulating dialogue and discussion about critical international issues with a view to enriching public debate and promoting consensus on appropriate responses in the Administration, the Congress, the corporate and nonprofit sectors and the media in the United States and among leaders in Europe, Asia, Africa and the Americas.”, “Advancing U.S., African, and Global Interests: Security and Stability in the West African Maritime Domain”, [[http://www.acus.org/files/publication_pdfs/3/advancing-us-african-global-interests-security-stability-west-africa-maritime-domain.pdf]])</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">Only a few years ago, the waters off Nigeria were the deadliest in the world. Currently the Gulf of Guinea is second only to Somali waters in numbers of attacks at sea, with some 32 pirate strikes reported in the first nine months of 2009. In early 2010, J. Peter Pham, director of the Africa Project at the National Committee on American Foreign Policy, observed that, “The International Maritime Board reports any movement against ships on the Gulf of Aden, but you don’t have the same data from the Gulf of Guinea, there are fishing boats attacked at dockside or close to shore, which don’t meet the definition of piracy on the high seas, and if you add all that, the number of attacks certainly would be equal to those off Somalia.”48 Indeed, the International Maritime Organization believes that </span>piracy and robbery at sea is grossly under-reported. Piracy and other attacks at sea do not merely affect large foreign vessels transiting the area, it targets small local operators as well<span class="Underline">. In 2008, for example, the high number of armed robberies at sea and the lack of a law enforcement response capability spurred a refusal by Nigerian trawlers to leave dock. Many </span>raids at sea are intended tosteal cargo<span class="Underline"> or hold it for ransom, others are kidnappings for money, still, other incidents are reportedly political attacks on the Nigerian oil sector. The motives for piracy in West Africa are diverse, but some experts report that it is fostered by anger and the absence of opportunity as the result of poaching and encroachment. Moreover, it’s tolerated by local communities because illicit actors spread money around to win public support. A growing number of U.S., British, and French ships are patrolling the Gulf of Guinea and conduct joint exercises with the navies of Nigeria, Ghana, Sierra Leone, and Cameroon. But according to some experts, “the scale of the problem has become so vast, and the capabilities of local navies so small, even local officials admit that the pirates have the upper hand.”49 A task force from the Center for Strategic and International Studies reports that, Countries lack adequate surveillance or response capacity to counter piracy and other crimes at sea.50 </span>The ability of West African nations to counter piracy is also limited by insufficient domain awareness, inadequate early warning and intelligence, th<span class="Underline">e lack of a credible deterrent, deficient response capability, and the inability to sustain patrol operations with sufficient reach over extended periods of time. Moreover, a 2010 UNODC report states that, “West African countries currently do not have the adequate legislative framework and enforcement capacities to address such a complex crime where legal obstacles are plenty and action requires important logistics and specialized know how…”51 </span>

<span class="Underline">[Continues]</span>

Maritime resourcesare<span class="Underline"> vital both to the ecology and economy of West African nations. Pollution and poaching impede regional development and deprive citizens of material and financial resources. Such deprivation intensifies public dissatisfaction with ruling regimes, further ripening conditions for regional instability, humanitarian crisis, insurgency, and terrorist exploitation. Poaching. Seafood is one of the region’s leading exports as well as job creators. The fisheries sector in West Africa accounts for more than 5,600,000 jobs and the total value of seafood exports is estimated to be more than $711 million.78 </span>Unregulated and illegal fishing poses a serious and growing threat to the region’s fishing industry and its food security<span class="Underline">. Illegal fishing accounts for a loss of revenue to sub-Saharan Africa of approximately $1 billion annually79 and enormous human costs, given that fish account for the majority of protein intake in West African nations.80 International environmental groups that have studied illegal fishing in the region call the practice in the Gulf of Guinea “the worst in Africa,” which makes it the worst in the world,81 and report that illegal trawlers fish off the coast of West Africa 24 hours a day.82 These trawlers not only steal fish but drag nets and chains along the seabed, damaging ocean habitats as well as fouling the nets of local fisherman. Incidents have been reported of illegal trawlers running over smaller boats and killing local fishermen.83 As many as 60 percent of the fishing trawlers off the coast of the Gulf of Guinea are unlicensed and include European and Asian fleets.84 A single trawler load of fish can net vast sums of money in world markets, a strong incentive particularly when poachers know that the risk of being caught and punished is slim. **The ability to curb these practices is hampered by the severely limited awareness of activity in the maritime domain**</span>,<span class="Underline"> lack of capacity to interdict offenders, and inability to enforce the rule of law. Pollution. In addition to the harm caused by poaching, </span>significant environmental damage has been inflicted on the region by pollution<span class="Underline"> from oil development operations and the illicit dumping of solid, electronic, </span>and hazardous waste <span class="Underline">in West African waters. Oil. The Niger Delta, with its 606 oilfields is widely recognized as the world capital of oil pollution.85 The UN Development Program reports that between 1976 and 2001, more than 6,800 oil spills were recorded in Nigeria. The amount of oil spilled annually in Nigerian waters is equivalent to the amount of oil that leaked into the Gulf of Mexico from the British Petroleum Deepwater Horizon disaster.86 The majority of the spills are the result of leakage and illegal tampering with pipelines. Shell recently admitted to spilling 14,000 tons of oil in the Niger Delta in 2009. The company claims that 98 percent of its oil spills are the result of vandalism, theft, or sabotage with only a minimal amount attributable to deteriorating infrastructure. In some cases the spills are caused by locals seeking to create cleanup jobs. Shell reported that in 2009 one of the company’s pipelines was peppered with 300 illegal taps.87 Regardless of the cause, </span>oil pollution is a significant hazard to fish stocks and their habitat. Its effects can deplete the food supply,destroying subsistence fishing and other sea-based livelihoods<span class="Underline"> as well as contaminating the water supply of local populations. In a related issue, gas flaring in the Niger Delta, the practice of burning off natural gas brought to the surface when pumping oil, is a serious environmental hazard and poses a significant health risk to local populations. Moreover it has impaired soil fertility in surrounding farmlands diminishing agricultural output. Medical studies have shown that the gas burning in the Niger Delta region contributes to the low average life expectancy of its inhabitants—43 years.88 West Africa’s large proven reserves and enormous energy potential, in combination with growing global demand for oil, ensure that the pace of exploration and development will continue to quicken. **These trends will increase the need to ensure that energy development activities are conducted with proper security and environmental oversight**. Waste. As environmental laws in industrialized countries become stricter, </span>waste-generating industries are searching for a “path of least resistance<span class="Underline">” to dispose of hazardous waste.89 “This search has led industries and the governments of developed and industrialized nations to focus on exporting these wastes to developing countries— especially sub-Saharan African countries.”90 Traffickers in electronic and toxic waste are typically professional disposal companies from industrialized nations or contractors, typically with ethnic ties to the destination country, who dump significant amounts of waste at sea where detection is difficult and enforcement lax.91 Exporters commonly falsify customs papers and invoices and even when the destination country has agreed to the dumping the public it is not made aware and it will for the most part be denied if it ever becomes public knowledge. Frequently e-waste traffickers make money on both ends: they are paid to remove the waste from an industrialized nation and then profit from selling “salvageable” material in West Africa.92 According to the UNODC, approximately 95,000 tons of e-waste arrives in West Africa annually.93 Nigeria and Ghana are the primary importers of electronic waste, including used cell phones and computer parts. While electronic waste imports are usually purported to be for the purpose of refurbishing defunct equipment, only a small fraction of these materials is rehabbed and reused. The remainder enters the waste stream often at sea. The United Nations estimates that between 30 percent and 75 percent of electronic goods imported are in fact waste.94 This is a troubling statistic, given that an average computer can contain up to 1,000 toxins, including lead, cadmium, mercury, and other heavy metals hazardous to human health and the environment.95 The multinational oil-trading firm Trafigura is currently on trial for illegally exporting hazardous waste to Cote d’Ivoire.96 In a settlement reached out of court in 2009, the company agreed to pay $45 million to more than 30,000 people who had health problems related to the company’s illegal waste dumping. This settlement was in addition to a $200 million payment made to the government of Cote d’Ivoire by Trafigura in 2007.97 An additional judgment involving Trafigura is expected to be issued by Dutch courts in the near future. </span>

=SOLVENCY= 
**The plan reinvigorates overall maritime domain awareness.**
**Earles** **10** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Marion “Rick”, Owner of E&A; Executive Director for CANEUS US at Earles & Associates and CANEUS US, CANEUS USA, International Collaborative Aerospace Development Micro-Nano-Technologies: From Concepts to Systems, CANEUS International is a unique non-profit organization of professionals involving public/private partnership, serving primarily the needs of aeronautics, space and defense communities by fostering the coordinated, international development of MNT (Micro-Nano- Technologies) for aerospace and defense applications. CANEUS Shared Small Satellites CSSP Workshop Committee, “International Space-Based AIS and Data Extraction Backbone High Level Requirements”, http://www.caneus.org/sharedsmallsats/downloads/International_Space-Based_AIS_and_Data_Extraction_Backbone-High_Level_Requirements.pdf, //azp//)</span>

The potential for international collaboration in space to materially improve maritime security was recently articulated by Guy Thomas, Science and Technology Advisor for the US Coast Guard: “The maritime entities of the world, military, civil, and private alike looked at their situation in the new reality (after 9/11/2001) and quickly understood their vulnerabilities and the potential consequences. Since that terrible day a number of national and international organizations have addressed how to protect their maritime assets, both individually, and in growing numbers, collectively. Most saw increased maritime domain awareness (MDA) as of first importance to the smooth functioning of commerce on the world’s oceans, the crucial supporting frame of the world’s economy, and crucial to their national interests. The potential unique contributions of current and planned space systems, owned by a wide range of nations and available to many others, to international global maritime awareness is a subject of growing interest to many.” __1Knowing where ships are located is a necessary element of Maritime Domain Awareness, though not sufficient in itself to achieve an “effective understanding__” 2 of maritime activity and its impact on safety, security, the environment and the economy. __Current practice relies on a diverse set of sensors to garner the positions of ships; a fundamental contribution to the art and practice of ship tracking can be credited to the International Maritime Organization__, which in 2004 mandated the use of an Automatic Ship Identification System (AIS) for many commercially important ships. __AIS is a “self-reporting” system that broadcasts each participating ship’s identity and position__ (among many data fields) over VHF channels; the original intent was to provide collision-avoidance information to nearby ships and shore stations. 3 Shortly after the IMO carriage requirements became effective, the US Navy in the Mediterranean began to collaborate with European and African governments to establish a network of shore stations, all of which contributed the AIS signals they received locally to a consolidated data stream, which was then shared among participating nations. This Maritime Safety and Security Information System (MSSIS) has since grown into a network of over 100 AIS base stations in over 60 participating nations around the world, providing current positions for over 15,000 ships. The major strengths of this innovative collaboration are the trust and interdependence it generates, and of course, an unprecedented picture of maritime activity. The major shortcomings are the limited set of ships broadcasting AIS, and the limited reception range for VHF signals; no data is received from non-cooperative vessels, or from the open oceans or areas near nonparticipating nations. Herein lies the key point made by Guy Thomas: the entire planet is “visible” from space, and many of the sensors (including AIS receivers) needed for a much more complete picture of maritime activity are already on orbit or planned. That __space will be the key enabler for truly global situational awareness is suggested by the exceptional composite image of the earth at night__ (Figure 1). Lights which are clearly visible from space define the “wired” world, served by grid electricity and more recently, internet connectivity. This leaves the oceans, the polar regions, deserts and jungles “unwired” and often undergoverned. __Moving data out of these areas, which comprise roughly 84% of the Earth’s surface, is important: a key strategic principle in warfare is to deny the enemy sanctuary, and for illicit activities ranging from illegal trafficking to training terrorists, sanctuary is found in the unwired world__. Quite separate from the challenge of moving data out of unwired areas is the related question of generating that data in remote regions; this will be addressed with a review of the State of the Art in unattended sensors in the context of the business case for small satellite systems. __This article will focus on the “bent pipe” link that can connect the “unwired” and “wired” regions of the world via satellite, using AIS data as a convenient example of interesting data that is routinely generated by ships that are only in the “wired” world when they are pier-side or close to a shore-based AIS receive__r. __This will allow us to develop a concept for collaboration in space with a concrete use-case, that being to extend the current AIS picture from regional near-shore areas to the entire world__. Additional utility can be had if the data collection and transport backbone in space, which handles AIS data, would also handle data signals from maritime and terrestrial sensors that transmit short bursts of data.

**The technology exists but fails because it isn’t space based – synthesis of automatic identification systems with synthetic radar imagery solves.** 
**Singh** **10** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Jaswinder Singh, Naval School Postgraduate, “Countering Small Boat Terrorism in Territorial Sea” 12/2010, Online //azp//)</span>

__AIS signals can easily be detected from space__ by a standard AIS receiver for altitudes up to 1000 km. However, an __AIS sensor in space would cover a much larger area on the ground__ than the AIS system was originally designed for. With many ships within the field of view, interference problems will occur and AIS messages from some of the ships may not be detected. Detailed analyses of the ship detection probability have been performed. Important parameters for the ship detection probability were found to be; the reporting interval ΔT, the observation time Tobs, and the number of ships within the field of view. __A single satellite at 1000 km altitude__ (Tobs=15 min) __would be able to handle up to 900 ships__ within the field of view with a ship __detection probability of better than 99%,__ with a ship reporting interval of ΔT=6 s.75 Depending on traffic density, the __capability of the AIS-based satellite constellation__ to handle a larger number of ships __can be increased__ by increasing the number of satellites, lowering the height of the satellite, increasing the reporting interval and / or increasing the observation time. Aerial based AIS is capable of providing ship detection capability of more than 99% at 1000 km, if the number of ships does not exceed its maximum capacity of target handling. Therefore, __a constellation of 18 LEO satellites would be able to provide an update of every ship across the globe every 15 minutes, but would still not be able to provide continuous identification capability in time domain for establishing MST. However, if the same LEO satellites are fitted with both SAR and AIS, then these satellites can definitely provide near-real MST.__ 


**Improved MDA shores up global maritime cooperation, establishes interdependencies, and makes relations resilient.** 
**Truver** **11** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Dr. Scott C. Truver is Director, National Security Programs, Gryphon Technologies, Greenbelt, Maryland. In addition to his support to national security and defence organisations in government and industry, he supports the US Navy’s MDA programmes in research , analysis and engagement efforts. Edward Feege of Gryphon’s National Security group assisted in the research for this overview. “On the Other Side of the Hill? Global Partnerships for Maritime Domain Awareness…The View from the United States”, by NMCO on NOVEMBER 9, 2011, http://www.mda.gov/2011/11/09/on-the-other-side-of-the-hill/, Accessed 11/23/11, //azp//)</span>

__A GLOBAL FOCUS IS NEEDED,__ TOO __From the US perspective, relationships that have worked domestically also must be applied **internationally**__. As former Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Gary Roughead repeatedly emphasised: “Personal trust is indispensible to partnerships at home and abroad – trust cannot be surged.” The US MDA community of interests is based on tile understanding that __a global perspective based on trust is needed to ensure that we can detect and deal with threats that originate in or take advantage of the vastness of the oceans__. __Only through collaboration and cooperation will we be able to ensure that these global threats and challenges can be dealt with as far from our shores as possible__. To deal with these threats and challenges, __world Navies and Coast Guards require accurate and timely information on what is occurring in their maritime areas of operations__. In regional and global perspectives, a __shared awareness of activities within the maritime domain is key to mutual success.__ __MDA thus is critical for success against all threats in maritime regions, anywhere__. Information sharing is thus a key focus of the USN’s efforts to build trust and strengthen MDA partnerships. “There are two aspects of these MDA partnerships”, Titley said. “First, we need partnerships to enable access and build on local knowledge of the maritime environment, to know what’s going on in coastal states’ EEZ and territorial seas, in ports and harbours, and in ships and cargoes. __The MDA supply chain has greater reach than the coastal/littoral environment and extends to internal waters and even landlocked states__, __where threats to our security, which use the seas as means of conveyance, can originate__.” “Second,” he noted, “**__these MDA partnerships serve as an entry point for broader relationships that can enhance security across the board__**. __We have common interests and we confront common threats and challenges. We can expand and improve shared capacity and capabilities to defeat common threats and challenges and safeguard common interests__.” “__Acquiring and sharing information and intelligence with a broad array of global maritime partners sustains cooperation and builds the trust required to ensure the safety, security and economic vitality of all who hold membership within global maritime community of interest__“, he said. “The trust is not built over night, but through sustained collaboration and security cooperation measures and processes, such as the Maritime Safety and Security Information System [MSSIS].” MSSIS is a freely shared, unclassified, near real-time data collection and distribution network. Its member countries share data from Automatic Identification Systems CAIS), coastal radar, and other maritime-related systems. __MSSIS promotes multilateral collaboration and data sharing among international participants, with a primary goal of increasing maritime security and safety__ (see figure 3). “International efforts [also] include participation in exercises like TRIDENT WARRIOR’ II,” Titley added. “We partnered with the United Kingdom and France to successfully share maritime information using internationally agreed upon National Information Exchange Model-Maritime [NIEM-M] common data standards and models.” NIEM is a joint Department of Justice/Department of Homeland Security programme started in 2005, created to promote standardisation of information exchange for cross-jurisdictional inforn1ation sharing. NIEM provides the tools used across DRS for enabling interoperability at the data layer within and across systems supporting information sharing, while preserving investments in current technology and optimising new technology development. Another example is the Global Maritime Partnership Game held in October 2010 at the US Naval War College. Senior-level representatives from more than 40 nations attended, mostly from Navies and Coast Guards. But, other representatives were from agencies that are considered key contributors to MDA, e.g., customs and border security, port authorities, fisheries enforcement, and search and rescue organisations. “In fact”, Titley underscored, “__every nation with a coastline and a willingness to share information can play important roles in local, regional and global maritime security__. __Every coastal state comes to the table with assets that can make important contributions to security__. These don’t have to be aircraft carrier strike groups.” __The issue of classified or sensitive data continues to be a concern__. Within constraints, however, the __USN intends to share as widely as possible accurate and timely information to shape our and our partners’ ability to protect important interests in the maritime domai__n. __Most countries, including the United States, require additional assets to increase and sustain presence for maritime security. Increasingly, this means active and energetic engagement in regional and global partnerships__. **__Partnerships reduce requirements spread responsibilities__**, __and give small nations equal status__. __MDA is an organising principle for world Navies and coast guards.__ __It brings us all to a common table__. And, there appears to be a growing need to link these and other partnerships together into regional and global systems, as illustrated figure 4. **__Effective MDA will be the keystone of cooperative US and international efforts to counter maritime threats through regional and global partnerships__**, according to Titley. “Because certain risks and interests are common, __facilitation of regional maritime partnerships occurs with full recognition and acceptance that our allies and partner nations may not share all of our goals, but we’ll find common purpose in countering transnational threats and securing peaceful use of the maritime commons.”__


**No disads – the Coast Guard deployed S-AIS last year but the satellites failed in orbit.** 
**Selding 11** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Peter Selding, Staff Writer for Defense News, “Tracking Ships From Space” 4/10, Online, //azp//) </span>

With International Maritime Organization regulations now mandating that ships weighing more than 300 metric tons carry on-board terminals to beam ship identity, cargo, speed and heading data to the coast, satellite-based AIS requires no special technology added to ship fleets. Instead, it extends what coastal radars now do, permitting coastal authorities to review data on all ships in their region even when the vessels are in mid-ocean. The U.S. __Coast Guard gave Orbcomm an initial contract to test the__ Orbcomm __AIS service, a contract that ended in late 2010 when the last of six AIS-equipped satellites failed in orbit__.







=USC= 
=Plan Text= 
**Text: The United States federal government should deploy advanced kinetic kill vehicles modeled after the Brilliant Pebbles program.**
=Hegemony= 
**Contention one is Hegemony:**

**Weaponization of space is inevitable – the US must be the first to act to prevent an arms race and maintain hegemony.**
**Dolman 10** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment,” September, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576, //azp//)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This is the context in which the world now exists…</span>.<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">So long as the controlling state demonstrates a capacity and a will to use force to defend its position, in effect expending a small amount of violence as needed to prevent a greater conflagration in the future, the likelihood of a future war in space is remote.</span>

**Our space capabilities are being tested now – we need to act as weapons systems transition to space.**
**<span style="color: #000000;">Grant 08</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">-PhD in International Relations @ The London School of Economics, B.A., Wellesley College, Director of the Billy Mitchel Institute for Airpower Studies, President of IRIS Independent Research, [Rebecca, Air Force Magazine, “Vulnerability in Space” June 2008, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"><span style="color: #0000ff;">[[http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2008/June%202008/0608space.aspx]]</span>]</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">The Air Force says goodbye to 50 years of tranquil, undisturbed operations “up there.”…., </span>__<span style="color: #000000;">the Chinese anti-satellite launch "was not a surprise ... [but] it added a sense of urgency."</span>__
**Multiple rising powers possess all the elements of an ASAT program.**
**Mackey, 9**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> - Lt. Col of the USAF (Fall, James, “Recent US and Chinese Antisatellite Activities,” Air & Space Power Journal, proquest)</span>

__Any nation with the space-lift capability to place the necessary payload into LEO could theoretically field a__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> rudimentary </span>__ASAT program based upon high explosive warheads or small nuclear__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">….. The latter seems unlikely since China considers space one of its five warfare domains.</span>


**Technological preeminence through the plan is a precondition for the sustainability of hegemony.**
<span class="Underline">**Dolman and Cooper 11 –** PhD and professor of comparative military studies and PhD and former deputy for the strategic and space systems</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, and Henry, PhD and Former Deputy for the Strategic and Space Systems, “Chapter 19: Increasing the Military Uses of Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf, //azp//)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Space weapons are expensive; alternatives are cheaper and just as effective.This is the first argument against space weaponization, although it is an easy one to set aside. ….This means that the funds for space weaponization will come at the expense of other military projects, from within the budget of the Department of Defense. This observation is the basis for criticism among military traditionalists, who see the advent of space weapons as the beginning of the end for conventional warfare. </span>

<span class="Underline">**And, satellites are the Achille’s heel of American hard power – Chinese ASAT strikes are inevitable and will destroy readiness.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Tellis 7** </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">– Senior Associate at Carnegie Endowment (Ashley, July 23, “China’s Space Weapons”, [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/2007/07/23/china-s-space-weapons/v52]], //azp//)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">On Jan. 11, 2007, a Chinese medium-range ballistic missile slammed into an aging weather satellite in space…. </span><span class="Underline">These efforts are aimed at giving China the capacity to attack U.S. space systems comprehensively because, in Chinese calculations, this represents the best way of "leveling the playing field" in the event of a future conflict. </span>


<span class="Underline">**Effective maintenance of spacepower through weaponization provides assurance and dissuasion capabilities that are the backbone of deterrence and conflict resolution.** </span>
**Smith 11** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">– PhD in IR (Smith, Colonel and PhD in IR, 11 M.V., Colonel, PhD in Politics and IR @ University of Reading, Citing Colin Gray, “Chapter 17: Security and Spacepower, Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]], //azp//)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Many states will not feel comfortable having their security rest on such idealistic constructs as the indirect methods alone. Some states, especially those with more militaristic strategic cultures, will likely seek space weaponry (overtly or covertly) in the form of defensive systems to protect their space assets from attack and offensive systems to prevent foes from exploiting space to gain a military advantage</span><span class="Underline">. ….</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">It remains clear, however, that </span><span class="Underline">**spacepower assets, as deeply integrated as they are in all aspects of military operations among advanced spacefaring states, will continue to be the interconnecting glue making terrestrial deterrence more effective.** </span>


**Hegemonic decline results in great power war and collapses international stability – only the plan sustains peace.**
**Zhang and Shi, 1/22/**11 <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">– *Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C.; Lin Shi is from Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C. (America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This does not necessarily mean that the US is in systemic decline, but it encompasses a trend that appears to be negative and perhaps alarming. …</span>**__This, at least, is one possibility we can forecast in a future that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.__**

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Space weapons solve violent instances of interventionism – they limit imperial ambitions while fostering a more benevolent global image.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Dolman 10</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, “The Case for Weapons in Space: A Geopolitical Assessment,” September, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/cf_dev/AbsByAuth.cfm?per_id=1532576,)</span>

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">There is little reason to believe the United States will forego the capacity to influence decisions and events beyond its borders, with military force if necessary…. The United States will maintain its position of hegemony as well as its security, and the world will not be threatened by the specter of a future American empire.</span>

=BMD= 
**Contention two is Ballistic Missile Defense:**

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Space-based intercept technology is key to heightening security architecture to stabilize hotspots and to prevent terrorist EMP.**</span>
**<span style="color: #000000;">Pfaltzgraff et al 9</span>** <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Robert, PhD and Professor of Int. Security Studies @ Tufts and President @ the IFPA, William Cleave, PhD and Professor @ Missouri State, Ilan Berman, VP for Policy @ the American Foreign Policy Council, Kiron Skinner, PhD and Fellow @ the Hoover Institution, Henry Cooper, Chairman @ High Frontier, H. Baker Spring, Research Fellow @ Heritage, Jacquelyn Davis, PhD and Executive VP @ IFPA, Mead Treadwell, Senior Fellow @ Institute of the North, Daniel Fine, PhD and Research Associate @ MIT, Robert Turner, Professor at University of Virginia, Robert Jastrow, PhD and Chairman of the Board @ the Marshall Institute, J.D. Williams, Vice Admiral of the USN, Thomas Karako, Director of Programs @ Claremont Institute, Paul Weyrich, CEO @ the Free Congress Research and Education Foundation, Brian Kennedy, President @ Claremont Institute, Lowell Wood, PhD and Visiting Fellow @ Hoover, Jeff Kueter, President @ the Marshall Institute, Eric Licht, Senior Analyst @ the Free Congress Research and Education Foundation, R. Daniel McMichael, Secretary @ the Carthage Foundation and the Sarah Scaife Foundation, “Report of the Independent Working Group on Missile Defense, the Space Relationship,& the Twenty-First Century,” Prepared by the Institute for Foreign </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Policy Analysis,” https://www.claremont.org/repository/docLib/200901291_iwg2009.pdf</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">,)</span>

__There is ample reason for concern. …__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">And access to space, as well as space control, is key to future U.S. efforts to provide disincentives to an array of actors seeking such power. </span>


**We’ll isolate several impact scenarios:**

**First, Indo-Pak War**

**A. Most likely scenario for conflict – SBMD solves.**
<span class="Underline">**Dolman and Cooper 11 –** PhD and professor of comparative military studies and PhDand former deputy for the strategic and space systems</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, and Henry, PhD and Former Deputy for the Strategic and Space Systems, “Chapter 19: Increasing the Military Uses of Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf, //azp//)</span>

<span class="Underline">A limited strike capability from space would allow for the engagement of the highest threat and the most fleeting targets wherever they presented themselves on the globe, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">regardless of the intention of the perpetrator</span><span class="Underline">…. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">But if a single missile were launched out of the blue from deep within the Asian landmass today, for whatever reason</span>, a space-based missile defense system<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">with 99-percentreliability </span>would be a godsend.


**B. Kashmir goes nuclear.**
**<span style="color: #000000;">Robock and Toon 10</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;"> - Dr. Alan Robock is a professor of climatology in the Department of Environmental Sciences at Rutgers University and the associate director of its Center for Environmental Prediction. Prof. Robock has been a researcher in the area of climate change for more than 30 years. His current research focuses on soil moisture variations, the effects of volcanic eruptions on climate, effects of nuclear war on climate, and regional atmosphere/hydrology modeling. He has served as Editor of climate journals, including the Journal of Climate and Applied Meteorology and the Journal of Geophysical Research-Atmospheres. He has published more than 250 articles on his research, including more than 150 peer-reviewed papers and Owen Brian Toon is professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences and a fellow at the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics (LASP) at the University of Colorado, received his Ph.D. from Cornell University – From the January 20 10 Scientific American Magazine –<span style="color: #1c51a8;">[[@http://climate.envsci.rutgers.edu/pdf/RobockToonSciAmJan2010.pdf]]</span> )</span>

__<span style="color: #000000;">By deploying</span>____modern____<span style="color: #000000;">computers and modern cli­mate</span>____models<span style="color: #000000;">, the two of us and our colleagues have</span>____shown that not only were the ideas of the____<span style="color: #000000;">19</span>80s correct but the effects would last for at least 10 years,____<span style="color: #000000;">much longer than previously thought. ………..The resulting</span>____dust cloud,____<span style="color: #000000;">mixed with smoke from fires,</span>____blocked the Sun, killing the dinosaurs<span style="color: #000000;">. Massive volcanism in India at the same time may have exacerbated the ef­fects. The events teach us that large amounts of</span>____aerosols____<span style="color: #000000;">in the earth’s atmosphere</span>____can change cli­mate____<span style="color: #000000;">drastically</span>____enough to kill robust species.__

**Second, Korean War**

**A. Provocations prove North Korea is a threat.**
**Pomfret 11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (John, Washington Post Writer Citing Robert Gates, “ Defense secretary Gates says North Korean ballistic missiles pose 'direct threat' to U.S.,” Jan 11, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2011/01/11/AR2011011103260.html) </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">BEIJING --U.S. Defense Secretary Robert M. </span>__Gates warned North Korea__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Tuesday </span>__that its nuclear and intercontinental ballistic missile programs are "becoming a direct threat to the United States." Gates__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, ………, </span>__when North Korea sank a South Korean warship killing 46 sailors and then in November shelled a South Korean island,__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">killing two civilians and two soldiers. </span>

**B. War on the peninsula devastates the environment, cripples the economy, breaks the non-proliferation regime and risks extinction.**
**Hayes & Hamel-Green, 10** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">– *Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND **Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and** </span>
**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” [[http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf]])</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">The international community is increasingly aware that cooperative diplomacy is the most productive way to tackle the multiple, interconnected global challenges facing humanity, not least of which is the increasing proliferation of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction…</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">…….</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">.</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> The Korean nuclear proliferation issue is not just a regional threat but a global one that warrants priority consideration from the international community. </span>**

Third is electro-magnetic pulse

Risk of terrorist EMP attack is high. The threshold and timeframe for this impact are both low – EMP’s destroy civilization and risk extinction.
[[http://proquest.umi.com/pqdlink?RQT=318&pmid=77914&TS=1311363783&clientId=4347&VInst=PROD&VName=PQD&VType=PQD|Space & Missile Defense Report]]**, <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Rockville: </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://proquest.umi.com/pqdlink?RQT=572&VType=PQD&VName=PQD&VInst=PROD&pmid=77914&pcid=39745081&SrchMode=3|Jul 14, 200]][[http://proquest.umi.com/pqdlink?RQT=572&VType=PQD&VName=PQD&VInst=PROD&pmid=77914&pcid=39745081&SrchMode=3|8]]</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Vol. 9, Iss. 27, U.S. Ballistic Missile Defense Systems Could Thwart Terrorist Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP) Attack: Analyst //ZY, NMB)//</span>**
**//<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Rep. Bartlett Urges Government To Counter EMP </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">DangerEMP Would Bring Down Planes</span>__</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Threaten Vehicles, </span>//**//Kill 90 Percent Of U.S. Population **Within Year Of Attack__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">.</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Iran clearly is developing an EMP weapons capability,……….. "I'm very concerned," Bartlett concluded</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">. </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">It is vital, he said, for the United States to take decisive steps to guard against the devastation of EMP.</span>**//

//Fourth is China,//

//A. The control of space is both a means and ends for future warfare – only dominance of space will permit the US to contain Chinese interventionism and stop escalation in a Taiwan scenario.//
//Keuter 7 **– President of Marshall on Science and Public Policy (Jeff, Spring, “China’s Space Ambitions – And Ours”, [[http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/chinas-space-ambitions-and-ours]],**// **azp//)**

**<span class="Underline">These conclusions have shaped China’s overall military modernization efforts as well as its outer-space ambitions. …….</span>The opportunity is that the U<span class="Underline">nited </span>S<span class="Underline">tates </span>can be challenged by a nation possessing China’s space capabilities.**

B. Risk of conflict is high – China will attack when we are perceived as weak.
Choong 9**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">- Senior Writer @ The Strait Times, articles appear in The International Institute of Strategic Studies, [William, The Strait Times, “Reading too much into the stars?,” May 12, 2009, LexisNexis,]</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">LAST month, ………..</span>__used____asymmetrical warfare to overwhelm stronger opponents. And China's much-vaunted strategy of 'active defence', argue some, is__**

C. Extinction
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Straits Times 2000</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[June, 25, No one gains in war over Taiwan]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">The Doomsday Scenario – The high-intensity scenario postulates</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';"> __a cross-strait war escalating into a full-scale war between the US and China__. </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">I……... While the prospect of</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';"> __a nuclear Armaggedon over Taiwan__ </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">might seem inconceivable, it</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';"> __cannot be ruled out__ </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">entirely</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">, __for China puts sovereignty above everything else__.</span>

=Solvency= 
<span class="Underline">**A constellation of 1,000 satellites solves – brilliant pebbles are comparatively the best BMD system, the technology is feasible and the program is cost-effective and adaptive to all counter-measures.**</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Pfaltzgraff et al 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Robert, PhD and Professor of Int. Security Studies @ Tufts and President @ the IFPA, William Cleave, PhD and Professor @ Missouri State, Ilan Berman, VP for Policy @ the American Foreign Policy Council, Kiron Skinner, PhD and Fellow @ the Hoover Institution, Henry Cooper, Chairman @ High Frontier, H. Baker Spring, Research Fellow @ Heritage, Jacquelyn Davis, PhD and Executive VP @ IFPA, Mead Treadwell, Senior Fellow @ Institute of the North, Daniel Fine, PhD and Research Associate @ MIT, Robert Turner, Professor at University of Virginia, Robert Jastrow, PhD and Chairman of the Board @ the Marshall Institute, J.D. Williams, Vice Admiral of the USN, Thomas Karako, Director of Programs @ Claremont Institute, Paul Weyrich, CEO @ the Free Congress Research and Education Foundation, Brian Kennedy, President @ Claremont Institute, Lowell Wood, PhD and Visiting Fellow @ Hoover, Jeff Kueter, President @ the Marshall Institute, Eric Licht, Senior Analyst @ the Free Congress Research and Education Foundation, R. Daniel McMichael, Secretary @ the Carthage Foundation and the Sarah Scaife Foundation, “Report of the Independent Working Group on Missile Defense, the Space Relationship,& the Twenty-First Century,” Prepared by the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis,”[[https://www.claremont.org/repository/docLib/200901291_iwg2009.pdf]], //azp//) </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Space-based Kinetic Energy Missile Defense</span> __A space-based KEI__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">is designed to hit a ballistic missile in its boost or ascent phase, ……..</span>). These analyses are the foundation of the IWG report’s cost estimates for the original and a revised BP program as set forth below.

<span class="Underline">**Finally, only the US is in the correct international position to initiate a transition to space weaponization, and only space dominance gives the US the right set of tools to defuse international tension in a way that maintains a positive US image and facilities economic prosperity.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Dolman and Cooper 11 –** PhD and professor of comparative military studies and PhD and former deputy for the strategic and space systems</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Everett, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, and Henry, PhD and Former Deputy for the Strategic and Space Systems, “Chapter 19: Increasing the Military Uses of Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf, //azp//)</span>

<span class="Underline">With great power comes great responsibility. </span>If the U<span class="Underline">nited </span>S<span class="Underline">tates </span>deploys<span class="Underline"> and uses its </span>military space force<span class="Underline"> in concert with allies and friends to maintain effective control of space </span>in a way that is perceived<span class="Underline"> as tough, </span>nonarbitrary<span class="Underline">, and efficient, </span>adversaries would be discouraged from fielding opposing systems<span class="Underline">. Should the United States and its allies and friends use their advantage to police the heavens and allow unhindered peaceful use of space by any and all nations for economic and scientific development……….. The nature of international relations and the lessons of history dictate that such a course begin with the vision and will of a few acting in the benefit of all. **America must lead, for the benefit of all.** </span>

<span class="Underline">**Your disads are non-unique – Obama just signed off on a new constellation program.** </span>
<span class="Underline">AFP 9/15 ([[http://www.news.com.au/technology/sci-tech/nasa-unveils-new-deep-space-rocket/story-fn5fsgyc-1226137621984]], September 15th 2011, AFP)</span>

NASA<span class="Underline"> chief Charles Bolden</span>​made the announcement of the design for the new Space Launch System<span class="Underline">, ………. "The booster will be America's most powerful since the Saturn V rocket that carried Apollo astronauts to the moon and will launch humans to places no one has gone before," NASA said in a statement. </span>

**Space arms control fails – not verifiable, dual use technologies and a crisis could make use necessary.**
**O’Hanlon 11** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Michael, Senior Fellow @ Brookings, Looks like Evan McCarty, “Chapter 21: Balancing U.S. Security Interests in Space,” Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]], )</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">One type of </span>__arms control accord on activities in space__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">would be quite comprehensive, ………… That day is not near, and there are many other possible ways to deal with the worry in the near term besides developing destructive ASATs. But </span>__over time, a possible need for such a weapon cannot be ruled out.__

**Existing US missile defense makes compromise on ASAT bans impossible**
**Forden 2007** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">– writer for Arms Control Today (Geoffrey, “After China's Test: Time For a Limited Ban on Anti-Satellite Weapons. Arms Control Today, April 2007, [[http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2007_04/Forden]]</span>**)**

__Any attempt to ban ASAT weapons development ………they would ban the United States from even testing its current defense shield, which is supposed to strike and destroy an incoming warhead at altitudes far higher than 100 kilometers.__

**Codes of conduct will be unverifiable and only constrain the US**
**Kueter 11** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Jeff, President of the Marshall Institute, “ Rules of the Road in Space: Does a Code of Conduct Improve U.S. Security?,” April 1, [[http://www.marshall.org/article.php?id=939]], )</span>

__Advocates of the Code believe it will spur the emergence of best practices and encourage good behavior in space. ……….__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. And, if the Code evolves into binding commitments, it becomes an arms control agreement and, as such, deserves a much fuller vetting by the public and the Congress than it has received to date. </span>


=Negative= 
Args we make -
Politics - SKFTA, PTC
Space mil DA
You kill birds DA - v. SPS
Heg DA
Ozone DA
PGS DA

China cooperation counterplan
DOD anchor tenant CP - v. SPS
Prizes counterplan
'Pearl Harbor' PIC
Code of Conduct CP
Near space cp v. ORS

Security kritik
Mann K (pic out of the plan)
Schmitt
Fem (this was read as a pic out of "man's rights."
Chow K
Norm
Anthro
Ecological Disasters K
Civ K






[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]