[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
**Annihilation of the Wicked AC**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">No authors defend sacrificial beneficence. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Leonard **Peikoff**, Objectivism: The Philosophy of Ayn Rand. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[[http://peikoff.com/opar/altruism.htm]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“The advocates of…their periodic fixes”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Humans are altruistic. Warneken F, Hare B, Melis AP, Hanus D, Tomasello M (2007) Spontaneous Altruism by Chimpanzees and Young Children. PLoS Biol 5(7): e184. doi:10.1371/journal.pbio.0050184</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“Debates about altruism… humans and chimpanzees” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">McNamara defines permissible. Paul McNamara. “Deontic Logic.” Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. April 2010. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">[[http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/logic-deontic/]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“These assert that…Definitional Scheme (TDS)”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Ian **Gough** defines **need.** Gough, Ian. “Economic Institutions and the Satisfaction of Human Needs” Journal of Economic Issues. Vol. 28: No. 1. March, 1994.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“We argue that… physical health and autonomy”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Rational will confers goodness. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Barbara Herman, //Leaving Deontology Behind//. Print pp. 211.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“Two things follow… of practical rationality”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Reason is universal. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Stephen Engstrom,Universal Legislation As the Form of Practical Knowledge, </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“Reason, according to… he should do”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Rational cognition requires universality. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Engstrom, Stephen, //The Form of Practical Knowledge//, Harvard University Press, 2009, p. 122-123.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“As we saw… of practical knowledge”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The act of affirmation establishing the one content as a content of practical cognition is equally the negation in which the opposing content is excluded. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Engstrom, Stephen, //The Form of Practical Knowledge//, Harvard University Press, 2009 pp. 52</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“It belongs to… of such cognition”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Willing non-beneficence circumvents our needs. </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Mutual Aid and Respect for Persons Author(s): Barbara Herman Source: Ethics, Vol. 94, No. 4 (Jul., 1984), pp. 577-602 Published by: The University of Chicago Press Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/2380319 . Accessed: 01/10/2011 15:15</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“We are not… anything at all”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">We can’t predict the future.</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Mutual Aid and Respect for Persons Author(s): Barbara Herman Source: Ethics, Vol. 94, No. 4 (Jul., 1984), pp. 577-602 Published by: The University of Chicago Press Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/2380319 . Accessed: 01/10/2011 15:15</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> “It is not… he be helped”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">FUL generates positive obligations. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Engstrom, Stephen, //The Form of Practical Knowledge//, Harvard University Press, 2009 pp. 52</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“Let us consider… imperfect particular wills”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">You can’t will independence. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Engstrom, Stephen, //The Form of Practical Knowledge//, Harvard University Press, 2009 pp. 52</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“In contrast to… on their practicability”</span>

==Negative== 
**Agency NC**
Affirming fails to recognize the role of agency is shaping states of affairs. Weinberg, Rivka. “It Ain’t My World.” //Utilitas//, 21.2 (2009): 144–162. 
“Discounting the bystander… state of affair”

Obligating bystanders to act for the purpose of helping others creates infinite obligations. Derrida, Jacques. //The Gift of Death//, trans David Willis. Chicago: The University of Chicago Press, 1995.
“As soon as… scandal, and aporia”
=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]