[[toc]]
=Note:= 
I've decided its easier to put up cites by request, so if you want the cites for anything on this page, send me an email and I will post the cites and send you an email when I do.
=St. Mark's Sophomore Hoe-Down= 


==Round 1 vs. Niles West NL - SPS (Warming, Space Development)== 

1nc - Anchor Tenant CP, Weaponization DA, Jobs Bill Politics DA, Case

2nc - Anchor Tenant CP, Case

1nr - Jobs Bill Politics DA

2nr - Anchor Tenant CP, Jobs Bill Politics DA, Case


==Round 3 vs. C.E. Byrd GN - Search for Extra-Terrestrial Life (Sacred Order Bad)== 

1nc - Framework, Cap K, Case w/ Aliens Bad Turns

2nc - Commisions CP (New Sheet), Spending DA (New Sheet), Case

1nr - Framework

2nr - Commisions CP, Spending DA, Case


==Round 5 vs. Iowa City West MK - SPS (Warming, Heg)== 

1nc - Commisions CP, Spending DA, Jobs Bill Politics DA, Case

2nc - Commisions CP, Case

1nr - Spending DA

2nr - Commisions CP, Spending DA


==Round 7 vs. College Prep GF - ISS China Co-Op (Warming, Miscalc)== 

1nc - T it's/Extra T, Code of Conduct/Advantage CP, Weaponization DA, Case

2nc - T it's/Extra T, Code of Conduct/Advantage CP

1nr - Weaponization DA

2nr - Code of Conduct/Advantage CP, Weaponization DA

**Text: The United States Federal Government should**
**-cooperate with China on ways to solve global warming**
**-cooperate with China on Green Tech initiatives**
**-remove all of its technologies from space**
**-ban the use, testing, and development of ASATs**
**-prohibit deliberate creation of persistent space debris**
**-include verification, transparency, and enforcement mechanisms**
**-consistently advocate the Code of Conduct through negotiations.**



=**Michigan**= 

==**Round 2 vs. Whitney Young SS - ORS (China, Heg)**== 

2nr - PGS DA, Case


==Round 3 vs. Johns Creek FS - Female Staffed Mission (Gender)== 

2nr - Commissions CP, Spending DA, Cap DA, Case


==**Round 6 vs. Lexington SS - Inflatable SPS (Energy/Warming, Heg)**== 

2nr - Anchor Tenant CP, Cybersecurity Politics DA


=Harvard= 

==Round 1 vs. Excel DC- Asteroids (Asteroid Strike)== 

1nc - T-Human, Commissions CP, Consult Japan CP, Cybersecurity Politics DA, Case

2nc - Commissions, Consult Japan, Case

1nr - Politics

2nr - Commissions, Politics, Case


==Round 4 vs. Pace AK - SPS (Heg, Energy)== 

1nc - T-Human, DoD Anchor Tenant CP, Cybersecurity Politics DA, Weaponization DA, Case

2nc - DoD Anchor Tenant, Case

1nr - Politics

2nr - DoD Anchor Tenant, Politics

==Round 6 vs. Atholton ZS - Earth Observation Satellites (Climate Race)== 

1nc - T-Human, Warming Advantage CP, Lacan K, Cybersecurity Politics DA, Social Justice Tradeoff DA, Case

2nc - Warming CP, Social Justice DA

1nr - Politics, Case

2nr - Social Justice DA, Case

==Round 7 vs. Edgemont MX - Comsats (Heg, Naval Power)== 

1nc - T-Increase/Beyond/Its, UN CP, Cybersecurity Politics DA, Launches DA, Case

2nc - T-Beyond, Launches DA, CAse

1nr - UN CP

2nr - T-Beyond

=FFL States= 
==Round 2 vs. Ft. Lauderdale TM - Lidar (Cooperation, Nuclear Primacy)== 

1nc - T-Human, Transportation Politics DA, UN CP, VFDS CP, Case

2nc - T-Human, VFDS CP

1nr - UN CP

2nr - UN CP

==Round 4 vs. Ransom SD - SPS (Heg, Econ, Warming)== 

1nc - T-Human, DoD Anchor Tenant CP, Cybersecurity Politics DA, Case

2nc - T-Human, Politics

1nr - DoD Anchor Tenant

2nr - T-Human, Politics, DoD Anchor Tenant