[[toc]]
=D&G Aff= 

==1AC Glenbrooks== 

It's too early in the morning for me to get all the cites up but we've been reading the Read evidence and the Paul evidence from the neg section in the 1AC - one round we also read a plan text that was just the resolution
==1AC St Marks Round 3== 

**Part One: Encounter.**

**We have been asked to encounter space – but what is space and how do we encounter it?**

**Engaging in a genealogy of space, we find a history of encounters characterized by a telos of understanding. Resist the urge to encounter space through domination and mastery.**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Sheehan 7 </span>**</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">-</span>Distinguished Fellow at the Center on Law and Security
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(2007, Michael, pp. 5-19 “The International Politics of Space,” [[http://bib.tiera.ru/dvd64/Sheehan%20M.%20-%20The%20International%20Politics%20of%20Space(2007)(248).pdf]], liam)</span>

__The fact that__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Outer </span>__Space has been a realm__ __… …represented by human activities beyond the Earth’s atmosphere__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Xx</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">This way of thinking is a transmission of the bad affects of a system that is designed to organize what it means to be human and what it means for humans to be secure, how they should live, what they should think. You must resist the transmission of this melancholy at all costs, for it negates the pleasure of being alive</span>**</span>
**Deleuze 87** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Gilles, Supreme Chancellor of the Galactic Republic and mother of three, “Dialogues,” with Claire Parnet, freelance journalist, pg 61-62)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">When Spinoza says 'The surprising thing is the body … …</span>teaching to soul its life, not to save it.

**This model of encounter destroys potentiality and locks us into dualistic modes of thought that stifle our ability to truly experience life. Instead of rationally mapping out space, we respond to the resolution by inviting the United States federal government on a plunge into the deep unknown of space beyond the mesosphere.**
**Deleuze 87** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Gilles, Supreme Chancellor of the Galactic Republic and mother of three, “Dialogues,” with Claire Parnet, freelance journalist, pg 54-56)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Why write, why have written about empiricism… … the painter, take the place of concepts.</span>

**The impact to this dualistic encounter is micro-fascistic political strategies which are the precondition for any macropolitical violence. This move to cede human agency to a transcendent conceptual apparatus at the molecular level is the worst sort of political engagement.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Deleuze and Guattari 1980</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Gilles and Felix, no quals, //A Thousand Plateaus// pg 214-215, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">It is not sufficient to define bureaucracy by a rigid … … cherish with molecules both personal and collective.</span>

**Part Two: Wonder.**

__She looked up at the surface__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">of the dream-sea, and at the dark shape of the boat above. </span>__There were figures working in the water up there, she saw__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, hacking at the weed to clear a path for the vessel. </span>__She wished she could coax them down__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to join the fun; </span>__to share what she was feeling and exuding; to watch them dissolve in the grip of bliss, and have them open to her.__
__She felt a sliver of shame__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> at these thoughts – moments ago this had been the most intimate of encounters between herself and Joe, now </span>__here she was, wanting to invite everyone in sight to the party__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– </span>__but she couldn’t help it. Her pleasure didn’t belong to her. It couldn’t be boxed, it couldn’t be banked, it couldn’t be traded__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">or trafficked. </span>__It moved through her and disappeared, existing for the length of a shudder or a sigh, or a loving afternoon.__
__It was part of being alive__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, like tears and hunger, </span>__and given that her being was connected with everything else__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">with the water and the weeds and the men on the boat above – </span>__what right did she have to prevent pleasure from radiating from her, giving itself freely?__

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Clive Barker, //Everville//, pg 298, dml</span>
**What right do we have to close off the possibilities of our encounters with the resolution? Why should we determine what the resolution means, instead of allowing the resolution to determine what we mean?**

**We propose an encounter of wonder. Explore the potentiality of space. Embrace its familiarity as unknowability. Experience the pleasure of a precarious existence and find the world as if you are experiencing everything for the first time.**
**Deleuze 87** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Gilles, Supreme Chancellor of the Galactic Republic and mother of three, “Dialogues,” with Claire Parnet, freelance journalist, pg 47-51)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Your secret can always be seen on your face … … the real always being put off until tomorrow.</span>__

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">We must begin any analysis of the topic with engaging encounter. Endorsing mystery and unknowability allows us to resist militaristic and fascist mindsets.</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Sheehan 7 -</span>**</span>Distinguished Fellow at the Center on Law and Security <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(2007, Michael, pp. 5-19 “The International Politics of Space,” [[http://bib.tiera.ru/dvd64/Sheehan%20M.%20-%20The%20International%20Politics%20of%20Space(2007)(248).pdf]], liam)</span>

Introduction __How should we think about space? … …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">from using astronautical research for military purposes.5</span>


**Part Three is Debate.**

**Limits on the topic do not exist – there’s no impact to breaking them, but trying to impose them limits our ability to effectively engage with the topic – only endorsing a politics of creativity can open up space for real political advocacy**
**Zagorin 9** – yeah, it’s Edmund
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Edmund, Founder of Giant Eel LLC and pretty damn smart, “Constructing the Ethical Limits of Play in Policy Debate,” symploke, Volume 17, Numbers 1-2, 2009, pp. 181-196, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> For those unfamiliar with policy debate… …</span> __**a reciprocal engagement with creative experimentation**__**.**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Embracing the impossibility of knowing space is the __precondition__ to politics – acknowledging wonder is the __utmost ethical priority__. Their framework limits out the possibility of wondrous encounters and cannot accurately represent politics, while our affirmative is a prerequisite to their education arguments</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Jones 9</span>**

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Rachel, University of Dundee, “On the Value of Not Knowing: Wonder, Beginning Again and Letting Be,” As presented at ‘On Not Knowing’, a Symposium hosted by Kettle’s Yard and New Hall College, Cambridge, 29th June 2009, to accompany the exhibition ‘Material Intelligence’, Kettle’s Yard, 16 May – 12 July 2009)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thus described, </span>__wonder is the passion … … of thinking again and beginning anew__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Our affirmation is a concept to be played with and combined with other concepts. There is no such thing as a mutually exclusive advocacy against our politics of affirmation, and no interpretation that entirely excludes our aff. The very function of our affirmative is to learn from and play with the content and ethos of their criticism, to combine the function and form of their political strategy with our own, creating an entirely new machine.**
**Massumi 83** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Brian, Professor of something at a place of respectable respectedness; A Thousand Plateaus, Introduction)</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">"State philosophy" is another word for the representational thinking … … under your breath as you go about your daily business</span>.



**And, we are the USFG – view our exploration of space as a line of flight beyond the mesosphere – this allows us to endorse a new politics of becoming and affect**
**Deleuze and Guattari 72****<span style="background-color: white; color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Anti-Oedipus, p. 87-88 LH)</span>**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span>__simulation__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> must be understood in the same … …c</span>__oncludes a self from its oscillations on the circle__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**This form of becoming is essential to resist state control of all forms – we should never let debate be defined as one static form. Instead we should allow for mutation. This does not mean we abandon all structures and forms in debate like they assume – we just don’t think we should be pinning debate down to one structure.**
<span style="font-family: 'Book Antiqua',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Conley 6</span> <span style="font-size: 7.5pt;">(Verena Andermatt, professor of literature at Harvard, “Borderlines; Deleuze and the Contemporary World, 95-100)</span>

In their dialogues and collaborations, Gilles <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Deleuze and Félix Guattari</span>… …and every utopian scenario, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">all identity is undone</span>.


==2AC Framework== 

**a) Exploration is the investigation of unknown regions**
Freedictionary 8 [The Free Dictionary by Farlex, Princeton Univertysity, http://www.thefreedictionary.com/exploration]
__exploration - a systematic consideration__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">… … </span>__the process of giving careful thought to something__

**b) “of space” means space is the object of the resolution – we must engage in an exploration of space, not space exploration**
**Bockstiegel 95 –**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ph D., Directitor of the Institute of Air and Space Law, Chairman of the Space Law Committee of the International Law Association; Chairman of Council of the National German Space Agency (Dr. Karl-Heinz, 1995, “Research and invention in outer space: liability and intellectual property rights” pg 4.)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The official title of the Outer Space Treaty … …</span> __might only be considered as ‘use’ of space.__

**And, more evidence, <span class="Underline">their framework is not neutral – it’s an attempt to rationally organize knowledge – the impact is the reproduction of biopolitical structures, bankrupt education, and the 1AC</span>**
<span class="Underline">**Boden and Epstein 11 –** *Professor of Critical Management at the University of Wales Institute, Cardiff School of Management AND **Professor of Social Sciences at Cardiff University**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Rebecca and Debbie, “A flat earth society? Reimagining academic freedom,” The Sociological Review, 59:3 (2011), dml)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is because </span><span class="Underline">neoliberal regimes</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">… …</span>**compromising their capacity to be deﬁant**.**

We do not need a plan – we should not be tied down to a static form or advocacy – the aff is an act of experimentation that allows us to formulate better political strategies
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Deleuze and Guattari 80</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Gilles and Felix, philosophers and rhizomes, //A Thousand Plateaus// pg </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">160-161, dml)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">You have to keep enough of the organism for it … …</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">changing in form</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, crossing thresholds</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">).</span>**
Thus, vote aff to refuse their attempt to control language – acknowledge the inability of normative communication to create true change and embrace our nontraditional mode of communication as a way of escaping the fascist structures they reinforce.
Thoburn 6** <span style="font-size: 7.5pt;">(</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7.5pt;">Nicholas Thoburn is a lecturer in the School of Social Sciences at the University of Manchester, “Vacuoles of Noncommunication: Minor Politics, Communist Style and the Multitude,” Deleuze and the Contemporary World pg 51-53, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If they operated through a kind of deterritorialisation … …that asks to be criticized’ (Hardt and Negri 2001: 236).</span>

==2AC Case== 

**We are more than just ourselves – the 1AC was an encounter with wonder that refuses to pin it down – we need a universe that does not need us – only by exploring the unknown can we appreciate the value we have become born into.**
<span style="color: black;">Mary **Midgley**, retired Senior Lecturer in </span><span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Philosophy|Philosophy]]</span><span style="color: black;"> at </span><span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Newcastle_University|Newcastle University]]</span><span style="color: black;">, **2005**</span>
<span style="color: black;">[//The Essential Mary Midgley// p 373-378]</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">’ To deal with this, we need to understand adaptation… …</span>__<span style="color: black;">an essential condition of</span>____<span style="color: black;"> sanity</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

==2AC K== 

===Race K/Project=== 

<3 Isaac Marshall

**The permutation solves – we should not identify identity in static categories – instead affirming an ontology of becoming allows us to formulate true resistance**
**Tormey 6** 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Simon Tormey, Politics at University of Nottingham, Parliamentary Affairs 2006 59(1): 138-154, dml)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As opposed to the ‘majoritarian’ logic of ontology... ...towards the collective, if it does? </span>

**Their movement fails – identity struggles serve to reaffirm violent power struggles – only an ontology of becoming solves**
**Tormey 6** 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Simon Tormey, Politics at University of Nottingham, Parliamentary Affairs 2006 59(1): 138-154, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As is clear, ‘</span><span class="cite">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">normativity’ is ... ...</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">think how they might be developed. </span>

**Voting neg __destroys creativity__ – it merely replaces white supremacy with king college preps supremacy. Their ideal form of debate is the same kind of stagnant, rotting, unreflexive image of thought they criticize.**

**Jeanes ‘5**
(Emma L. Jeanes, Lecturer, University of Exeter and Christian De Cock, Professor of Management, Swansea University, “MAKING THE FAMILIAR STRANGE: A DELEUZIAN PERSPECTIVE ON CREATIVITY,” <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://www.iacat.com/revista/recrearte/recrearte03/Familiar_Strange.pdf]]</span>, 2005, p. 4-8)

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This process of becoming… …</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">otherwise prevent us from thinking creatively.</span>


**good and bad are not binary. They wrongly think it’s a zero-sum power struggle between white and blacks, a fight between two sides – the police and the policed. The struggle of 21st century politics is not a struggle oriented around race; rather, it is the very concept of race which has come to inhibit and constrain radical politics. The neg’s deployment of the concept of race as the organizational focus of political struggle is a smokescreen which obscures the dynamics of oppression – the very deployment of race as a concept itself is the lynchpin of racialized oppression.** 
<span class="Cite0">Darder and Torress 4</span> (Antonia Darder, Prof of education policy studies at U of Illinois, and Rodolfo Torress, Associate prof of latino studies at UC Irvine, After Race: Racism after multiculturalism, p. 1-2)

Over a century ago… … for genocide in the course of world history.

**debate should be a zone of open speech of any kind, allowing infinite lines of flight with no boundaries. This isn’t liberal-democratic switch-side, but eternal open evolution of the process of debate itself. Vote negative to endorse an exterior mode of debate.**

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Paul </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Patton</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Professor of Philosophy @ the University of New South Wales, 19</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">84</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, “Conceptual Politics and the War Machine in ‘Mille Plateaux’,” JSTOR.</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This choice is stated in several ways… …</span>//<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">it is precisely the life of the concept.</span>//

==2AC Disad== 

===2AC Generic=== 

**Second, __biopolitics__ – risk assessment operates from a model of control – that which is unknown may be a threat and must be eliminated – this drive culminates in an endless state of war and control**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Claudia </span>**Aradau,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Rens </span>**Van Munster**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Faculty of Social Sciences at the University of Southern Denmark, 2k</span>**5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Governing Terrorism and the (Non-) Politics of Risk,” Political Science Publications No. 11, pg 14-18</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">IV Taking precautions against terrorism and … …</span>__governing and reclaims decision, struggle and contingency.__

**Third, __the death disad__ – what we think of as “death” is inevitable – constructing extinction as the opposite of life locks us into the kind of dualisms we critique – destroys our ability to experience life – we should instead affirm how death affects us and the infinite potentiality offered to us by death**
**Lanza 11 –** Chief Scientific Officer at Advanced Cell Technology, and a professor at Wake Forest University School of Medicine
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robert, “What Is Death?”, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/robert-lanza/transcending-death_b_865233.html]], dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We all know the biological reason we age and die… …said Chuck Palahniuk "</span>__is you have to die."__

===1AR Generic=== 

**Here’s more evidence – linear notions of time and space do not exist – the cosmos are in flux**
**Lanza 10 –** Chief Scientific Officer at Advanced Cell Technology, and a professor at Wake Forest University School of Medicine
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robert, “Is Death the End? Experiments Suggest You Create Time,” [[http://www.robertlanza.com/is-death-the-end-experiments-suggest-you-create-time/]], dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When I was young, I stayed at my neighbor's house… … is day; where it was, is night." </span>
===2AC Heg=== 
**Hard or soft power, it doesn’t matter – hegemony is dead, their model structurally produces blowback and resistant subjectivity through the lived out experience of oppression. The US can’t maintain power when the world doesn’t consent to it: the result is competition, distrust, imperial war, hegemonic collapse and a powder keg of nuclear catastrophe.**
**Hardt and Negri 9** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Michael and Antonio, Intellectual badasses, taught with K all-stars Gilles Deleuze and Michel Foucault at Vincennes, “Commonwealth”, 2009, pgs. 203-14)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The most significant event of the first decade … …</span>**__the collapse of its moral and political authority.__**