[[toc]]
=SPS Affirmative= 
Plan text – The United States Federal Government should develop satellites that demonstrate space-based solar power for global distribution.

Advantage 1: Breaking Down Oppression by Relieving Global Energy Deprivation
America has failed to act on global warming due to its devaluation of developing countries – this strategy marginalizes the energy-oppressed poor guaranteeing a destruction of their cultures
Gordon 7 – Professor of Law at Villanova University
(Ruth, “THE CLIMATE OF ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE: TAKING STOCK: CLIMATE CHANGE AND THE POOREST NATIONS: FURTHER REFLECTIONS ON GLOBAL INEQUALITY, 78 U. Colo. L. Rev. 1559, lexis, dml)
There is no longer any question that the earth's climate is warming. …**in the hands of others**.

And, this strategy will continue – the government will fail to act on global warming until it destroys the lives and cultures of billions in developing states – ethical obligation to do the plan
Gordon 7 – Professor of Law at Villanova University
(Ruth, “THE CLIMATE OF ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE: TAKING STOCK: CLIMATE CHANGE AND THE POOREST NATIONS: FURTHER REFLECTIONS ON GLOBAL INEQUALITY, 78 U. Colo. L. Rev. 1559, lexis, dml)
The world is rapidly … much warmer world.

SPS is key to lifting the world’s poor into a sustainable existence by delivering affordable energy to global populations.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">IAA 11</span>
International Academy of Astronautics, Academy that brings together the world's foremost experts in the disciplines of astronautics on a regular basis to recognize the accomplishments of their peers, and explores and discuss cutting-edge issues in space research and technology, 4-2011, “The First International Assessment of Space Solar Power: Opportunities, Issues and Potential Pathways Forward,” Green Energy From Space Solar Power, http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups/SG%20Commission%203/sg311/sg311finalreport.pdf
There are three critical observations …alternative futures.

Cost effective universal energy distribution solves global energy deprivation.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Snead 9 – MS in Aerospace Engineering</span>
Mike Snead, MS in Aerospace Engineering from Air Force Institute of Technology, Past Chair of American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Former director of Science & Technology, HQ Air Force Materiel Command, Awarded Outstanding Achievement for Excellence in Research @ USAF, 5-4-2009, “The vital need for America to develop space solar power,” The Space Review,
In my recent …gains importance.

Global Energy distribution solves the intersection of gender, energy, and poverty by improving quality of life and access to education, health care and media for women in developing countries and those living in poverty.
Clancy, Skutsch, and Batchelor 2 – *a Reader in technology transfer with the Technology and Development Group, University of Twente, **Senior**
**Lecturer with the Technology and Development Group, University of Twente, AND** *Director of Gamos Ltd
(Joy, Margaret, and Simon, “The Gender-Energy-Poverty Nexus: Finding the energy to address gender concerns in development,”
The gender dimension … class citizens” (quoted in Barnett, 2000).

Advantage 2 is Resource Wars
SPS averts …next decade.Scenario 1 is Oil
Solar technology leads to global energy independence—removes the need for foreign oil
NSS, National Space Society, October 2007, “Space Solar Power Limitless clean energy from space”, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/index.htm
The United States … economic reach.

Continued oil dependence leads to global instability, terrorism, and economic collapse
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Ron Bengston, compilation of articles from: U.S. News & World Report, The Saudi Connection, Friedman (Pulitzer Prize winning columnist), New York Times, Center for Strategic and International Studies, The Detroit Economic Club, and Brookings Institution on U.S. Energy Security, 2008, http://www.americanenergyindependence.com</span>
A powerful idea … terrorism.
Scenario 2 is Water
SPS solves water shortages – powers desalination plants
Reid Smith and Lisa Cohn, Writers for Sun and Wind Magazine, October 2009, “Only a matter of time?”, http://www.energysmith.net/articles/spacepower.pdf)
In addition to connecting … practical reality.

Water wars go nuclear
Jonathan Weiner, Professor at Princeton University, 1990, “The Next One Hundred Years”, page 270)
If we do not destroy … Trinity.
Water Shortages are a form of structural violence driven by colonialism and present day corporations Plan breaks down oppression
Joia S Mukherjee. Medical Director of Partners in Health. 2007. “Structural Violence, Poverty and the AIDS Pandemic” http://www.palgrave-journals.com/development/journal/v50/n2/full/1100376a.html
Current global inequalities … social injustice.Advantage 3 is the Environment

Scenario 1 is Warming
SPS is the ideal … coastal areas.
ONLY SPS supplies the power needed for a sustainable energy transition
James M. Snead, P.E., is a senior member of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) a past chair of the AIAA’s Space Logistics Technical Committee, and the founder and president of the Spacefaring Institute LLC, 5/4/2009, “The vital need for America to develop space solar power”, The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1364/1
A key element … SSP be started now.

Feedback cycles exacerbate warming leading to extinction
Oliver Tickell, environmental researcher, 2008, 8/11, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange)

We need … hothouse Earth.

=ExoMars Affirmative= 
See page for Layne Turci/Olivia Pribich.

=Negative= 
Heidegger K
Securitization K
PTX
Visa CP

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]