[[toc]]
<span style="background-color: #000000; color: #999999; display: block; font-family: 'andale mono','lucida console',monospace; font-size: 15px; text-align: left;">
</span>
[[code]]
<span style="background-color: #000000; color: #999999; font-family: 'andale mono','lucida console',monospace; font-size: 15px; text-align: left;">Email me </span><span style="background-color: #000000; font-family: 'andale mono','lucida console',monospace; font-size: 15px; text-align: left;">[[mailto:swaqqasolves@gmail.com|swaqqasolves@gmail.com]]</span><span style="background-color: #000000; color: #999999; font-family: 'andale mono','lucida console',monospace; font-size: 15px; text-align: left;"> with any questions or concerns</span>
[[code]]

=Affirmative= 
==1AC-Valley== 

===Inherency=== 
Even though funding has increased to NASA for DSCOVR, NASA still won’t pay for the launch
Donahue 11
(Bill, Long time writer with publications in //The Atlantic// and //The New Yorker// to //DoubleTake//, //Mother Jones//, and //Outside//, Two of his stories have been nominated for a National Magazine Award, and he teaches journalism at The Attic Writers’ Workshop in Portland. http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-03/lost-satellite)
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">But a week after my visit [...] </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">moment. Then his mood brightened.</span>
===<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Plan</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Thus the plan: The UnitedStates federal government should launch the Deep Space Climate Observatory. </span>

===<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Solar Storms</span>=== 
Early warning is critical to prevent the worst impacts of solar storms, and ACE is our best satellite now


**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Phillips 10</span>__**[Tony, production editor of Science@NASA, which means that he writes, proofs, edits, formats, and does whatever is necessary to keep the stories rolling, “As the Sun Awakens NASA Keeps a Wary Eye on Space Weather” 6/4/2010, [[http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2010/04jun_swef/]]]




Earth and space are about to [...] We take this very seriously indeed."
However, ACE cannot withstand a super storm and will fail to warn us

[[http://conceptactivityresearchvault.wordpress.com/author/conceptar/|**C**]]<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://conceptactivityresearchvault.wordpress.com/author/conceptar/|oncept ]]</span>[[http://conceptactivityresearchvault.wordpress.com/author/conceptar/|**A**]]<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://conceptactivityresearchvault.wordpress.com/author/conceptar/|ctivity ]]</span>[[http://conceptactivityresearchvault.wordpress.com/author/conceptar/|**R**]]<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://conceptactivityresearchvault.wordpress.com/author/conceptar/|esearch ]]</span>[[http://conceptactivityresearchvault.wordpress.com/author/conceptar/|**V**]]<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://conceptactivityresearchvault.wordpress.com/author/conceptar/|ault]]</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span>__**, May 18, **Concept Activity Research Vault** ( **CARV** ) develops historical, current and predictive private-sector concepts from report posts stimulating global commentary, Satellite outages now critical data problem, [[http://conceptactivityresearchvault.wordpress.com/2011/05/18/satellite-outages-now-critical-data-problem/]]

The Advanced Composition Explorer ( ACE [...] exceeded its NASA calculated life expectance.
This creates a huge operational gap in our ability to predict solar storms – DSCOVR is key to solve


**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Lautenbacher 10</span>__** [Conrad C. Jr., Administrator of the National Atmospheric and Oceanic Administration (NOAA), 1/28/2010, Natural Disasters and Solar Storms: Why Space Weather Matters, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/conrad-c-lautenbacher-phd/natural-disasters-and-sol_b_440128.html]]]




In addition to events such as [...] <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">let DSCOVR's launch funding be eliminated. </span>
Solar storms are inevitable by 2013—causes massive electrical grid failures
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">
</span>
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Pachal 11</span>__** (Peter Pachal, reporter for PCMag, June 8, 2011 “June 8, 2011 “Massive Solar Flare Misses Earth, but Are We Ready for the Big One?” PC Mag http://www.pcmag.com/article2/0,2817,2386623,00.asp)
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">The Sun roared out a huge [...] </span>about if it were to happen."
And, it’s comparable to a nuclear war
Eccleston, Spring 2011
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Chief Consultant for the Environmental Planning and NEPA Services Corporation and Stuyvenberg, Environmental Project Manager, US Nuclear Regulatory Comission, 2011 (Charles and Andrew, Environmental Quality Management, “The Perfect Electrical Storm? “ Volume 20, Issue 3, Article first published online: 14 MAR 2011, DOI 10.1002/tqem / Spring 2011 / 43 Published online in Wiley Online Library (wileyonlinelibrary.com) http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/tqem.20288/pdf , accessed 7-2-11, ASR) </span>

According to Kappenman, <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">power outages [...] </span>incursions from their newly deprived neighbors.

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Solar storms destroy the economy—loss of financial transactions and 2 trillion in damages</span>**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Vastag </span>__**6/21/**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">11</span>__**(Brian, Award-winning science and medical journalist with a decade of experience breaking research and policy stories for top publications, __<span style="color: blue;">http://johniac.posterous.com/as-the-sun-awakens-the-power-grid-stands-vuln</span>__) T.Snider

<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Their long strands of wire acted [...] </span>so, it has a coronary.”

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Economic decline leads to nuclear war</span>**
Mead 9
(Walter Russell Mead, Henry A. Kissinger senior fellow for U.S. foreign policy at the Council on Foreign Relations. The New Republic, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2)JFS

So far, such half- [...] <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">we may still have to fight.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Solar Storms destroy the electrical grid globally causing resource wars</span>**

Laurence **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Hecht 11</span>__**, Editor, 21st Century Science Associates, Friday, 17 June 2011, Solar Storm Threatening Power Grids – Yet no Action Taken to Implement Defences, http://oilprice.com/Energy/Energy-General/Solar-Storm-Threatening-Power-Grids-%E2%80%93-Yet-no-Action-Taken-to-Implement-Defences.html

A known and cataclysmic threat to [...] conditions could descend into chaos.
Resource wars cause extinction
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Heinberg 4 –</span>__** Senior Fellow of the Post Carbon Institute, faculty @ New College of California (Richard, “Book Excerpt: Powerdown: Options and Actions for a Port-Carbon World,” [[http://www.energybulletin.net/node/2291]])
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Last One Standing – The path [...] of singling out specific ethnic groups.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Solar storms also cause extinction through cascading nuclear power meltdowns</span>**

**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Natural News 11</span>__** (September 14, 2011, “Solar Flare Could Unleash Nuclear Holocaust Across Planet Earth, Forcing Hundreds of Nuclear Power Plants Into Total Meltdowns,” http://au.ibtimes.com/articles/213249/20110914/solar-flare-could-unleash-nuclear-holocaust-across-planet-earth-forcing-hundreds-of-nuclear-power-pl.htm)

(NaturalNews) Forget about the [...] . Especially in the radiation zones.
DSCOVR solves – its unique position gives it the ability to anticipate solar storms


**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Clark 11 </span>__**[Stephen, Reporter for Spaceflight Now, 2/21, “NOAA taps DSCOVR satellite for space weather mission”[[http://spaceflightnow.com/news/n1102/21dscovr/]]]




The Obama administration's budget proposal released [...] work on the project in 2001.

===Warming=== 
Politicized science keeps the warming debate alive—DSCOVR provides the data necessary to resolve the debate

**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Park 6</span>__**Robert L. Park proffessor of physics Why did NASA kill a climate change project? January 15, 2006 http://www.nytimes.com/2006/01/15/opinion/15iht-edpark.html

<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Most scientists link global warming to [...] </span>ridiculed as "Gore's screen saver.
Further politicization of warming impedes our ability to tackle global warming

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">McCright 11</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Aaron M. McCright and Riley E. Dunlap, 2011, “The politicization of climate change and polarization in the American public’s views of global warming”, Michigan State University, Pages 157-194</span>

In recent decades, ideological and<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> [...] </span>policies (Goode and Bravender 2010).

Warming on the brink—must stop debate to fix the problem

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Blakemore 7</span>__****<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">BILL BLAKEMORE, journalist for abc news, Sept. 24, 2007 “U.N. Leader on Global Warming: We Need U.S. Leadership”, http://abcnews.go.com/m/story?id=3645491</span>**

The leader of the United Nations [...] in large part to human activities.
Climate change is happening –Scientific consensus is on our side.

**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Hansen 2009</span>__**(heads the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies and adjunct professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences at Columbia University (James, December, Storms of My Grandchildren, 164-166)

In addition to paleoclimate data, [...] energy balance, to first approximation.
US leadership on warming is necessary to avert extinction

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Cummins and Allen ‘10</span>__** (Ronnie, Int’l. Dir. – Organic Consumers Association, and Will, Policy Advisor – Organic Consumers Association, “Climate Catastrophe: Surviving the 21st Century”, 2-14, http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/02/14-6)

<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">The hour is late. Leading [...] to maintain "business as usual."</span>
DSCOVR solves climate change by obtaining crucial information

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Anderson </span>__**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">20**07**</span>__ Mitchell Anderson staff scientist at Sierra Legal Defence Fund 8/29/2007 “A DeSmogBlog exclusive investigation into NASA's DSCOVR climate station”http://www.desmogblog.com/a-desmogblog-exclusive-investigation-into-nasas-dscovr-climate-station

NASA quietly cancelled the project altogether [...] reliable launch vehicle in the world.


DSCOVR also acts as a sun shield for earth which independently solves warming

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Brand</span>__**20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">07</span>__**(Stewart Brand, founder and editor of the Whole Earth Catalog, president of the Long Now Foundation, co-founder of Global Business Network. December 5, 2007 “Earth Monitoring: Whole Earth comes into focus” Nature http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v450/n7171/full/450797a.html
When DSCOVR, or better, [...] <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">the full meaning of Earth stewardship.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Solvency</span>=== 
DSCOVR requires no additional costs besides launch—it’s ready to go

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Donahue 11 </span>__**(Bill Donahue, reporter for Popular Science, April 6, 2011,<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-03/lost-satellite| Who Killed The Deep Space Climate Observatory?]]</span>

Popular Science<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-03/lost-satellite?page=1| http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-03/lost-satellite?page=1]]</span>)

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">At Goddard, I met with [...] million to pay for the launch.</span>

DSCOVR is the only earth-monitoring satellite that is ready to be launched—others require a ground system to be built
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Donahue 11</span>__** (Bill Donahue, reporter for Popular Science, April 6, 2011,<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-03/lost-satellite| Who Killed The Deep Space Climate Observatory?]]</span>

Popular Science<span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-03/lost-satellite?page=1| http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-03/lost-satellite?page=1]]</span>)

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Instead, </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">NOAA</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> is interested in [...] mission, it would be him.</span>





=Negative= 

==Disadvantages== 

===Elections DA=== 

A. Uniqueness- Things are looking grim but an improving economy will win Obama relection.
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Parker 8/30</span>__** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Alex M., Us News Politics, “Is Obama Toast?”, http://www.usnews.com/news/articles/2011/08/30/is-obama-toast)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">For</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">President</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Obama, the news [...] be crucial to Obama's political future.</span>

B – Link – Public has no interest in increasing NASA’s funding – no clear rationale for space travel
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Hsu 11</span>__** ("The Myth of America's Love Affair with the Moon" Jeremy is a SPACE.com Senior Writer http://www.space.com/10601-apollo-moon-program-public-support-myth.html)
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">The only time when more than [...] for doing this</span>," <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Launius said.</span>
3. Perception of fixing the economy is key to Obama’s re-election
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Feller 11</span>__** [Ben Feller, Associated Press, Proquest, 6/6/11, Caplan]

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">President Barack</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Obama cannot escape</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">one [...] It's taking a while to mend."</span>


4. Impact- A Republican win kills interventionism
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Lobe 11</span>__** [Jim Lobe, Foreign Policy Analyst, “NeoCons Losing hold over Republican Foreign Policy” 6/16/11, http://original.antiwar.com/lobe/2011/06/15/neocons-losing-hold-over-republican-foreign-policy%C2%A0/, Caplan]
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Nearly</span> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">ten years after seizing control [...] </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">term U.S. priority.</span>
5. Interventionism key to solve nuclear conflict
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Kagan ‘7,</span>__** Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace [Robert “End of Dreams, Return of History” Policy Review http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10]

Finally, there is the United [...] <span style="font-size: 6pt;">involvement will provide an easier path.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Spending</span>=== 


Spending is being dramatically cut-debt ceiling and congressional goals



Tony **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Santaella 9/8</span>__**, writer for WLTX, “Lindsey Graham Urges 'Super Committee' to Spare Defense Spending,” 9/8/11, [[http://www.wltx.com/news/article/150652/2/Graham-Urges-Super-Committee-to-Spare-Defense-Spending]]

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Going to space would require a substantial amount of spending </span>
James <span class="BoldUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Logan, 2010</span>__</span> (Former Chief of Medical Operations, NASA), TURNING DUST TO GOLD: BUILDING A FUTURE ON THE MOON AND MARS, 2010, 265.


(SPECIFIC LINK)

Continued deficit spending collapses the economy
<span class="TagChar">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Roe 11</span>__</span>(Phil, member of the Education and Workforce Committee and Representative from Tennessee, “Cut, cap and balance: A fight toward fiscal responsibility,” 5-18, http://voices.washingtonpost.com/federal-eye/2010/05/navy_plebes_scale_herndon_monu.html)

Economic collapse causes global nuclear war
Walter Russell **__Mead__,** Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations (Walter Russell, The New Republic, “Only Makes You Stronger”, 2/4/20**__09__**, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2.



==Critiques== 

===Security Critique=== 


First, the discourse of security confines politics within a metaphysical regime of control
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Dillon 1996</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, University of Lancaster, THE POLITICS OF SECURITY, p. 13-14)</span>
There is a preoccupation, which [...] means of addressing that fundamental question.
Security requires the process of threat construction to masquerade as international benevolence—the ritualistic call to action predetermines the outcome of the Aff by perpetuating continual crises by which security apparatuses justify themselves
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Dillon and Reid</span>__**, <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Professor of Politics at the University of Lancaster and lecturer in international relations at Kings College in London,</span> **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">2000</span>__** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[Michael and Julian, "Global Governance, Liberal Peace, and Complex Emergency," Alternatives vol. 25, issue 1, spring, EbscoHost]</span>
As a precursor to global governance [...] (policy) <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">problematized by it</span>.
And, violence is inevitable—the affirmative will always be able to locate external threats to the world because danger is an integral feature of the human condition. However, the desire to fight against external dangers gives way to a war on difference. This drive for ontological completion ignores that the world can never be managed or secured
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Der Derian 1995</span>__** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(JAMES, ON SECURITY, 32-4)</span>
In the last analysis, __"__<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> [...] knowledge which seek to explain it</span>.
This logic of security makes annihilation inevitable
The inability to accept the inherent disorder of existence results in a violent struggle to overcome uncertainty in the name of an unattainable security—this futile quest has brought into existence the technology to eradicate life on earth and the political context that makes such an apocalypse both possible and necessary
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Campbell and Dillon</span>__**, <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">professor of international politics at the University of Newcastle and professor of politics at Lancaster University,</span> **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">1993</span>__** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[David and Michael, The Political Subject of Violence, p. 163-165]</span>
This interpretation of violence as constitutive [...] <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">of ethical norms and moral inhibitions.” </span>

The Alternative—vote Negative to refuse the affirmative as an instance of the violent logic of security
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Burke</span>__**, <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">School of Political Science and International Studies, University of Queensland</span> **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">2002</span>__** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[Anthony, Aporias of Security, Alternatives 27]</span>

It is perhaps easy to become [...] <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">what its shimmering possibilities might be</span>__.__
Finally, EVEN IN THEIR FRAMEWORK our alternative outweighs the Aff—voting affirmative guarantees error replication. Only a radical break from the security fetishism of the 1AC can avoid becoming a self fulfilling prophecy
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Graeme </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Cheeseman</span>__,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Snr. Lecturer @ New South Wales, </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">and</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Robert </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Bruce</span>__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Assoc. Prof in social sciences @ Curtin univ</span>**,** **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">1996</span>__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)</span>
This goal is pursued in ways [...] <span style="font-size: 6pt;">] </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">policy/analytical/military responses’</span>
===Frontierism K=== 

1. The judge is a rhetorical critic who should evaluate this debate as a matter of competing representations—the 1AC justification for space policy is a symbolic reaffirmation of our investment in American frontier ideology
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">BILLINGS 2007</span>__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Linda, PhD, Research Associate at SETI Institute, Societal Impact of Space Flight, p. 483-484)</span>


2. The repetition of frontier stories renders life disposable and turns the case—we will accept accidents as part and parcel of going to space

**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">FARRER </span>__**19**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">87</span>__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Claire, CSU Chico, “On Parables, Questions, and Predictions,” Western Folklore, October)</span>


**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">3. REJECT THE AFF--We must give up on our attempt to master and control the universe—instead recognizing ourselves in harmony with nature solves the frontier mindset</span>**

**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">FARRER</span>__** 19**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">87</span>__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Claire, CSU Chico, “On Parables, Questions, and Predictions,” Western Folklore, October)</span>


===<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Schmitt K</span>=== 


Violence is inevitable but escalation isn’t. Knowing our friends and enemies allows wars to be controlled – attempting to erase dichotomies homogenizes the Other



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rasch 3</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Cultural Critique 54 (2003) 137-41, William Rasch is the Henry H. H. Remak Professor of Germanic Studies at Indiana University, Human Rights as Geopolitics  Carl Schmitt and the Legal Form of American Supremacy).NAR</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Trying to create a uniformly peaceful world justifies violence against deviants who “create conflict”- means war is inevitable</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rasch 4 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(William, Prof. of German Studies, Indiana U, Sovereignty and its Discontents, Birkbeck Law Press, pg. 15) my</span>



The alternative is to reject the affirmative. Adopting a clear picture of who is a ‘friend’ and who is an ‘enemy’ ensures wars do not reach the point of genocide.



Rasch 5 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(William Rasch, Prof. of German Studies, Indiana, 2005, //Lines in the Sand: Enmity as a Structuring Principle,// p.260-61)NAR</span>

==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">CP</span>== 

===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Disclosure</span>=== 



The United States federal government should publicly disclose the existence of galactic intelligence.


We know aliens exist- its just a matter of disclosing


**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Salla</span>__** 10/21/**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">2009</span>__** (Michael, Former Adjunct Faculty Member in the Elliott School of International Affairs, Former Assistant Professor in International Peace and Conflict Resolution at American University and Researcher in Residence in the Center for Global Peace, PhD in Government from the University of Queensland, “Official disclosure of extraterrestrial life is imminent” The Examiner [[http://www.examiner.com/x-2383-Honolulu-Exopolitics-Examiner~y2009m10d21-Official-disclosure-of-extraterrestrial-life-is-imminent|http://www.examiner.com/x-2383-Honolulu-Exopolitics-Examiner~y2009m10d21-Official-disclosure-of-extraterrestrial-life-is-imminent#]])