[[toc]]
Cites: Email me at [[mailto:echen027@gmail.com|echen027@gmail.com]]

I try my best to keep this page updated, but if you need cites urgently, check one of the other 3 New Trier teams, one of them probably has what you need.
=***Affirmative= 
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cal SMD Aff</span>= 
Exact same as Blake, except this card replaces Thayer on the Primacy advantage.

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hegemony is sustainable, __ensures__ global peace, the transition or any alternative __guarantees__ conflict—history proves</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kagan, 2/11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> - Adjunct Professor of History at Georgetown University, Senior Fellow at Brookings (Robert, 2/11/12, "Why the World Needs America", http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970203646004577213262856669448.html, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">History shows that world orders</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, including our own, ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> like right before the American order came into being.</span>__**
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SPS Warming Aff - Emory Round 1</span>= 
==**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif;">Plan</span>**== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif;">Plan: The United States federal government should develop space based solar power.</span>**
==Warming Advantage== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif;">It’s try or die – 2012 is the deadline for us to get the __only__ energy option off the ground</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Schubert, ’10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif;">, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 9pt;">Ph.D., P.E. Packer Engineering, Inc., Winter 2010, (Online Journal of Space Communication, Issue No. 16: Solar Power SatellitesCosts, Organization, and Roadmap for SSP, [[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/schubert.html]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Energy Information Agency (</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">EIA</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">) of the US </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">…</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> US nation to act accordingly will probably require a miracle. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif;">Consensus there is rapid human induced warming now—numerous and best studies prove</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Richard </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Rahmstorf</span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Professor of Physicsof the Oceans at Potsdam University, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">20</span>**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 13pt;">08</span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(//Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto//, ed. Ernesto Zedillo, Chapter 3, “Anthropogenic Climate Change?” p. 42-49) </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 6pt;">It is time to turn to statement B: human activities are altering the climate. This can be …</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif;"> with which we need to deal.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif;">Only the plan can solve multiple reasons-</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif;">1) Allows for global exportation of energy</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Mahan, 07</span>**</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> - </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">founder of Citizens for Space Based Solar Power (Rob, SBSP FAQ, based on a Bright Spot Radio interview from December 28</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 9pt;">th</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, 2007, [[http://c-sbsp.org/sbsp-faq/]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif;">Space-based solar ….surrounded by friends and allies once again.”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif;">2) The plans initial action gets other countries and the private sector on board</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Pandey 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – (Arvind K, A freelancer based in Prayag.Associated with leading National & International publications, “[[http://www.ecofriend.com/entry/future-perfect-space-based-solar-power/|Future Perfect: Space-based solar power]]”,[[http://www.ecofriend.com/entry/future-perfect-space-based-solar-power/]] January 20, 2011)</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The world is in dire need of </span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">…</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> to oil dependence and carbon footprints.</span>__

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif;">3) It will reduce emissions</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hempsell 2K5</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Senior Lecturer in Astronautics at the University of Bristol in England, Mark, June 14, “Space Power as a Response to Global Catastrophe,”[[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science?_ob=ArticleURL&_udi=B6V1N-4K9C55C&_user=1458830&_rdoc=1&_fmt=&_orig=search&_sort=d&view=c&_acct=C000052790&_version=1&_urlVersion=0&_userid=1458830&md5=b7e3493d587e09f4d431ea9fd91d6522]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In his seminal paper on Solar Power … the 1992 Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro [[http://www.sciencedirect.com/#bib8|(8)]]. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif;">4) Only SPS can solve –it’s the most cost efficient, safe and environmental friendly option</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 13pt;">NSS 7</span>****<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 13pt;">- </span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif;">August 2008, Solarpedia, [[http://www.solaripedia.com/13/76/639/space-based_solar_power_diagram.html]], “Project”</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Unlike oil, gas, ethanol, and coal plants, … harder we work, the shorter "long term" will be.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif;">Warming causes extinction -- scientific consensus it’s real and anthropogenic. </span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Morgan 9</span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 6pt;">[Dennis Ray, Professor of Current Affairs @ Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, South Korea, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race”, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693, ScienceDirect]</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif;">As horrifying as the scenario of … **increasingly stacks the cards against our chances of survival**?</span>__

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif;">Even 1% risk justifies action -- the consequences are too big.</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Strom 7</span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 6pt;">[Robert, Prof. Emeritus Planetary Sciences @ U. Arizona and Former Dir. Space Imagery Center of NASA, “Hot House: Global Climate Change and the Human Condition”, Online: SpringerLink, p. 246]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Keep in mind that </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">the current consequences of …</span> time for action is now<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span></span>__


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif;">Climate change is comparatively the only imminent threat</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Doebbler 11</span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif;">. Curtis, International Human Rights Lawyer. Two threats to our existence. Ahram Weekly. July 2011.[[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2011/1055/envrnmnt.htm]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif;">Climate change is widely acknowledged … in developing countries. They continue in this vein.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif;">Positive feedbacks drive irreversible tipping points—__only aff solvency claims are true__—all their authors are media hype</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Foster, 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of Sociology at the University of Oregon (John B., December 2010, “Notes from the Editors”, [[http://www.monthlyreview.org/nfte101201.php]],)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">***Citing James Hansen—Director of NASA’s Institue for Space Studies and Leading U.S. Climatologist**</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">On October 16, MR editor John Bellamy Foster attended a lecture in Eugene… be trustworthy caretakers in this respect.</span>**


==**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">K Preempts</span>**== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Exclusive focus on representations erodes meaningful reversal of the structures of exploitation – discursive focus must supplement, not replace, material discussion of reform</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Giroux</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Chair Professorship of Edcuation and Cultural Studies at Penn State,</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">2006</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[Henry, “Dirty Democracy and State of Terrorism,” Comparative Studies of South Asia, 163-177]</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Abstracted from the ideal of public ….<span style="font-size: 7.5pt;"> humanity are inscribed, and can be nowhere else.59</span></span>**




**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">We still get to weigh the 1AC – our advocacy influences real-world policymaking</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kurasawa, 04</span> <span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">(Professor of Sociology, York University of Toronto, Fuyuki, Constellations Volume 11, No 4, 2004)</span></span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__None of this is to disavow the international …__ It must be made, starting with us, in the here and now.</span>**



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Pure rejection reproduces sovereignty and exploitation. Only political action can end global oppression</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Anna M.</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Agathangelou</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Dir. Global Change Inst. And Women’s Studies Prof @ Oberlin, </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">and</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> L.H.M. </span><span class="tagChar" style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Ling</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Inst. For Social Studies @ Hague, Fall</span><span class="tagChar" style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">19</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">97</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Studies in Political Economy, v. 54, p 7-8</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Yet, ironically if not tragically, </span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">dissident IR</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> …</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">and critical theory from problem-solving.</span>__</span>**

==Solvency== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And, a lack of energy access dooms billions in developing countries to continual poverty and marginalizes them in the political sphere – plan solves</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bradbrook and Gardam 6 </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">– *Bonython Professor of Law, University of Adelaide, Australia AND</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Professor of International Law, Unversity of Adelaide, Australia</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Adrian and Judith, “Placing Access to Energy Services within a Human Rights Framework,” 28 Hum. Rts. Q. 389, dml)</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">While energy is a multifaceted issue and needs a …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> systems based on renewable energy resources.</span></span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And, absent a change to our energy distribution poverty will continue to increase</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Driessen 6 –</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> senior policy advisor for the Congress of Racial Equality and Committee For A Constructive Tomorrow (CFACT), and author of</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Eco-Imperialism: Green power and Black death</span>//
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Paul, “Nuclear to the rescue”, [[http://www.maninnature.com/Energy/Nuclear/Nuclear1a.html]], dml) </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">No wonder. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Without electricity, modern </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">… forever dependent on foreign aid.</span>




<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**SPS is ready to go** </span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">McLinko, 10 - </span>**</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 9pt;">SM Candidate (2011), Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Space Systems Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (April 2010, Ryan M., Society of Photo-optical Instrumentation Engineers, “Space-based Solar Power Generation Using a Distributed Network of Satellites and Methods for Efficient Space Power Transmission,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">[[@http://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/57581%29RK|http://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/57581)]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Space-based solar power (SSP) generation is … devices can also be smaller and lighter in weight.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">SSP pilot projects can be up and running within one year</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Costa, 10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif;">- sociobiologist whose unique expertise is to spot and explain emerging trends in relationship to human evolution, global markets, and new technologies. A popular speaker at thought-leader and technology conferences as well as major universities, Costa is the former CEO of Silicon Valley start-up Dazai Advertising, Inc. Costa’s clients included technology giants such as Apple Computer, Hewlett- Packard, Oracle Corporation, 3M, Amdahl, Seibel Systems and General Electric </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 9pt;">(Rebecca, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 9pt;">“Can NASA Save a Struggling America?” Clean Technica, 11/1, [[http://cleantechnica.com/2010/11/01/can-nasa-save-struggling-america/]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 7pt;">If we took a moment to rank every government agency in …</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif;"> to eclipse every other energy solution here on earth.</span>__


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 13pt;">The plan leads to international SPS development</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Stanislaw 8</span>__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">– </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif;">PhD @ Edinburgh, former Professor @ Cambridge, Former Senior Economist @ OECD, Joseph Stanislaw, “Energy In Flux: The 21st Century's Greatest Challenge,” ABA Antitrust Law, [[@http://apps.americanbar.org/antitrust/at-committees/at-tei/pdf/programs/spring-08/SpringMeeting3.pdf]]</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif;">But for the world to arrive at this new energy …</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Garamond,serif;"> and indeed the world, cannot afford to wait another 30 years.</span>



=**Blake SBMD Aff**= 
==**Plan**== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The United States federal government should develop space based missile defense.</span>**

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Nuke Deterrence</span>__</span>== 

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contention 1: Nuclear Deterrence</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Space weaponization is inevitable – China ASAT tests, leaked documents prove</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">UPI 11</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">(2/8/11, “Us Wary of Chinese Space Weapons,” United Press International, [[http://www.upi.com/Business_News/Security-Industry/2011/02/08/US-wary-of-China-space-weapons/UPI-36951297196877/]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Senior Pentagon </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">…</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> self-defense to attacks in space."</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Leaders __will act irrationally__ – rogues, new proliferators</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Utgoff, 02</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">(Deputy Director for Strategy, Forces and Resources at the Institute for Defense Analyses, Summer 2002. “Proliferation, Missile Defense and American Ambitions”, Survival, Vol. 44, No. 2, p. 87-90</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">)</span>**
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #010000;">While national leaders …</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #010000; font-size: 5pt;"> of violence are readily accessible.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">They’re stuck in the Cold War—deterrence will fail</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #010000;">Pallathra, 7</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #010000; font-size: 7pt;"> (Ryan Andrew, junior at Tufts University major in Internatinal Relations, “Nuclear Weapons: A Source of Peace in World Politics or an Unjustified Risk to International Security?”,[[http://www.polisci.ufl.edu/UF_Review/documents/Pallathra-%20Nuclear%20Weapons.doc]])</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #010000;">There are …</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #010000; font-size: 7pt;"> properly dealt with.</span>




**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri;">Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Pakistan are proliferating now and the missiles will be used – space based BMD is critical to both deterrence of acquisition and missile defense</span>**

<span style="background-color: white;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Pfaltzgraff et al 9</span>**</span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 7pt;">(</span>////<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 7pt; text-decoration: none;">Robert, PhD and Professor of Int. Security Studies @ Tufts and President @ the IFPA, William Cleave, PhD and Professor @ Missouri State, Ilan Berman, VP for Policy @ the American Foreign Policy Council, Kiron Skinner, PhD and Fellow @ the Hoover Institution, Henry Cooper, Chairman @ High Frontier, H. Baker Spring, Research Fellow @ Heritage, Jacquelyn Davis, PhD and Executive VP @ IFPA, Mead Treadwell, Senior Fellow @ Institute of the North, Daniel Fine, PhD and Research Associate @ MIT, Robert Turner, Professor at University of Virginia, Robert Jastrow, PhD and Chairman of the Board @ the Marshall Institute, J.D. Williams, Vice Admiral of the USN, Thomas Karako, Director of Programs @ Claremont Institute, Paul Weyrich, CEO @ the Free Congress Research and Education Foundation, Brian Kennedy, President @ Claremont Institute, Lowell Wood, PhD and Visiting Fellow @ Hoover, Jeff Kueter, President @ the Marshall Institute, Eric Licht, Senior Analyst @ the Free Congress Research and Education Foundation, R. Daniel McMichael, Secretary @ the Carthage Foundation and the Sarah Scaife Foundation, “Report of the Independent Working Group on Missile Defense, the Space Relationship,& the Twenty-First Century,” Prepared by the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis,”</span>////<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 7pt;">[[https://www.claremont.org/repository/docLib/200901291_iwg2009.pdf|//https://www.claremont.org/repository/docLib/200901291_iwg2009.pdf//]]</span>////<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 7pt; text-decoration: none;">)</span>//
//<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">**We replaced the bracketed and highlight word with destroying because we do not endorse ablest discourse.**</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//<span style="background-color: white;">The Threat Twenty-….</span>////<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> described in greater detail below.</span>//</span>**




<span style="background-color: white;">Three Impacts:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">First, Saudi proliferation spills over and causes global nuclear war</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Edelman et al. 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> *</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">ERIC S. EDELMAN is a Distinguished Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments; he was U.S. Undersecretary of Defense for Policy in 2005-9 </span></span>**ANDREW F. KREPINEVICH is President of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments.**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> *EVAN BRADEN MONTGOMERY is a Research Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments [<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 9pt;">__<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/67162/eric-s-edelman-andrew-f-krepinevich-jr-and-evan-braden-montgomer/the-dangers-of-a-nuclear-iran]]</span>__</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">, “The Dangers of a Nuclear Iran” January-February 2011]</span></span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">There is,</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> however, at least </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">one … </span>could lead to<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> a new Great Game, with </span><span style="background-color: lime;">unpredictable consequences</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Second, Expanded Pakistani nuclear arsenal sparks nuclear war and extinction</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Kerr 7/20</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> –</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Analyst in Nonproliferation in the Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division at the Congressional Research Service CRS), Analyst, International Security Program, Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) Former Manager, Defense Program, Lexington Institute Former Writer, Center for Security Strategies and Operations, Anteon Corporation Education: MA, International Relations, University of South Carolina at Columbia, (Paul, July 20th, “Pakistan’s Nuclear Weapons: Proliferation and Security Issues”, __<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/nuke/RL34248.pdf]]</span>__//salathe)//</span></span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="background-color: lime;">Pakistan’s nuclear arsenal probably </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> is only encouraged by recent instability and governance problems.</span></span>**


<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri;">Third, the revolutions only magnify the risk of proliferation, it results in nuclear domino effect</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Sokolski 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> //<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">– Executive Director of the Nonproliferation Policy Education Center / Senior Military Legislative Aide and Special Assistant on Nuclear Energy Matters (Henry, “Gimme Fuel, Gimme Fire”,</span>// <span style="font-family: Calibri;">[[http://www.tnr.com/article/82995/nuclear-weapons-middle-east-obama-mubarak?page=0,0]]//salathe//</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">)</span></span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">When the Iranian Revolution overthrew …</span><span style="background-color: white;"> securing U.S. nuclear cooperation.</span></span>**



//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Extinction</span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Blake 2/2 </span>//**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">– reporter for The Daily Telegraph nominated Journalist of the Year and Scoop of the Year in the British Press Awards. AP reporter and the Yorkshire Post and was named Journalist of the Year, Feature Writer of the Year and Diversity Writer of the Year in the Guardian Student Media Awards (Heidi, 2010 2007, “WikiLeaks: Middle East Tension and Asia - Potential to lead to nuclear war”,</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">//<span style="font-family: Calibri;">[[http://efoodsglobalbusinessnetwork.blogspot.com/2011/02/wikileaks-middle-east-tension-and-asia.html]]</span>//ts</span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">)</span>//</span>**
__<span style="background-color: lime; font-family: Calibri;">Tension in the Middle East</span>__**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//<span style="background-color: white;">and …</span>////<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;"> the regime from feeling the need to flex its muscles by advancing its nuclear capabilities</span>//</span>**

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri;">No one will retaliate to SBMD, the plan kills enemy morale</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Dinerman 8</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> //<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">– </span>////<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Senior Editor at the Hudson Institute’s New York office. He was an author of the textbook Space Science for Students and has been a part time consultant for the US Defense Department (Taylor, “Space-based missile defense and the psychology of warfare”,</span>////<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">__[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1205/1]]__</span>//__salathe__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">)</span></span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">Anyone who wants to understand the way …</span>//</span>**__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri;"> to make war and help shorten the conflict.</span>__**




==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x1ac SBMD Ohio Valley-Primacy]]Primacy</span>== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Contention 2: Primacy__</span>**




<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Nuclear crises are inevitable</span>

<span class="CiteChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Lieber and Press, 9</span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">(“The Nukes We Need”, [[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/65481/keir-a-lieber-and-daryl-g-press/the-nukes-we-need]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">The success of nuclear …</span> __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">are fighting for their lives.</span>__
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Primacy prevents nuclear escalation—contains all conflicts at the conventional level</span>

<span class="CiteChar" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Lieber and Press, 7</span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">(U.S. Nuclear Primacy and the Future of the Chinese Deterrent, China Security, Winter 2007,[[http://www.wsichina.org/%5Ccs5_5.pdf]])</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Third, the growth of U.S. …at the conventional level</span>__

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Missile defense is key to nuclear primacy</span>**</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lieber and Press 6</span>**</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">-</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;"> Keir Lieber, Assoc. Prof Security Studies and Government at Georgetown AND Daryl Press, Assoc. Prof Government at Dartmouth, March 2006, Council on Foreign Relations, Foreign Affairs, vol 85(2), pg. 51, “The Rise of US Nuclear Primacy” </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Washington's … warheads and decoys left</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>__</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It’s also the most vital internal link to hegemony</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Michael</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lind</span>**</span>, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">senior fellow at the New America Foundation, May-June</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">07</span>**</span>, <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">“Beyond American hegemony,” The National Interest,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #114170; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m2751/is_89/ai_n27268888/pg_2/?tag=content;col1]]</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">DURING THE Cold War, .,,is to be a "hyperpower."</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hegemony solves great power wars</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thayer, 06</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">- </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Minnesota </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">(Bradley A., Duluth, The National Interest, November -December, “In Defense of Primacy”, Lexis)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">A remarkable fact about …, American primacy remains humanity's only practical hope of solving the world's ills.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The U.S. will always try to maintain hegemony—it is only a question of success</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ferguson 9</span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;"> (Niall, American Interest, [[http://www.the-american-interest.com/ai2/article.cfm?Id=335&MId=16]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">So much for the American predicament. </span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">__What of Posen’s alternative__ </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">grand strategy </span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">__based on American self-restraint? The terms he uses are__ </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">themselves</span><span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">__revealing. … grand strategy, that is pretty rich__</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>



==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#x1ac SBMD Ohio Valley-Solvency]]Solvency</span>== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Contention 3: Solvency__</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SMD renders nuclear war obsolete</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lambakis, 07</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">(Steven, national security and international affairs analyst specializing in space power and policy studies, Managing Editor of Comparative Strategy, a leading international journal of global affairs and strategic studies, fellow at the National Institute for Public Policy. “Missile Defense From Space” 2-17-07. [[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/5516446.html]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">Limits of the current system </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Over the …</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 7pt;"> sensors or interceptor fields would become less pressing.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It’s a matter of perception---- the plan solves before it’s fully deployed---it’s also a pre requisite to arms control</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Pfaltzgraf and Van Cleave, 07</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Robert L. Pfaltzgraf, Shelby Cullom Davis Professor of International Security Studies The Fletcher School, Tufts University and President Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis and Dr. William R. Van Cleave,Professor Emeritus Department of Defense and Strategic Studies Missouri State University. Independent Working Group, “Missile Defense, The Space Relationship, and the 21st Century”, 2007, [[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWGreport.pdf]]</span>
To begin with, __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">arms races …. races and proliferation, as opponents so vigorously maintain.</span>__

<span class="dateline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Advancement of STSS ensures success**</span>
<span class="dateline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**MSNBC 11**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">(3/23/11, [[http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/42238237/ns/technology_and_science-space/]], MSNBC, NEAYLON)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON — </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A pair</span>__ __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">… splashed down in the ocean</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, he said. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SMD solves countermeasures---boost phase, decoys and low altitude</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mooney, 08</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">(Kevin, staff writer for CNS News. “Space-Based Missile Defense Needed to Counter Global Threats, Experts Say”[[http://www.cnsnews.com/public/Content/Article.aspx?rsrcid=36145]])</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Only a space-based</span>__ __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">…</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;"> missile-defense architecture over the long term.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Space-based sensors solve – once cruise missiles are detected they can easily be shot down</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kueter and Kier, 07</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">(President, The George C. Marshall Institute, Vice President, Lockheed Martin Corporation. Jeff and David, July 9, The Cruise Missile Challenge, Marshall Institute, [[http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/557.pdf]])</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">When we think about … pretty reliably.</span>__

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri;">Put away the weaponization disad - We control sequencing – we get BMD before enemies and deploy weapons</span>**

<span style="background-color: white;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Dolman 10</span>**</span> //<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">– </span>////<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the US Air Forces School of Advanced Air and Space Studies (US Military Transformation and Weapons in Space,</span>// <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">[[http://www.e-parl.net/pages/space_hearing_images/Backgrounder%20Dolman%20US%20Weapons%20in%20Space.pdf]]</span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">)</span>//

//<span style="background-color: white;">Weapons in Space and Hegemonic War and America would respond</span>// //<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">… finally.</span>// //<span style="background-color: white;">But would another state</span>////<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">? I have already pointed out that</span>// //<span style="background-color: lime;">if America </span>////<span style="background-color: white;">…</span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 5pt;">an immediate scramble … at least for the time being.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The US will use it as blackmail whether or not it works----this discourages proliferation</span>**
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Pfaltzgraf and Van Cleave, 07 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Robert L. Pfaltzgraf, Shelby Cullom Davis Professor of International Security Studies The Fletcher School, Tufts University and President Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis and Dr. William R. Van Cleave, Professor Emeritus Department of Defense and Strategic Studies Missouri State University. Independent Working Group, “Missile Defense, The Space Relationship, and the 21st Century”, 2007, [[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWGreport.pdf]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Missile defense has entered a new era. …</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> threats of the early twenty-first-century security setting.</span>
=Michigan 1AC SPS Missiles Advantage= 

Space weaponization is inevitable
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Kitfield 10</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">-Senior Correspondent @ The National Journal, writer for Air Force Magazine, B.A. Journalism, University of Georgia, distinguished writer on defense, national security, and foreign policy, author of two books on national security, [James, Air Force Magazine, “Crowded Congested Space” August 2010, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2010/August%202010/0810space.aspx]]</span>]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">In the “commons” __above Earth, US military forces must deal …during a time of crisis or conflict,"__ the report concluded.</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Perceptions of US space BMD have already been triggered – the only question is whether SPS can make it effective</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Zhang 11 </span>**</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">- Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University, Hong Kong</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Baohui, “The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship The Prospects for Arms Control,” Asian Survey, Vol. 51, Number 2, pp. 311–332, Proquest)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> second </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">factor adding to the security dilemma in</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> the U.S.-China military </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">...</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">by the U.S. Congress amounted to “declaring a new Cold War against China.” 29</span>


SPS is critical to provide the necessary power for space dominance – it hardens satellites, enhances mobility, allows rapid repairs, cheaper launches, and is critical to space based missile defense
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ramos 2K</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">US Air Force Major, Thesis submitted for the AIR COMMAND AND STAFF COLL MAXWELL Air Force Base (Kim, “Solar Power Constellations: Implications for the United States Air Force,” April, [[http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA394928|__http://handle.dtic.mil/100.2/ADA394928__]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In addition to the terrestrial implications … enough power in space to energize the RF beam.</span>


BMD is inevitable - just a question of effectiveness
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">IFPA 9</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, Sponsored by the American Foreign Policy Council, the Marshall Institute, Heritage, Claremont, Missouri State University, et al, “Independent Working Group on Missile Defense, the Space Relationship,& the Twenty-First Century’s 2009 Report,” https://www.claremont.org/repository/docLib/200901291_iwg2009.pdf, EMM)</span>

__Missile defense has entered a new era. With the….meet present and emerging dangers.__


<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Independently-improved radar is key to effective global missile defense</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Prouty 08</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Scott, Principal Director for the Advanced Systems and Technology Subdivision of the Missile Defense Division, has supported Air Force Space and Missile Systems Center, National Reconnaissance Office, and Missile Defense Agency programs. “Ballistic Missile Defense System Sensors and the Role of Space Systems,” Spring 2008, [[http://www.aero.org/publications/crosslink/spring2008/02.html]])</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Space </span>sensors fulfill<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> five </span>functions in supporting<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">environment at MDA is the External Sensors Laboratory. </span>



Future developments are critical to deter future missile threats – particularly cruise and long range missiles
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gruselle 7</span>,<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Research Fellow at the Fondation pour la Recherche Stratégique, served in the policy department of the French Ministry of Defence for more than 10 years, (Bruno, “The final frontier: missile defence in space?” UN Institute for Disarmament Research, [[http://www.unidir.org/pdf/articles/pdf-art2600.pdf|__http://www.unidir.org/pdf/articles/pdf-art2600.pdf__]]) </span>
__Whatever the virtues of arms control, one ….__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> prevention of an arms race in space.</span>


The longer we wait for defense the worse cruise missile threats grow— it destroys U.S. air power, U.S. naval power,—it also causes the U.S. to have to withdraw forces abroad
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kueter and Kier, 07</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – *President of the George C. Marshall Institute AND **Vice President of Lockheed Martin Corporation (*Jeff AND** David, 7/9/07, "The Cruise Missile Challenge", p. 6-11, KONTOPOULOS) PDF</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So what is a cruise missile? There are two ….</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> is there budget for it. Thank you for your time.</span>


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">3 internal links to hegemony—</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">a. Forced troop withdrawal </span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Lind 7</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> - Michael Lind, senior fellow at the New America Foundation, May-June 2007, “Beyond American hegemony,” The National Interest, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m2751/is_89/ai_n27268888/pg_2/?tag=content;col1</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">DURING THE Cold War, the United States was the stronger of two ... pay the costs necessary if the United States is to be a "hyperpower."</span>


b. Air power– it solves deterrence and counterinsurgency
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dunlap, 06-</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Major General, Deputy Judge Advocate General of the Air Force, 30+ years of service, Distinguished graduate of the National War College (“America’s Assymetric Advantage”)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So where does that leave us? </span>__If we …. the very existence of the U.S. is at risk.__


c. Naval power is key to global maritime hegemony
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Friedman, 07-</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Writer for Stratfor (George, "The Limitations and Necessity of Naval Power", Stratfor- Global Intelligence Reports, April 10th 2007, http://www.stratfor.com/limitations_and_necessity_naval_power, KONTOPOULOS)</span>**
This raises a more fundamental question: ….unprecedented situation historically.

The result is nuclear conflicts in every region of the world
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kagan, 07</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">-</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace(Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">This is a good thing, and it should continue to be a primary …. of American influence and global involvement will provide an easier path.</span>



<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">A. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Air power maintains peace in Korea—the alternative is war </span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Bechtol, 05</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">- Ph.D. (Bruce, Air and Space Power Journal, “The Future of U.S. Airpower on the Korean Peninsula,” Fall, [[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj05/fal05/bechtol.html]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Transformation has come to the Korean Peninsula. The Global Posture Review ...</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> (and now a more prominent) role on the Korean Peninsula.</span>__



<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Escalation to global nuclear war</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 13pt;">STRATFOR 10</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (5/26/10, “North Korea, South Korea: The Military Balance on the Peninsula,” http://www.stratfor.com/analysis/20100526_north_korea_south_korea_military_balance_peninsula, JMP)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">So </span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">the real issue is</span>____<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> the potential for escalation</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> — ...</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> exist have never been tested in the way they might be if the situation escalates much further.</span>__



<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">B. Naval power key to the global economy</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Conway, Roughead, and Allen, 07</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">- *General of U.S. Marine Corps and Commandant of the Marine Corps, **Admiral of U.S. Navy and Chief of Naval Operations,** *Admiral of U.S. Coast Guard and Commandant of the Coast Guard (*James Conway, **Gary Roughead,** *Thad Allen, "A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower", Department of the Navy, United States Marine Corps, United States Coast Guard, http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf,)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> The world economy is tightly interconnected. Over ... and natural resources—potentially resulting in conflict.</span>





<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">That causes n</span>****<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">uclear war</span>**</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Harris and Burrows 9</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 13pt;">- </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer is a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” [[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Increased Potential for Global Conflict</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and indeed ...</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> within and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world. </span>__

=Greenhill SPS 1AC= 
==**Plan Text**== 
**The United States federal government should develop space-based solar power.**

==**__Contention 1 is Leadership__**== 


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The US is falling behind in Space leadership now—solar power is key</span>**
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Cox, 11</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">(William John, public interest lawyer, author and political activist Tuesday, Mar 29, 2011, (Consortium News, The Race for Solar Energy from Space, [[http://axisoflogic.com/artman/publish/Article_62659.shtml]])</span>
__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The failure of</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> the General Electric nuclear __reactors__</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> AND</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> economic, energy, political and military problems</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A federal SPS investment is necessary to revitalize the aerospace industry and maintain US leadership—space is key</span>**
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">NSSO, 07</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">(National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study” October 10, 2007, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">FINDING: __The SBSP Study Group found that__</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> AND would be a powerful expression </span>____<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">of this imperative.</span>__

**The plan revitalizes the aerospace industry by providing a mass investment—that’s key to the economy and security**
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Mankins, 9</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Former NASA Scientist, managed numerous advanced space technology programs during his 25 years at NASA Headquarters and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and is widely known as an expert in space solar power, John, “To boldly go: the urgent need for a revitalized investment in space technology,” 5-18-2009, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1377/1]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Unfortunately, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the </span>US investment in advanced <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">research AND</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> public, the nation, and the world</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**The aerospace sector is taking heavy hits—they need government projects. That’s key to the overall economy.**
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hernnstadt, 8</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 5pt;"> – Director of Trade and Globalization @ IAMAW</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 5pt;">Owen, director of the Trade and Globalization Department, International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, “Offsets and the lack of a comprehensive U.S. policy,” Economic Policy Institute, [[http://www.sharedprosperity.org/bp201.html]]</span>
Aerospace is an especially important industry for<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 5pt;">a nation's</span> AND backing based on well-developed industrial policies<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 5pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Economic decline causes nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Friedberg and Schoenfeld 8 </span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Aaron, Prof. Politics. And IR @ Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School and Visiting Scholar @ Witherspoon Institute, and Gabriel, Senior Editor of Commentary and Wall Street Journal, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, 10-28, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]</span>
__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Then there are</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> the dolorous </span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">consequences of a</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> AND</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> divert attention from internal travails with external adventures.</span>__

**Aerospace competiveness is the vital internal link to hegemony**
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Walker et al, 2</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Chair of the Commission on the Futureof the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners (Robert, Final Report of the Commission on the Futureof the United States Aerospace Industry Commissioners, November, [[http://www.trade.gov/td/aerospace/aerospacecommission/AeroCommissionFinalReport.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Defending our nation against its enemies is the AND</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> our position as the world’s preeminent </span>____<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">military power.</span>__

**The collapse of which causes global nuclear conflicts in every region of the world**
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kagan, 07</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">(senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">This is a good thing, and it AND and global involvement will provide an easier path.</span>

==**__Contention 2 is Resource Wars__**== 

**They are coming now:**
**a. Resource shortages--Major energy sources are finite–only SPS can meet rising global demand**
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Snead, 8</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 13pt;">(</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Mike Snead, MS in Aerospace Engineering from Air Force Institute of Technology, Past Chair of American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Former director of Science & Technology, HQ Air Force Materiel Command, Awarded Outstanding Achievement for Excellence in Research @ USAF, 11-19-2008, “The End of Easy Energy and What to Do About It,” http://mikesnead.net/resources/spacefaring/white_paper_the_end_of_easy_energy_and_what_to_do_about_it.pdf</span>
By 2100, the number of people<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">actually </span>
AND
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">dominant electrical power generation capability for the world</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">.</span>


**b. Transnational oil pipelines—they are the greatest source of potential conflict**
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Dinerman, 08</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">(Taylor Dinerman, 9/15/08, “War, Peace, and Space Solar Power”, The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1209/1</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">While politicians in the US and Europe debate </span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">AND </span>
__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">that we may face in the 21st century.</span>__

**SPS solves them**
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Dinerman, 08</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">(Taylor Dinerman, 9/15/08, “War, Peace, and Space Solar Power”, The Space Review, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1209/1]]</span>
__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Moving a </span>____<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">substantial percentage of the Earth’s energy </span>__
__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">AND </span>__
__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">for </span>____<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">vulnerable pipelines and shipping routes will diminish.</span>__

**c. Terrestrial Consciousness—countries assume they need to sustain themselves on terrestrial resources now—any demonstration that off-world resources might be accessible diffuses tensions**
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Collins and Autino, 10</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 9pt;">(</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Life & Environmental Science, Azabu University AND **Andromeda Inc., Italy** </span>
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Patrick and Adriano, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace,” ActaAstronautica 66 (2010) 1553–1562, Science Direct</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Although the use of extra-terrestrial resources</span>__**
**__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">AND </span>__**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">the use of all the resources they need!</span>**

**And we’ve passed peak oil – its try or die for the aff**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hodge, 11</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">(Nick Hodge //is editor of Energy and Capital an online journal specializing in investment analysis in the new energy economy// [</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif;">http://www.energyandcapital.com/articles/2015-end-of-the-oil-age/1609</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">, July 1st 2011, “2015: End of the Oil Age”]</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">If you're insolent enough to seek the truth</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 5pt;">the IEA's more optimistic forecast of 105 mbd.</span>**

**Energy scarcity leads to instability and undercuts all resource production**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">European Council, 08</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> (Paper from the High Representative and the European Commission to the European Council, “Climate Change and International Security”, 3/14/08, http://www.consilium.europa.eu/ueDocs/cms_data/docs/pressdata/EN/reports/99387.pdf)</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">One of the most significant potential conflicts over </span>__**
**__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">AND </span>__**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">climate change, the scramble for resources will intensify</span>**


**Resource wars will become an inevitable source of conflict—SPS solves**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Collins and Autino, 10</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 9pt;">(</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Life & Environmental Science, Azabu University AND </span>** Andromeda Inc., Italy
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Patrick and Adriano, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace,” ActaAstronautica 66 (2010) 1553–1562, Science Direct</span>
The major source of<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> social friction, including</span> AND<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> develop the wonderful profusion of possibilities outlined above.</span>


**Resource wars cause extinction**
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Brown, 08</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Lester, American environmentalist and author of over 50 books on global environmental issues, founder of the Worldwatch Institute and the Earth Policy Institute. “The Geopolitics of Food Scarcity” Winter 2008. http://www.ip-global.org/archiv/2008/winter2008/the-geopolitics-of-food-scarcity.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Falling water tables, eroding soils, and AND</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> power but its absence that now threatens us.</span>__



==**__Contention 3 is solvency__**== 

**SPS is the best alternative energy source and solves the cost of its transportation**
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Shultz, 11</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 9pt;">(Stephon, German climate reporter and senior analyst, 3/24/11, “Winds of Change,” </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 9pt;">[[http://newenergybank.blogspot.com/]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 9pt;">)</span>
__<span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif;">Unlike oil, gas, ethanol, and AND</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> resources of the solar system within economic reach. </span>



**SPS is technologically ready**
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">McLinko, 10 </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif;">- SM Candidate (2011), Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Space Systems Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (April 2010, Ryan M., Society of Photo-optical Instrumentation Engineers, “Space-based Solar Power Generation Using a Distributed Network of Satellites and Methods for Efficient Space Power Transmission,” </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">[[http://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/57581%29RK|http://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/57581)]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Space-based solar power (SSP) AND can also be smaller and lighter in weight.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 13pt;">The plan leads to international SPS development</span>**
**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Stanislaw 8</span>__** <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">– </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif;">PhD @ Edinburgh, former Professor @ Cambridge, Former Senior Economist @ OECD, Joseph Stanislaw, “Energy In Flux: The 21st Century's Greatest Challenge,” ABA Antitrust Law, http://apps.americanbar.org/antitrust/at-committees/at-tei/pdf/programs/spring-08/SpringMeeting3.pdf</span>
__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">But for the world to arrive at this AND</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> cannot afford to wait another 30 years.</span>


**The DOD won’t weaponize SPS—5 reasons**
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">NSSO, 8 </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif;">(National Space Security Office, Space-Based Solar Power Study Group, Ad Astra, “Strategic Importance” Spring 2008, pg. 28,</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">[[http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif;">)</span>
__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">The DoD is not looking to SBSP for AND</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> to conduct the research in an open environment.</span>



=2AC SPS Stuff= 

==**<span style="color: black;">Nanotech Add-on</span>**== 

**<span style="color: black;">Aerospace decline will impact the nanotech industry—they are working hand and hand on upgrades and intelligence efforts</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Weber 10</span>**<span style="color: black;"> –</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">Austin, Senior Editor (June 16, 2010, “Nanotechnology will transform wire processing in the aerospace industry,”</span> <span style="color: #0658b5; font-size: 9pt;">http://www.assemblymag.com/Articles/Web_Exclusive/BNP_GUID_9-5-2006_A_10000000000000844638</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">)</span>
__<span style="color: black;">Nanotechnology is dramatically …</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">to successfully demonstrating an ultra lightweight CNT-based solution for ESD and EMI shielding.”</span>


<span style="background-color: rgba(255,255,255,0.917969); color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nanotechnology ends diseases and viruses</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: rgba(255,255,255,0.917969); color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;"><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**CNET ’99** </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(October 20, <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://www.cnet.com/specialreports/0-6014-7-818764.html]]</span>)</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">Nanotechnology could also mean the end of disease as we know it. If you caught a cold or contracted AIDS, you'd just drink a teaspoon of liquid that contained an army of molecule-sized nanobots programmed to enter your body's cells and fight viruses. If a genetic disease ran in your family, you'd ingest nanobots that would burrow into your DNA and repair the defective gene__.__ Even traditional plastic surgery would be eliminated, as medical nanobots could change your eye color, alter the shape of your nose, or even give you a complete sex change without surgery.</span>


**<span style="color: black;">Inability to check disease leads to extinction</span>**
<span style="color: black;">John **Steinbruner,**</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">Director of the Center for International and Security Studies @ Maryland, 19</span>**<span style="color: black;">98</span>**<span style="color: black;"> Winter Foreign Policy)</span>
__<span style="color: black;">It is a considerable comfort and …2security problem for the species as a whole.</span>__


==SKFTA 2AC== 


<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 11pt;">SKFTA won’t pass, democratic opposition</span>**</span>
<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 11pt;">Bloomberg 9/12</span>**<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 9pt;">(Bloomberg, 9/12/11, [[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/trade-deals-wed-obama-to-republicans.html]])</span></span>
<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">__<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 11pt;">“He got virtually the entire Republican …</span>__<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">Ed Gilman said in an e-mail. Michaud heads the House Trade Working Group, a coalition made up mostly of Democrats who question the value of free-trade accords.</span></span>

**SKFTA kills multilateral trade**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bhagwati</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(professor of economics at Columbia) 7/25, (Jagdish, The Wrong Way to Free Trade, http://www.nytimes.com/2011/07/25/opinion/25bhagwati.html?_r=1&pagewanted=print)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">LATE last week, a </span>longstanding …mechanism, an achievement unparalleled in other international institutions.

**Passage of the FTA leads to SK adventurism and conflicts**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Lee and Kim ’09</span>[Dong Sun Lee, Research Fellow, East West Center, Ph.D. Political Science, University of Chicago, and Sung Eun Kim, Research Fellow at the Asiatic Research Institute. "The Impact of a Free Trade Agreement on the U.S.-South Korean Alliance: A Theoretical and Empirical Assessment". Paper presented at the annual meeting of the ISA's 50th Annual Convention. February 15, 2009. [[http://www.allacademic.com//meta/p_mla_apa_research_citation/3/1/0/6/8/pages310681/p310681-1.php]] PHK]
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">In the long run, however, </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Seoul and…, Seoul and Washington could minimize these risks to its long enduring security alliance.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">This leads to nuclear war</span>**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Raska '10</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Michael, Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy at the National University of Singapore, The Statesman "Why Can't South Korea Retaliate?" 11/25</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">However, this week’s North Korean artillery barrage on the Yeonpyeong Island, coupled with the sinking of the Cheonan corvette in March 2010 show that </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">South Korea’s security dilemmas have become …or non-linear Korean unification scenarios may rapidly spillover into a broader regional crisis.</span>



=***Negative= 
==Strategies== 
===Greenhill=== 
Round 2 1NC: (embrace the Other Aff)
Russia CP (2NR
Skfta (2NR)
T-Human
Schmit (2NR)

Round 3 1NC: (SSA)
Space Mil DA (2NR)
China Code of Conduct CP
SKFTA
T-Commercial

Round 5 1NC: (Telescope aff)
SKFTA (2NR)
Japan CP (2NR)
Kappeler
T-Human

===Michigan=== 

Round 1 1NC: (Cooperate with Russia)
Politics
China Relations
Consult Japan
Security K (2NR)

Round 3 1NC (Asteroids)
Russia CP (2NR)
Politics (2NR)
Space Weaponization

Round 5 1NC (Lunar Property Rights)
Space Weaponization
Russia CP
Politics
T-Beyond (2NR)

=Topicality= 
==T - Human== 

**Interpretation: Space exploration or development has to include physical presence**
**Logsdon 9** (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20100025875_2010028362.pdf]] Dr. Logsdon is Professor Emeritus of Political Science and International Affairs at George Washington University’s Elliott School of International Affairs. Prior to his leaving active faculty …provided in the MIT white paper.</span>



=Counterplans= 
==Japan CP== 



**Text: The State of Japan should should construct and deploy a wide-field infrared survey telescope**



**The counterplan solves**

**Patel, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(9/2/10. Peter—writer for Astrobiology Magazine. “Solar Sail Spacecraft could explore beyond solar system” Space.com. http://www.space.com/9051-solar-sail-spacecraft-explore-solar-system.html)</span>

The result was NanoSail-D, a diamond-shaped sail ...__lightweight materials__ for the support structure.

==China Code of Conduct CP== 

Text: The United States federal government should initiate a strategic dialogue with the People’s Republic of China where it will offer to lift restrictions on International Traffic in Arms Regulations, joint space exploration, create licensing for Chinese launches and attempt to make China a partner in the International Space Station in exchange for Chinese agreement to negotiate and support a code of conduct over acceptable uses of outer space, including an agreement to not engage in intentional behavior to release space debris or other measures that contribute to the weaponization of space. The United States should broaden this dialogue to other outer space parties and offer to negotiate a similar offer, and seek reciprocal, conditional verification agreements with all parties.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The counterplan gets China to sign a code of conduct, solves weaponization</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hitchens and Chen 08 </span>[Theresa Hitchens, president of the Center for Defense Information and David Chen, executive at Centra Technology, “Forging a Sino-US Grand Bargain in Space” 8/1/08 PHK]
Considering Chinese<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> investment in its </span>space program... make a fitting legacy to Nixon’s opening of China<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>
==eLoran CP== 
**eLORAN solves all military and civilian uses for satellites**
**ILA, 7**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – International LORAN Association- Authoring Team: Dr Sally Basker General Lighthouse Authorities (GLA) of the UK and Ireland, Commander Joseph Chop US Coast Guard, Colonel J Ron Davis (USAF, Ret.) Booz Allen Hamilton, Captain G Thomas Gunther (USCG, Ret.) Booz Allen Hamilton, Lieutenant Michael Herring US Coast Guard, Mr Francis Hubert DCN Brest, France, Professor David Last GLA Consultant, Dr Sherman Lo Stanford University, Commander John Merrill US Coast Guard, Lieutenant Kirk Montgomery (USCG, Ret.) Symmetricom, Inc, Mr Mitchell J Narins US Federal Aviation Administration, Commander Christopher Nichols US Coast Guard, Dr Gerard Offermans Reelektronika BV, Dr Ben Peterson (Captain, USCG, Ret.) Peterson Integrated Geopositioning, Captain Robert Wenzel (USCG, Ret.) Booz Allen Hamilton, Lieutenant Ronald Wright US Coast Guard 16 October 2007 ‘Enhanced Loran (eLoran) Definition Document’ <http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=2&ved=0CDEQFjAB&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.loran.org%2FILAArchive%2FeLoran%2520Definition%2520Document%2FeLoran%2520Definition%2520Document-1.0.pdf&rct=j&q=eLORAN&ei=Gi4oTuyOJKTm0QH37q2_Cg&usg=AFQjCNFLxpCR66dT6fSaUXJcc0Qoa13Maw&sig2=8isojPb4l6dNuuHGCDJQIg&cad=rja>//DoeS//</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">eLoran</span>//<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> services will deliver safety, security and ….</span>precise time and frequency users.//

//**Provides the same coverage without space assets**//
//**ILA, 7**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – International LORAN Association- Authoring Team: Dr Sally Basker General Lighthouse Authorities (GLA) of the UK and Ireland, Commander Joseph Chop US Coast Guard, Colonel J Ron Davis (USAF, Ret.) Booz Allen Hamilton, Captain G Thomas Gunther (USCG, Ret.) Booz Allen Hamilton, Lieutenant Michael Herring US Coast Guard, Mr Francis Hubert DCN Brest, France, Professor David Last GLA Consultant, Dr Sherman Lo Stanford University, Commander John Merrill US Coast Guard, Lieutenant Kirk Montgomery (USCG, Ret.) Symmetricom, Inc, Mr Mitchell J Narins US Federal Aviation Administration, Commander Christopher Nichols US Coast Guard, Dr Gerard Offermans Reelektronika BV, Dr Ben Peterson (Captain, USCG, Ret.) Peterson Integrated Geopositioning, Captain Robert Wenzel (USCG, Ret.) Booz Allen Hamilton, Lieutenant Ronald Wright US Coast Guard 16 October 2007 ‘Enhanced Loran (eLoran) Definition Document’ <http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=2&ved=0CDEQFjAB&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.loran.org%2FILAArchive%2FeLoran%2520Definition%2520Document%2FeLoran%2520Definition%2520Document-1.0.pdf&rct=j&q=eLORAN&ei=Gi4oTuyOJKTm0QH37q2_Cg&usg=AFQjCNFLxpCR66dT6fSaUXJcc0Qoa13Maw&sig2=8isojPb4l6dNuuHGCDJQIg&cad=rja></span>//DoeS

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">This Enhanced Loran (eLoran) Definition Document has been published by …. systems that carry voice and internet communications.</span>

**We’re reliant on GPS for everything – eLORAN is the only way to solve – our evidence is comparative**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Basker and Williams, 7</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – date last cited</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">(Dr. Sally Basker and Dr. Paul Williams, Research and Radionavigation, General Lighthouse Authorities of the United Kingdom and Ireland, Part of the International Loran Association, PHD in satellite geodesy and Electronic Engineering “Navigating eLoran: Challenges And the Way Forward,”https://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&q=cache:Ra3PujlAeugJ:www.gla-rrnav.org/file.html%3Ffile%3D652be60e268e09c0d91c5b6a976fbc30+"eLoran"+%2B+military&hl=en&gl=us&pid=bl&srcid=ADGEESi7Y-hA3S2KDnYV_TEdCeUYraswhpOGoPRGut3ULmXKPj66J366CNlwUSOHR3m5HEnaEKVynlyDDXRTrFGZAOpg_k9tlEm7WMPU6E2nG4szV5zajQgChH-kxx3L4DqssVLrEXkU&sig=AHIEtbSX4KRcEqc4dofiXTHtmVHUkCpEYA//arjun)</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">GPS</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> now underpins much of our critical ….</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> in Section 5. Finally, future challenges are identified in Section 6.</span>

==Economy Advantage CP== 


**Text: The United States Congress should enact the Strengthening Our Economy Through Small Business Innovation Act of 2009 (S. 177).**


**CP solves the economy- small businesses and jobs**
**Feingold, 09**- Senator (Russell, D-WI, "Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions”, January 8th 2009, Section 43, http://www.govtrack.us/congress/record.xpd?id=111-s20090108-43&bill=s111-177#sMonofilemx003Ammx002Fmmx002Fmmx002Fmhomemx002Fmgovtrackmx002Fmdatamx002Fmusmx002Fm111mx002Fmcrmx002Fms20090108-43.xmlElementm1m0m0m, TSK)


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Introducing S. 177] Mr. President, </span>__we are all aware of the serious challenges our economy__ __"providing widely distributed support for innovation activity."__

=Disadvantages= 
==SKFTA== 



**SKFTA won’t pass, democratic opposition**
<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Bloomberg 9/12</span>**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 9pt;">(Bloomberg, 9/12/11, [[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/trade-deals-wed-obama-to-republicans.html]])</span></span>
<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">__<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 11pt;">“He got virtually the entire Republican party to stand up</span>__<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> on that,” Representative Darrell Issa, a California Republican who has challenged the administration’s policies, said in an interview after the Sept. 8 speech ... of Democrats who question the value of free-trade accords.</span></span>


**Massive political support for space exploration – backlash to recent cuts prove**
**Kramer 10**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ken Kramer (reporter for Universe Today) 3/20/10 “Obama made mistake cancelling NASA’s Constellation; Sen. Bill Nelson” [[http://www.universetoday.com/60294/obama-made-mistake-cancelling-nasas-constellation-sen-bill-nelson/]] </span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">“The President made a mistake,” said Sen. Bill Nelson ...</span>__</span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> of the science and technology base across America. </span>__</span>

**Democrats satisfaction ensures passage of SKFTA**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Palmer 6/4 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Doug Palmer, trade associate for Reuters, “</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">House Democrats wary of "path" to trade deals</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">”, 5/4/11 [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/08/04/us-usa-trade-congress-idUSTRE7736TM20110804|__http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/08/04/us-usa-trade-congress-idUSTRE7736TM20110804__]] PHK]</span>
Two senior Democrats on Thursday reacted ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> which they consider costly and ineffective.</span>

**Passage of the FTA leads to SK adventurism and Asian conflicts**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lee and Kim ’09 </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Dong Sun Lee, Research Fellow, East West Center, Ph.D. Political Science, University of Chicago, and Sung Eun Kim, Research Fellow at the Asiatic Research Institute. "The Impact of a Free Trade Agreement on the U.S.-South Korean Alliance: A Theoretical and Empirical Assessment". Paper presented at the annual meeting of the ISA's 50th Annual Convention. February 15, 2009. [[http://www.allacademic.com/meta/p_mla_apa_research_citation/3/1/0/6/8/pages310681/p310681-1.php|http://www.allacademic.com//meta/p_mla_apa_research_citation/3/1/0/6/8/pages310681/p310681-1.php]] PHK]</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">In the long run, however, </span><span style="background-color: lime; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Seoul and Washington...</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> these risks to its long enduring security alliance.</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">SK adventurism causes rapid escalation and nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Raska '10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michael, Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy at the National University of Singapore, The Statesman "Why Can't South Korea Retaliate?" 11/25</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">However, this week’s North Korean artillery ...</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> rapidly spillover into a broader regional crisis.</span>

==Supercommittee== 

Supercommittee deal now – Trigger will force and Republicans broke no-tax taboo
Ruth <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Marcus, 11/17</span>/2011 [Washington Post, “Republicans make room on the table for tax increases after all”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/republicans-may-break-grover-norquists-no-new-taxes-spell/2011/11/17/gIQAA1rGVN_story.html]]</span>]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The debt-reduction supercommittee may well fail in its assignment to ... or other Republicans, </span>cannot decreesuch increases off the table<span class="underline"> in the future.</span>

Increased spending dooms passage
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Suderman, 8/17</span> (Peter Suderman, August 17, 2011, “Would It Be Better to Pull the Debt-Deal Trigger?”, http://reason.com/blog/2011/08/17/would-it-be-better-to-pull-the)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In large part, that’s because we don’t know what the committee ...</span><span class="underline"> and Democratic members </span>can<span class="underline"> both </span>agree on will be tough<span class="underline"> enough as it </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">is. </span>

Collapses economy
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Washington Post, 11/14</span>/2011[Businesses wary of supercommittee outcome”. http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/economy/businesses-wary-of-supercommittee-outcome/2011/11/14/gIQAzm7wON_story_1.html]
<span class="underline">A congressional “supercommittee”</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> tasked with finding at least $1.2 trillion i... </span>That<span class="underline"> event </span>caused palpitations in financial markets and<span class="underline"> rattled </span>business confidence<span class="underline">.</span>

Economic downturn causes conflicts to erupt across the globe
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Auslin and Lachman, 9</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Michael, AEI's [American Enterprise Institute] director of Japan Studies, was an associate professor of history and senior research fellow at the MacMillan Center, and Desmond, AEI fellow, former deputy director in the International Monetary Fund's Policy Development and Review Department, “The Global Economy Unravels” Forbes, 3-6, http://www.forbes.com/2009/03/06/global-economy-unravels-opinions-contributors-g20.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">What do these trends mean in the short and medium term? </span>The Great ... economic slump <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">since the Great Depression.</span>
==Space Mil DA== 

**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization</span>**
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Huntley, 11</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">As is well understood, the space policies ...remain to be developed.18 Many devils may lurk in these details. </span>



<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">The perception of pursuing space dominance will destroy the commitment to the new Obama National Space Policy</span>
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Dant, 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> - chief of staff of the Air Force fellow and the director of space policy for the under secretary of defense for policy (Daniel, High Frontier, February, " The National Space Policy: Sustainability and Cooperation in a Congested, Competitive, and Contested Domain,”</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
**//<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Cooperation for contested and competitive domain. </span>//**__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">The NSP</span>____<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> also recommits us to...</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">leadership of the coalition of responsible space-faring nations.</span>


<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Unilateral action alienates allies and shatters other areas of cooperation</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Sabathier et. al 6</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">— senior associate with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program and former senior fellow and director of CSIS space initiative (September 18, 2oo6 ,Vincent G. Sabathier, D.A. Broniatowski, G. Ryan Faith, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “The Case for Managed International Cooperation in Space Exploration”, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/060918_managed_international_cooperation.pdf , FS)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">International cooperation is valuable to a given nation... the possibility of future beneficial cooperation would be more likely. </span>



<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war</span>
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Garamond,serif;">Hitchens, 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Garamond,serif;">Perhaps of even greater concern is that several ...</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The likely alternative would be unacceptable to all.</span>



<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Space control is impossible, countermeasures override deterrence and risk nuclear escalation</span>
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Krepon et al, 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, also Theresa Hitchens, Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and Michael Katz-Hyman, Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space Security and South Asia Projects (Michael, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">While some have compared space to another ...spacepower will be undercut by the use of force in space.</span>
==GEO DA== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">GEO slots are numbered</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Post, 6</span>(Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology, UK, postnote, December, Number 273, “Military uses of space,” <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.parliament.uk/documents/upload/postpn273.pdf]]</span>)
Box 5 Orbital ‘slots’ and frequency allocation Satellites…less competition for orbital slots than in GEO

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Weather monitoring requires GEO because the satellites stay over one part of the earth</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> GIS Lab 8</span> (“Natural Hazards: Remote Sensing,” Remote Sensing, [[http://www.gis.unbc.ca/resources/geog100.php]])
Earth monitoring satellites have one … the case with our weather satellites<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> (such as NIMBUS and GOES). Altitude ~ 36,000km</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">That causes conflicts over slots</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Wallach 10</span> – JD, Partner at Calfee, Halter & Griswold LLP, where he serves as Co-Chair of the Litigation Group of more than 40 attorneys

Mark, “Legal Issues for Space Based Solar Power,” Online Journal of Space Communication,[[http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/wallach.html]]
GEO Slot Rights Another major, yet still largely …<span style="background-color: lime;"> cousins will be decided, or what criteria will be used to make those decisions</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Creates multiple scenarios for conflict</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Frank G. </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Klotz</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">, Jan 19</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">99</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">, Space, Commerce, and National Security, Council on Foreign Relations, p.23-4</span>
<span style="background-color: lime;">The scramble for geo</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">synchronous </span>slots<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> …</span>global information infrastructure-is a case in point.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">War in space occurs through miscalculation, risks extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mitchell, et al 1</span> -Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh
(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)
__A buildup of space weapons might begin with noble … most destructive military conflict ever seen.__
=Critiques= 
==Frontier== 

**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Space is the final frontier – the affirmative’s unilateral expansion into space is a strategy to free the American empire of material constraints</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Williamson, 87</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> (Ray, Office of Technology Assessment, United States Congress, “Outer Space as Frontier: Lessons for Today,” Western Folklore, October)</span>
__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Folklorists have a distinctive contribution to make in </span>____<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">... need not be resource wars and ecocatastrophes in our future</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 5pt;">."7</span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Unilateral pursuit of the final frontier legitimizes infinite violence against the other in order to heal the empire</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Slotkin, 85</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> (Richard, Olin Professor of American Studies @ Wesleyan, //The Fatal Environment,// p. 60-61)</span>
__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">This ideology of savage war has become an essential ...</span>____<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">many critics in the belief that America is an exceptionally violent society</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">The alternative is to rethink space exploration as a global human enterprise – reverse the need to infinitely expand unilaterally and instill public dialogue into space policy discussions</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Billings, 6</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> (Linda, PhD, Research Associate at SETI Institute, “To the Moon, Mars, and Beyond: Culture, Law and Ethics in Space-Faring Societies,” IASTS 21st Annual Conference, February 3-4, 2006, Baltimore, MD, [[http://lindabillings.org/lb_papers/space_law_ethics_culture.pdf]])</span>
__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Facing an opportunity to envision a new, 21st century ...</span>____<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">most importantly, why we should be going into space</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

==<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Security</span>== 


**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">A. Discourses of danger reproduces an American identity</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Campbell, 98</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">- Professor of International Politics University of Newcastle (David, Writing Security: United States Foreign Policy and the Politics of Identity) </span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The crisis of representation the United States faces is unique only ...current period of the idea that foreign policy/Foreign Policy is constitutive of political identity.</span>




**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">B. That makes extinction inevitable</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Willson, 02</span>**__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">- </span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Ph.D New College San Fransisco, Humanities, JD, American University (Brian, “Armageddon or Quantum Leap?U.S. Imperialism and Human Consciousness from an Evolutionary Perspective”, [[http://www.brianwillson.com/quantum.html|**http://www.brianwillson.com/quantum.html**]]__)__</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Awaiting the impending U.S. government's concocted "preventive" ...</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">two demonstrable trends, clearly not cyclical, indicate that </span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 11pt;">we are dangerously near the end of our evolutionary branch</span>__



**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Security is a communicative action that requires discursive justification</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Williams, 03</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> [Michael – IR Prof @ University of Ottawa, “Words, Images, Enemies: Securitization and International Politics,” International Studies Quarterly, Vol. 47, No. 4 (Dec., 2003), pp. 511-53, Published by: Blackwell Publishing on behalf of The International Studies Association, JSTOR__]__ [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/3693634]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">A second major criticism of the Copenhagen School ... </span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">by questioning</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">policies</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">or</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> by </span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">disputing the threat</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, or both.36</span>
==Stratavakis K== 

**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Language produces a gap between the Real and our conception of it—we repress what can’t be described because it threatens our perceived completeness of the Fantasy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Edkins, 03</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Jenny—Senior Lecturer of International Politics at the University of Wales-Abserystwyth, __Trauma and the Memory of Politics__] pg 11-14</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In the psychoanalytic account the </span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">subject is formed ...</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> the non-existence of any complete</span>____<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">, </span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">closed</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">social order</span>__

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">They address the gap by using political action to impose a certain view of reality to their own ends—a false utopia—achieving this new world facilitates the existence of a scapegoat which must be exterminated to stabilize their notion of reality</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Stratavakis, 99 </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Yannis—visiting fellow University of Essex, __Lacan and the Political__] pg 63-65</span>

__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">What constantly emerges from</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> this </span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">exposition is ...</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> the symbolic/imaginary nexus producing reality.</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Alternative text: reject the affirmative and traverse the fantasy</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Only identifying the impossibility of our representation avoids the exclusionary logic of the 1AC</span>
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Stratavakis, 99</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Yannis—visiting fellow University of Essex, __Lacan and the Political__] pg 63-65</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">By saying ‘We are all Jews!’, ‘We all live in ....s own lack, </span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">with the lack in the Other</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]