[[toc]]
=Blake 1AC= 
==1AC Plan== 
The United States federal government should establish lunar property rights by recognizing lunar land claims.


==1AC Moon Wars== 
Advantage 1 – Moon Wars
Moon race is happening – a legal framework for land distribution is required
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hatch 10</span> (Benjamin D. Hatch, Executive Notes and Comments Editor, Emory International Law Review; J.D. Candidate, Emory University School of Law (2010),24 Emory Int'l L. Rev. 229, Lexis | Suo)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">While the notion ... Part II will demonstrate.</span>

Absent a property rights regime, conflict is inevitable
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hatch 10</span> (Benjamin D. Hatch, Executive Notes and Comments Editor, Emory International Law Review; J.D. Candidate, Emory University School of Law (2010),24 Emory Int'l L. Rev. 229, Lexis | Suo)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Noting the substantive...</span> opportunity in history<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">.</span>
That escalates to nuclear war with Russia and a space arms race
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Beljac 8</span> (Marko Beljac, PhD at Monash University, a Foreign Policy In Focus contributor, teaches at the University of Melbourne. He blogs at http://sciencesecurity.livejournal.com, | April 1, 2008, [[http://www.fpif.org/fpiftxt/5113]] | Suo)

<span class="underline0">China has tested ... upon nuclear deterrence.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">War with Russia causes extinction</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Helfand and Pastore 9</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Ira Helfand, M.D., and John O. Pastore, M.D., are past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">March 31, 2009, </span><span class="vitstoryheadline" style="font-size: 10.6667px;">“U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat”, http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">President Obama ... in place today. </span>
Independently makes war and miscalc more likely
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hitchens 08 </span>[Theresa, author of “Future Security In Space: Charting a Cooperative Course,” continues to write on space and nuclear arms control issues for a number of outside publications, March, “Space Wars”, [[http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=bth&AN=31334623&site=bsi-live]]]

<span class="UnderlineChar">Perhaps of even ...highly problematic. </span>
Recognizing property rights solves resource conflict
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Twibell 97</span> (Ty S. Twibell, J.D. Candidate, , University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1997, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589 | Suo)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">As stated at...</span> and humanitarian rewards<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">.</span>

The US can unilaterally recognize land rights – that’s spurs investment and avoids international backlash
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Twibell 97</span> (Ty S. Twibell, J.D. Candidate, , University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 1997, 65 UMKC L. Rev. 589 | Suo)
The problems with ... <span class="UnderlineChar">agreed-upon international regime."</span>

That spills over globally
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wasser 11</span> (Allan Wasser, former broadcast journalist at ABC News and CBS News, Chairman of the Executive Committee (CEO) of the National Space Society, member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, Advocate of the Space Frontier Foundation, author of numerous articles on the subject of space property rights, most recently in The Explorers Journal, the official magazine of the Explorers Club, Space News, Ad Astra, Space Governance, May 2011, “The Space Settlement Initiative”, [[http://www.spacesettlement.org/]] | Suo)

The United States will **...** <span class="underline0"> **to undertake alone.**</span>

Land claim recognition is key to open up private investment
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bennett 8</span> (Drake Bennett, staff writer for Ideas and Bloomberg Business, May 18, 2008, “If we really want to explore space, maybe we should sell it off to the highest bidders”, [[http://www.boston.com/bostonglobe/ideas/articles/2008/05/18/my_space/]] | Suo)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">IF THE PAST ... be a way of accomplishing that."</span>

Private enterprise is the only peaceful way to develop space – interdependence means countries cooperate
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wasser and Jobes 8</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Alan Wasser is the Chairman of The Space Settlement Institute and a former CEO of the National Space Society. He is a former member of the AIAA Space Colonization Technical Committee, former member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, and a former Senior Associate of the Space Studies Institute. Douglas Jobes is the President of The Space Settlement Institute and a promoter of space exploration and settlement. He has been published in The Space Review and in the American Astronautical Society’s (AAS) SPACE TIMES magazine, “SPACE SETTLEMENTS, PROPERTY RIGHTS, AND INTERNATIONAL LAW: COULD A LUNAR SETTLEMENT CLAIM THE LUNAR REAL ESTATE IT NEEDS TO SURVIVE?”, [[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/jal73-1Wasser.pdf]] | Suo)</span>

Some<span class="UnderlineChar"> of those </span>... appropriate the Moon<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.71</span>

==1AC Space Development== 
Advantage 2 is development
Multiple internals:
a. Investment- Common Heritage makes space not cost effective for US companies- the plan provides a massive incentive
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Ranjana </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Kaul</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, partner at Dua Associates practicing space law, columnist for the Financial Express, 11/15/</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">08</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, http://www.financialexpress.com/news/column-whose-moon-is-it-anyway/385819/0</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">November 14, 2008 was historic. ... contradict international law.</span>

b. Industrialization- the plan provides infinite directions for spacefaring companies- jumpstarts the market and puts us back on top
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Ty S. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Twibell</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, J.D. Candidate, , University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 19</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">97</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span><span class="verdana" style="font-size: 10.6667px;">SPACE LAW: LEGAL RESTRAINTS ON COMMERCIALIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF OUTER SPACE, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">65 UMKC L. Rev. 589</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The Apollo landing ... commercialization of space.</span>

c. Development- Common Heritage currently blocks space development
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Jeremy L. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Zell</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">,</span><span class="verdana" style="font-size: 10.6667px;">J.D. Candidate, University of Minnesota Law School; B.A., University of South Dakota, 20</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">06</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, 15 Minn. J. Int'l L. 489</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The time for the ...</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> all of humanity.</span>


Only the plan sends the signal that development of space is legitimate- paves the way for more innovative ventures
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Ty S. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Twibell</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, J.D. Candidate, , University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 19</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">97</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span><span class="verdana" style="font-size: 10.6667px;">SPACE LAW: LEGAL RESTRAINTS ON COMMERCIALIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF OUTER SPACE, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">65 UMKC L. Rev. 589</span>
<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">Currently, </span>most ventures ... to the final product<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">.</span>

Private development ensures we get off the rock- and property rights are key
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wasser and Jobes 8</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Alan Wasser is the Chairman of The Space Settlement Institute and a former CEO of the National Space Society. He is a former member of the AIAA Space Colonization Technical Committee, former member of the Board of Directors of ProSpace, and a former Senior Associate of the Space Studies Institute. Douglas Jobes is the President of The Space Settlement Institute and a promoter of space exploration and settlement. He has been published in The Space Review and in the American Astronautical Society’s (AAS) SPACE TIMES magazine, “SPACE SETTLEMENTS, PROPERTY RIGHTS, AND INTERNATIONAL LAW: COULD A LUNAR SETTLEMENT CLAIM THE LUNAR REAL ESTATE IT NEEDS TO SURVIVE?”, [[http://www.space-settlement-institute.org/Articles/jal73-1Wasser.pdf]] | Suo)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">HUMANITY’S SURVIVAL depends on **...** </span><span class="underline0"> **any other legal violation.**</span>
Extinction is inevitable- every second of colonization delay costs trillions of possible future lives
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Nick </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Bostrum</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Director, Oxford Future of Humanity Institute Faculty of Philosophy, Oxford University 20</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">03</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://www.nickbostrom.com/astronomical/waste.html]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">As a rough approximation, ... the conclusion will hold.</span>

Also, space development cures cancer, restores sight to the blind, and makes GM food possible
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Kelly M. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Zullo</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, J.D., Georgetown University Law Center, 20</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">02</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, 90 Geo. L.J. 2413 no gendered language lol</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">The microgravity environment ... of the microgravity environment</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

Try or die – biotech’s failure to convert to GM food ensures human extinction
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Altman 99</span>(Faculty @ Otto Warburg Center for Ag Biotech, <span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">[[http://www.ejbiotechnology.info/content/vol2/issue2/full/1/index.html]]</span>)</span>

__Food production,...__ __creating the **"evergreen revolution".**__


Within 5 years the plan spurs lunar mining that uncovers a vast array of resources- leads to limitless wealth and makes us filthy rich
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Ezra J. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Reinstein</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Associate, Kirkland & Ellis, 19</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">99</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, 20 NW. J. INT'L L. & BUS. 59</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Space offers the </span>...e for a long time to come<span class="UnderlineChar">.</span>

That independently causes the next industrial revolution
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Ty S. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Twibell</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, J.D. Candidate, , University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 19</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">97</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">,</span><span class="verdana" style="font-size: 10.6667px;">SPACE LAW: LEGAL RESTRAINTS ON COMMERCIALIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF OUTER SPACE, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">65 UMKC L. Rev. 589</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">An immediate and ...molecular electronics. </span>

Economic decline causes war
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Harris and Burrows 9</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> – </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';">PhD in European History @ Cambridge and Counselor of the US National Intelligence Council AND Member of the National Intelligence Council’s Long Range Analysis Unit (Mathew J. and Jennifer, “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” April, Washington Quarterly, [[http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf]], EMM)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Of course, the... </span><span class="UnderlineChar">dog-eat-dog world. </span>


Experts and history disprove your impact takeouts
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Schrage ‘9</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Michael J. Green and Steven P., Michael J. Green is Senior Advisor and Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) and Associate Professor at Georgetown University. Steven P. Schrage is the CSIS Scholl Chair in International Business and a Former Senior Official with the US Trade Representative's Office, State Department and Ways & Means Committee, //It's not just the economy//, Available Online @ the Asian Times)</span>

Facing the worst economic ... critical challenges we face.


Diversionary conflict theory makes war stemming from economic collapse a reality
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Friedberg ‘9</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Aaron Friedberg and Gabriel Schoenfeld, Professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School, Visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute in Princeton, Senior editor of Commentary, //The Dangers of a Diminished America//, Accessed Online at the WSJ)</span>

The stabilizing effects of our presence in Asia, our continuing commitment to Europe, and our position as defender of last resort for Middle East energy sources and supply lines could all be placed at risk. In such a scenario there are shades of the 1930s, when global trade and finance ground nearly to a halt, the <span class="UnderlineChar">peaceful </span>democracies failed to cooperate, and aggressive powers led by the remorseless fanatics who rose up on the crest of economic disaster exploited their divisions

. Today we run the ...economic and geopolitical power.

Alternatively, the US would just withdraw from the international system during the collapse
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Ferguson ‘9</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Niall, Laurence A. Tisch Professor of History at Harvard University, Author of War of the World and The Ascent of Money, //Introducing the axis of upheaval//, The Times, Accessed Online @ The Times Online)</span>

The problem is that, <span class="UnderlineChar">...</span>The age of upheaval starts here.

The combination of isolationism and diversion is the most deadly- leads to world war three
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Ockham Research ‘8</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Independent Equity Research Provider based in Atlanta Georgia, Economic Distress and Geopolitical Risks, November 18th, Accessed Online @ Seeking Alpha)</span>

The economic ...country, ideology, etc.


==New GM Advantage- NDCA== 
The plan provides infinite directions for spacefaring companies- jumpstarts the market and puts us back on top
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Ty S. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Twibell</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, J.D. Candidate, , University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 19</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">97</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span><span class="verdana" style="font-size: 10.6667px;">SPACE LAW: LEGAL RESTRAINTS ON COMMERCIALIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF OUTER SPACE, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">65 UMKC L. Rev. 589</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The Apollo landing on the Moon, the Space Shuttle, and space activity in general most likely conjure images of scientific endeavor and symbols of human achievement. This Note advocates legal change to promote commercial space activity; however, not for intellectual value alone. </span>Space industrialization and commercialization offer immeasurable economic and humanitarian rewards<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">unrealized by the average person or lawyer. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">The space industry is already a multi-billion dollar industry. It is also an industry in which the United States does not necessarily lead.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The European Space Agency captures the majority of commercial launch contracts, affecting not only the commercial launch industry, but the satellite, remote sensing, and all other related enterprises. Third-world countries are also major competitors in the space industry. </span>
The present space industry allows industrial manufacturers to have the capability of conducting laboratory experiments<span class="UnderlineChar"> and industrial processes </span>that are virtually impossible to perform on Earth<span class="UnderlineChar">. </span>These processes can be performed thousands of times more efficiently in space.<span class="UnderlineChar"> Experimental achievements and manufacturing have already resulted in vital products including, medicine, pharmaceutical drugs, antibiotics, vaccines, computer micro-processing chips, new metal alloys, electronics, energy, and many others. Despite high profit margins from these technological breakthroughs, </span>the space industry has merely scratched the surface of what it can achieve.<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> However, </span>reaching beyond these current achievementsproves<span class="UnderlineChar"> near </span>impossible under<span class="UnderlineChar"> the</span> current<span class="UnderlineChar"> body of </span>space law<span class="UnderlineChar">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Although the United States has landed on the moon and placed its flag on its surface, the United States cannot (nor any other nation or entity) own the moon or any part of it. This includes all other planets, asteroids, and other celestial bodies such as comets. International space law and domestic law following it, prohibit appropriation of celestial property. </span>It is this prohibition and <span class="BoldUnderlineChar">the</span> uncertainty in the <span class="BoldUnderlineChar">limited</span> property rights that stifle the commercialization and industrialization of outer space<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Section II of this Note provides a basic overview of space law. Section III demonstrates how space law restrains the commercial development of outer space. Section IV reveals the little-known, but highly lucrative, space industry that exists today. Section V examines what the industry could be if it were to exist under a legal regime that promotes investment and legal certainty in space. Finally, Section VI provides some suggested changes in space law that will pave the road towards the infinite rewards which may be reaped from the commercialization of space.</span>

The plan doesn’t violate the OST- but uncertainty prevents investment
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wall 11</span> (senior writer, space.com http://www.space.com/10621-moon-mining-legal-issues.html Moon Mining Idea Digs Up Lunar Legal Issues)

The good news for outfits such as SEC is that <span class="BoldUnderlineChar">moon-mining operations appear to be legal, experts say. </span>The Outer Space Treatyof 1967 — which forms the basis of international space law and has been signed by the United States and other major spacefaring nations — prohibits countries from exercising<span class="BoldUnderlineChar"> territorial </span>sovereignty <span class="BoldUnderlineChar">over the moon or other celestial bodies. </span>But it doesn't prohibit resource extraction<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">. "</span>Experienced space lawyers interpret the treaty to allow mining," space-law expert Wayne White, who works in the aerospace industry, told SPACE.com. "I <span class="BoldUnderlineChar">have never seen anybody argue that you couldn't use mineral resources</span>." White and Nelson both referenced the Moon Treaty of 1979, which sought to set up a regime governing how the moon's resources would be used. The <span class="UnderlineChar">Moon Treaty remains more or less irrelevant today; it has been ratified by just a handful of nations, none of them big players in spaceflight and space exploration. "If the Moon Treaty wants to regulate how we use natural resources in outer space, then that presumes that it's legal to do so under the Outer Space Trea</span>ty," White said. Nelson compared the legal status of [[http://www.space.com/news/moon-mining-rare-elements-security-101004.html|moon mining ]]to that of fishing in the high seas, beyond national borders and claims. "<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">The </span>idea that you can't claim sovereignty is not necessarily incompatible with the right to go conduct mining operations," Nelson said. "The high seas are not subject to any sovereignty, but people can go and fish there<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">.</span>" The bad news: Title may be ambiguous <span class="UnderlineChar">Wh</span>ile the Outer Space Treaty likely allows mining, it does not set up a system granting explicit title to the extracted resources, according to Nelson. That ambiguity <span class="UnderlineChar">may not cause problems during mining operations, but it </span>could be an issue when companies try to sell the resources. "If you're pouring billions of dollars into extracting something of value, you don't want the risk that a bunch of people are going to sue you, or boycott you, or sanction you if you take it to market," Nelson said. <span class="BoldUnderlineChar">White thinks that </span>companies<span class="BoldUnderlineChar"> probably </span>can claim ownership<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">, under the Outer Space Treaty</span>, of the ice they mine from a lunar crater. But he agrees that there is a bit of fuzziness — a<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">nd </span>fuzziness is daunting to big-dollar operations."If you really are talking about a multibillion-dollar endeavor, if <span class="BoldUnderlineChar">I </span>were the lawyer <span class="BoldUnderlineChar">for that company, I </span>would say, 'Don't make that [[http://www.space.com/10621-moon-mining-legal-issues.html|__investment__]] until we have legislationin place,'" White said. <span class="BoldUnderlineChar">Comprehensive new legislation should aim </span>to take the ambiguity out<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">, White added. "Ideally, </span>you'd really need to do property rights, mining law and salvage law all in one package, because some of the elements are common to all three," he said. S<span class="UnderlineChar">ome space entrepreneurs agree that resources on the moon and other </span>celestial bodies won't be used to their full extent unless companies have explicit property rights<span class="UnderlineChar"> and title. "</span>You have to really own the ground <span class="BoldUnderlineChar">upon which you've placed these really valuable facilities</span>," Robert Bigelow, founder of Bigelow Aerospace, told SPACE.com. Bigelow Aerospace is drawing up plans for a [[http://www.space.com/businesstechnology/private-moon-bases-bigelow-aerospace-100414.html|quick-deploy lunar base]], using the company's expandable space habitats. "You have to instill the ingredients of profit and benefit into the equation."

It’s reverse causal- absent the plan, private space development companies will collapse
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Widegrow 11</span> (Davin Widegrow was born in Johannesburg, South Africa, and immigrated to Los Angeles, CA in December 2001. Widgerow attended the University of California, Berkeley, where he earned a B.A. (cum laude) in Political Science. For three years after college, Widgerow worked at the Los Angeles office of Latham & Watkins LLP as a paralegal assistant. Widgerow graduated from the University of Wisconsin Law School in December 2010. During law school, he worked for the Neighborhood Law Project civil justice clinical program, and interned for Justice David T. Prosser of the Wisconsin Supreme Court. Widgerow also served as a Note and Comment Editor for the //<span style="font-family: 'Times-Italic','serif';">Wisconsin International Law Journal</span>//, and was a member of the law school’s Moot Court team. Widgerow received the Law School’s 2010 Mathys Award for Excellence in Appellate Advocacy, and the 2011 Mary Kelly Quackenbush Award for Outstanding Student Article in the //<span style="font-family: 'Times-Italic','serif';">Wisconsin International Law Journal </span>//for this article. BOLDLY GOING WHERE NO REALTOR HAS GONE BEFORE: THE LAW OF OUTER SPACE AND A PROPOSAL FOR A NEW INTERPLANETARY PROPERTY LAW SYSTEM http://hosted.law.wisc.edu/wordpress/wilj/files/2011/10/Widgerow_Final_8.2.11-ISSUE-28-3.pdf)
Indeed, <span class="UnderlineChar">private sector spending on space applications has exceeded government spending in the same area</span> since 1998.54 The apparent reason for this explosion in space investment is that <span class="UnderlineChar">private space ventures promise great profits should they be realized</span>: such ventures include space hotels (profits estimated at $5 billion a year by 2015), contracting with NASA to send humans to Mars (profits at $400 billion by 2030), orbital labs for the development of microchips and biotech devices (profits at $10 billion by 2015), solar satellites and electricity ($100 billion by 2020), a space elevator that aims to replace rockets ($2 billion by 2021), asteroid mineral mining ($10 billion by 2030), lunar mining ($354 billion by 2050), and, of course, space tourism ($1 billion by 2023).55 <span class="UnderlineChar">Clearly, </span>private industry has economic incentives motivating it to invest in space<span class="UnderlineChar"> exploration and technologies</span>. <span class="UnderlineChar">Commentators note that </span>private investment in space exploration is not saddled with the <span class="UnderlineChar">same inherent c</span>hallengesburdening state-funded space programs.56 Unlike governments, <span class="UnderlineChar">private companies are not held hostage to public opinion, political pressure, and limited tax dollar</span>s. <span class="UnderlineChar">Private </span>companies suffering <span class="UnderlineChar">mission or technology </span>failures can rebound more quickly <span class="UnderlineChar">than can state space agencies, and shareholder-driven </span>investment in <span class="UnderlineChar">space industries </span>can promote market innovation by rewardin<span class="UnderlineChar">g successful </span>companies with favorable stock market returns<span class="UnderlineChar">.58 </span>Despite all this interest in <span class="BoldUnderlineChar">space, </span>current space law constrains the private space industr<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">y</span>. The industry is confused as to the current law’s scope and is apprehensive about its provisions <span class="BoldUnderlineChar">forbidding any possessory rights of outer space or celestial bodies</span>.59 These businesses want to be sure that the<span class="BoldUnderlineChar"> technology, funding, and </span>efforts they put toward the development of space will be rewarded. <span class="BoldUnderlineChar">Thus, </span>a properly crafted property law regime, unique to outer space, must be developed <span class="BoldUnderlineChar">to ensure that private space industry continues to invest</span> in cosmic ventures and technologies. <span class="UnderlineChar">If private companies are going to spend billions of dollars developing commercial and exploratory expeditions to outer space, they should do so knowing that they will be entitled to reap most of the benefits garnered from such missions</span>. To insist otherwise would be to kill commercial space industry in its infanc<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">y </span>and relegate space exploration to the rudderless direction it has followed <span class="BoldUnderlineChar">since the end of the Apollo era.</span>

That’s key to space experiments in GM food production
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Ty S. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Twibell</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, J.D. Candidate, , University of Missouri- Kansas City School of Law, B.S., Public Administration, Southwest Missouri State University, 19</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">97</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">,</span><span class="verdana" style="font-size: 10.6667px;">SPACE LAW: LEGAL RESTRAINTS ON COMMERCIALIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF OUTER SPACE, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">65 UMKC L. Rev. 589</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">An immediate and accelerated surge in the </span>growth of the commercial space industry would create enormous economic and humanitarian benefits<span class="UnderlineChar">. It would also benefit and provide extensions for already existing terrestrial industries such as medicine, pharmacology, and computer microprocessing. </span>These extensions would<span class="UnderlineChar"> substantially </span>accelerate the development of new technologies<span class="UnderlineChar"> and manufacturing rates.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> This section demonstrates the importance in promoting the space industry for humankind today and in the near future. It also shows what today's industry could look like, barring legal constraints. Some of the benefits are realized today in a modest degree, however, other </span>benefits<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">will occur farther into the future and </span>will be inhibited without some form of property rights<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> If the industry is accelerated and its restraints removed, the long range and intermediate benefits will come sooner and </span>space will<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">indeed </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">be "</span>the cradle for the next <span class="BoldUnderlineChar">economic and </span>industrial revolution<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">."</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The "immediate" future is defined in terms of this Note as today and approximately the next ten years.While the population as a whole may know little about the scientific characteristics of outer space, many people are aware </span><span class="UnderlineChar">outer space is a vacuum</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, there is little or no gravity, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">and there are extremes in temperature. These characteristics aid in space manufacturing </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">in the immediate future. </span>The environment enab<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">les</span>,<span class="UnderlineChar"> as demonstrated by experiments on the space shuttle</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span>improvedproduction over earth bound laboratories at seven hundred times the quantity and four times the purity<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Although today's technology is very advanced, it has failed to replicate the vacuum of outer space which is important to many industrial applications.</span><span class="UnderlineChar">Vacuums are desirable for those industries that require crystallization of certain substances for manufacturing products such as pharmaceuticals or microchips.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> The "perfect" vacuum of space allows crystal formations to be enhanced. This enhanced crystallization aids in a variety of commercial developments, especially pharmaceuticals and semiconductors. Not only is crystallization beneficial for the above industries, it is also beneficial to a host of other industries requiring large and perfect crystallization, </span>including genetic engineering<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and molecular electronics. </span>

GM development on the ground is inevitable
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Ahlstrom 8</span> (Dick Ahlstrom, Science Editor at Foundation for Biology Awareness and Education, 7/18/08 “Use of GM foods Inevitable in EU- Expert”)
<span class="UnderlineChar">IT IS inevitable that EU states will accept genetically modified foods, despite the fact that 70 per cent of people are opposed to them, the Government's chief scientific adviser has stated</span>. Foods containing modified ingredients are already on our supermarket shelves and livestock here is being fed genetically modified feeds. Prof Patrick Cunningham answered questions about the safety of genetically modified (GM) foods yesterday while attending the Oireachtas Committee on Enterprise, Trade and Employment. He also handled questions on a range of subjects including future energy supplies, risks posed by overhead power lines and waste incineration and climate change. Prof <span class="UnderlineChar">Cunningham issued a formal report to Government on GM foods last summer. It looked at safety, benefits and risks and, after assessing a range of studies on the issue, he believed GM was of value to Ireland. "The answer has to be yes,</span>" he told the Committee. "[ <span class="BoldUnderlineChar">GM] is not going to go away and it is advancing at a hell of a rate</span>," he said. <span class="BoldUnderlineChar">Countries around the world were growing about 100 million hectares of GM corn, cotton, soyabean and rice. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Genetic modifications impart resistance to herbicides and insect attack, providing cost and yield improvement for the farmer, he said. "This has given a tremendous competitive advantage to those using [ GM]."</span>


But space development is comparatively better- only commercial production solves
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Kelly M. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Zullo</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, J.D., Georgetown University Law Center, 20</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">02</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, 90 Geo. L.J. 2413</span>
The microgravity environment of outer space provides a research environment unlike any found on Earth. N<span class="UnderlineChar">ASA has allowed experiments from private researchers on shuttle missions and the International Space Station. The scientific discoveries made in space benefit all of humanity by offering better medicine, food, and other advancements that improve the quality of life on Earth. For example</span>, in the fields of biotechnology and agribusiness, space-based researchers have developed: (1) a treatment for brain tumors<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> that is more effective and less expensive than previous treatment alternatives; (2) a </span><span class="UnderlineChar">special optical detector that can be implanted in the eye to restore sight to eyes</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">damaged by disease or accident; (3) </span>a cancer drug<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Proleukin, that has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of bladder cancer and metastatic melanoma; (4) </span>a system for<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">removing the ripening hormone ethylene from the air to </span>extend the shelf life of fresh fruits and vegetables; <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">and (5) </span>growth chambers for producing healthy, disease-free seed potatoes to replace the current worldwide crop of potatoes<span class="UnderlineChar">, </span>eighty-five percent of which is diseased to the point that the potatoes are not fit for human consumption<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">. </span>The companies that invested in the research will recover their development costs and make a profit on their successful products<span class="UnderlineChar">. However, all of mankind benefits from the scientific breakthroughs made possible by the unique physical properties of the microgravity environment</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

Try or die – biotech’s failure to convert to GM food ensures human extinction
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Altman 99</span>(Faculty @ Otto Warburg Center for Ag Biotech, <span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">[[http://www.ejbiotechnology.info/content/vol2/issue2/full/1/index.html]]</span>)</span>

__Food production,__for both quantity and quality, as well as for new plant commodities and products,__in developed__and developing__countries__around the globe, __cannot rely solely on classical agriculture. **Human survival,** vis-à-vis a continuous increase in agricultural productivity, **depends on**__the effective //merging of classical breeding with//__modern plant__ **__<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">biotechnology</span>__** __and the novel tools it<span class="UnderlineChar"> provides</span>__. The "green revolution", for example, increased wheat production 10-fold in India and several other countries in South East Asia, thereby feeding three times as many people. However, this revolution__has already been exploited to its limits, and alternative solutions are required to breed improved crops. Now biotechnology,__ integrated with classical breeding, __is on the verge of creating the **"evergreen revolution".**__


A priori issue – nuclear war is already regulated and contained – only carrying potential affects everyone and //must come first for policy//
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Daily and Ehrlich 92</span> (Gretchen C. Daily is a Winslow/Heinz Foundation Postdoctoral Fellow in the Energy and Resources Group, University of California at Berkeley, Berkeley, CA 94720, and Paul R. Ehrlich is the Bing Professor of Population Studies in the Department of Biological Sciences, Stanford University 1992 “Population, Sustainability, and Earth's Carrying Capacity: A framework for estimating population sizes and lifestyles that could be sustained without undermining future generations”)

The twentieth century has been marked by a profound historical development: an unwitting evolution of the power to seriously impair human life-support systems. <span class="UnderlineChar">Nuclear weapons represent one source of this power. Yet, even the complexities of global arms control are dwarfed by those inherent in restraining runaway growth of the scale of the human enterprise, the second source of possible disaster</span>. Diminishing the <span class="UnderlineChar">nuclear threat involves relatively few parties, well-established international protocols, alternate strategies that carry easily assessed costs and benefits, short -- and long-term incentives that are largely congruent, and widespread recognition of the severity of the threat</span>. In contrast, <span class="UnderlineChar">just the opposite applies to curbing the increasingly devastating impact of the human population</span>. In particular, the most personal life decisions of every inhabitant of the planet are involved and these are controlled by socioeconomic systems in which the incentives for sacrificing the future for the present are often overwhelming. This article provides a framework for estimating <span class="UnderlineChar">the population sizes and lifestyles that could be sustained without undermining the potential of the planet to support future generations</span>. We also investigate how <span class="UnderlineChar">human activity may increase or reduce Earth's carrying capacity for Homo sapiens.</span> We first describe the current demographic situation and then examine various biophysical and social dimensions of carrying capacity. Our analysis is necessarily preliminary and relatively simple; we anticipate that it will undergo revision. Nonetheless<span class="UnderlineChar">, it provides ample basis for policy formulation. Uncertainty about the exact dimensions of future carrying capacity should not constitute an excuse to postpone action. Consider the costs being incurred today of doing so little to halt the population explosion, whose basic dimensions were understood decades ago</span>.

=Neg= 
==Blake== 
===Round 1: Neg vs. ORS Aff=== 
2NR: PTC DA, case defense

Pay Roll Tax Cut 1NC
Obama intensely focusing on payroll tax push- likely will be successful
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">WSJ 11/10/</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">11</span>**/**11http://blogs.wsj.com/washwire/2011/11/10/white-house-to-push-to-extend-payroll-tax-cut///
//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The White House is gearing up to make a big ..........</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a senior administration official said.</span>//


//Political capital is key//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mail Online UK 10/13</span>/11 (“'I won't take no for an answer on jobs bill': Defiant Obama vows to continue despite Senate defeat”, http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2048604/Obama-I-wont-answer-Jobs-bill.html?ito=feeds-newsxml)//
//President Barack <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Obama has recorded a ..........</span>Americans now back the bill, according to SBS.//



//Payroll tax cut portion of Jobs Bill needed to avert economic shock that will tip US back into a second recession//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Washington Post 9/8</span>/11 ([[http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/ezra-klein/post/just-how-effective-is-the-payroll-tax-cut/2011/09/08/gIQAodirCK_blog.html]])//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Obamais expected to call for an .......... </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the argument goes</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, it will at least avert further degradation.</span>//

//A double dip recession would be much worse than the first and trigger an economic depression//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CNN Money 8/10</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">/</span>11 ([[http://money.cnn.com/2011/08/10/news/economy/double_dip_recession_economy/index.htm]])//
//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Another recession could be even worse than ..........r</span>//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">ecession would likely have virtually no policy effort to counteract it</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>//


//Extinction//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Austin ‘09</span><span class="CardsChar1"> (Michael, Resident Scholar – American Enterprise Institute, and Desmond Lachman, Resident Fellow – American Enterprise Institute, “The Global Economy Unravels”, Forbes, 3-6, </span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.aei.org/article/100187]]</span><span class="CardsChar1">)</span>//
//Conversely, global policymakers do not seem to have ............... small explosions that coalesce into// <span style="font-size: 10pt;">a big bang. </span>//


2NC Elections Impact- Iran Strikes
Payroll success causes Obama re-election
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AP 10/25</span>/11 [[http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5jBBAuCkwwz36b0l5ZSe63veDz47Q?docId=c480f4a9b7634e9f8e0fd60ddd74c5ef]]
<span class="Underline">Blocked by congressional Republicans yet ........</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> leader Nancy Pelosi and now a public relations executive at Ogilvy Washington. "He's the president. He's got to try to do everything he can."</span>




GOP win causes Iran strikes
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dilek 9/20</span>/11 (Emine, addicting info, “All Republican Candidates Favor War with Iran” http://www.addictinginfo.org/2011/09/20/all-republican-candidates-favor-war-with-iran/, jj)
<span class="Underline">All Republican Candidates Favor War with IranPrepare yourself</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> my fellow Americans. </span><span class="Underline">I.........</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Contrary to his assertion, I believe Americans are fed up with the unending wars.</span>

Iran strikes causes multiple scenarios for extinction
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chossudovsky ‘6</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michel Chossudovsky, The Next Phase of the Middle East War, Global Research, http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=3147)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Bush Administration has embarked upon </span><span class="Underline">a military ,.......... Caspian sea basin, eventually leading to the destabilization and conquest of the Russian Federation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



China Currency 1NC

Obama is successfully delaying labeling China as a currency manipulator despite pressure from Congress- that label would destroy US-China relations

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tax News 10/21</span>/11 ([[http://www.tax-news.com/news/China_Warns_Again_Against_US_Currency_Bill____52051.html]])

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> US </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Senatepassed the............. exchange rate policies.</span>



PC is key to stop the Treasury from naming China a currency manipulator

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reuters ’10</span>(“How Obamacare is killing free trade”)

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">And </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">the situation could worsen. To appease Congress and </span><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">...........</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">he needs to defuse tensions with China. In short, Obama needs to lead.</span>


Manipulator label escalates tensions, causes tbill sell off, collapses relations and the economy

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">McNally ’09 </span>(Chris, research fellow and political economist @ East-West Center, “CHINA-U.S. ECONOMIC RELATIONS: FROM SYMBIOSIS TO RUPTURE?” East West Center -- Feb 8 -- <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.eastwestcenter.org/news-center/east-west-wire/china-us-economic-relations-from-symbiosis-to-rupture/]]</span>)

The unraveling of this synergy is already creating tensions,............urgently required to steer this fragile relationship through tough times.



Nuclear war

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mead ‘09</span> (Walter Russell Mead, Henry A. Kissinger senior fellow for U.S. foreign policy at the Council on Foreign Relations. The New Republic, “Only Makes You Stronger,” February 4 2009. http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2 AD 6/30/09)

So far, such half-hearted experiments not only ............The United States may not, yet, decline, but<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, if we can't get the world economy back on track, we may still have to fight. </span>





DARPA CP 1NC



Text: The United States federal government should enhance United States military service members through The Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency’s warfighter enhancement program funded by Bio/Info/Micro Sciences BLS-01 and provide all necessary support for military enhancement.


DARPA’s Bio/Info/Micro Sciences program includes all the necessary platforms for successfully integrating technology and biology and allows for the innovative addition of new technological discoveries as they occur to maximize warfighting capabilities

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">DARPA</span> Fiscal Year (FY) 2003 Budget Estimates February<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> 2002</span> RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION, DEFENSE-WIDE Volume 1 - Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">This project will explore and develop the intersections of biology, information technology and micro/physical systems to exploit advances and leverage fundamental discoveries for the development of new technologies, techniques, and systems of interest to the DoD</span>. ............ __Genomics–based platforms will enable rational medical drug discovery and broadspectrum antibiotics discovery for pathogens confronting the warfighter.__

==__stuff we go for__== 
harvard:
r1 vs bishop loughlin (fem)
1nc: fw, cap, xo, military clean tech (heg !) ptix, case
2nc: h triv, ptix, case, fw
1nr: xo
2nr: xo, ptix

rd 3 vs atholton (race/earth monitoring satellites)
1nc: cap, case
2nc: cap
1nr: case
2nr: cap, case

rd 5 vs woodward (mars col)
1nc: military clean tech (warming !), precautionary principle k, case
2nc: precautionary principle k
1nr: case
2nr: precautionary principle k, case

doubs vs ghill (space guard)

1nc: borders k, t human/opdefs bad, military clean tech (heg !), case
2nc: t, case
1nr: case
2nr: case


THE NDCA!!!

rd 1 vs carrolton (sps)
1nc: adv cp, aspec, jackson vanik (telecom !), russia oil, case
2nc: aspec, adv cp, russia oil, case
1nr: case
2nr: russia oil, case

rd 3 vs st marks (propellant depots)
1nc: t- immediate increase, jackson vanik (russia rels !), launches da, adv cp, nsc cp, case
2nc: launches, jackson vanik, nsc cp
1nr: case
2nr: jackson vanik, nsc cp

rd 5 vs ck mcclatchy (enviro monitoring)

1nc: t- human, jackson vanik (russia rels !), human spaceflight t/o da, geoss/ethanol tariff cp, case
2nc: jackson vanik, cp
1nr: case
2nr: jackosn vanik, case

rd 7 vs woodward (mars col)
1nc: precautionary principle k, case
2nc: k
1nr: case
2nr: k, case

octas vs carrolton (sps)
1nc: t-mesosphere, venezuela oil, darpa cp, "space" pic, jackson vanik, case
2nc: t-mesosphere, jackson vanik
1nr: case
2nr: jackson vanik, case







<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Email Conversation with James Bennett (Greenhill 1AC author)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dear Mr. Bennett,</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">I have recently became familiarized with your advocacy for a Space</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Guard. I was wondering if you had any estimates (from your own</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">research, or from NASA or the DOT) of the total budget/funding</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">allocation needed for the establishment of the program? Thank you!</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sara Kirsch</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brandeis University</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Master of Art Candidate 2013, Near Eastern and Judaic Studies Program</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Assistant Debate Coach, Lexington High School</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Email: [[mailto:Skirsch@Brandeis.edu|Skirsch@Brandeis.edu]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Phone: (248) 705-8225</span>

<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 12pt;">12/17/11 1:12 AM (13 hours ago)</span>
<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 12pt;">Dear Ms. Kirsch,</span>

<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 12pt;">You asked "I have recently became familiarized with your advocacy for a Space Guard. I was wondering if you had any estimates (from your own research, or from NASA or the DOT) of the total budget/funding allocation needed for the establishment of the program? Thank you!"</span>

<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 12pt;">Thank you for your email. Unfortunately it is difficult to answer your question in a straightforward manner. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">What the costs of a Space Guard might be depend very much on what the scope of the service would be initially, how much of it would be formed by re-attaching parts of existing organizations, which of the several possible paths to formation eventually might be taken.</span>

<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 12pt;">I don't know whether you had a chance to read my article on the topic from The New Atlantis. (<span style="color: #193dc5; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/proposing-a-coast-guard-for-space]]</span>) </span><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">You will see it discusses an accretion path that might start with a minimal set of functions from one or more Cabinet department and gradually add more functions. This is how the Coast Guard was formed from the merger of the Revenue Cutter Service and the Lifeboat Service. If such a path were followed the start-up costs would be small and the budget would be not much different from that of the first component agencies, although there are also some unavoidable startup costs whenever a new organization is formed</span><span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 12pt;">. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">We can look at some of the recent mergers or changes of agency for comparable costs, but that would really be a project in and of itself.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Starting up an organization with the full Space Guard vision at once would be quite expensive -- in the billions, certainly, although much of that would be just reprogramming of existing cost centers from other agencies and departments.</span><span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 12pt;"> But I think such a scenario to be relatively unlikely.</span>

<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 12pt;">Sorry to not be more helpful, but we're really at the start of the process here.</span>

<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 12pt;">Regards,</span>

<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 12pt;">James C. Bennett</span>