Tournaments list
Grapevine
KCKCC
Sand Springs
Bartlesville

=Plan:= 

<span style="font-size: 16pt;">The United States Federal Government should reallocate the US Military’s current budget to institute a space based Ballistic Missile Defense program. </span>
==Rogue States Advantage –IranStyle (1/10)== 
===Advantage _:Iran=== 
===Irandeveloping space-based missiles=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Richardson '7</span> (Doug Richardson, editor of defense journal Jane's Missiles and Rockets, “Iran: Defense Expert DiscussesIran's Missile Capabilities”, Radio Free Europe Radio Libert, http://www.rferl.org/content/article/1076911.html)
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In order to …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> quite St. Petersburg.</span>
===Iranhas Nuclear Weapons=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Newsmax '10</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> (Ken Timmerman, Staff Writer, “Iran Admits it Could Pull Nuke Trigger on US”, October 5, 2010, </span><span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.newsmax.com/Headline/iran-nuclear-weapons-israel/2010/10/05/id/372644]]</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For the first time …</span> **__ministry analyst contends.__**
Rogue States Advantage –IranStyle (2/10)
===4 Impact Scenarios:=== 
=== === 
===1. Iranian Missiles can reachEurope– distances prove=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Richardson '7</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> (Doug Richardson, editor of defense journal Jane's Missiles and Rockets, “Iran: Defense Expert Discusses Iran's Missile Capabilities”, Radio Free Europe Radio Libert, http://www.rferl.org/content/article/1076911.html)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">They do </span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">…</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> suspect, Iran to Bucharest.</span>
===Hundreds of Iranian Missiles ready to be shot atEurope– Secretary of Defense Robert Gates statement=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mail Online '10</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> (Mail Foreign Service, “Europe could face hundreds of missiles in Iran attack, U.S. Defence Secretary warns”, June 18th, 2010, </span><span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-1287651/Iran-capable-firing-hundreds-missiles-Europe-warn-U-S.html]]</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">)</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I</span>ran could shower …even hundreds of missiles.’__**
Rogue States Advantage –IranStyle (3/10)
===2.Iranhas all intention to attack theUS– recent tests=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Newsmax '8</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> (Kenneth R. Timmerman, Staff Writer, “U.S. Intel: Iran Plans Nuclear Strike on U.S.”, July 29th 2008, </span><span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.newsmax.com/Newsfront/iran-nuclear-plan/2008/07/29/id/324724#ixzz1O4Ro0WKT|http://www.newsmax.com/Newsfront/iran-nuclear-plan/2008/07/29/id/324724#ixzz1O4Ro0WKT]]</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Iran has carried … recent Iranian tests.</span>**</span>
===One nuclear missile strike on theUSleads to extinction – Economic, Infrastructure, Transportation collapsed=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lambakis '7</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> (Steven Lambakis, National Security and International Affairs Analyst specializing in Space Power policy studies, “Missile Defense From Space”, Policy Review, No. 141, February & March 2007, </span>
<span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/5516446.html]]</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Now just imagine … they are terrifying.</span>
Rogue States Advantage –IranStyle (4/10)
===3.Iranwants to nukeIsrael–Iranclearly wants=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bard '11</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> (Dr. Mitchell Bard, Executive Director of the nonprofit American-Israeli Cooperative Enterprise, Policy Analyst, “Potential Threats to Israel: Iran”, June 27th, 2011, </span>
<span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.jewishvirtuallibrary.org/jsource/Threats_to_Israel/Iran.html]]</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">"The only …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a long-term threat.</span>
===MAD does not apply toIran– they believe the end will come anyways=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bard '11</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> (Dr. Mitchell Bard, Executive Director of the nonprofit American-Israeli Cooperative Enterprise, Policy Analyst, “Potential Threats to Israel: Iran”, June 27th, 2011, </span>
<span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.jewishvirtuallibrary.org/jsource/Threats_to_Israel/Iran.html]]</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Iran would never launch a nuclear attack against Israel, some argue because, as the old Sting song used to say about the Russians, the …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">of a mushroom cloud?</span>**</span>


Rogue States Advantage –IranStyle (5/10)
===4.IranProliferating to other Muslim Countries – leading to middle east arms race=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bard '11</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> (Dr. Mitchell Bard, Executive Director of the nonprofit American-Israeli Cooperative Enterprise, Policy Analyst, “Potential Threats to Israel: Iran”, June 27th, 2011, </span>
<span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.jewishvirtuallibrary.org/jsource/Threats_to_Israel/Iran.html]]</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Iran</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> has … toward building a bomb.</span>
Rogue States Advantage –IranStyle (6/10)
===Many extremist Muslims believe in wipingIsraeloff the map=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bard '11</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> (Dr. Mitchell Bard, Executive Director of the nonprofit American-Israeli Cooperative Enterprise, Policy Analyst, “Potential Threats to Israel: Iran”, June 27th, 2011, </span>
<span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.jewishvirtuallibrary.org/jsource/Threats_to_Israel/Iran.html]]</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mahmoud Ahmadinejad believes …</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Palestinian population as well.”</span>
Rogue States Advantage –IranStyle (7/10)
===Iranian War causes extinction=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hirsch 6'</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> (Jorge Hirsch, a professor of physics at the University of California San Diego. He is one of the originators of the physicists' petition on nuclear weapons policies started at the UCSD, 1/3/2006, America's nuclear ticking bomb, http://www.signonsandiego.com/uniontrib/20060103/news_mz1e3hirsch.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If only conventional … cities or armies. </span>
Rogue States Advantage –IranStyle (8/10)
===Only Space BMD Solves –=== 
===Traditional missile defense insufficient – Ship based launches bypass=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Newsmax '8</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> (Kenneth R. Timmerman, Staff Writer, “U.S. Intel: Iran Plans Nuclear Strike on U.S.”, July 29th 2008, </span><span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.newsmax.com/Newsfront/iran-nuclear-plan/2008/07/29/id/324724#ixzz1O4Ro0WKT|http://www.newsmax.com/Newsfront/iran-nuclear-plan/2008/07/29/id/324724#ixzz1O4Ro0WKT]]</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">One group … nation’s critical infrastructure.</span>
Rogue States Advantage –IranStyle (9/10)
===Space BMD only solution to coverIran– truly global in nature=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis '6</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> (Independent Working Group, “Missile Defense, the Space Relationship, & the Twenty-First Century”, http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWGreport.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Other things …</span>**__"regional" or "local."__**
==Advantage: Space BMD’s Capable of Shooting Down EMP 1/7== 
===EMPs collapse allUSelectronics by hitting the grid—causes tech failure=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cooper and Pfaltzgraff ’10</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> (Henry F. Cooper and Robert L. Pfaltzgraff, Chairman of High Frontier and Professor of international security studies at Tufts University, 2010, International Foreign Policy Institute, Countering the EMP threat the role of missile defense, </span>
[[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWGWhitePaper.pdf]])
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The destruction and …</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">might not easily recover</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>
Advantage: Space BMD’s capable of Shooting Down EMP 2/7
===EMPs devastate and Space BMD solves—preventsUStechnological devolution and econ collapse=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kennedy ‘8</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> (Brian T Kennedy, President of Claremont Institute, 2008 Novemeber 24, Wall Street Journal, “What a Single Nuclear Warhead Could Do”, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122748923919852015.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Think about this scenario…</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">as soon as possible.</span>**</span>
Advantage: Space BMD’s Capable of Shooting down EMP 3/7
===Now is the time and MAD won’t work—EMPs immediate threat, Space BMD solves=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kennedy ‘8</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> (Brian T. Kennedy, President of the Claremont Institute, 2008 September, Hillsdale College, “Ballistic Missile Defense is not yet reality,” http://www.hillsdale.edu/news/imprimis/archive/issue.asp?year=2008&month=09)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Opponents of missile …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">last stand on Earth.”</span>
Advantage: Space BMD’s Capable of Shooting Down EMP 4/7
===Space missile defense key to protection—works ground and sea tech and solves for EMP disasters=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lambakis ‘7</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> (Steven Lambakis, Senior Analyst for the National Institute of Public Policy, 2007 February-March, Hoover Institution, </span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">http://www.gees.org/documentos/Documen-02177.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">space assets</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">…</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">can be more effective.</span>**</span>
Advantage: Space BMD’s Capable of Shooting Down EMP 5/7
===No defense against EMP—need space BMD to protect us from collapse ofAmerica=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Timmerman ‘8</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> (Kenneth R. Timmerman, journalist, political writer, and writer on weapons of mass destruction in the middle east, 2008 July 29th, Newsmax, http://www.bomb-shelter.net/pdf/threats.pdf )</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“As of today</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">… **to challenge us.** “</span>
Advantage: Space BMD’s Capable of Shooting Down EMP 6/7

**China** **is already a growing military space threat, already have space weapons programs and anti-satellite weapons**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Quigley ‘9</span> [Erik, “Geo-Political Considerations toChina's Rise in Space Power,” TheDefenseTechnicalInformationCenter,
http://oai.dtic.mil/oai/oai?verb=getRecord&metadataPrefix=html&identifier=ADA539644]
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">China`s military space </span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">…</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">military space intentions.</span>
Advantage: Space BMD’s capable of Shooting Down EMP 7/7
An EMP attack kills millions and destroys the economy – only space based missile defense solves
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kennedy 08’</span> By BRIAN T. KENNEDY, WSJ, Mr. Kennedy is president of the Claremont Institute and a member of the Independent Working Group on Missile Defense. NOVEMBER 24, 2008, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122748923919852015.html]]
“What a Single Nuclear Warhead Could Do: Why the U.S. needs a space-based missile defense against an EMP attack.”
<span class="DebateUnderline">As severe as ...</span>as soon as possible.

==Adv: Anti-Satellite Weapons 1/2== 
===Russiais already developing anti satellite weapons=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AP 9’</span> [March 5, The Independent, “Russia building anti-satellite weapons,” http://www.carnegieendowment.org/2007/07/23/china-s-space-weapons/hgx]
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Russia is working </span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">…</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> anti-satellite weapons</span>
===Indiahas begun developing space weapons to destroy satellites=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">de Selding 10</span> [ Peter, Space News Staff Writer, January 11, Space News International, "India Developing Means To Destroy Satellites," http://www.space.com/7764-india-developing-anti-satellite-spacecraft.html]
PARIS — <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">India has </span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">…</span>**</span> yet to be done.”
Adv: Anti- Satellite Weapons 2/2
===U.S.must weaponize space to defend from anti-satellite attacks=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schendzielos 8’</span> [Kurt, “Protection in Space: A Self-Defense Acquisition Priority for U.S. Satellites,” The Defense Technical Information Center, http://oai.dtic.mil/oai/oai?verb=getRecord&metadataPrefix=html&identifier=ADA485553]
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">America is …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> attacks is proposed.</span>

==Adv: Asteroids 1/3== 
===Not enough going on now about how to solve the asteroid problem.=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schweickart et al 2010 </span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">(Russell L. Chairman, B612 Foundation (Task Force Co-Chair)Report of the NASA Advisory Council Ad Hoc Task Force on Planetary Defense October 6, T http://www.nasa.gov/pdf/490945main_10-10_TFPD.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Findings on Planetary … total impact hazard.</span>
==Adv: Asteroids 2/3== 
===Space weapons prevent asteroid/comet impacts.=== 
<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.spacedebate.org/author/2083|Kunich]]</span>[[http://www.spacedebate.org/author/2083|, John C.]]<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> "</span>[[http://afls14.jag.af.mil/dscgi/ds.py/Get/File-71020/part4.DOC|Planetary Defense: The Legality of Global Survival]]<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">." </span>[[http://www.spacedebate.org/source/Air%20Force%20Law%20Review|Air Force Law Review]]<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">. Vol. 41 (</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1997</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">): 119-160.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mitigation, or response… Earth-based mode.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Adv: Asteroids 3/3</span>
===Scientists say weapons in space best for deflecting asteroids.=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mellor 7</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">[Dr. Felicity, Humanities Program, Imperial College, London. “Colliding Worlds: Asteroid Research and the Legitimization of War in Space.” SAGE Publications. [Online] ]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Since the late 1980s… this alignment entailed.</span>