[[toc]]
=Info= 
Greg is the 1a/2n
Steve is the 1n/2a

We won't be posting full text because it clutters things on the wiki. If a solution to this arises then we will likely provide it. In the meantime, we can attempt to find you specific articles if you are not able to access them or (in the worst case) text of a card if it is on a database that we cannot currently access.

For now we're just posting the 1ac/1nc's of specific arguments since we want our wiki to stay consistent and this is the way we started. In the future (specifically after Woodward's tournament), this may change. However, feel free to ask what common arguments are read on each position and/or what 2ac/2nc evidence we have against certain positions. We will be happy to oblige.

If you have any other questions, our emails are linked in our respective positions.


==Woodward Wiki== 
Everything we read at woodward will be at this link.

[[debatecoaches/Bishop Guertin CZ 2nd Year Woodward|http://wiki.debatecoaches.org/Bishop+Guertin+CZ+2nd+Year+Woodward]]

Round reports will still be here



=<span style="color: #000000;">Affirmative</span>= 

If you have any questions email [[mailto:werw54321@gmail.com|werw54321@gmail.com]]
==Asteroids Aff--Wake== 

**Contention 1 is Inherency**

**NASA lacks the resources to meet its 2020 asteroid detection goals.**
**Mason 09**(<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Betsy, masters degree in geology from Stanford, science editor for wired.com“NASA Falling Short of Asteroid Detection Goals” 2009, Conde Nast Digital,[[http://www.wired.com/wiredscience/2009/08/neoreport/]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">__Without more funding__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">...headed our direction</span>




**No nation operates a space-based observatory. Empirical reactions to darker asteroids prove that status quo detection methods are doomed to fail.**

**NAS 10.** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(National Academy of Science is comprised of the top scientists based on their individual work and achievements, no date, 2010, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth-Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,” pdf document)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12px;">No nation</span> has__...__ground based telescope__</span>



<span class="Underline">**More funding needed for Space Based Observatories**</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Vergano, 09**</span>.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dan is a science reporter at USA Today, and has worked at the Medical Tribune. August 13, 2009, “Panel: NASA needs to do more to spot killer asteroids.” Lexis,)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__NASA is falling__</span>...to see anything



**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its efforts and funding to survey and track near earth objects using space-based measures.**



**Contention 2 is Large Asteroid Collision**

**An asteroid strike is inevitable in the status quo. A collision causes a multiple scenarios for extinction and outweighs all nuclear war scenarios.**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Sagan and Ostro 94</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Carl, Editor “Issues in Science and Technology”, and Steven, Editor, “Issues in Science and Technology” “Long-range consequences of interplanetary collisions.” 6/22/94 [[http://elibrary.bigchalk.com/elibweb/elib/do/document?set=search&dictionaryClick=&secondaryNav=&groupid=1&requestid=lib_standard&resultid=1&edition=&ts=5F4EDF6D6382539965B2AA9E564E5FF2_1310419971306&start=1&publicationId=&urn=urn%3Abigchalk%3AUS%3BBCLib%3Bdocument%3B28902300]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">As Comet Shoemaker...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12px;">__is so cheap__</span>



**An asteroid impact will kill the planet. We control the internal link warming.**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Paine, 99 </span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, writer for the Planetary Society,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> “</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">How an Asteroid Impact Causes Extinction” Space.com, 5/11/99, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://idisk.mac.com/mpaineau-Public/rocks_from_space/asteroid_extinction.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12px;">NASA scientists announce...__events could happen__.</span>




**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Global warming will overheat the core of the earth causing the entire planet to explode </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Chalko ‘4 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">[Thomas Chalko(Abstract), PhD and professor of Geophysics at Mt Best in Australia, 10-30-2004 [[http://nujournal.net/core.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12px;">__The heat generated__...situation becomes irreversible</span>




<span class="Underline">**An asteroid impact outweighs nuclear war 15 billion times over. We control the most probable internal link to extinction.** </span>

**Hawkes, no date.** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Bob is a member of the Meteorites and Impacts Advisory Commission, an advisory group to the Canadian Space Agency, no date given, “A comet or asteroid impact with the earth – how real is the threat?” [[http://miac.uqac.ca/MIAC/impactearth.htm]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12px;">There is now...are also possible.</span>




**Our impacts are probable and quick. You are more likely to die from an asteroid than any other natural disaster**

**Rees, 2000, (**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor Sir Martin, Professor of Cosmology and Astrophysics at the University of Cambridge “The risk is real”, September 22, 2000, LexisNexis Academic)</span>
A British Government...<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">some __devastating consequences__</span>.



**The precautionary principle is the only way to evaluate the round. Magnitude must be evaluated before probability in order to ensure human survival.**
**Seamone 04** (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Evan R., J.D., University of Iowa College of Law; M.P.P. and B.A., University of California, Los Angeles. Evan Seamone is an attorney and a Judge Advocate in the U.S. Army stationed at Fort Polk, Louisiana, “The Precautionary Principle as the Law of Planetary Defense: Achieving the Mandate to Defend the Earth Against Asteroid and Comet Impacts While There is Still Time,” Georgetown International Environmental Law Review, Vol. 17, Iss. 1; pg. 1, 23 pgs, Fall 2004,[[https://litigation-essentials.lexisnexis.com/webcd/app?action=DocumentDisplay&crawlid=1&doctype=cite&docid=17]]+</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Geo.+Int'l+Envtl.+L.+Rev.+1&srctype=smi&srcid=3B15&key=a2a4327cc80f04b8f9c09805718305b8)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__The precautionary principle__</span>...have little force



**An undetected asteroid has no intervening actor to prevent its impact whereas impacts of war do.**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Seamone 03</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Evan R., J.D., University of Iowa College of Law; M.P.P. and B.A., University of California, Los Angeles. Evan Seamone is an attorney and a Judge Advocate in the U.S. Army stationed at Fort Polk, Louisiana, “The Duty to ‘Expect the Unexpected’: Mitigating Extreme Natural Threats to the Global Commons Such as Asteroid and Comet Impacts with the Earth,” Columbia Journal of Transnational Law, 2003, Lexis</span>
This Article addresses...__of risk analysis__



**Contention 3 is Small Asteroids**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The threat from NEOs is real and immediate.</span>**</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Norris 04</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Guy Norris is the award-winning West Coast editor for Flight International, cites an international group of scientists and engineers. March 30, 2004, “Deep impact; How serious a threat do near Earth objects pose, and what is being done to prevent the devastation that a collision would inevitably cause?” lexis, )</span>
On 18 March...them with transponders



**A small asteroid explosion in the atmosphere could lead to mass casualties.**
**Reeves 7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robert, phd in astronomy, “Who will save us from a killer asteroid?” 11/01/07 [[http://elibrary.bigchalk.com/elibweb/elib/do/%20document?set=search&dictionaryClick=&secondaryNav=&groupid=1&requestid=lib_standard&resultid=2&edition=&ts=FEA18CE1DD3627162238AAC207841E36_1310604862440&start=1&publicationId=&urn=urn%3Abigchalk%3AUS%3BBCLib%3Bdocument%3B145564410|http://elibrary.bigchalk.com/elibweb/elib/do/ document?set=search&dictionaryClick=&secondaryNav=&groupid=1&requestid=lib_standard&resultid=2&edition=&ts=FEA18CE1DD3627162238AAC207841E36_1310604862440&start=1&publicationId=&urn=urn%3Abigchalk%3AUS%3BBCLib%3Bdocument%3B145564410]])</span>
__In 1908, a__...this size range.



**A small asteroid collision would annihilate global crop yields and lead to worldwide famine killing billions.**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Johnson 95</span>**</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Lindley, NASA’s executive for both the Discovery Program of Solar System exploration missions, and the Near Earth Object Observations Program,“Preparing for Planetary Defense: Detection and Interception of Asteroids on Collision Course with Earth”, A Spacecast 2020 White Paper for the Air War College, 1995, [[http://csat.au.af.mil/2020/papers/app-r.pdf]]) </span>
__But it doesn't__...__familiar to us__



**Food shortages will cause unchecked disease.**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Brown 09</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Lester R., American agricultural economist and writer. He is also the founder and president of the Worldwatch Institute. A strong advocate of sustainable agriculture, Brown has overseen numerous publications and has written as many on his own, “Could Food Shortages Bring Down Civilization?”, Scientific American, 4/22/09</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.sovrn.com/PDF/articles_Could-Food-Shortages-Bring-Down-Civilization_.pdf]]**)**</span>
__The biggest threat__...__global civilization itself__.



**Unanticipated epidemics would cause extinction**
**Powell 2k** – Corey S. Powell, Senior Editor, Discover Magazine; Adjunct Professor, Science Journalism, NYU; Author: God in the Equation: How Einstein Transformed Religion, October 1, 2000, “20 Ways the World Could End,” Discover Magazine,[[http://discovermagazine.com/2000/oct/featworld]]
Global epidemics If...the New World.



**Whether a small asteroid hits land or sea, it would destroy the ozone.**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hsu, 10.</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Jeremy is a senior writer for LiveScience, a sister site to Life’s Little Mysteries. Oct 26, 2010 “Asteroid Strike Could Force Humans Into Twilight Existence,” [[http://www.livescience.com/8825-asteroid-strike-force-humans-twilight-existence.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">)</span>
__An asteroid splashdown__...__on the ozone__.



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, that equals extinction</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Greenpeace ’95</span>**</span> [“Full of Holes: Montreal Protocol and the Continuing Destruction of the Ozone Layer”, //A Greenpeace Report,//[[http://archive.greenpeace.org/ozone/holes/holebg.html]]]
When chemists Sherwood...__life on earth__.



**DESTRUCTION OF THE OZONE LEADS TO MASS BIODIVERSITY LOSS**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**De Gruijl, 95**</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">.</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Frank R. is a biophysicist involved in the study of ozone depletion and is on the committee of the United Nations Environment Programme. Summer 1995, “Impacts of a Projected Depletion of the Ozone Layer,”[[http://www.gcrio.org/CONSEQUENCES/summer95/impacts.html]])</span>
All animals and...in shallow water.



**LIKELIHOOD OF A SMALL ASTEROID COLLISION IS HIGH – THEY DETONATE WITH THE SAME ENERGY AS A NUCLEAR BOMB – THESE EXPLOSIONS ARE NOT DISTINGUISHABLE FROM NUCLEAR DETONATIONS IN THE STATUS QUO**
<span class="Underline">**Correll 03** (Randall R., National Security consultant, writer for The Marshall Institute, “National Security Implications of the Asteroid Threat”, </span>2-4-2003 [[http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/120.pdf]])
The chance of...November 21, 2002.



**And, nuclear-armed nations don’t have the capability to distinguish between asteroid explosions and nuclear attacks --- we risk this impact more than 30 times a year**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Recer 02 </span>**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">(Paul, science writer for the Associated Press, “War danger seen from asteroids; Air Force general says blasts could be mistaken for a nuclear attack,” Associated Press, 10/4/02 LexisNexis)</span>
WASHINGTON - Asteroids regularly...perished," he said.



**Contention 4 is Solvency**

**Detection is key to deflection. We have the capability to prevent an asteroid impact but only if detected soon enough.**
<span class="Underline">**Barbee and Nuth 09,** (</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Brent, M.S.E and III, Joesph, Ph.D, Aerospace Engineer and Planetary Defense Scientist, Emergent Space Technologies, Inc., Senior Scientist for Primitive Bodies, Solar System Exploration Division, NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center, “Asteroid Impact Threats: Advancements in Asteroid Science to Enable Rapid and Effective Deflection Missions” Journal of Cosmology, October 31, 2009, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://journalofcosmology.com/Extinction109.html]]</span>)
__After the deflection__...to the asteroid



**And, attempts to deflect asteroids are inevitable but only early warning can make that deflection successful**
**NAS 10.** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(National Academy of Science is comprised of the top scientists based on their individual work and achievements, no date, 2010, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth-Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,” pdf document)</span>
Unlike most other...and present threat.



**And, space-based observations are key. Ground-based telescopes can’t give us continuous measurements due to weather changes and poor night vision**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Park et al 05</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Daniel D. Mazanek, Carlos M. Roithmayr, and Jeffrey Antol Langley Research Center, Hampton, Virginia Sang-Young Park, Robert H. Koons, and James C. Bremer Swales Aerospace, Inc., Hampton, Virginia Douglas G. Murphy, James A. Hoffman, Renjith R. Kumar, and Hans Seywald Analytical Mechanics Associates, Inc., Hampton, Virginia Linda Kay-Bunnell and Martin R. Werner Joint Institute for Advancement of Flight Sciences (JIAFS) The George Washington University, Hampton, Virginia Matthew A. Hausman Colorado Center for Astrodynamics Research The University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado Jana L. Stockum San Diego State University, San Diego, California, “Comet/Asteroid Protection System (CAPS): Preliminary Space-Based System Concept and Study Results” NASA, May 2005,[[http://www.nss.org/resources/library/planetarydefense/2005-CometAsteroidProtectionSystem(CAPS)-NASA.pdf)]]</span>
__While terrestrial-based__...__with the NEO.__

===Glenbrooks Update=== 
Replaced Mason 09 with...

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Status quo efforts to monitor near-Earth objects are insufficient—dangerous objects are still undiscovered</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **NRC 2010**</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8.5pt;"> (</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">National Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,” </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
Ground-based telescopes have difficulty observing...as possible, especially imminent impactors.

===Dowling Update=== 
Added this scenario...

**Asteroid impact collapses the economy --- stock market**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Bobrowsky and Rickman 7</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Peter T, member of CANQUA and a Geologist, and Hans, Astronomer and Professor of Astronomy at Uppsala University, “The Economic Consequences of Disasters due to Asteroid and Comet Impacts, Small and Large,” Comet/Asteroid Impacts and Human Society, 2/21/07, http://www.springerlink.com/content/m7736</span>
Suppose the capital market disruption was...nuclear power stations and hydroelectric dams.



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Economic collapse culminates in extinction and complete destruction of the biosphere</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bearden 2k </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">(Liutenant Colonel, Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Army, www.cheniere.org/techpapers/Unnecessary%20Energy%20Crisis.doc) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; line-height: 24px;">Bluntly, we foresee these factors...at least for many decades. </span>



===Harvard Update=== 
Switched out Bearden for...

<span class="Underline">**Economic collapse causes great power wars that go nuclear**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Merlini 11** (Cesare Merlini, BA in humanities, holds a diploma for industrial engineering, nonresident Senior Fellow at the Center on the United States at the Brookings Institute, Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Italian Institute of International Affairs, President of the Italian Institute of International Affairs, founder and former Executive-Vice-Chairman of the Council for the United States and Italy, former co-editor of Global-FP, an Italian magazine associated with Foreign Affairs, former member of the Trilateral Commission, member of the Board of the International Institute for Strategic Studies, previously held the chair of Nuclear Technologies at the Polytechnic University of Turin, nuclear scientist at the Argonne National Laboratory in Illinois, expert on transatlantic relations, European integration, nuclear non-proliferation, and the impact of change in society on international relations, 2011, “A Post-Secular World?”, published in Survival volume 53 number 2, page 117, </span>[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/articles/2011/04_international_relations_merlini/04_international_relations_merlini.pdf]])
Two neatly opposed scenarios for the future...from a self-perception of rising influence and power.



==Brilliant Pebbles Aff--Bronx Science== 

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Contention 1 is Inherency</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Countries building counter space weapons now</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">AFP</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, WASHINGTON, 2/06/20</span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “US worried by PRC’s space hostility,” [[http://www.taipeitimes.com/News/front/archives/2011/02/06/2003495233]]</span>
China is developing "counterspace" weapons...in space, either," Schulte said.


**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The United States has no Space BMD</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Baker </span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Spring</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> April 12 </span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">2010 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Heritage Foundation, The Cutting Edge </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.thecuttingedgenews.com/index.php?article=12104]]</span>
Second, the BMDRR acknowledges that...a network of space-based interceptors.


**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Thus, the plan: The United States federal government should deploy Brilliant Pebbles Missile Defense program.</span>**


**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Contention 2 is Hegemony</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Space weaponization and conflict is inevitable - winning the race for dominance is key to US hegemony</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kitfield 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Senior Correspondent @ The National Journal, writer for Air Force Magazine, B.A. Journalism, University of Georgia, distinguished writer on defense, national security, and foreign policy, author of two books on national security, [James, Air Force Magazine, “Crowded Congested Space” August 2010,[[http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2010/August%202010/0810space.aspx]]</span>
In the "commons" above Earth...crisis or conflict," the report concluded.


**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Military dominance is entirely dependent on space assets - weaponization is key to ensure their protection</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Everett </span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Dolman</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, PhD and Professor of Comparative Military Studies @ US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space Studies and Recipient of Central Intelligence’s Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award, September 14, 20</span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">05</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “ US Military Transformation and Weapons in Space,” [[http://www.e-parl.net/pages/space_hearing_images/ConfPaper%20Dolman%20US%20Military%20Transform%20&%20Space.pdf]]</span>
The United States has embarked...combat inventory of the United States.


**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Space militarization is key to check global rivals who are building up systems --- solves conflict</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Doggrell 06</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Les, Senior Project Engineer with Aerospace Corporation, Air and Space Power Journal, Summer, 2006, Operationally Responsive Space “A Vision for the Future of Military Space” [[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj06/apj06.html]])</span>
IN FUTURE CONFLICTS, military space forces...well-known tenet of military operations.


**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">U.S. unipolar dominance is the only way to maintain international stability – withdrawal guarantees global war</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Robert </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">**Kagan**, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Senior Fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace 7/19/20</span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">07</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “End of Dreams, Return of History”,[[http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html]]</span>



**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Space power is critical to global stability and conflict resolution - provides transparency to reduce miscalculation, strengthens dissuasion power, and deters small conflicts</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">M.V. </span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Smith</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Colonel, PhD in Politics and IR @ University of Reading, 20</span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “Chapter 17: Security and Spacepower, Part of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower,” Edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, National Defense University Press, [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]]</span>
Spacepower provides different ways...making terrestrial deterrence more effective.


**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">US Space militarization maintains deterrence and creates a global golden age</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Dolman and Cooper 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, (Everett Dolman and Henry Cooper, Everett Dolman is Phd and Prof. Military studies at USAF SAAS, former NSA analyst where he received the Outstanding Intelligence Analyst Award. Henry Cooper is former DoD deputy executive and Chairman of the High Frontier think-tank and journal. This appeared in Chapter 19 of “Toward a Theory of Spacepower”, edited by Charles Lutes and Peter Hays, ISBN </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">978-1780393858, 03-07-11,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">gd,[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf]])</span>
In its narrowest construct, astropolitical realism...America must lead, for the benefit of all.


**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Contention 3 is Peaceful Space</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Scenario 1: Miscalculation</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Miscalculation occurs now</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Giacomo 03</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, (Carol Giacomo writes for Reuters, May 22, 2003, [[http://www.commondreams.org/headlines03/0522-03.htm]])</span>
WASHINGTON More than a decade after...producing any of the new weapons.


**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">A “Brilliant Pebbles” Ballistic Missile Defense Program Solves Miscalc</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis ’09</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, The Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis (IFPA) is an independent, nonpartisan research organization specializing in national security, foreign policy, and defense planning issues, Independent Working Group, 2009, “Missile Defense, the Space Relationship, & The 21st century”[[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWG2009.pdf]]</span>
The oranges are different. These...respond quickly when needed.


**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Miscalc leads to U.S.-Russia nuke war</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">F. William </span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Enghda</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">**l**, 2/20/</span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">07</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, freelance journalist, historian, and economic researcher, “Putin and the Geopolitics of the New Cold War”,[[http://thetruthnews.info/putin.html]]</span>
The march towards possible nuclear...made after the dissolution of the Warsaw Pact?"


**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">A US-Russian war causes extinction and is an existential threat.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bostrom 2</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Nick, professor of philosophy - Oxford University, March, Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards, Journal of Evolution and Technology, p. [[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]]</span>
A much greater existential risk...we will encounter in the 21st century.


**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Scenario 2: China</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">China is beginning to militarize Space</span>**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**MacDonald 11**, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bruce W. MacDonald is a member of the United States Institute of Peace, former member of CFR, see 1st line of ard, 5-11-11,gd,[[http://www.usip.org/files/resources/bmacdonald_testimony.pdf]]</span>
Prior to USIP I led the...and are important to U.S. security.


**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">US dominant now, but Chinese political factions wanting a space 1st strike are gaining popularity</span>**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**Cox 08**, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stan Cox is a writer, columnist for ~500 newspapers, worked for the US dpt of Agriculture, has a Ph.D from Iowa State University in agricultural genetics, 9-28-07, gd, [[http://www.fwweekly.com/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=2850]])</span>
In the depths of the Cold..."we can certainly have superiority."


**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">China 1st Strike in Space would be a part of Taiwanese invasion</span>**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**France and Adams 05**, (</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Martin France and Richard Adams are Chiefs of the Space Superiority program at Peterson AFB, CO, originally published in the //High Frontier Journal//, Winter 2005, gd, [[http://www.spacedebate.org/evidence/1844/]])</span>
The keys to any Chinese military...to react rapidly or effectively.


**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">US-China war causes nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Hunkovic, </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">20</span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">09</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – American Military University [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">] avidK</span>
A war between China, Taiwan, and the...and/or militarily effected by it.


**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Contention 4 is Solvency</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Brilliant Pebbles solves—One interceptor can destroy 10 warheads at once</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Donald R. </span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Baucom</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. (Donald Baucom is the historian of the Ballistic Missile Defense Organization. He is a graduate of the Air Force Academy and served as a commissioned officer for twenty-eight years. He has taught history and strategy at the Academy and the Air War College and has directed the Air Power Research Institute at Maxwell AFB, Alabama. Dr. Baucom was editor of the Air University Review, currently the Airpower Journal. He is the author of The Origins of SDI, which won the Organization of American Historians’ Leopold Prize in History.) </span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">04</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. [[http://www.highfrontier.org/Archive/hf/D_Baucom_Rise%20and%20Fall%20of%20BP.pdf]]. “The Journal of Social, Political and Economic Studies?</span>
The remarks about economic feasibility...history of the SDI program.


**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Missile Defense deters rivals</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis ’09</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, The Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis (IFPA) is an independent, nonpartisan research organization specializing in national security, foreign policy, and defense planning issues, Independent Working Group, 2009, “Missile Defense, the Space Relationship, & The 21st century”[[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWG2009.pdf]]</span>
Committing to Space The importance of space...developing their own space programs.


**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Defensive space capabilities would deter arms races, history proves – their authors rely on philosophical and emotional justifications rather than evidence</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis 09</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (The Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis - independent, nonpartisan research organization specializing in national security, foreign policy, and defense planning issues, helps senior government policy makers, industry leaders, and officials in the public policy community make informed decisions in a dynamic and unpredictable global security environment, staff is a mix of scholars, business professionals, retired military officers, and foreign policy specialists, associated with </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://fletcher.tufts.edu/|The Fletcher School]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Tufts University, and has offices in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and Washington, D.C., 2/21/09 “Missile Defense, the Space Relationship, & the Twenty-First Century,” 2009 Report, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/IWG2009.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
Nowhere is the rationale and justification...defenses against offensive weapons.



=<span style="color: #000000;">Negative</span>= 
Email [[mailto:greg.zoda@gmail.com|greg.zoda@gmail.com]] for any questions


==Topicality== 
===T-Human=== 
**Exploration means to expand human presence to space**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Logsdon 9</span>** (John, professor of political science at George Washington, former director of the Space Policy Institute, “Fifty Years of Human Spaceflight Why Is There Still a Controversy?,” [[http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20100025875_2010028362.pdf]])



**Space development is limited to staffed commercial projects; everything else is space technology which is distinct**
**Livingston 07** – former adjunct professor in the Graduate School of Business at Golden Gate University his doctoral dissertation was titled “Outer Space Commerce: Its History and Prospects” citing Eric Westling co-author of “The Space Elevator” and numerous papers on space tech and development [quals in card] (9/10/07, “This Week On The Space Show: Eric Westling”, [[http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298]])
Eric Westling is a science writer…commercial projects in space.



===T-Mesosphere (vs MDA)=== 
**Beyond is outside the limits of**
**Collins 9** (Collins English Dictionary Unabridged, “beyond”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/beyond]]</span>)
-- prep
1. at or to a point on the other side of; at or to the further side of: //beyond those hills there is a river//
2. outside the limits or scope of: beyond this country's jurisdiction

**And, mesosphere refers to 80 kilometers above the Earth’s surface**
**Atmospheric Chemistry Glossary 11**
Mesosphere - In the atmosphere, the region immediately above the stratosphere and immediately below the thermosphere. The mesosphere begins about 50 kilometers high at the stratopause and ends about 80 kilometers high at the mesopause. The temperature in the mesosphere decreases sharply with increased altitude.

**The plan increases Earth-based transmitters and servers which are not beyond the Earth’s mesosphere**
**Raidt et al. 10** (John, Director and Senior Fellow on the Horizon Project; Kristen E. Smith, Assistance Director of Michael S. Ansari Africa Center; Nancy J. Walker, Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Michael S. Ansari Africa Center, The Atlantic Council. November 30, 2010. “Advancing U.S., African, and Global Interests: Security and Stability in the West Africa Maritime Domain,”)
<span class="Underline">Under the MSSIS program, vessels owned…and intercourse section of the U.S. Code.</span>



==Counterplans== 
===Prizes=== 
====1NC==== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Counterplan Text: The National Aeronautics and Space Administration should establish a Centennial Challenge for</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">establishing a self-sufficient space colony on Mars</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Centennial Challenges promote low-cost tech development and space missions. They’re modeled on past successes and can solve the aff</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Cain</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">— publisher of Universe Today, VP and Partner of Communicate.com; a website development agency, co-founder and inventor of CompuTrace, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">04</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, (April 29, 2004, Fraser, Universe Today, “NASA’s X-Prize Looking for Ideas” </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[[http://www.universetoday.com/9536/nasas-x-prize-looking-for-ideas/]], MA</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
The NASA program that offers cash prizes...for this exciting program," he said.



===EU=== 
====1NC==== 
**Plan: The European Union should __ through the European Space Agency.**

**Counterplan solves the case**
**Brauer and Monte 05** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Gerard and Luca del, Gerard is the head of the ESA, “European Space Research and Developmentfor the Security and Military Sectors” pdf)</span>
The above described scenario suggests that...components to serve defence requirements.



====Solvency==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">ESA is launching a new global weather monitoring satellite</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">ESA 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(European Space Agency, “Meteosat Third Generation takes a step forward,” ESA, 2/22/10, http://www.esa.int/esaCP/SEMT4I3KV5G_index_0.html)</span>
Numerical weather prediction is improving with...over the capabilities of the Meteosat satellites.



===Wormholes=== 
====1NC==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Text: The United States federal government should redirect all funding the plan allocates to <INSERT PLAN> to the development of traversable wormholes.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This universe’s destruction is inevitable – rapid expansion</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Overbye, 02</span>** (Dennis, New York Times, “The Universe Might Last Forever, Astronomers Say, but Life Might Not” January 1, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://krauss.faculty.asu.edu/01ENDrev.html]]</span>)
Now, however, even Dr. Dyson admits...There's no long-term future."



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">But there are an infinite number of other universes</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chaikin 2</span>** (Andrew, Editor of Space and Science, Space.com, “Are there other universes?” February 5, [[http://www.space.com/scienceastronomy/generalscience/5mysteries_universes_020205-1.html]])
The irresistible, mind-boggling fantasy comes...than a single universe "fine-tuned" for our existence.



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wormholes are our escape round to another universe - galactic colonization solves their short-term extinction impacts</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kaku 4</span>** (Michio, Prof. Theoretical Physics at City College New York, “Parallel Universes”, p. 305-307)
The eventual disintegration of our universe...our entire universe into a 'living cosmos.'"



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We have the technology for wormholes now – allocating plan funding makes them become reality</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mansouryar 6</span>**(Mohammad, Iranian theorist, has been called the "The Next Einstein" for his research, publishes articles on Cornell’s arXiv.org, “On a macroscopic traversable spacewarp in practice,” Jan 2, [[http://arxiv.org/pdf/gr-qc/0511086v2]])
A design of a configuration for violation...mostly qualitative, but the principles are standard.

===Plan PIC=== 
====1NC==== 
**Greg and I personally advocate _.**

**The question of what the “USFG should do” guarantees fascism by indoctrinating the debate community in normative legal which makes us THINK we are powerful, rational decision makers But really we have very little effect on the bureaucratic mechanisms we manipulate in all of our debate rounds.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schlag 1991</span>** (Pierre Schlag, professor of law at the University of Colorado, 1991, 139 U. PA. L. REV.801, APRIL)
The problem for us, as legal thinkers, is...largely the bureaucratic logic of institutions.



**Role playing as policymakers creates a regime of ‘truth’ that supports the existing division of resources and power structures, excluding opposing viewpoints. This turns their role playing good claims, their view of the world is biased to favor the system.**
**<span class="Heading3CharCharChar">Smith, 1997</span>** (Steve, University of Wales, Professor and Pro-Vice Chancellor of the University, University of Wales, Aberystwyth “Power and Truth, A Reply to William Wallace,” Review of International Studies, Vol. 23, No. 4 (Oct., 1997), p. 513)
Those academics who do get involved…with truth and academic objectivity.



===China Multiplank=== 
====1nc==== 
<span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The United States federal government should:</span>**</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">-- Ratify and enforce the Treaty on the Prevention of the Placement of Weapons in Outer Space, the Threat or Use of Force Against Outer Space Objects. </span>**</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">-- Propose an amendment to ban the development and testing of anti-satellite weapons and space based ballistic missile defense. </span>**</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">--</span>**</span> **Declare a no first use policy directed towards China**
**--** **Cooperate with China over joint climate and clean energy legislature, projects, and developments.**
**--**<span style="background-color: white;">And</span>**<span style="background-color: white;"> stop all its arms sales to Taiwan</span>**

**A. Solvency**

**PPWT increases transparency, prevents an arms race, and increases cooperation**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Vasiliev 8</span>** (Victor Vasiliev, political counselor for the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research, 4/1/08, "The Draft Treaty On The Prevention Of The Placement Of Weapons In Outer Space, The Threat Or Use Of Force Against Outer Space Objects" [[http://www.unidir.org/pdf/articles/pdf-art2822.pdf|www.unidir.org/pdf/articles/pdf-art2822.pdf]])
So, why do we need a PPWT...what humankind wants to avoid.



**An NFU solves all possible escalation for war.**
**Blair 5.** [Bruce Blair, President – World Security Institute, “General Zhu and Chinese Nuclear Preemption”, China Security, 1, Autumn, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.wsichina.org/attach/china_security.pdf]]</span>]
U.S. policy has never endorsed...are eager to hear, and debate.



<span class="Underline">**US-China Cooperation on Climate Key Apriority to Increase Relations and Bilateral Cooperation**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Lieberthal and Sandalow 8** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Kenneth is Professor of Political Science and Professor of Business Administration at the University of Michigan. Visiting Fellow in Foreign Policy Studies at The Brookings Institution. Special Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and Senior Director for Asia on the National Security Council B.A. from Dartmouth College, and two M.A.’s and a Ph.D. in Political Science from Columbia University. David Sandalow is Energy & Environment Scholar and a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans, Environment & Science; Senior Director for Environmental Affairs, National Security Council; Associate Director for the Global Environment, White House Council on Environmental Quality. He is a graduate of the University of Michigan Law School (JD) and Yale College (BA Philosophy) “Overcoming Obstacles to U.S.-China Cooperation on Climate Change.” 2008. http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/reports/2009/01_climate_change_lieberthal_sandalow/01_climate_change_lieberthal_sandalow.pdf)</span>
The time for large scale...create jobs and promote economic recovery.



**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">Arms sales to Taiwan ruin recovering China relations -- CP boosts the overall relationship.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> **Reuters, 11**</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">(Reuters News, 5/7/11, “China says U.S. must stop Taiwan arms sales,” JPL)</span>
The United States will put improved..."an appropriate time", Yang said.



**B. Net Benefit**

**Cooperation on Climate is Key to Solve Warming**
**Marchetti 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Nino “U.S., China Find Clean Energy Common Ground.”January 22, 2011. http://uk.ibtimes.com/articles/20110122/uchina-find-clean-energy-common-ground.htm.)</span>
The official state visit by Chinese...the coming decades matters to the entire world."



**Extinction**
**Sify India News 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“Could unbridled climate changes lead to human extinction?” June 20, 2010. http://www.sify.com/news/could-unbridled-climate-changes-lead-to-human-extinction-news-international-kgtrOhdaahc.html.)</span>
Scientists have sounded alarm bells...Bruno warned, according to a GCI release.



===Senior Review Offsets=== 
====1NC==== 
**Text: The United States federal government should [insert plan]. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration should fund the plan by holding Senior Reviews over extended missions.**

**Observation 1: The status quo is always an option to us or you after the round – proving the CP worse does not logically justify the plan. Logic creates good education and predictable rules.**

**Observation 2: Presumption remains negative—the CP is less change and a tie goes to the runner.**

**Observation 3: The CP is non-topical. It violates the word “increase”. The CP decreases funding for space exploration.**

**Increase is to make greater**
**American Heritage Dictionary 2000** http://www.thefreedictionary.com/increase
<span class="Underline">1. To become greater or larger</span>
<span class="Underline">2. To multiply; reproduce</span>

**Observation 4: The CP competes. It’s mutually exclusive with the aff’s increase. Any permutation severs the increase and proves the resolution is false.**

**The resolution proposes a controversial policy direction that divides ground. The topic could have said “change space exploration or development” if this was aff ground.**

**Senior Review will terminate unnecessary missions – solves for new space development**
**Future Planetary Exploration 12-28**-11 “Planetary Missions Up For Review”
http://futureplanets.blogspot.com/2011/12/planetary-missions-up-for-review.html
<span class="Underline">You may never have heard of the upcoming…available to fly and build new missions.</span>



===Weaponization UQ CP=== 
====1NC==== 
**The United States federal government should:**
- **Announce a policy of conditional unilateral restraint**
- **Permanently ground the X-37B and allow international verification**

**Conditional deployment deters weaponization**
**Mueller 2** *<span style="color: #333333;">Dr. Karl P. Mueller is a political scientist with the RAND Corporation, specializing in air and space strategy and other defense policy issues. From 1994 to 2001, he was Professor of Comparative Military Studies at the U.S. Air Force's School of Advanced Airpower Studies. He has lectured and written on a wide variety of national security topics, including nuclear and conventional deterrence theory, the political implications of space weaponization, military and economic coercion, the Bosnian and Kosovo wars, the moral dimensions of U.S. foreign policy, and the security strategies of small states and middle powers [</span><span style="color: blue;">[[http://isanet.ccit.arizona.edu/noarchive/mueller.html]]</span>, March 27th 2002, “Is the Weaponization of Space Inevitable?”]
<span class="Underline">2. Enlightened Self Interest. The second scenario…initiating space weaponization to justify its costs.</span>



===StratoSolar CP=== 
====1NC==== 
**The United States federal government should develop stratosphere based solar power**

**Counterplan solves the case – StratoSolar is cheaper and solves energy**
**Henson 11** (Kieth Henson, founding member of the L5 Society, lifetime member of the National Space Society, degree in electrical engineering from the University of Arizona, 2011, “An Idea for Inexpensive Electricity: Concentrated Solar Power 12 Miles Above the Earth,” <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.theoildrum.com/node/8323]]</span>)



===ITAR=== 
====1NC==== 
**Text: The United States Federal Government should review and revise the USML with a focus on determining what requires protection, update and re-focus export controls, and shorten licensing processes under the International Traffic in Arms Regulations Restrictions.**

**We are at a critical turning point in export policy - ITAR isolates the US from any form of international cooperation and commerce destroying any chance of US industrial or innovative leadership – reform is necessary to solve for a sustainable future**
**<span class="Heading3CharCharChar">Abbey and Lane 9</span>** – George, Baker Botts Senior Fellow in Space Policy at the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy at Rice University and Neil, Malcolm Gillis University Professor at Rice University (2009, “United States Space Policy: Challenges and Opportunities Gone Astray,” http://amacad.org/publications/spaceUS.pdf)
<span class="Underline">In 2005 we emphasized that the success of the…changing this policy and doing so quickly.</span>



====Solvency (MDA)==== 
**ITAR is the barrier preventing MDA development in the status quo - Removing it means the plan gets done globally and cooperatively**
**Earles [their author] 10** (Owner of E&A; Executive Director for CANEUS US at Earles & Associates and CANEUS US, “International Space Based AIS and Data Extraction Backbone,” 2010, [[http://www.caneus.org/sharedsmallsats/downloads/International_Space-Based_AIS_and_Data_Extraction_Backbone-High_Level_Requirements.pdf]])
<span class="Underline">The satellites that form the GLADIS constellation…laboratories, industry, and academic institutions.</span>



===StratoSats CP=== 
====1NC==== 
**The United States federal government should _ using stratospheric satellites designed not to extend beyond Earth’s mesosphere.**

**A. Competition**

**The mesosphere is above the stratosphere**
**National Weather Service, 11** (“Layers of the Atmosphere”, 2/11, [[http://www.srh.noaa.gov/jetstream/atmos/layers.htm|http://www.srh.noaa.gov/jetstream//atmos/layers.htm]])
<span class="Underline">The Stratosphere extends from the top…is called the mesopause.</span>


**B. Solvency**

**StratoSats solve climate monitoring**
**Pankine et al 9** [Alexey, Zhanqing Li, David Parsons, Michael Purucker, Elliot Weinstock, Warren Wiscombe, and Kerry Nock, “Stratospheric Satellites for Earth Observations,” American Meterological Society August 2009, http://denali.gsfc.nasa.gov/research/purucker/pankine_stratsats_bams_2009.pdf__]
<span class="Underline">At present, no investment is being made in developing…only dimly perceived are certain to emerge.</span>

<span class="Underline">**C. Net Benefits**</span>

<span class="Underline">**[INSERT MODULE]**</span>



====Debris Module==== 
**We are at critical mass for space debris– continued missions will create a barrier of space debris threatening future exploration**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">SENECHAL 07</span>**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> (Thierry, Policy Manager of the Commission on Banking Technique and Practice at the International Chamber of Commerce and holds degrees in economics and finance from Harvard University, London Business School, and Columbia University, Space Debris Pollution: A conventional proposal, 2007, http://www.pon.org/downloads/ien16.2.Senechal.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">The time is right for addressing the problem…poison relations between major powers.</span>



==Disads== 
===Spending DA=== 
====1NC==== 
**No spending now --- Republicans won’t allow it**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Censky & Riley 9/8</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Annalyn & Charles, economic writers for CNNMoney, “What's in Obama's stimulus plan,” CNNMoney, September 8, 2011: 9:39 PM EST, [[http://money.cnn.com/2011/09/08/news/economy/obama_stimulus_plan/]]</span>
President Obama unveiled a...the House in its current form.


**[Link]**


**Failure to address the budget deficit ensures a second global recession and collapse of U.S. leadership**
**Bergsten 9** – C. Fred, Director of the Institute for International Economics, former Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs and Assistant for International Economic Affairs to the National Security Council
(Dec, “The Dollar and the Deficits,” Foreign Affairs, lexis)
A first step is to recognize the dangers...foreign policies will become increasingly compromised.



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Economic downturn causes isolationism and nuclear war</span>**
<span class="cite">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedberg 2008</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Professor of Politics and IR @ Princeton) and Schoenfeld (Visiting Scholar @ the Witherspoon Institute) – </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Aaron and Gabriel, “The Dangers of a Diminished America,” Wall Street Journal, 21 October. [Online]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html/]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">)</span>
One immediate implication of the crisis...from interval travails with external adventures.


===AJA DA=== 
====1NC==== 
**[UNIQUENESS]**

**[LINK]**


**C. Political capital is key to AJA passage**
**CBS 9/12** (“Obama sends jobs bill to Congress, urges "no games, no politics, no delays," 2011, [[http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-503544_162-20104820-503544.html]])
President Obama is sending this $447 billion...robust political efforts to build support for the bill.



**D. AJA is key to propel U.S. innovation, R&D, and competitiveness – Other countries are passing us**
**Philippidis 9/16** (Alex, senior news editor at Genetic Engineering & Biotechnology News, “As Obama Pitches Jobs Bill, Biobusinesses Link Growth to R&D Incentives and Early-Stage Funding,” 2011, [[http://www.genengnews.com/analysis-and-insight/as-obama-pitches-jobs-bill-biobusinesses-link-growth-to-r-d-incentives-and-early-stage-funding/77899459/]])
Barbara Gebhardt, president and CEO of life...anything resembling a biotech hiring boom.



**And, U.S. rate of innovation, technological development and R&D must keep pace to develop products, technology, and solutions to solve collapse of the global biosphere**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Barker 2k**(Brent, manager of corporate communications, having earlier served as manager of strategic and executive communications and for 12 years as the Journal's editor-in-chief, “Technology and the Quest for Sustainability”, EPRI Journal, June 22)</span>
Sustainability has been the subject of much discussion...That future begins now.



===Russian Oil DA=== 
====1NC==== 
**<span style="color: black;">Russia is embracing a slow transition towards renewables but for the rest of the decade, its economy will be centered around oil.</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Reuters 6/8</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Jessica Bachman is a writer for Reuters and the Moscow Times, Reuters is a trusted global news source based out of London, 6-8-11, “Russia’s Oil Lobby Thwarts Green Ambitions,” [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/06/08/us-russia-renewables-idUSTRE7571AO20110608]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
Russia aims to more than quadruple...so I don't understand this logic," Kulakov said.



<span class="Underline">**Plan causes a fast transition to alternative energy killing the oil industry – empirically proven**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Reynolds No Date**</span> [Dr. Douglas B. Reynolds – Staff writer for oilcrisis.com and PhD in energy economics – “<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Soviet Economic Decline: Did an Oil Crisis Cause the Transition in the Soviet Union?”</span> -<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.oilcrisis.com/reynolds/sovietdecline.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">]</span>
In the final years of the Soviet Empire...This created an oil crisis.



**<span style="color: black;">Oil decline leads to Russian econ collapse. </span>**
**Gold 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Donald H., staff writer @ Investor’s Business Daily, Investor's Business Daily “Globalization Fuels Brave New World” 6-20-8,[[http://www.investors.com/NewsAndAnalysis/Article/463838/200902200212/Globalization-Fuels-Brave-New-World.aspx]])</span>
After a storybook revolution -- from...have not made any reforms." Karasin said.



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">That causes a Russian civil war that goes nuclear, leads to lose Russian nukes, and environmental degradation throughout Eurasia</span>**
<span class="Style4Char">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">David 99</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Steven David, Political Scientist in foreign affairs, January/February 1999, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.org/19990101faessay955/steven-r-david/saving-america-from-the-coming-civil-wars.html]])</span>
If internal war does strike Russia, economic...that would follow a Russian civil war.



===Payroll DA=== 
====1NC==== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Obama Pushing Payroll Tax Credits Now</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Lee 11/18</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Carol E. Lee is a writer for the WSJ “Obama to Visit N.H. to Take on GOP Over Payroll Tax Break.” November 18, 2011.http://blogs.wsj.com/washwire/2011/11/18/obama-to-visit-n-h-to-take-on-gop-over-payroll-tax-break/.)</span>
President Barack Obama will use a trip to...something that we're going to be very focused on."

[Link]

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Political Capital Key </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Stein 11/10 </span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Sam, reporter for the HuffPo, “ On Payroll Tax Cut, Obama Administration Plotting Year-End Showdown” , November 10, 2011, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/11/10/payroll-tax-cut-obama-administration-year-end-showdown_n_1086761.html]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
Top officials in the Obama administration on Thursday...Democratic aides on Capitol Hill have largely agreed.



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Failure Results In Immediate Economic Collapse</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Linden et al 8/31</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Michael Linden is the Director for Tax and Budget Policy at the Center for American Progress. John Griffith is a Research Associate and Jordan Eizenga is a Policy Analyst with the Economic Policy team at the Center. “Republican Stimulus.” August 31, 2011. http://www.americanprogressaction.org/issues/2011/08/republicans_stimulus.html.)</span>
Stimulus is now a dirty word, especially...and the loss of a million additional jobs.



**<span class="cite">US economic collapse causes nuclear war</span>**
**<span class="cite">Cook 7 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Richard C., Writer, consultant, and retired federal analyst in U.S. Treasury Dept.; “It’s Official: The Crash of the U.S. Economy has begun,” Global Research, June 14. Accessed: </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.globalresearch.ca/index/php?context=va&aid=5964]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">]</span>
Times of economic crisis produce...how about a few nukes?



===Soft Power DA=== 
====1NC==== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Uniqueness- Soft power high </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Nye 6/23</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – University Distinguished Service Professor at </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harvard_University|Harvard University]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and former dean of the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard (Joseph, transcript of a discussion involving Mahbubani, Nye, and Moyo, published in NYT opinion, NYT, “The Seesaw of Power.” Discussion moderated by Serge Schmemann. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/06/24/opinion/global/24iht-june24-ihtmag-nye-36.html?_r=2&pagewanted=1]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">) </span>
While Kishore and I are good friends...Kishore's grand sort of sweeping generalizations.


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Link-The plan sparks a rapid arms race and destroys US soft power,</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Brown, 9</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> - BA, Indiana University; MSc, S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies, Nanyang Technological University [Singapore] (Spring, Trevor, “Soft Power and Space Weaponization,” Air and Space Power Journal)</span>
Russia and China believe that they must...to make plans to offer such protection.



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Soft power key to solve long term terrorism and prevent acquisition of dangerous weapons in the future</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Nye, 4</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> - University Distinguished Service Professor at Harvard University, and former Dean of the John F. Kennedy School of Government has been on the faculty at Harvard since 1964. He has also served as Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs, Chair of the National Intelligence Council, and Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Security Assistance, Science and Technology (Joseph, “American power in the 21st Century” pg. 114-15)</span>
And the standing of the US plummeted in Islamic countries...and does influence their degree of cooperation.



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">And this is the most probable scenario for extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Dennis Ray </span>**<span class="tagChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Morgan 9</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693</span>
Years later, in 1982, at the height...to a life of unimaginable misery and suffering in a nuclear winter.



===Radio Astronomy=== 
====1NC==== 

[Insert Link]

<span class="Underline">**Radio astronomy solves NEO tracking**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Irvine et al 5** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">([edited by William M. Irvine, PhD from Harvard, Professor of Astronomy at University of Massachusetts, Amherst, **//AND//** Esperanza Carrasco, PhD, researcher at INAOE, **//AND//** Itziar Aretaga, astronomer, astrophysicist, researcher at INAOE], 2005,</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">“Planetary Science and Astrobiology,” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.lmtgtm.org/book/chapter6.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span class="Underline">However, such transmitters for mm wavelengths…transmitting in order to monitor the echo)</span>



<span class="Underline">**Specifically, Arecibo’s radio astronomy is uniquely key to solve asteroids**</span>
**Fortuno 07** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Louis Fortuno, governor of Puerto Rico, October 3rd, 2007, “HR 3737: To provide for National Science Foundation and National Aeronautics and Space Administration utilization of the Arecibo Observatory,” <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=25609]]</span>)</span>
<span class="Underline">Arecibo Observatory is the world’s largest…potential hazards posed by near-Earth objects.</span>



<span class="Underline">**An asteroid impact outweighs nuclear war 15 billion times over. We control the most probable internal link to extinction.** </span>
**Hawkes, no date.** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Bob is a member of the Meteorites and Impacts Advisory Commission, an advisory group to the Canadian Space Agency, no date given, “A comet or asteroid impact with the earth – how real is the threat?” [[http://miac.uqac.ca/MIAC/impactearth.htm]],)</span>
<span class="Underline">There is now widespread acceptance…(such as “solar sails”) are also possible.</span>



====<span class="Underline">Links</span>==== 

<span class="Underline">**NGSO Satellites Kill Radio Astronomy**</span>
<span class="Underline">**OECD 04** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(O</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">rganization for Economic Co-operation and Development Global Science Forum, members include Michael Goddard (Chair), Spectrum Policy Director UK Radiocommunications Agency, Makoto Inoue, Director, Nobeyama Radio Observatory National Astronomical Observatory of Japan, Paul A. Vanden Bout, Senior Scientist and former Director U.S. National Radio Astronomy Observatory, William Hatch (retired), Associate Administrator, Office of Spectrum Management National Telecommunications & Information Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, January 2004, “OECD Global Science Forum: Report of the Task Force on Radio Astronomy and the Radio Spectrum,” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.oecd.org/dataoecd/54/33/28011602.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span class="Underline">The science of radio astronomy could be…frequencies currently allocated to radio astronomy.</span>



**<span style="background-color: white;">SPS would create insurmountable interference with radio astronomy.</span>**
**White et. al. 81**<span style="background-color: white;"> – </span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">(1981, Robert, chair of the Commission on Natural Resources for the NRC PhD and MS in meteorology from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Principal, The Washington Advisory Group, former President of the National Academy of Engineering, former President of the University Corporation for Atmospheric Research, former Chief of the U.S. Weather Bureau and the first Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, David Pimentel, chair of the Environmental Studies Board for the NRC, Cornell Emeritus Professor, Entomology, Dale R. Corson, chair of the Committee on Satellite Power Systems for the NRC, Ph.D. in physics, former professor of physics at Cornell University, and too many more people to list quals for, “Electric Power from Orbit: A Critique of a Satellite Power System ,” National Research Council, p. 92-93, </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/1981NRC-ElectricPowerFromOrbit-1.Report.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> DH)</span>
<span class="Underline">There are at least six reasons to believe…broader context of political decisions.</span>



====Colonization==== 
**Radio Astronomy solves exoplanet research**
**BPA 10** (2010, Committee on Scientific Use of the Radio Spectrum, Committee on Radio Frequencies, Board on Physics and Astronomy, Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences, National Research Council of the National Academies, chaired by Adam Burrows, PhD from MIT, Full Professor in the Department of Astrophysical Sciences at Princeton University, includes many other smart people, “Spectrum Management for Science in the 21st Century,” [[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12800&page=R1]])
<span class="Underline">Origin of Planets and the Solar System Speculations concerning…terrestrial planets fit into the general picture.</span>



**And that sparks a new era of space colonization.**
**Harrold, 08** – staff writer for the Gazette [July 18, 2008, Max Harrold, The Gazette, “Earth's twin coming into view; Scientists believe habitable planet will be spotted soon,” Lexis]
<span class="Underline">With less fanfare than H.G. Wells’s science fiction…astronomer has said it’s okay to look.”</span>



**Solves your extinction scenarios**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">BAUM 2009</span>**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"> [Seth – professor of geography in the Rock Ethics Institute @ Pennsylvania State University, Cost-Benefit Analysis of Space Exploration: Some Ethical Considerations, //Space Policy,// </span>[[http://sethbaum.com/ac/2009_CBA-SpaceExploration.pdf]]]
<span class="Underline">Another non-market benefit of space exploration is reduction…the probability of long-term human survival.</span>



===Elections=== 
====1NC==== 
**Obama Expected To Win Election but Continued Spending Means Loss**
**Ambinder 11** (Marc Ambinder, White House correspondent for National Journal, “Why Obama Could Lose”, The National Journal, Proquest, 4/28/11)
<span class="Underline">Conventional wisdom has begun to settle in…All bets, in other words, could be off.</span>



**Millennials support Obama now, but spending alienates them**
**Daily Caller 11-14** (“Millennial Voters Could Swing 2012 Election, Says Nonprofit Group”, [[http://dailycaller.com/2011/11/13/%E2%80%98millennial%E2%80%99-voters-could-swing-2012-election-says-nonprofit-group/|__http://dailycaller.com/2011/11/13/%E2%80%98millennial%E2%80%99-voters-could-swing-2012-election-says-nonprofit-group/__]] 11-14-12)
<span class="Underline">Millennials </span>— those “Gen Y” Americans born…which are the Millennials,” Conway explained.



**Millennials Key to Election**
**Hais and Winograd 12-20** (Michael and Morley, Fellows with NDN and the New Policy Institute, “Real Story Behind the Millennial Headlines on Obama” [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/michael-hais-and-morley-winograd/youth-vote-obama-2012_b_1155663.html|__http://www.huffingtonpost.com/michael-hais-and-morley-winograd/youth-vote-obama-2012_b_1155663.html__]] 12/20/11)
<span class="Underline">The headline of a December 15 press…inaugurated as president on January 20, 2013.</span>


**GOP president means the end of EPA – claims it hurts the economy**
**The Columbus Dispatch, 11**. (Renee Schoof, 7-17-11, “GOP Attacking Environmental Regulations,” [[http://www.dispatch.com/live/content/national_world/stories/2011/07/17/gop-attacking-environmental-regulations.html?sid=101]])
<span class="Underline">Republicans in the House of Representatives are waging…then it makes a lot of sense.”</span>



**EPA regulates dangerous greenhouse gases - key to solve global warming**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Broder 9 (John M., journalist for the New York Times, “E.P.A. Clears Way for Greenhouse Gas Rules,” The New York Times, 4/17/09, </span>[[http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/18/science/earth/18endanger.html]]<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">) </span>
<span class="Underline">The Environmental Protection Agency on Friday…meet the expected tougher emissions standards.</span>



**Warming leads to extinction**
**Sify India News 10**(“Could unbridled climate changes lead to human extinction?” June 20, 2010. http://www.sify.com/news/could-unbridled-climate-changes-lead-to-human-extinction-news-international-kgtrOhdaahc.html.)
<span class="Underline">Scientists have sounded alarm bells…according to a GCI release.</span>



====Uniqueness==== 
**Obama likely to win 2012 election – scientists agree**
**Rothschild and Wilson 2/16 (**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">David Rothschild is an economist at Yahoo Labs with a Ph. D. in applied economics from the Wharton School of Business, and Chris Wilson is the editor of Yahoo’s “Signal”;</span> **“**Obama poised to win 2012 election with 303 electoral votes: The Signal Forecast,” 2/16/2012, http://news.yahoo.com/blogs/signal/obama-poised-win-2012-election-303-electoral-votes-202543583.html)
<span class="Underline">With fewer than nine months to go before…and a few other politically agnostic factors.</span>



====Intervention==== 
**Republican Win Kills Interventionism**
**Lobe 11** (Jim Lobe, Foreign Policy Analyst, “NeoCons Losing hold over Republican Foreign Policy” 6/16/11, [[http://original.antiwar.com/lobe/2011/06/15/neocons-losing-hold-over-republican-foreign-policy%C2%A0/]])
<span class="Underline">Nearly ten years after seizing control of…democracy-promotion should be a long-term U.S. priority.</span>



**Interventionism key to solve nuclear conflict**
**Kagan 7 (**Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace [Robert “End of Dreams, Return of History” Policy Review [[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10|http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10]])
<span class="Underline">Finally, there is the United States itself…global involvement will provide an easier path.</span>



====Foreign Policy==== 
**<span style="background-color: white;">Failure to dilute the Right wing power will collapse foreign policy - impacts are climate, Russia, China, prolif, and Latin America</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;"> Jim Lobe</span>**<span style="background-color: white;"> 10, 11-8-20**10**, “Obama foreign policy likely to face Republican challenges”, online)</span>
<span class="Underline">While foreign policy issues played almost…multilateralism and engagement,” he added.</span>



**US China relations are key to solve every global impact**
**Cohen 2009 - former U.S. secretary of defense** [Maurice R. Greenberg is chairman and CEO of C.V. Starr & Co., Inc. “Smart Power in U.S.-China Relations,” pg online @ http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/090309_mcgiffert_uschinasmartpower_web.pdf )
<span class="Underline">The evolution of Sino-U.S. relations…though not inevitable, is indispensable.</span>



====Middle East==== 
**GOP win causes Mid East instability and Oil Shocks**
**Jonathan Curiel 10**, “Prof of Journalism @ UCLA, 7-28-2010, “What just might happen if Obama loses in 2012,”<span style="color: windowtext;">[[@http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:AIlWa6eGDQcJ:trueslant.com/jonathancuriel/2010/07/28/what-just-might-happen-if-obama-loses-in-2012/+If+Obama+losses+2012&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us&client=firefox-a]]</span> )
<span class="Underline">Republicans’ ascension marks the return of chickenhawk…for insurgency against the United States.</span>



**Middle East conflict causes global nuclear war**
**Steinbach** **2002** – Analyst, Center for Research on Globalisation , http://www.globalresearch.ca/articles/STE203A.html
<span class="Underline">Meanwhile, the existence of an arsenal…conflict could trigger world conflagration.</span>



====Heg (isolationism)==== 
**GOP Victory Leads to Isolationism.**
**Reuters 11**[Reuters News, 6/20/11, “ John McCain: GOP Presidential Candidates Preaching 'Isolationism'” , <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/06/20/john-mccain-gop-presidential-candidates_n_880245.html]]</span>]
<span class="Underline">Republican Senator John McCain, his party’s…these same conditions?” McCain said.</span>



**Heg is good**
**Brzezinski 12** (Zbigniew Brzenzinski, PhD from Harvard, MA from McGill University, honorary degrees from Georgetown University, Williams College, Fordham University, College of the Holy Cross, Alliance College, the Catholic University of Lublin Warsaw University, and Vilnius University, Robert E Osgood Professor of American Foreign Policy at the School of Advanced International Studies at John Hopkins University, co-chair of the American Committee for Peace in the Caucasus, member of the International Advisory Board of the Atlantic Council, former chairman of the American-Ukraine Advisory Committee, former member of the Policy Planning Council of the Department of State, chairman of the Humphrey Foreign Policy Task Force in the 1968 presidential campaign, former director of the Trilateral Commission, principle foreign policy advisor to Jimmy Carter for the 1976 presidential campaign, former national security advisor to President Jimmy Carter, recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom for his role in improving US-China relations, contributing to human rights advances, and national security improvements, former member of the President’s Chemical Warfare Commission, former member of the National Security Council-Defense Department Commission on Integrated Long-Term Strategy, former member of the President’s Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board, co-chairman of the Bush National Security Task Force in 1988, co-chairman of a Council of Foreign Relations task force that issued the report //Iran: Time for a New Approach//, January 2012, “After America,” published by Foreign Policy, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/01/03/after_america?page=0,0]]</span>) GZ
<span class="Underline">Not so long ago, a high-ranking…order where there would normally be conflict.</span>



===Mexican Economy=== 
====1NC==== 
<span class="Underline">**GEO crowding kills Mexican space development**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Raygoza 07** </span>(2/2/07, Jesus, Founder/President of the Mexican Space Society (SEM); an International Director of the Lunar Economic Development Authority, Inc. (LEDA); a Regent and Secretary of the United Societies in Space, Inc. (USIS); a Member of the Board of Directors of the Space Orbital Development Authority, Inc. (SODA); a Member of the Institute for Advanced Sciences (ICA), National Space Society (NSS), and the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA), “Rationale for a Mexican Space Development Program,”[[http://www.moonsociety.org/sem/MexicanSpaceProgramProposal.pdf|__http://www.moonsociety.org/sem/MexicanSpaceProgramProposal.pdf__]])
<span class="Underline">Mexico’s three geo-synchronous orbital…tele-robotic systems will be essential.</span>



**<span style="background-color: white;">That’s key to economic growth</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Raygoza 11</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">(9-5-11, Jesus, Founder/President of the Mexican Space Society (SEM); an International Director of the Lunar Economic Development Authority, Inc. (LEDA); a Regent and Secretary of the United Societies in Space, Inc. (USIS); a Member of the Board of Directors of the Space Orbital Development Authority, Inc. (SODA); a Member of the Institute for Advanced Sciences (ICA), National Space Society (NSS), and the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA), “Why Mexico needs a space agency,”</span>[[http://www.earthspaceagency.org/space-articles/space-opinions/why-mexico-needs-a-space-agency.html|__http://www.earthspaceagency.org/space-articles/space-opinions/why-mexico-needs-a-space-agency.html__]]<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span class="Underline">A Mexican national commitment into space…regarding this so debated issue.</span>



<span class="Underline">**Encouraging growth is the only way to prevent drug violence and state collapse**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Barnes 11**(</span>4/29/11, Joe, Bonner Means Baker Fellow James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy Rice University, “Oil and U.S.-Mexico Bilateral Relations,” [[http://bakerinstitute.org/publications/EF-pub-BarnesBilateral-04292011.pdf|__http://bakerinstitute.org/publications/EF-pub-BarnesBilateral-04292011.pdf__]])
<span class="Underline">In summary, the slow decline of Mexican…would mark an important improvement.</span>



**Mexican collapse causes isolationism**
**Haddick 08** MBA Illinois, managing ed. Small Wars Journal, fmr. Marine officer, [Robert Haddick, MBA Illinois, managing ed. Small Wars Journal, fmr. Marine officer, 12-21-2008, “Now that would change everything,” [[http://westhawk.blogspot.com/2008/12/now-that-would-change-everything.html]]
<span class="Underline">There is one dynamic in the literature…there would be no running from a Mexican collapse.</span>



**Heg is good**
**Brzezinski 12** (Zbigniew Brzenzinski, PhD from Harvard, MA from McGill University, honorary degrees from Georgetown University, Williams College, Fordham University, College of the Holy Cross, Alliance College, the Catholic University of Lublin Warsaw University, and Vilnius University, Robert E Osgood Professor of American Foreign Policy at the School of Advanced International Studies at John Hopkins University, co-chair of the American Committee for Peace in the Caucasus, member of the International Advisory Board of the Atlantic Council, former chairman of the American-Ukraine Advisory Committee, former member of the Policy Planning Council of the Department of State, chairman of the Humphrey Foreign Policy Task Force in the 1968 presidential campaign, former director of the Trilateral Commission, principle foreign policy advisor to Jimmy Carter for the 1976 presidential campaign, former national security advisor to President Jimmy Carter, recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom for his role in improving US-China relations, contributing to human rights advances, and national security improvements, former member of the President’s Chemical Warfare Commission, former member of the National Security Council-Defense Department Commission on Integrated Long-Term Strategy, former member of the President’s Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board, co-chairman of the Bush National Security Task Force in 1988, co-chairman of a Council of Foreign Relations task force that issued the report //Iran: Time for a New Approach//, January 2012, “After America,” published by Foreign Policy, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/01/03/after_america?page=0,0|__http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/01/03/after_america?page=0,0__]]) GZ
<span class="Underline">Not so long ago, a high-ranking…order where there would normally be conflict.</span>



====Colonization==== 
**Mexico is developing a moon colonization project**
**Raygoza 11** (Jesus, Founder/President of the Mexican Space Society (SEM); an International Director of the Lunar Economic Development Authority, Inc. (LEDA); a Regent and Secretary of the United Societies in Space, Inc. (USIS); a Member of the Board of Directors of the Space Orbital Development Authority, Inc. (SODA); a Member of the Institute for Advanced Sciences (ICA), National Space Society (NSS), and the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA), 5-25-11, “Mex-Lunarhab (MLH): A Lunar Habitat Analogue in the State of Jalisco,” [[http://www.spacerenaissance.org/PHILOSOPHY/MEX-LUNARHAB_PART_1.pdf]]) GZ
The Lunar Mexico Habitat Analogue project…to the city, and subsequent motives.



**The Moon is ideal—proximity and future colonization**
**Shapiro 4** (Robert, prestigious professor of chemistry at NYU, “Spaceflight or Extinction”, 12/10/04, http://www.spaext.com/info/shapiro/index.html)
Imagine that a secure, self-sustaining base…area for interplanetary missions.



====Oil Shocks==== 
**Drug violence causes oil shocks and independently leads to economic collapse**
**Moran 09** (7/31/09, Michael, executive editor and policy analyst, Council on Foreign Relations, “Six Crises, 2009: A Half-Dozen Ways Geopolitics Could Upset Global Recovery,” <span style="color: blue;">[[http://fbkfinanzwirtschaft.wordpress.com/2009/08/07/six-crises-2009-a-half-dozen-ways-geopolitics-could-upset-global-recovery/]]</span>)
Risk 2: Mexico Drug Violence: At Stake: Oil prices…he deftly sidestepped once in office.



**Oil shocks cause global instability and great power war**
**Elhefnawy 08** (4/1/08, Nadar, Visiting Assistant Professor of Literature at the University of Miami, “The Impending Oil Shock,” Informaworld, ProQuest
Some states, particularly in the underdeveloped…if crises bring radical ideologies to the fore.



===Weaponization DA=== 
====1NC==== 
**Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization**
**Huntley 11** (Senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, [[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]])
<span class="Underline">As is well understood, the space policies…Many devils may lurk in these details.</span>



**The perception of pursuing space dominance will destroy multilateral cooperation from the commitment to the new Obama National Space Policy**
**Dant 11** (Chief of staff of the Air Force fellow and the director of space policy for the under secretary of defense for policy (Daniel, High Frontier, February, " The National Space Policy: Sustainability and Cooperation in a Congested, Competitive, and Contested Domain,” [[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf]])
<span class="Underline">The NSP also recommits us to cooperate…coalition of responsible space-faring nations.</span>



**Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> (President of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, [[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]])</span>
<span class="Underline">Perhaps of even greater concern is…The likely alternative would be unacceptable to all.</span>



**War in space occurs through miscalculation, risks extinction**
**Mitchell et al 1** (Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh
(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html]]</span>)
<span class="Underline">A buildup of space weapons might begin with noble intentions…the most destructive military conflict ever seen.</span>



====Link - Hardening==== 
**Even defensive hardening efforts trigger an arms race**
**Jakhu 10**<span style="background-color: white;"> – Institute of Air and Space Law, McGill University (Dr. Ram , with Cesar Jaramillo Managing Editor, Project Ploughshares, Phillip Baines (Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade, Canada),), John Seibert (Project Ploughshares), Dr. Jennifer Simmons (The Simmons Foundation), Dr. Ray Williamson (Secure World Foundation). “Space Security 2010.” Spacesecurity.org. August 2010.[[http://www.spacesecurity.org/space.security.2010.reduced.pdf]]. pp. 119-167. Accessed June 21, 2011.</span>
<span class="Underline">The security dynamics of protection and negation…of actors with secure use of space.</span>



====Turns Heg==== 
**Space weaponization collapses US heg – undercuts US ground and space capabilities.**
**Hitchens 03** (Theresa <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hitchens</span>, vice president of the Center for Defense Information, October <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">2003</span>, “Space Weapons: Are They Needed?” http://www.gwu.edu/~spi/assets/docs/Security_Space_Volume.Final.pdf)
<span class="Underline">Karl Mueller, now at RAND, in an…face today from ballistic missiles.</span>



===Legitimacy DA vs MDA=== 
====1NC==== 
**The plan’s unilateral deployment of space-based MDA signals a return to unilateralism sparking international backlash and gutting cooperation**
**Brown, ‘09** [Trevor Brown has a BA, Indiana University, “Soft Power and Space Weaponization,” Air and Space Power Journal, Spring 2009, kms1.isn.ethz.ch/serviceengine/Files/ISN/121733/.../Section+11.pdf, ]
<span class="Underline">Russia and China believe that they must…for the Air Force to make plans to offer such protection.</span>



**The future of hegemony is about multilateral legitimacy not naval hard power – the plan’s expansion of the material power gap decapitates effective leadership**
**Maher 11** (Richard, Ph.D. in Political Science from Brown University, Winter, “The Paradox of American Unipolarity: Why the United States May Be Better Off in a Post-Unipolar World,” Orbis, Vol. 55, No. 1, p. 53-68)
<span class="Underline">Since the disintegration of the Soviet Union…in the “post-unipolar” world.</span>



**Legitimacy means the world order outlasts U.S. – the alternative is great power conflict**
**Kromah 09** (Lamii Moivi, Department of International Relations University of the Witwatersrand, “The Institutional Nature of U.S. Hegemony: Post 9/11,” February, <span style="color: #000099;">[[http://wiredspace.wits.ac.za/bitstream/handle/10539/7301/MARR%2009.pdf]]</span>)
<span class="Underline">I see a multi-polar world as one being…American predominance in world affairs.</span>



==Kritiks== 

===Frontierism=== 
====1NC==== 
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The judge is a rhetorical critic who should evaluate this debate as a matter of competing representations—the 1AC justification for space policy is a symbolic reaffirmation of our investment in American frontier ideology</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">BILLINGS 2007</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Linda, PhD, Research Associate at SETI Institute, Societal Impact of Space Flight, p. 483-484)</span>
The ideas of frontier pioneering, continual...in favor of a cause, idea, or policy.


**[LINK]**


**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The frontier myth underpins genocidal violence</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">SLOTKIN 2001</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Richard, Olin Professor of American Studies at Wesleyan University, "Unit Pride: Ethnic Platoons and the Myths of American Nationality," American Literary History, 13.3)</span>
The oldest and most basic of American...defends America against a dark-skinned enemy.



**The Alternative is to embrace a Global Space History – This alternative framework shifts away from nation-centered approaches by de-emphasizing ownership and national borders. This global history would shift our gaze from nations to communities and seeing history as inherently fluid. The Frontier’s myth construction only has power because it assumes a totalizing view of history.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Siddiqi 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Asif A. Siddiqi assistant professor of history at Fordham University and member of advisory board at Shahjalal University of Science and Technology. wrote Challenge to Apollo: The Soviet Union and the Space Race, 1945-1974 is widely considered to be the best English-language history of the Soviet space program in print and was identified by the Wall Street Journal as "one of the five best books" on space exploration.[2][3][4] This book was later published in paperback in two separate volumes, Sputnik and the Soviet Space Challenge and The Soviet Space Race with Apollo. Competing Technologies, National(ist) Narratives, and Universal Claims: Toward a Global History of Space Exploration, Technology and Culture, Volume 51, Number 2, April 2010, pg 438-440, DA:6/21/11, CP)</span>
By rethinking the relationship between modernity...our understanding of the cold-war space race.



====Links==== 
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Their “US key” arguments entrench our rhetoric of US exceptionalism and investment in frontier mythology</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**Billings 7** (</span>Linda, Washington-based research associate with SETI, science and risk communication researcher for NASA’s planetary protection office, “Societal Impact of Spaceflight,” edited by Steven Dick and Roger Launius, 2007.)
The frontier metaphor, the ideology of progress...universally so, is to push the frontier.



===Orientalism=== 
====1NC==== 
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Everywhere, the academy is forced into binary relations between the rational, moral West and the wicked, illogical East—this sustains academic orientalism making discursive violence inevitable.</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Izadi and Saghaye-Biria 2k7</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">. </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 8px;">Foad Izadi, doctoral student in communication, and Hakimeh Saghaye-Biria, masters student in communication, both at LSU, “A Discourse Analysis of Elite American Newspaper Editorials: The Case of Iran’s Nuclear Program,” Journal of Communication Inquiry 31.2,[[@http://jci.sagepub.come/cgi/content/abstract/31/2/140]]</span>
An important characteristic of Orientalist discourse is...articulated on the basis of the ideological square.


**[LINK]**


**Orientalism necessitates war and genocide against the supposedly irrational Oriental other. Accepting this ideology sparks a new wave of Crusades. The only way to deal with a completely excluded other is to seek its elimination. Once we have designated a group of people is inherently different. The road to their genocide is short indeed.**
<span style="font-size: 8px;">PINAR </span>**<span class="cite" style="font-size: 12pt;">BATUR ‘7</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">• </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">Vassar College (//Handbook of the Sociology of Racial and Ethnic Relations//, “Heart of Violence: Global Racism, War, and Genocide”)</span>
Albert Memmi argued that "We have no idea what...For Muslims this day is a day for rejoicing and celebration.



**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">The alternative is to reject the affirmative for their complicity with Orientalism. As critical intellectuals, it is our job to politicize and challenge the cult of policy-making, which constructs problematic modes of knowing and dealing with Eastern countries. Our criticism opens space for a new global politics of contestation can challenge hegemonic modes of knowing.</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Biswas 2k7</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">. Shampa Biswas, Associate Professor at Whitman College, Empire and Global Public Intellectuals: Reading Edward Said as an International Relations Theorist, //Millennium - Journal of International Studies// 2007</span>
One of the profound effects of the war on terror...It is to that that I turn next.



====Other 1NC==== 
We may read this, the first, or a combination of both.

**The affirmative is trapped within the mindset of Orientalism – the idea that the world is divided into two distinct parts – the rational, saving West; and the barbarian, violent East. The affirmative empowers a //new Orientalism// – a view of the world where the West is inherently superior, and in the name of world peace colonize and wage war upon the East.**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Crooke ‘6,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> is a British diplomat Crooke was a Middle East advisor to Javier Solana, High Representative for Common Foreign and Security Policy of the European Union (CFSP) from 1997 to 2003, 2006 [August 31, Alastair, “The "new Orientalism"” http://www.bitterlemons-international.org/inside.php?id=604 Download Date: July 13, 2010] </span>
It's unconscious. It slips out almost inadvertently...we get to keep our guns, but they must disarm.

[Link]

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Orientalist understandings of the world guarantee extinction - the impact outweighs and turns the case</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bilgin 05</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> – </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Assistant Prof of International Relations at Bilkent University, “REGIONAL SECURITY IN THE MIDDLE EAST A CRITICAL PERSPECTIVE”, PAGE 164-165</span>
Thinking about the future from a critical security...in perpetuating insecurity in the Middle East.



**Our alternative is to reject the 1AC and its Orientalist ideas – you must use the ballot to take an oppositional stance against Orientalism. This is a necessary step towards anything resembling solvency.**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Edward </span>**<span class="cite" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Said ‘3</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> New ‘Preface’ to //Orientalism//. Penguin Books Edition (2003) p. xvii</span>
My idea in Orientalism is to use humanistic critique...that have prevailed in the Middle East and elsewhere for so long.



=====Impact Update===== 
We will probably be reading this from now on.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The mechanism of identifying certain populations as targets is part and parcel with Western scientific systems of knowledge production that both enabled every major war in the 21st century and guarantee continued violence against all other cultures by positioning these populations as pirates, barbarians, and others.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Chow 2k6**.</span> Rey Chow, Andrew W. Mellon professor of the humanities at Brown, //The Age of the World Target,// pg. 38-41
In the decades since 1945, whether...and by "the problem of the vanishing object."



====Links==== 
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Utilitarian problem solving in the Middle East is locked in Orientalism – this guarantees endless warfare and mass suffering</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sadeghi 07</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">—MD (Nader, US Policy in the Middle East Taking a Turn for Worse; The Catastrophic Human Consequences, 13 January 2007, [[http://www.payvand.com/news/07/jan/1148.html]])</span>
The US foreign policy in the Middle East...The next war must be stopped before it starts.



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fear of China is a misplaced cultural construct—a strong China has always been a stabilizing force. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kang 03</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Associate Professor of Government and Adjunct Associate Professor at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College. (David C. Kang “Getting Asia Wrong: The Need for New Analytical Frameworks” International Security, Vol. 27, No. 4 (Spring, 2003), pp. 57-85)</span>
The most hotly debated of the pessimistic...and a number of other international institutions.



**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Chinese threats are grounded in US primacy’s demand of securitization versus a vague other—this logic creates a self-fulfilling cycle of endless intervention. The affirmative creates a virtual reality in which China occupies the space of the other to the United States—this justifies continued attacks against the threat of China.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Chengxin **__Pan__**, **__professor of political science__** and international relations at Australian National University, “The ‘China Threat’ in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics,” Alternatives 29, **__2004__**, pg. 310-313</span>
In 1630, John Winthrop, governor of the British-settled...it is essential to recognize its autobiographical nature.



**Their so called benign hegemonic strategy legitimizes a series of self-fulfilling prophecies in which any nation that steps outside of the globalized order is destroyed**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">SAMIR </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AMIN</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> director of the African office (in Dakar, Senegal) of the Third World Forum, an international nongovernmental association for research and debate, and chair of the World Forum for Alternatives. He is the author of numerous books and articles including Beyond U.S. Hegemony 25 FEB </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2003</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“The Alternative to the neoliberal system of globalization and militarism Imperialism Today and the Hegemonic Offensive of the United States.”)</span>
The hegemonic strategy of the United States...intervening in the Amazon (Plan Colombia), etc.



===Security=== 
====1NC==== 
**The Aff promotes a securitizing view of space by justifying the plan through a politics of fear --- this is an intentional narrative that conceals ideological bias and serves as a pretext for militarization**
**<span class="Heading2Char">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mellor 7</span>__</span>** (Felicity, Lecturer in Science Communication – Imperial College (UK), “Colliding Worlds: Asteroid Research and the Legitimization of War in Space”, Social Studies of Science, 37(4), August, p. 499-502)
Since the late 1980's, a small group of astronomers...that helped legitimize the militarization of space.



**Disorder and insecurity are inevitable. Attempting to control danger is the impetus for global destruction**
**<span class="Heading2Char">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Der Derian 98</span>__</span>** (James, Professor of Political Science – University of Massachusetts, On Security, Ed. Lipschutz, p. 24-25)
No other concept in international relations packs...and identities calcifying into a fearful sadness.



**The alternative is to refuse security – use your ballot to rip open the aporias within language.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Burke 2</span>** (Anthony, Int'l Studies @ U of New South Wales, “Aporias of Security,” in //Alternatives// 27, p. 18-23)
Refusing Security It is perhaps easy to become despondent...and what its shimmering possibilities might be.



====Links==== 
**Apocalyptic environment discourse creates a politics of danger that make totalitarian control necessary in the name of ecological protection.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Waever 95</span>** (Ole, Senior Researcher at the Center for Peace & Conflict Research, //On Security//, p. 63-64)
Central to the arguments for the conceptual innovation...and control activities in the name of the environment.



**Using the plan though the state will inevitably tie the plan to security**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Øyvind </span>**<span class="Author-Date">__Jæger 2k__</span>**__,__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> @ Norweigian Institute of International Affairs and the Copenhagen Peace Research Institute, </span><span class="Author-Date" style="font-size: 8pt;">2k</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [//Peace and Conflict Studies// 7.2, “Securitizing Russia: Discoursive Practice of the Baltic States,” http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=20]</span>
David Campell (1992) has taken the discursive...what is state identity).



**Satellites are used for mapping and securitizing**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dalby 10</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Simon, a Professor in the Department of Geography and Environmental Studies at Carleton University, “Recontextualising violence, power and nature: The next twenty years of critical geopolitics?”,Volume 29, Issue 5, June 2010, Pages 280-288, [[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0962629810000144]]</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
After the cold war critical geopolitics flourished...and a lack of clarity as to how to proceed.



**Their criticism of inequality overlooks the intrinsicness of hierarchy to the modern political order—the ability to distinguish between legitimate and illegitimate discrimination allows sovereigns to declare states of exception and go to war to eliminate enemies**
**Walker 2002**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [RBJ, professor of political science at the University of Victoria, “International/Inequality,” International Studies Review, Vol. 4, No. 2, International Relations and the New Inequality (Summer, 2002), pp. 7-24, jstor]</span>
To think about the practices of discrimination and the ways...This limit condition is widely felt to be unacceptable.



**Securitization of the environment makes solvency impossible by focusing on the effects as opposed to the causes of environmental collapse**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Rasa </span>**Ostrauskaite**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, EU Political Advisor in the Office of the High Representative for BiH, December, </span>**2001**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Environmental Security as an Ambiguous Symbol[1]: Can We Securitize the Environment? Rubikon, http://venus.ci.uw.edu.pl/~rubikon/forum/rasa2.htm</span>
Having demonstrated the ambiguities of the environmental...should be on the causes, rather than the effects.



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">FEAR OF EPIDEMIC IS JUST A CULTURALLY-CONDITIONED STATE OF EMERGENCY</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Fitzpatrick ‘3</span>** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Michael //Apocalypse from now on// </span><span class="medium-normal1"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Lancet, 00995355, 4/12/2003, Vol. 361, Issue 9365)</span></span>
Because nobody knew much about so-called...our sense of reality, to our humanity".



**Soft power is the velvet glove of hegemony’s iron fist- masks implicit racism and violence**
**Kaplan, 2003** [Amy, Prof. of English @ Univ. of Pennslyvania, American Quarterly 56.1, “Violent Belongings and the Question of Empire Today,” p. muse]
<span class="Underline">Another dominant narrative about empire today…internment of Japanese Americans during World War II.</span>



**Representations of China as a threat ignore the normative value-judgments inherent to the process of claiming to empirically know Chinese national and political identity—this makes security threats self-fulfilling prophecies**
**Pan 04**’ – PhD in Political Science and International Relations and member of the International Studies Association ISA (Chengxin Pan: “The "China threat" in American self-imagination: the discursive construction of other as power politics”, Alternatives RC)
<span class="Underline">China and its relationship with the United States…and the 2001 spy-plane incident.</span>



**Fear of apocalypse causes endless violence in the name of security**
**<span class="Heading2Char">Coviello 2k</span>** (Peter, Professor of English and Acting Program Director of Africana Studies – Bowdoin College, Queer Frontiers, p. 40-41)
<span class="Underline">But to claim that American culture is at present…that can scarcely be done without.</span>



===Death=== 
====1NC==== 
**We begin this speech with the words of the eternal and all-powerful, not the mere mortals cited by the 1AC. Death, the Master of Life and Beyond, has spoken thus: I am the only certainty, feared by all in spite of my inevitability. The affirmative stands aligned with the zombie consciousness robots typical of human beings, “living” to sponge up the knowledge of others and perfect in order to defer Death. This is no way to live at all. Such participation in the stupid programmed zombie consciousness espoused by the 1AC is a voting issue for education**
**This is Death in 2007** /June 26, “Death - The Master of Life,” Transcribed and typed by Death through the interdimensional portal, Desteni Trust/ <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.desteni.co.za/Osho/death1.htm]]</span>
This is Death, yes I am in an expression...It dies with me, Death.



**Death is a fantasy – our biology means we cannot truly “die” or cease to be, rather we enter a new form of becoming: becoming earth. Even if we are all wiped from the face of the earth in a hailstorm of nuclear bombs the process of life goes on even at the micro level. There is no unique warrant for why the biological construct of human deserves a place higher than the construct of atoms. This desire to be secure from death is the most personal level of microfascism that negates our ability to live life to its fullest and breeds ressentiment.**
**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Deleuze and Guattari 1972</span>**, Anti-Oedipus, 330-39, Murray
But it seems that things are becoming rather obscure..."bring off" frustration.



**Don’t fall prey to the “life is obviously good” move they will inevitably make in the 2AC- the rest of material reality is just as “alive” as any organism- you should make the affirmative justify its privileging of humanity before voting to save lives**
**de Landa ‘96** /Manuel, Adjunct Associate Professor at <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Graduate_School_of_Architecture,_Planning_and_Preservation|Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation]]</span> at <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Columbia_University|Columbia University]]</span>(New York), the <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gilles_Deleuze|Gilles Deleuze]]</span> Chair of Contemporary Philosophy and Science at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/European_Graduate_School|European Graduate School]], “An Interview with Manuel de Landa,” with Konrad Becker and Miss M. at VirtualFutures, Warwick/ __[[http://www.t0.or.at/delanda/intdelanda.htm]]__
Philosophically, it is a terrible mistake. It is a terrible...that non-organic life has this breathing rhythm all to itself.



**The defining feature of the affirmative is its insistence on preserving a human species confronted with inevitable annihilation. The will to survive locks humanity into perpetual suffering by taking up the impossible mission of sustaining existence**
**Sanderson ‘7** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">/Matthew Walter, PhD dissertation Southern Illinois University, “RELIGIOUS SUBLIMITY AND THE TRAGIC VIEW OF LIFE IN KANT, SCHOPENHAUER AND NIETZSCHE,” August, ProQuest/</span>
Secondly, the structure of will-driven representations...as though trapped in a hell on earth.



**Paradise is forever just beyond the horizon. The will’s desire is incessant and insatiable, precluding contentment with the status quo and guaranteeing the prolongation of an irrational survivalist policy**
**Ali ‘7** **/**Zain Imtiaz, Department of Philosophy at University of Auckland, “<span class="definition">Al-Ghazali and Schopenhauer on knowledge and suffering,”</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://find.galegroup.com.ezp.lndlibrary.org/itx/publicationSearch.do?queryType=PH&inPS=true&type=getIssues&prodId=AONE&currentPosition=0&userGroupName=loyoland_main&searchTerm=Philosophy+East+and+West&index=JX&tabID=T001&contentSet=IAC-Documents|Philosophy East and West ]]</span>57.4 (Oct 2007): p409(11), Academic OneFile/
Schopenhauer's aim is to unmask the naive...so long as it is not satisfied.



**The magnitude of conscious suffering far outweighs any happiness they can articulate**
**Schalkx and Bergsma ‘7** /Rozemarijn, University for Humanistics, and Ad, Faculty of Social Sciences at Erasmus University Rotterdam, “Arthur’s advice: comparing Arthur Schopenhauer’s advice on happiness with contemporary research,” Journal of Happiness Studies, Feb 28/
Optimists think of the earth as a...that are sought after by modern people.



**Their appeals to reality are never actually accepted and inevitably fall short, as our world is one of disappointment. Humanity’s liberation from unhappiness cannot be achieved by reformism, but a resignation from life that recognizes the failure of our subjectivity**
**Ali ‘7** /Zain Imtiaz, Department of Philosophy at University of Auckland, <span class="definition">Al-Ghazali and Schopenhauer on knowledge and suffering, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://find.galegroup.com.ezp.lndlibrary.org/itx/publicationSearch.do?queryType=PH&inPS=true&type=getIssues&prodId=AONE&currentPosition=0&userGroupName=loyoland_main&searchTerm=Philosophy+East+and+West&index=JX&tabID=T001&contentSet=IAC-Documents|Philosophy East and West ]]</span>57.4 (Oct 2007): p409(11), Academic OneFile/
Also, as long as the Will dominates...anxious character of ordinary consciousness.



**Only after renouncing consciousness can we hope to perceive the true life essence at bottom of all material that surrounds us**
**Death ‘7** /June 26, “Death - The Master of Life,” Transcribed and typed by Death through the interdimensional portal, Desteni Trust/
<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.desteni.co.za/Osho/death1.htm]]</span>
What I am saying to you human beings...with who you are is presented to you by me as Death.



**A rethinking of reality that abandons the Will is the only path for escape from suffering. A recognition of the status quo’s chaotic beauty provides meaning to our present existence instead of one continually deferred onto a more desirable tomorrow**
**Ali ‘7** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">/Zain Imtiaz, Department of Philosophy at University of Auckland, </span><span class="definition" style="font-size: 10pt;">Al-Ghazali and Schopenhauer on knowledge and suffering, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://find.galegroup.com.ezp.lndlibrary.org/itx/publicationSearch.do?queryType=PH&inPS=true&type=getIssues&prodId=AONE&currentPosition=0&userGroupName=loyoland_main&searchTerm=Philosophy+East+and+West&index=JX&tabID=T001&contentSet=IAC-Documents|Philosophy East and West ]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">57.4 (Oct 2007): p409(11), Academic OneFile/</span>
Thus, aesthetic experience allows access...within a larger whole and in truer proportion.



===Dialectical Materialism=== 
====1NC==== 
**The failure of the Left**

**More than a century and a half ago, the intellectual climate in Germany collapsed into philosophy. German philosophers emphasized the transformative potential of ideas, and sought to emancipate themselves and politics through transformations in consciousness.**

**It was in this intellectual climate that Karl Marx emerged. His central thesis was that this philosophy of ideas not only distracted attention from the very real material conditions that structure our existence, but also made progressive social change impossible.**

**The insights of Karl Marx are perhaps even more pertinent today, when the liberal academy and intellectuals have begun to assert that discourse and performance are avenues for confronting oppressive power structures. This trend of the Left today is embodied in the affirmative’s politics, in their naïve and unproblematic endorsement of discourse as they desperately struggle to believe that what they have done in this debate is itself transformative and empowering.**

**Against this paralyzing politics, it is more important that ever to return to Marx, and to emphasize his insight that transformations in consciousness can never lead to social transformations—only struggling to transform the real material conditions that structure social relations can bring about social change**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Marx, 1845</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Karl, The German Ideology, [[http://www.marxists.org/archive/marx/works/1845/german-ideology/ch01b.htm]])</span>
This conception of history depends on our ability...makes men just as much as men make circumstances.



**Unfortunately, Marx’s insight has been all but discarded by the new left, with its emphasis on being postmodern, postcolonial, poststructural, postMarxist, or post-anything. This post-al politics of the contemporary left focuses on discourse and language at the expense of analyzing real material conditions. This post-al logic is complicit with capitalism, especially insofar as it obscures the operation of political economy and the material reality of capitalism**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Zavarzadeh, Dept English @ Syracuse, 1994</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Mas’ud, “The Stupidity that Consumption is Just as Productive as Production”, The Alternative </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Orange, V 4, Fall/Winter, [[http://www.etext.org/Politics/AlternativeOrange/4/v4n1_cpp.html]])</span>
The task of this text...or philosophical argument but a tropological description.



**And, Criticism itself can never generate revolutionary action—they get stuck in utopian appeals or ethical gestures which mollifies us into avoiding practical, material action**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Alea, Cuban Film Theorist, 1985 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Tomas Gutierrez, “The Viewer's Dialectic”, Jump Cut, No 30, March,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">http://www.ejumpcut.org/archive/onlinessays/JC30folder/ViewersDialectic2.html)</span>
There's a paralyzing effect when criticizing reality...of philosophy and all other types of theory."



**And, their appeal to discourse negates the necessity of changing material conditions and is merely a self-righteous attempt of intellectuals to center themselves as a kind of hero, as the new subject of social change, over and opposed to those actually oppressed and disenfranchised**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Poitevin, PhD Cand Sociol @ UC-Davis, 2001</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Rene Francisco, “The end of anti-capitalism as we knew it: Reflections on postmodern Marxism”, TheSocialist Review, http://www.findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_qa3952/is_200101/ai_n8932891)</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">The Postmodern Intellectual as Revolutionary Subject, Or Capitalocentrism Strikes Back</span>
Let us bracket for a moment the limitations...new vanguardism on post structural steroids.



**This appeal to performance renders the judge into a spectator position that creates reactionary tendencies and makes social transformation impossible**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Alea, Cuban Film Theorist, 1985</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">(Tomas Gutierrez, “The Viewer's Dialectic”, Jump Cut, No 30, March, http://www.ejumpcut.org/archive/onlinessays/JC30folder/ViewersDialectic2.html)</span>
Some assume, with the greatest good...a resource that has had a sustained acceptance.



**B) The impacts**
**Unrestrained capitalism leads to extinction**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Harman, </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Editor of the Socialst Worker **__1997__**(Chris, Economics of the madhouse, Pg 90-1)</span>
The system may have entered a new...turning fertile regions into deserts.



**And, capitalism destroys the environment and is the root cause of oppression**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Latin America Solidarity Coalition, 2003 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(“Getting to the Roots: Ecology and Environmental Justice”, http://www.lasolidarity.org/papers/enviro.htm)</span>
The globalization of capital and the interweaving...leading to desperation, degradation, and suffering.



**And, our kritik short circuits their impacts—Discourse and performance can never transform structures of oppression—the effectiveness of this political strategy is disproven by the failure of the left in the status quo**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Poitevin, PhD Cand Sociol @ UC-Davis, 2001</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Rene Francisco, “The end of anti-capitalism as we knew it: Reflections on postmodern Marxism”, The Socialist Review, http://www.findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_qa3952/is_200101/ai_n8932891) </span>
From Radical Democracy to Revolutionary Democracy...some reformist agenda is not going to do it either.



**And, no turns—Language cannot change the OBJECTIVE reality of oppression—this means that their framework can never access our capitalism impacts**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Zavarzadeh, Dept English @ Syracuse, 1994</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Mas’ud, “The Stupidity that Consumption is Just as Productive as Production”, The Alternative </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Orange, V 4, Fall/Winter, http://www.etext.org/Politics/AlternativeOrange/4/v4n1_cpp.html)</span>
The unsurpassable objectivity which is not open...is made more tolerable, justifiable, and naturalized.



**C) The alternative**

**Reject their assertion that discourse and performance can change material social realities.**


**We must return to Marx, recognizing that the only hope for human survival is a politics which engages in struggles to change material social relations rather than discursive attempts to change assumptions—any attempt to work within the system of capitalism is doomed to failure—our alternative is the only hope for human survival**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Harman, </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Editor of the Socialst Worker **__1997__**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Chris, Economics of the madhouse, Pg 99-100)</span>
'A reprise in the early 21st century...has on the lives of the mass of people.



===State Environmentalism=== 
====1NC==== 
**A) Environmental Reformism is merely an exercise in blame shifting and assuaging guilt—shielding us from ever having to take responsibility for our own personal complicity in the environmental crisis**
**Bobertz 1995** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Bradley, Nebraska Law, </span><span class="verdana" style="font-size: 8pt;">Legitimizing Pollution Through Pollution Control Laws: Reflections on Scapegoating Theory, 73 Tex. L. Rev. 711)</span>
A routine pattern in environmental lawmaking is...this phenomenon should be cause for concern.



**Additionally, the Affirmative’s production centered focus impoverishes our understanding of the environmental crisis, diminishing our ability to understand and respond to the consumptive practices that create pollution.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Princen </span>2003** (Thomas, Global Environmental Politics, February)
Research within the economic strands of social science...illustrates the need for such a focus.



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">B) Consumption is the root cause of the Affirmative harms and constitutes a systemic harm that not only outweighs the case, but creates the possibility of extinction</span>**
**<span class="verdana">Dauvergne 5 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Peter, “</span><span class="ssl0" style="font-size: 10pt;">Dying of Consumption: Accidents or Sacrifices of Global Morality?”</span><span class="verdana" style="font-size: 10pt;"> Global Environmental Politics, August)</span>
Private consumption expenditures are now more...



**C) Alternative: Reject the way the 1AC frames the problem in favor of an interrogation of consumptive practices — before we can go about fixing the world, we have to start off with an examination of the self, and how we are all personally implicated.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Nayar 99</span>** (Jayan, Warwick Law, Transnational Law & Contemporary Problems, Fall)
Rightly, we are concerned with the question...to consider the "technologies" of ordering.



**Finally, this is an especially attractive option considering that the affirmative cannot win that they have any practical effects—**
**Schlag 90** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Pierre, Stanford LR, November, Lexis)</span>
In fact, normative legal thought is in so...to put any of its wonderful normative advice into effect.



==Case Turns== 
===Dedev=== 
**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif;">Movements to localize civilization and end ecological destruction are rapidly gaining strength; global economic collapse is the critical mass for achieving dedevelopment</span>**
<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif;">Ted **Trainer**, Senior Lecturer in Sociology at the School of Social Work, University of New South Wales, Modified 5/29/200**3**,</span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Cambria,serif;">[[http://ssis.arts.unsw.edu.au/tsw/D24TheTransIsUnderway.html]]</span>
Although a minor phenomenon at present...want to set up viable local alternatives.



**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif;">Global war will kill everyone in 2025 without dedev</span>**
<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif;">Christopher **Chase-Dunn**, Director of the Institute for Research on World-Systems, University of California-Riverside, **and** Bruce **Podobnik**, Assistant Professor in the Department of Sociology and Anthropology at Lewis and Clark College, 19**99**, in The Future of Global Conflict, ed. Bornschier and Chase-Dunn, p. 43</span>
While the onset of a period of hegemonic...such collective suicide does not occur




**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif;">Ecocide kills all life by 2050 without dedev</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif;">The Observer, </span>**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif;">July 7, 200**2,** </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Cambria,serif;">[[http://www.observer.co.uk/international/story/0,6903,750783,00.html]]</span>
A study by the World Wildlife Fund (WWF)...We are entering uncharted territory.'



**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif;">The global economy will collapse by 2050, causing dedevelopment</span>**
<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif;">Chris H. </span>**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Lewis</span>**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif;">, Professor of American Studies at the University of Colorado-Boulder, </span>**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 12pt;">2002</span>**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif;">, in On the Edge of Scarcity, Dobkowski and Wallimann, eds, pp. 25-26</span>
The First World's failure to modernize...we will see its final collapse.



===Warming Good--Agriculture=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">High status quo CO2 emissions are key to agriculture and prevent extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">IDSOS 12-22-2010</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Sherwood PhD and fmr research physicist for the Dept of Ag, Keith PhD Botany, Craig PhD Geography, “Food Security: The Real Planetary Problem,” CO2 Science, Volume 13, Number 51, [[http://www.co2science.org/articles/V13/N51/EDIT.php]])</span>
In a paper recently published in the...to the air every time we exhale.



===SO2 Screw=== 
**There’s no uniqueness - Global cooling is the overall trend**
**Taylor ‘9** Senior Fellow of The Heartland Institute and managing editor of Environment & Climate News /James M, March, Environment and Climate News, “Global Cooling Continues”, The Heartland Institute, Google/
<span class="Underline">Continuing a decade-long trend of declining…are too sensitive to CO2 increases,” Christy added.</span>



**There’s no offense – CO2 increases are inevitable because of human exhalations**
**Lovelock ‘9**, <span class="cardChar">Consultant of NASA, former president of the </span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marine_Biological_Association|Marine Biological Association]]</span><span class="cardChar">, and Honorary Visiting Fellow of </span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Green_Templeton_College,_Oxford|Green Templeton College, Oxford]]</span><span class="cardChar"> (James, The Vanishing Face of Gaia: A Final Warning: Enjoy it While You Can, 74-75)</span>
<span class="Underline">It is surprising that politicians could have…the people’s footprint is larger and more deadly.</span>



**But they cause faster warming – because large emission reductions remove sulfate aerosols which cool the Earth**
**Lovelock ‘9**, <span class="cardChar">Consultant of NASA, former president of the </span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marine_Biological_Association|Marine Biological Association]]</span><span class="cardChar">, and Honorary Visiting Fellow of </span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Green_Templeton_College,_Oxford|Green Templeton College, Oxford]]</span><span class="cardChar"> (James, The Vanishing Face of Gaia: A Final Warning: Enjoy it While You Can, 55-56</span>
<span class="Underline">In 2004 two IPCC contributors…and are damned whatever we do.”</span>



**CO2 stays in the air longer than SO2 – that means there is only a risk of fast warming if we stop emitting**
**Monastersky, 91** – Richard, Staff writer for Business Net News, “CO2 limits may initially worsen warming - carbon dioxide and global warming” http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m1200/is_n7_v139/ai_10381518
<span class="Underline">To investigate the outcome of that…begin to curb the carbon dioxide warming, he found.</span>



**SO2 emissions are key to solving Amazonian collapse**
**Brisbane’ 8** /MX, “Going green could wipe out Amazon” Lexis
<span class="Underline">SURPRISE DANGER Cleaner air due to…faced a deadly drought risk, the researchers said.</span>



**Extinction**
**Takacs 96**, professor of environmental humanities at the Institute for Earth Systems Science and Policy at Cal state
[David. “The idea of biodiversity: Philosophies of Paradise,” p. 200-201]
<span class="Underline">So biodiversity keeps the world running…not with a bang but a whimper.</span>



===Prolif Good=== 
**Nuclear weapons prevent war by making costs unacceptable and de-escalating conflict**
Kenneth **Waltz**, Professor of Poly Sci at Berkley, **2003** [“The Spread of Nuclear Weapons: A Debate Renewed”]
<span class="Underline">First, war can be fought in the face…and might lose everything?</span>



**The alternative to nuclear proliferation is conventional war**
**Waltz ’95** /Kenneth N., Emeritus Ford Professor of Political Science at UC Berkeley. He is past President of the American Political Science Association (1987-1988) and a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences , “Peace, Stability, and Nuclear Weapons”, Institute on Global Conflict and Cooperation, August/ http://www.ciaonet.org/wps/wak01/
<span class="Underline">I end with two thoughts…weapons may be the best choice available.</span>



**Conventional war outweighs nuclear war – miscalc and deterrence**
**Preston ‘7** (Thomas, Associate Prof. IR – Washington State U. and Faculty Research Associate – Moynihan Institute of Global Affairs, “From Lambs to Lions: Future Security relationships in a World of Biological and Nuclear Weapons”, p. 31-32)
<span class="Underline">1.) The Cost of Deterrence Failure…that otherwise would likely have resulted in war (Hagerty 1998).</span>



**Prolif prevents Middle East conflict**
**Millman 09** (Noah Millman, primary writer for politics review The American Scene, “What Are Nuclear Weapons Good for Anyway?” July 7, The American Scene - [[http://theamericanscene.com/2009/07/07/what-are-nuclear-weapons-good-for-anyway]])
But the larger truth is that Pakistan and North Korea…intervention earlier in the war.



**Proliferation massively curtails military spending, allowing increased social spending**
**Goldstein 2000** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">/Avery, Department of Political Science University of Pennsylvania, “Deterrence and Security in the 21st Century, p. 289/</span>
<span class="Underline">The presence of nuclear weapons may…the unacceptable risk of unpredictable escalation.</span>



**Military spending foments poverty, which kills millions, and prevents economic development**
**Desai and Dhanapalo 2000** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">/Nitin, undersecretary-general for economic and social affairs at the UN, and Jayantha, undersecretary-general for disarmament affairs at the UN, Internatioanl Herald Tribune, December 22nd/ http://disarmament2.un.org/cab/docs/d&dihtarticle.pdf</span>
<span class="Underline">As the United Nations’ Millennium Summit in September…creating conditions ripe for conflict.</span>



**Prolif will be slow – solves all their offense**
**NSS ’95**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> /New Statesman & Society, August 4/</span>
<span class="Underline">But does more always mean worse…from a bipolar to a multipolar world.</span>



===China War Good=== 
**A Sino-US war NOW is key to destroying China’s upcoming molecular superweapons**
**Navrozov 2010** (Lev, journalist, author and columnist for NewsMax.com, “China Quietly Prepares for World Domination, Newsmax.com, Sep 2, http://www.newsmax.com/navrozov/chinarussiasuperweaponsprc/2010/09/02/id/369026)
<span class="Underline">The development of post-nuclear superweapons…with what China would inflict upon the world.</span>



**Only Chinese superweapons are capable enough to cause extinction- a nuke war is uniquely key to destroy the development of these weapons**
**Navrozov 2008** (Lev, journalist, author and columnist for NewsMax.com, “China Wages Stealth War,” Newsmax.com, one of the country’s leading independent news sites, Dec 24, http://www.newsmax.com/navrozov/china-superweapons-war/2008/12/24/id/327294)
<span class="Underline">I have been buying all books…ruling out any possibility for defense.</span>



===Heg Bad=== 
**Asymmetrical military dominance results in nuclear backlash**
**Fingar, Et Al, 2008** /C. Thomas, Chairman @ the National Intelligence Council, “Global Trends 2025: A Transformed World,” [[http://www.dni.gov/nic/PDF_2025/2025_Global_Trends_Final_Report.pdf/]]
<span class="Underline">Future asymmetries in conventional military…modern conventional military forces.</span>



==Round Reports== 
===Harvard=== 
====Round 2 vs. Natrona (Jupiter Satellites)==== 
Security K
Elections DA
Case D

====Round 3 vs Barstow (Property Rights)==== 
Weaponization Uniqueness CP (first plank only)
Mexican Economy DA
Security K
Case D

====Round 6 vs Clear Lake (Satellite Hardening)==== 
T-Human
Weaponization Uniqueness CP
Weaponization DA
Security K
China War Good on case
Heg Bad on case
Case D

====Doubles vs Connally (Perspermiation and Terraforming)==== 
T-Human
Plan PIC
Security K
Case D

===Lakeland=== 
====Round 1 vs. Lexington (NGSO SPS)==== 
StratoSolar CP
Radio Astronomy DA
Security K
Case

====Round 4 vs. River Hill (MDA)==== 
T-Mesosphere (MDA specific)
ITAR CP
Legitimacy DA
Security K
Case

====Round 6 vs. Centennial (Climate Denial)==== 
T-Human
StratoSats CP
Radio Astronomy Internal Net Benefit (same 1nc as DA)
Debris Internal Net Benefit
Dialectical Materialism K
Case

===Woodward=== 
====Round 2 vs. John's Creek (Females in Space)==== 
T-Mesosphere
Weaponization UQ CP + On the ground CP (no evidence)
Weaponization DA
Ozone DA
Earth Science DA
Case

====Round 3 vs. Wheeler (NGSO SPS)==== 
T-Human
StratoSolar CP
- internal debris net benefit
- internal radio astronomy net benefit
Security K
Case

====Round 5 vs. Dexter (T-SPS)==== 
T-Human
Weaponization DA
Security K
Case

====Octos vs John's Creek (Planetary Defense [Aliens/Asteroids])==== 
T-Human
Weaponization DA
Security K
Case




[[media type="custom" key="12357416" width="70" height="70" align="center"]]





















[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]