[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Singer Determinism AC (Vassar All AFF Rounds)</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span class="s1">V: Justice</span>**</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Animal”, Oxford Dictionaries Online ’11, [[http://www.oup.com/|Oxford University Press]]. [[http://oxforddictionaries.com/definition/animal]].</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Relating to or ... to animal lust.</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The ODO only uses word’s common usage when defining them,</span>
<span class="s2" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Oxford Dictionary Online 2 <span class="s3">[[http://oxforddictionaries.com/page/whatwordmeans_us]]</span> </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“How do you ... with specialist knowledge.”</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"recognition." Dictionary.com Unabridged. Random House, Inc. 28 Aug. 2011. <Dictionary.com <span class="s4">[[http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/recognition]]</span>>.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“The acknowledgement of ... entailed to consider.”</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Our brains operate under the same physical laws as the universe. Newell ’09</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Newell ’09 Indiana Undergraduate Journal of Cognitive Science 4 (2009) 54-64. Can Neuroscience Inform the Free Will Debate? Brandi Jo Newell. Psychology Wellesley College.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“For example, by ... of free will”</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">As such, the only coherent standard for which to determine due are those that come from the physical states. Greene and Cohen ’04</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Joshua Greene and Jonathan Cohen [Department of Psychology of Princeton] “For the law, neuroscience changes nothing and everything” Phil. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. B (2004) 359, 1775–1785</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Even if there ... sphere: see below).”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span class="s1">VC--Demonstration of Capacity for Pain</span>**</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The mental states of pleasure and pain are objectively desirable and undesirable respectively. Any view that rejects their intrinsic worth would be a rejection of our own subjective experience. Nagel ‘86</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Thomas Nagel, University Professor of Philosophy and Law and NYU, The View From Nowhere, Oxford University Press, 1986: 156-168.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“I shall defend ... the appearances here.”</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">C1 Animals are capable of feeling pain that is qualitatively similar to the pain felt by humans and thus deserve moral consideration. Singer ’90 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Singer, Peter. Do Animals Feel Pain? Excerpted from Animal Liberation, 2nd edition, New York: Avon Books, 1990, pp. 10-12, 14-15.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Nearly all the ... of subjective feelings.”</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Respecting agents as ends necessitates the recognition of animal rights. Korsgaard ’09</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Korsgaard, Christine. “Facing the Animal You See In the Mirror”. The Harvard Review of Philosophy. Copyright 2009. This lecture was delivered as part of the Facing Animals Panel Discussion, held at Harvard University on April 24, 2007.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“But there is ... and human nature.”</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Orange Juice AC (Greenhill Round Prelims, Throwdown Round 1)</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">SEP defines “Rights” as Wenar, Leif. "Rights", //The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy// (Fall 2011 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), forthcoming URL = <<span class="s2">[[http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/fall2011/entries/rights/]]</span>>. “Entitlements not to ... in certain states.“</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Animal”, Oxford Dictionaries Online ’11, <span class="s4">[[http://www.oup.com/|Oxford University Press]]</span>. <span class="s4">[[http://oxforddictionaries.com/definition/animal]]</span>.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Relating to or ... to animal lust.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The ODO only uses word’s common usage when defining them,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Oxford Dictionary Online 2 <span class="s4">[[http://oxforddictionaries.com/page/whatwordmeans_us]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“How do you ... with specialist knowledge.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"recognition." Dictionary.com Unabridged. Random House, Inc. 28 Aug. 2011. <Dictionary.com <span class="s2">[[http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/recognition]]</span>>.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“The acknowledgement of ... entailed to consider.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">All modern theories of justice minimally presume an ideal of equality. Gosepath</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span class="s1">Gosepath, Stefan. “Equality.” </span><span class="s5">//The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Spring 2011 Edition)//</span><span class="s1">**,** Edward N. Zalta (ed.). <<span class="s2">[[http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/spr2011/entries/equality/]]</span>>.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“The principle of ... I now turn.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Equality is a moral ideal that applies to all, regardless of abilities. Pollan</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Pollan, Michael. "The Ethics of Eating Animals." //The Omnivore's Dilemma: A Natural History of Four Meals//. New York: Penguin, 2007. Print.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Singer’s argument is ... in avoiding pain.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The mental states of pleasure and pain are objectively desirable and undesirable respectively. Any view that rejects their intrinsic worth would be a rejection of our own subjective experience. Nagel</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Thomas Nagel, University Professor of Philosophy and Law and NYU, The View From Nowhere, Oxford University Press, 1986: 156-168.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“I shall defend ... the appearances here.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">There can be no moral justification for refusing to consider suffering since it’s the basis of all reasons. Singer</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Singer, Peter. “All Animals are Equal” in Tom Regan & Peter Singer (eds.), //Animal Rights and Human Obligations//. New Jersey: Prentice-Hall, 1989, pp. 148-162</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“In this passage ... like skin color?”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">All moral decisions stem from the brain operating under physical laws. Newell ’09</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Newell ’09 Indiana Undergraduate Journal of Cognitive Science 4 (2009) 54-64. Can Neuroscience Inform the Free Will Debate? Brandi Jo Newell. Psychology Wellesley College.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“For example, by ... of free will”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Determinism commits us to the view that only physical states like pleasure and pain have value. Greene and Cohen Joshua Greene and Jonathan Cohen [Department of Psychology of Princeton] “For the law, neuroscience changes nothing and everything” Phil. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. B (2004) 359, 1775–1785 “Even if there ... sphere: see below).”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span class="s1">The first, Simple View, fails—the fission thought experiment implies that personal identity cannot be relevant. Shoemaker</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span class="s1">Shoemaker David Shoemaker, “Personal Identity and Ethics”, 2008, SEP.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span class="s1"> ”By way of ... Matter (IDM) view.”</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**VC--Demonstration of Capacity for Pain**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">C1 Animals are capable of feeling pain that is qualitatively similar to the pain felt by humans and thus deserve moral consideration. Singer</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Singer, Peter. Do Animals Feel Pain? Excerpted from Animal Liberation, 2nd edition, New York: Avon Books, 1990, pp. 10-12, 14-15.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Nearly all the ... of subjective feelings.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Respecting agents as ends necessitates the recognition of animal rights. Korsgaard ’09</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Korsgaard, Christine. “Facing the Animal You See In the Mirror”. The Harvard Review of Philosophy. Copyright 2009. This lecture was delivered as part of the Facing Animals Panel Discussion, held at Harvard University on April 24, 2007.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“But there is ... and human nature.”</span>
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Negative</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Rights NC (Vassar Round 2)</span>=== 

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The idea of individuals having rights is a human cultural construct that makes no sense when applied to the natural world. An ecological view commits us to describing animals collectively as species, not groups of individuals. Pollan ’07</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Pollan, Michael ["The Ethics of Eating Animals." //The Omnivore's Dilemma: A Natural History of Four Meals//. New York: Penguin, 2007. Print.]</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Ancient man regarded ... our purposes today."</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">No universal claim about rights can ever be valid because rights only matter within certain social contexts; they express societal norms, not moral truths. MacIntyre ’84</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">MacIntyre, Alasdair [research professor of philosophy at the University of Notre Dame. //After Virtue//. University of Notre Dame Press. 1984. pg. 67.]</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“One reason why ... the human condition."</span>

===<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cohen NC (Vassar Round 4 Greenhill Round 6)</span>=== 

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">An argument in favor of animal //rights//, rather than merely welfare or liberation, must prove not only that humans should grant moral consideration to animals, but also that they can make moral claims upon us. Cohen ’86</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Carl Cohen [Professor at Michigan University's Philosophy division.] The Case for the Use of Animals in Biomedical Research, The New England Journal of Medicine, 1986. </span><span class="s2" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[http://www.rw.ttu.edu/6002%20ethics/pdf/Cohen.pdf]]</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“A right, properly ... against one another”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**VC****<span class="s1">: Demonstration of capacity to make moral claims.</span>**</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention: Non-human animals can't make moral claims because they lack the ability to abstract “ought” claims from physical occurrences.</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cohen 2: Ibid.</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“It is not ... this fundamental sense.”</span>

===<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**AIDs DA (Vassar Round 5 Greenhill Round 6)**</span>=== 

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**A. Uniqueness:** AIDs research has come to the point where the only way forward is extensive testing on animals, preventing animal testing stops research into finding a cure, Animal Research dot Info’11</span>
<span class="s2" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[http://www.animalresearch.info/en/medical/diseasesresearch/HIV#current|http://www.animalresearch.info/en/medical/diseasesresearch/HIV#current]]</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“There is now ... the immune system”</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**B. Link:** HIV/AIDs research relies on the use of animals to conduct experiments, Frey ’02</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">R. G. Frey [Professor of Philosophy at Bowling Green State University, Justifying Animal Experimentation, Sept. 2002.]</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“While it is ... or meat-eating).”</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, there is no substitute to animals; animals are needed for testing and experimenting in AIDs research, Myers ’09</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Lauren Myers [Associate Professor, Section of Integrative Biology at U.T. Austen, Animal Testing Necessary in Medical Research, 25-Jul-09]</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“For developing complex ... unforeseen side effects.”</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**C. Impact:** Failure to contain the AIDs virus will cause it to spread globally causing a pandemic that guarantees extinction, Ornstein and Elrich’89</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Robert Ornstein “University of California Medical Center”, Paul Ehrlich, “Center for Conservation Biology”, New World New Mind, 1989, p.129</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“AIDS clearly has ... not be overlooked.”</span>

===<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">House of Hurt NC (Greenhill All NEG Prelims) </span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Merriam Webster Defines Negate1 "negate." </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary. 2010. Merriam-Webster Online. 18 August 2010. <http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/negate> “to deny the ... or truth of.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Burden: To deny that justice requires the recognition of animal rights.** </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">It is impossible to apply a categorical statement regarding the status of animals. Hursthouse Hursthouse, Rosalind. “Applying Virtue Ethics to Our Treatment of the Other Animals.” The Practice of Virtue: Classic and Contemporary Readings in Virtue Ethics (2006). </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Given these problems ... assignment of status.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Syal summarizes a study conducted by James Rose, professor of zoology and physiology at the University of Wyoming. Syal, Rajeev. “Fish lack the brains to feel pain, says the latest school of thought.” The Telegraph, London. February 10, 2003. http://www.smh.com.au/articles/2003/02/10/1044725683181.html. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Anglers rest easy ... pain or fear.”</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"The" PIC (Throwdown Round 2)</span>=== 

**<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">PIC Text: US Congress will create a ban on animal cosmetic tests and the use of animal testing data in product liability suits.</span>**
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">While the AFF will frame my distinction as trivial - It really is these littlest of details which determine our everyday language - The Definite article “The” before U.S. perpetuates Geopower in that it fixes Identity to a cartographic. Thrift 2000</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[Thrift Nigel Prof of Geography @ Univ. of Bristol. "Its's the Little Things" Geopolitical Traditions. A Century of Geopolitical Thought: in Atkinson, D., Dodds, K. (eds) Page 383-385 Google Print] 2000</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Words function to ... Sometimes boils over.</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Geopower is the cause for genocide, war, and every form of violence. Tuathail ’96</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[Tuathail Gearoid Professor, Government and International Afffairs, School of Public and International Affairs, Virginia Tech Critical Geopolitics: the politics of writing global space Pages 1-2 GooglePrint] 1996</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Geography is about ... contemporary global politics”</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Theory</span>== 
===<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">T-Animal Welfare (Greenhill NEG Prelims)</span>=== 

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A. Interpretation: Animal rights are</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“animal rights.” Macmillan Dictionary. Macmillan Publishers Limited. <span class="s2">[[http://www.macmillandictionary.com/dictionary/british/right_70]]</span></span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“the idea that ... a cruel way.” </span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Lin explains the distinction between animal //rights// and animal //welfare:// </span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Lin, Doris [B.S. in Applied Biological Sciences from MIT, J.D. from the University of Southern California Law Center; animal rights attorney and the Vice President of Legal Affairs for the Bear Education and Resource Group.] //Animal Rights vs. Animal Welfare.// About.com Guide. <<span class="s3">[[http://animalrights.about.com/od/animalrights101/a/RightsvWelfare.htm]]</span>></span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">//“//One of the ... animal welfare position.”</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">B. Violation</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">C. Standards</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1. Textual Precision: A distinction that marks an important historical divide in the treatment of animals. CCF:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span class="s1">Center for Consumer Freedom (CCF) [a nonprofit organization dedicated to protecting the full range of change that American consumers currently enjoy]. //Animal Rights is not Animal Welfare.// </span><span class="s4">AnimalScam.com. <<span class="s3">[[http://www.animalscam.com/rights_vs_welfare.cfm]]</span></span><span class="s1">> </span></span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Throughout most of ... to society’s margins.”</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A. Bad Research</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">B. Real World and Predictability</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2. Ground</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">D. Voter for Fairness</span>

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Red Nation AC (Whitman and Glenbrooks Prelims)</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ted Lockhart defines moral obligation: </span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Lockhart, Ted W. “Another Moral Standard,” Mind New Series, Vol. 86, No. 344 (Oct., 1977). </span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Moral obligatoriness is ... morally permissible action.”</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Singer clarifies the AFF burden.</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Singer, Peter. Famine, Affluence, and Morality. Philosophy & Public Affairs, Vol. 1, No. 3 (Spring, 1972), pp. 229-243. </span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“My next point ... very bad thing.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**V-Morality**</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The fission thought experiment implies that personal identity cannot be relevant. David Shoemaker writes,</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">David Shoemaker, Ph.D in Philosophy from the University of California and Professor of Philosophy at Tulane. “Personal Identity and Ethics”, 2008, SEP</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">If personal identity is reducible to psychological continuity, then personal identity is not absolute but rather admits of degrees. Parfit</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Derek Parfit, “Later Selves and Moral Principles”, in //Philosophy and personal relations, an Anglo-French Study//, ed. Alan Montefiore, 1973, pp. 139-141.</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"The Identity of ... an earlier self."</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Second, the moral neutrality of the time of an action also commits us to the moral neutrality of the person a moral action harms. Derek Parfit</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Derek Parfit, “Later Selves and Moral Principles”, in //Philosophy and personal relations, an Anglo-French Study//, ed. Alan Montefiore, 1973, pp. 157.</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"This reply might ... itself no importance."</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Among physical states, the mental states of pleasure and pain are objectively desirable and undesirable respectively. Nagel: </span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nagel, Thomas. //The View From Nowhere//, Harvard University Press, 1986. pg. 156-158.</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“I shall defend ... the appearance here”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**VC - Maximizing Happiness**</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Further, the capacity for happiness and suffering is the basis of all interests and ends. Singer 2: Singer, Peter. “All Animals are Equal” in Tom Regan & Peter Singer (eds.), //Animal Rights and Human Obligations//. New Jersey: Prentice-Hall, 1989, pp. 148-162 </span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**“**In this passage ... like skin color?” </span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">I contend that Singer’s simple principle of beneficence—that we sacrifice entitlements of relatively insignificant moral worth in order to prevent significant moral harms—is equivalent to utilitarianism. Murphy </span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Murphy, Liam B. //The Demands of Beneficence//. Philosophy & Public Affairs, Vol. 22, No. 4 (Autumn, 1993), pp. 267-292. Blackwell Publishing </span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“The simplest principle ... be very great.” </span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, even under the Simple View of personhood, consequentialism can still generate obligations //to individuals// because individual worth is only reflective of a community. Velleman: </span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">David Velleman, “A Right To Self-Termination?”, Ethics 109 (April 1999): 606-628, 611-612.</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“The dignity of ... who embodies it.” </span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Further, respect for the rationality of persons mandates consequentialism. Cummiskey: </span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cummiskey, David. //Kantian Consequentialism//. Published by Oxford University Press. 1996. (p.142). </span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“If I sacrifice ... to save many.”</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, skepticism is false—moral reasons can exist. Parfit 3: </span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Parfit, Derek. //Reasons and Persons//. Oxford University Press, 1984. pp. 452-453.</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Many people are ... are moral reasons.”</span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Hidden Aprioris AC (Glenbrooks DoubleOctofinal round against Lake Highland CM)</span>=== 
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Hidden Aprioris AC - Doubles Glennbrooks</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ted Lockhart defines moral obligation: </span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Lockhart, Ted W. “Another Moral Standard,” Mind New Series, Vol. 86, No. 344 (Oct., 1977). </span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Moral obligatoriness is ... morally permissible action.”</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Singer clarifies the AFF burden.</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Singer, Peter. Famine, Affluence, and Morality. Philosophy & Public Affairs, Vol. 1, No. 3 (Spring, 1972), pp. 229-243. </span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“My next point ... very bad thing.” </span>

**<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">V- Morality</span>**

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The fission thought experiment implies that personal identity cannot be relevant. David Shoemaker writes,</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">David Shoemaker, Ph.D in Philosophy from the University of California and Professor of Philosophy at Tulane. “Personal Identity and Ethics”, 2008, SEP</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">If personal identity is reducible to psychological continuity, then personal identity is not absolute but rather admits of degrees. Parfit</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Derek Parfit, “Later Selves and Moral Principles”, in //Philosophy and personal relations, an Anglo-French Study//, ed. Alan Montefiore, 1973, pp. 139-141.</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"The Identity of ... an earlier self."</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Second, the moral neutrality of the time of an action also commits us to the moral neutrality of the person a moral action harms. Derek Parfit</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Derek Parfit, “Later Selves and Moral Principles”, in //Philosophy and personal relations, an Anglo-French Study//, ed. Alan Montefiore, 1973, pp. 157.</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"This reply might ... itself no importance."</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Among physical states, the mental states of pleasure and pain are objectively desirable and undesirable respectively. Nagel: </span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nagel, Thomas. //The View From Nowhere//, Harvard University Press, 1986. pg. 156-158.</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“I shall defend ... the appearance here”</span>

**<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">VC- Maximizing Happiness</span>**

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Further, the capacity for happiness and suffering is the basis of all interests and ends. Singer 2: Singer, Peter. “All Animals are Equal” in Tom Regan & Peter Singer (eds.), //Animal Rights and Human Obligations//. New Jersey: Prentice-Hall, 1989, pp. 148-162 </span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**“**In this passage ... like skin color?” </span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">I contend that Singer’s simple principle of beneficence—that we sacrifice entitlements of relatively insignificant moral worth in order to prevent significant moral harms—is equivalent to utilitarianism. Murphy </span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Murphy, Liam B. //The Demands of Beneficence//. Philosophy & Public Affairs, Vol. 22, No. 4 (Autumn, 1993), pp. 267-292. Blackwell Publishing </span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“The simplest principle ... be very great.” </span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, skepticism is false—moral reasons can exist. Parfit 3: </span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Parfit, Derek. //Reasons and Persons//. Oxford University Press, 1984. pp. 452-453.</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Many people are ... are moral reasons.”</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Finally, ethical frameworks are evaluated via their maximum expected value. Andrew Sepielli explains: </span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Andrew Sepielli. “What to Do When You Don’t Know What to Do” Rutgers – New Brunswick</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“You and I ... strategy was insensitive.” </span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bill Bone AC (Glenbrooks Octofinal round against Lexington NS)</span>=== 
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Schroeder clarifies the notion of an obligation: </span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Ought, Agents, and Actions.” Mark Schroeder University of Southern California June 23, 2010. <span class="s2">[[http://www-bcf.usc.edu/~maschroe/research/Schroeder_Ought_Agents_and_Actions.pdf]]</span>. </span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Contrary to many ... Larry to win.” </span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, we may have decisive reasons not to do what we ought morally to do. Parfit 1 explains:</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Parfit, Derek. //On What Matters, Volume I.// Oxford University Press, 2011. pp. 38.</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“As well as ... later to morality.”</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Singer clarifies the AFF burden.</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Singer, Peter. Famine, Affluence, and Morality. Philosophy & Public Affairs, Vol. 1, No. 3 (Spring, 1972), pp. 229-243. </span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“My next point ... very bad thing.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span class="s1">V- Morality</span>**</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The first, Simple View, fails as it could only be justified by appeal to a discredited spiritualist argument. Korfmacher writes,</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Carsten Korfmacher, Linacre College, Oxford, “Personal Identity”, 2006, <span class="s3">[[http://www.iep.utm.edu/person-i/]]</span></span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Nowadays, the Simple ... viewing the matter.”</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">If personal identity is reducible to psychological continuity, then personal identity is not absolute but rather admits of degrees. Parfit</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Derek Parfit, “Later Selves and Moral Principles”, in //Philosophy and personal relations, an Anglo-French Study//, ed. Alan Montefiore, 1973, pp. 139-141.</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"The Identity of ... an earlier self."</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Second, the moral neutrality of the time of an action also commits us to the moral neutrality of the person a moral action harms. Derek Parfit</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Derek Parfit, “Later Selves and Moral Principles”, in //Philosophy and personal relations, an Anglo-French Study//, ed. Alan Montefiore, 1973, pp. 157.</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"This reply might ... itself no importance."</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Among physical states, the mental states of pleasure and pain are objectively desirable and undesirable respectively. Nagel: </span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nagel, Thomas. //The View From Nowhere//, Harvard University Press, 1986. pg. 156-158.</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“I shall defend ... the appearance here”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span class="s1">VC - Maximizing Happiness</span>**</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Further, the capacity for happiness and suffering is the basis of all interests and ends. Singer 2: Singer, Peter. “All Animals are Equal” in Tom Regan & Peter Singer (eds.), //Animal Rights and Human Obligations//. New Jersey: Prentice-Hall, 1989, pp. 148-162 </span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**“**In this passage ... like skin color?” </span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">I contend that Singer’s simple principle of beneficence—that we sacrifice entitlements of relatively insignificant moral worth in order to prevent significant moral harms—is equivalent to utilitarianism. Murphy </span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Murphy, Liam B. //The Demands of Beneficence//. Philosophy & Public Affairs, Vol. 22, No. 4 (Autumn, 1993), pp. 267-292. Blackwell Publishing </span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“The simplest principle ... be very great.”</span>

==Negative== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">What is Love OFF? (Glennbrooks Prelims)</span>=== 
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">There is no universal agreement on what people need, people have different needs including those things thought to biological necessities. Ignatieff</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Michael Ignatieff, Professor Human Rights Policy-Kennedy School of Government, Harvard, 1984, The Needs of Strangers: An essay on privacy, solidarity and the politics of being human, p. 135.</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“It seems a ... therefore different needs.”</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Even if the AC is able to define due in some context, the inconsistency of the interpretation with the other needs means it is not a universal obligation, but a relative one. Ignatieff 2:</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Michael Ignatieff, Professor Human Rights Policy -Kennedy School of Government, Harvard, 1984, The Needs of Strangers: An essay on privacy, solidarity and the politics of being human, p. 12.</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“The second question ... of human flourishing.”</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nose-ick NC (Whitman and Glenbrooks Prelims)</span>=== 
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Individual liberty is the basis of all systems of justice. John Rawls writes:John Rawls, “Reply to Alexander and Musgrave,” Quarterly Journal of Economics 88 (1974): 64I.</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“People regard themselves ... in these matters.” </span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Only a side constraint view of morality respects individual liberty. Nozick: </span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nozick, Robert. //Anarchy, State, and Utopia//. Basic Books, 1974. pp. 32-33.</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Side constraints express ... betweens its citizens.”</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Thus, morality cannot obligate us to assist others. Gilabert summarizes Narveson’s view: </span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Gilabert, Pablo [Assistant Professor of Philosophy at Concordia University, Montreal]. //Basic Positive Duties of Justice and Narveson’s Libertarian Challenge//. The Southern Journal of Philosophy (2006) Vol. XLN. </span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Our fundamental right ... encouragement and criticism).”</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Durriduh OFF (Glennbrooks Prelims)</span>=== 
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Finally the notion of a moral obligation to any other being is absurd, the minute we try to fulfill any obligation to one other immediately sacrifices all other others to them Derrida</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Jacques Derrida, French philosopher ,University of Chicago Press, Doesn’t like the Other //The Gift of Death//, 1995</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“There are also, ... all the other.” </span>
==Theory== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Poverty Theory (Glenbrooks Prelims)</span>=== 
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**A is the Interpretation:** To assist is to</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span class="s1">Concise Oxford English Dictionary © 2008 Oxford University Press: </span><span class="s2">assist</span><span class="s1">/əˈsɪst/ verb help by doing a share of work or by providing money or information.noun (chiefly N. Amer)1 an act of helping, especially by providing money.</span></span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “Help by doing ... money or information.” </span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**B is the Violation:**</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**C are the Standards:**</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Topic Lit: Singer’s article deals specifically with the individual obligation to assist people in poverty. Chatterjee:</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Deen K. Chatterjee, Philosophy Professor University of Utah, 2004, The Ethics of Assistance: morality and the distant needy, ed. Deen K. Chatterjee p. 2</span>
<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Singer’s primary concern ... volume (see Preface).”</span>

<span class="s1" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**D is the Voter: Fairness**</span>

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; text-align: center;">Jeff’s Adventure Preflow</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Kagan defines moral permissibility:</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kagan, Shelley [Professor of Philosophy at Yale University]. The Limits of Morality (Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1989), pp. 65-66. 1989.</span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">“For a given ... ground a prohibition”</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The AC advocates the moral permissibility of all acts of deadly force in self-defense.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">1. Topic lit - Webster’s Online Dictionary defines what deadly force means in relation to repeated counts of domestic violence:</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"><span style="color: #000082;">[[http://www.websters-online-dictionary.org/credits/wordnet.html%23|WordNet 3.0]]</span> Copyright © 2006 by Princeton University. All rights reserved., <span style="color: #000082;">[[http://www.websters-online-dictionary.org/definitions/Domestic%20Violence]]</span></span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">“The form and ... marriage counseling samples.”</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
# 2. Ground
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">3. Text - Further, self-defense is an individual’s foremost objective when retaliating against abusive partners. Johnson:</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Johnson, Michael P. //A Typology of Domestic Violence: Intimate Terrorism, Violent Resistance, and Situational Couple Violence// (Northeastern Series on Gender, Crime, and Law), 2008.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">“The critical defining ... even killing him.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The AFF burden is to prove self-defense is morally permissible.</span>
Victims of domestic abuse are in no-access situations in which self-defense is permissible as a last resort. Leonard:
Leonard, Elizabeth Dermody. Ph.D. //Hearing of the State of California Joint Legislative Committee on Prison Construction & Operations//. California Institution for Women. October 12, 2000.
“Inevitably, the question ... least two years.”
The police also empirically fails to stop abuse. Mitchell: 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mitchell, David. “Contemporary police practices in domestic violence cases: arresting the abuser: is it enough?” The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology,Vol. 83, No. 1, Spring 1992, p. 241-249.</span>
“Unfortunately, there is ... a behavior-altering deterrent.”

Finally, legal precedent affirms. Johnson:
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Johnson, Michael P. //A Typology of Domestic Violence: Intimate Terrorism, Violent Resistance, and Situational Couple Violence// (Northeastern Series on Gender, Crime, and Law), 2008. </span>
“Such cases have ... seemingly hopeless situation.”

Because there are no agreements in such a state, individuals may act in ways that seem right to themselves. Ripstein:
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ripstein, Arthur. //Force and Freedom: Kant’s Legal and Political Philosophy//. Harvard University Press, 2009. p. 178.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">“In a state ... against the other.”</span>

<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Deadly force as self-defense clearly meets any imminence constraint once re-conceptualized to account for the fact that women are in a climate of pervasive battering.  Koons:</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Koons, Judith E. [Associate Professor of Law, Barry University School of Law]. //Gunsmoke and Legal Mirrors: Women Surviving Intimate Battery and Deadly Legal Doctrines.//  Journal of Law and Policy, 2006.</span>
“Imminence absorbs meanings ... abuse of took place.”

Finally, permitting deadly force deters abuse. Zipursky:
Zipursky, Benjamin C.  Self-Defense and Relations of Domination: Moral and Legal Perspectives on Battered Women who Kill: Self Defense, Domination, and the Social Contract. University of Pittsburgh Law Review. 1996.
“A similar argument ... enhance women’s security.” 

===Fizik's AC=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Kagan defines moral permissibility:</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kagan, Shelley [Professor of Philosophy at Yale University]. The Limits of Morality (Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1989), pp. 65-66. 1989.</span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">“For a given ... ground a prohibition”</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">VC: Consequentialism</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">1. Act-Omission</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
# 2. Determinism. All moral decisions stem from the brain operating under physical laws. Newell:
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Newell, Brandi Jo. //Can Neuroscience Inform the Free Will Debate?// Indiana Undergraduate Journal of Cognitive Science 4 (2009) 54-64. Psychology Wellesley College.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">“For example, by ... of free will.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Only consequentialism is compatible with determinism. Greene and Cohen:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Greene, Joshua and Jonathan Cohen [Department of Psychology of Princeton]. “For the law, neuroscience changes nothing and everything” Phil. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. B (2004) 359, 1775–1785.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">“Even if there ... sphere: see below.).”</span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">But if consequentialism is flawed or incompatible with determinism, then determinism implies the impossibility of moral prohibition. Strawson writes:</span></span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Strawson, Galen. 1993. Professor of Philosophy at Reading "The Impossibility of Moral Responsibility."</span></span></span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">“This may seem ... for their actions.”</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">3. MWI. Interference patterns of light photons behave differently based on whether they are observed or not. Cartlidge’11:</span></span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Cartlidge, Edwin. June 3, 2011. "New 'Double Slit' Experiment Skirts Uncertainty Principle." Scientific American. <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=new-double-slit-experiment-skirts-uncertainty-principle]]</span></span></span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">“In the classic ... of a photon.”</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The traditional Copenhagen interpretation of quantum theory fails to adequately explain the phenomenon of wavefunction collapse described by the Cartlidge evidence. Price:</span></span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Price, Michael Clive. Physicist -Imperial College London. February 1995. "The Everett FAQ"</span></span></span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">“An unobserved system ... even in principle.”</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Only the many-worlds interpretation—the postulate that every potential state of affairs happens in different worlds, but humans only observe one—can align the results of the double-slit experiment with the rest of modern physics. Vaidman‘2:</span></span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Vaidman, Lev [Professor of Physics and Astronomy at Tel Aviv University]. Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 2002. "Many-Worlds Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics."</span></span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">“The reason for ... for human observers.”</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Higgo ‘98 summarizes:</span></span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Higgo, James. Physicist. 98. "Does the 'many-worlds' interpretation of quantum mechanics imply immortality?"</span></span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">“First, a disclaimer ... universe, see Vaidman (1996).”</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
MWI implies a multiverse in which we can never experience death. Higgo 2:
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Higgo, James. Physicist. 98. "Does the 'many-worlds' interpretation of quantum mechanics imply immortality?"</span></span>
“This is important ... point of view.”
MWI implies a reductionist account of personal identity. Vaidman ‘2:
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Vaidman, Lev [Professor of Physics and Astronomy at Tel Aviv University]. Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 2002. "Many-Worlds Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics."</span></span>
“This reply might ... itself no importance.
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Lack of personal identity undermines desert based theories of morality. Dresser:</span></span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Dresser, Rebecca (JD Associate Professor, School of Law and Center for Biomedical Ethics, School of Medicine, Case Western U). Personal Identity and Punishment; 70 B.U. L. Rev. 395 (1990) </span></span>
“The provocative implications ...the “Extreme Claim.”
C1) Deadly force is morally permissible. First, the universe is flat. NASA ‘10:
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">National Aeronautics and Space Administration. “Is the Universe Infinite?” 3 May 2010.<span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">[[http://map.gsfc.nasa.gov/universe/uni_shape.html]]</span></span></span></span>
“WMAP spacecraft ... margin of error.”
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">In a flat, infinite universe, all actions are morally permissible under consequentialism. Bostrom:</span></span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bostrom, Nick [Professor at University of Oxford, director of Oxford’s Future of Humanity Institute, PhD from London School of Economics]. //The Infinitarian Challenge to Aggregative Ethics//. 2008. <span class="Hyperlink1">[[http://www.nickbostrom.com/ethics/infinite.pdf]]</span></span></span></span>
==Negative== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">SEPIELLI NC</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Ethical frameworks are evaluated via their maximum expected value. Andrew Sepielli explains:</span>
Andrew Sepielli. “What to Do When You Don’t Know What to Do” Rutgers – New Brunswick
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">“You and I ... strategy was incentive.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The implication is that questions of permissibility are rendered irrelevant because they don’t prove any reason to take an action.</span>
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">FORGIVENESS OFF</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Shared humanity between victims and offenders generates a requirement to be unconditionally forgiving. Garrad</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">(In Defense of Unconditional Forgiveness, Eve Garrad, //Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society//, New Series, Vol. 103, (2003), pp. 39-60</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">“We turn now ... for each other.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Because transgressions are inevitable, we must be concerned for each other. Worthington Jr:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">INTERPERSONAL FORGIVENESS AS AN EXAMPLE OF LOVING ONE’S ENEMIES, EVERETT L. WORTHINGTON, JR., CONSTANCE B. SHARP, and ANDREA J. LERNER Virginia Commonwealth University, JEFFREY R. SHARP, American Baptist Churches. Journal of Psychology and Theology 2006, Vol. 34, No. 1, 32-42. Copyright 2006 by Rosemead School of Psychology. Biola University, 0091-6471/410-730</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">“Moreover, human victims ... as a transgression.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">This concern must take the form of forgiveness. As only forgiveness can allow us to act on second order moral commitments. Rodrigues:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Mariana Elana Rodrigues Proquest and Learning Company, Ethics of Interpersonal Forgiveness, University of Minnesota, 2006</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">“Through forgiveness we ... shared by all.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">As such, deadly force is impermissible because it is antithetical to the goals of forgiveness, we can’t forgive someone if we wish upon them harm, because harboring ill will prevents us from adopting proper attitudes. Garrad 2:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">“This account of ... each other’s good.”</span>

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative==