[[toc]]
=Counterplans= 
==Prizes CP== 
===Mars=== 
**Prizes solve a mission to mars**
Edward Hudgins 1-28-2004 [director of the objectivist center, editor of the cato institute “Space: The Free-Market Frontier”, Cato Handbook for Congress: Policy Recommendations for the 107th Congress]
Rather than build their own probes, even ....way to fund a manned mission to Mars.

==ESA CP== 
**ESA can do satellites**
Pasco 6 (Xavier, PhD in political science, professor at the University of Maryland, July 2006, Center for International and Security Studies at Maryland, “A European Approach to Space Security,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.cissm.umd.edu/papers/files/pasco2006.pdf</span> MGE)
The United States and Europe agree on ....the excellence of European knowledge and know-how

===<span style="font-size: 10pt;">2NC Solvency Ext</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Europe solves satellites – expertise </span>
Pasco, ’09 (Xavier, senior fellow at the Foundation for Strategic Research, “A European Approach to Space Security”, American Academy of Arts and Sciences, [[http://carnegie.org/fileadmin/Media/Publications/PDF/spaceEurope.pdf]], LH)
Europe does have extensive experience with multiuse satellite ....ESA also demonstrate the excellence of European knowhow.

===Solvency- SPS=== 
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">ESA can do Space Based Solar Power Satellites</span>**
Coppinger 8 (Rob Coppinger, Freelance Writer, Works at ESA, “ESA funds technology for Earth and Moon base SBSP”,
http://www.flightglobal.com/blogs/hyperbola/2008/08/esa-funds-technology-for-earth.html, 8/15/2008) SV
The European Space Agency's general studies programme is ...."near- to mid-term potential".

===Solvency- SSA=== 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">ESA has the capability for enhanced SSA- esa has better sharing and solves barriers inherent in the U.S. military</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Ackerman 10</span>- Edward T. Ackerman, Lt Col, Usaf , Us Military, Commercial, and International Cooperation for Improved Space Situational
Awareness, 17 February 2010
In the case of international partners, ESA ....associated with US military support to foreign entities.

===AT: U.S. Resources Key=== 
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The ESA would coordinate with NASA even if it’s taking the lead – ensures access to the best US resources without US action</span>**
Space Daily 10 (An International Response To Earth Threatening Asteroids, 11/7, lexis)
Planetary Defense The workshop brought together for the ....can take on this very preventable natural hazard."

==Soot CP- Memorial== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">CP solves warming best</span>**
Katy Taylor is a writer for TG Daily, 9-1-2011 [“Cutting soot emissions could be climate quick fix” http://www.tgdaily.com/sustainability-features/58220-cutting-soot-emissions-could-be-climate-quick-fix] vpotluri
Reducing soot emissions from diesel engines and other ...., and low-soot cookstoves in developing countries

==StratoSats CP== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">StratoSats solve GEOSS better-better quality and quantity. Funding already exists.</span>**
Global Aerospace Corporation, 7-3-20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">0</span>2 [“Stratopheric Satellites: New Technology for Monitoring Global Disasters”
[[http://www.gaerospace.com/press-releases/jul2002.html]]] vpotluri
ALTADENA, CA - At the annual meeting ....JPL, NIAC, and Computer Sciences Corporation.

===AT: Perm=== 

**Perm means nothing is built – programs leach off each other.**
George I. Seffers, representative from Northrop Grumman and an internal communications specialist with Raytheon Technical Services
Company, Dec. 2010, “Space-Based Solar Power Comes Closer to Reality”, http://www.afcea.org/signal/articles/anmviewer.asp
?a=2461&print=yes
The decades-long dream of harnessing the ....in space using traditional, proven docking methods.

==Near Space CP== 

===1NC=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The counterplan solves all the reasons ORS is good-funding is key</span>**
Tomme 5—USAF Lieutenant Colonel and Ph.D. in physics [Ed Tomme, “The Paradigm Shift to Effects-Based Space: Near-Space as a Combat Space Effects Enabler,” http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/cadre/ari_2005-01.pdf]
Near-space does indeed seem to be ....time for near-space is definitely now.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Our evidence is comparative—the counterplan solves the whole case.</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Brown 6</span>—Lt Col, USAFR, PhD liquid-rocket-engine system engineer at the NASA Marshall Space Flight Center and a researcher at the College of Aerospace Doctrine [6/1/06, Kendall K., Air & Space Power Journal, “Is Operationally Responsive Space the Future of Access to Space for the US Air Force?” http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj06/sum06/brown.html]
Perhaps we won’t need an HLV to support ....expendable launch vehicles might be a better solution.

===<span style="font-size: 10pt;">AT: Nuclear Deterrence</span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The cp creates an effective deterrent against nuclear space attacks</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Tomme</span>, US Airforce Lieutenant Colonel, <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">5</span> (Ed, [[http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/cadre/ari_2005-01.pdf]], The Paradigm Shift to Effects-Based Space: Near-Space as a Combat Space Effects Enabler”, ZBurdette)
Near-space can also be a deterrent ....<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">short-term and the costs so high.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 10pt;">AT: Shot down</span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The plan creates near-space balloon platforms beyond the mesosphere are untraceable and indestructible</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Tomme</span>, USAF Lieutenant Colonel and Ph.D. in physics, <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">5</span> (Ed, [[http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/cadre/ari_2005-01.pdf]], The Paradigm Shift to Effects-Based Space: Near-Space as a Combat Space Effects Enabler”,)

Near-space platforms are inherently...<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">obstinately continued flying for another six days.54 </span>

===<span style="font-size: 10pt;">AT: Perm do the CP</span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Beyond is outside the limits of</span>**
<span class="Heading3Char1">Collins 9</span> (Collins English Dictionary Unabridged, “beyond”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/beyond]]</span>)
-- prep
1. at or to a point <span class="underline">on the other side of</span>; at or to the further side of: //beyond those hills there is a river//
2. <span class="underline">outside the limits or scope of</span>: beyond this country's jurisdiction

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The OUTSIDE of the mesosphere is at 85km</span>**
Randy <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Russell</span>, professional background is in space science, educational technology, and the development of interactive multimedia software. I received my B.S. in astrophysics from Michigan State University in 1981; my Master's in aerospace engineering from the University of Maryland in 1988; and my Ph.D. in educational systems development from Michigan State in 1998. My Ph.D. dissertation topic was "World Wide Web Site Visitor Studies Techniques Using Server Log File Data". I worked briefly as a computer programmer/analyst at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in 1987-1988 in support of satellite communications. For several years (1990-1996), I helped research and develop new multimedia software technologies at the Communications Technology Lab at Michigan State. One of my main projects there was the development of the Microbe Zoo web site and CD-ROM, which provides insights into the worlds of microbiology to "kids of all ages". I helped develop numerous online courses, mostly related to science and engineering topics, while working for Michigan State's Virtual University from 1997-2001. In 2001-2002 I worked for TERC developing web-based interactives about Earth Science for their Exploring Earth project, a companion web site to the high school textbook of the same name, 07-17-20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">08</span>, “The Mesosphere”, [[http://www.windows2universe.org/earth/Atmosphere/mesosphere.html]] [RR]
The <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">mesosphere is</span> a layer of Earth's atmosphere....<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to 85 km</span> (53 miles) high.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Near space balloons are launched at 23km</span>**
Clark S. <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Lindsey</span>, staff writer, writes for the spacereview, 20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">11</span>, “Near Space
The shore of our new ocean”, [[http://www.hobbyspace.com/NearSpace/index.html]] [RR]
This <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">space shore is often referred to as ....</span>.54mi) on April 5, 1961.