=Affirmative= 
Urban Slums Aff
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri Bold'; font-size: 16pt;">Contention 1: Identification</span>__</span>

====We must begin from the beginning; The Communist ideal should not be an end goal, but a starting point for a new philosophical project. We must accentuate the problems of capitalism. Emphasizing the excluded abject of the capitalism – the slum dweller – presents us with an ethical imperative to confront the violent contradictions of global capital.==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri Bold'; font-size: 13pt;">Žižek 9</span> (Slavoj, Prof. of European Graduate School, Intl. Director of the Birkbeck Inst. for Humanities, U. of London, and Senior Researcher @ Inst. of Sociology, U. of Ljubljiana, June 09, “How to Begin from the Beginning,” New Left Review, pgs. 51-55)
A different path So where are we today, after the désastre obscur of 1989
AND
and the only way to avoid actually becoming so is to act preventively.

====And, the slum dweller is the excluded element of the capitalist system; the people who we want to pretend don’t exist. By over identifying with slum dwellers, we undermine the system==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri Bold'; font-size: 13pt;">Dean, 2005</span> (Jodi, Chair of the Political Science Department @ Hobart and William Smith College, “Zizek’s Politics,” pgs. 200-202)
I explained in Chapter Two that Žižek uses the term class struggle to designate the
AND
can find a way out of the deadlock within which it remains trapped.

====Slum Dwellers play the “part of no part” of global capitalism. As the excluded abject, they are positioned to construct a dissensus against the “equality” of liberal democracy – only around this rallying point can opposition to the system be formed.==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rancière 04</span>** (Jacques, Emeritus Prof. of Philosophy at the U. of Paris, “Who Is the Subject of the Rights of Man?,” p. 304-307, TH)
Of course the deduction could not be endorsed—it could not even be heard
AND
or not worthy of doing politics that was presupposed at the very beginning.

====We should over-identify with the letter of the law and take its promise of universal transportation access seriously – ideology only exerts a grip on us insofar as we believe in and acknowledge its unwritten rules==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri Bold'; font-size: 13pt;">Zizek, 98</span>– Professor of Philosophy at Institute of Social Sciences at University of Ljubljana
(Slavoj, Law and the Postmodern Mind, “Why Does the Law need an Obscene Supplement?” Pg 91-94)
Finally, the point about inherent transgression is not that every opposition, every attempt
AND
that makes them "too good" for the banality of men's rights.

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri Bold'; font-size: 16pt;">Thus the plan:</span>__</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri Bold'; font-size: 13pt;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in urban slums in the United States.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri Bold'; font-size: 16pt;">Contention 2: Catastrophe</span>__</span>

====Identifying with excluded slum-dweller and reaching out to the suffering other engages in violent self-beating. It is this very violence that is necessary to shake us out of our seemingly peaceful world and create true revolutionary action.==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri Bold'; font-size: 13pt;">Žižek '4</span> (Slavoj, Prof. of European Graduate School, Intl. Director of the Birkbeck Inst. for Humanities, U. of London, and Senior Researcher @ Inst. of Sociology, U. of Ljubljiana, <span style="font-family: 'Calibri Italic';">Revolution at the Gates</span>, pgs. 249-253
The thing to do, therefore, is not aggressively to protect the safety of
AND
situation is for the individuals in the crowd to start beating each other.

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri Bold'; font-size: 13pt;">And, politics is created by symbolic structures that mediate our relationship with others. Social fantasies are created to cover up our lack of understanding of these worlds, and they require elimination of all that does not fit within their ideological consensus</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri Bold'; font-size: 13pt;">Edkins '3</span> (Jenny, International Politics @ U. of Whales-Aberystwyth, <span style="font-family: 'Calibri Italic';">Trauma and the Memory of Politics</span>, 11-14
In the psychoanalytic account the subject is formed around a lack, and in the
AND
subject and the non-existence of any complete, closed social order.

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri Bold'; font-size: 13pt;">In response to the plan’s transportation spending, the Negative will pull out its best disad and threaten a crisis. We urge you to call their bluff and free us from Capital’s ideological hegemony by recognizing that the crisis they fear is caused by Capital itself.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri Bold'; font-size: 13pt;">Žižek 97</span> (Slavoj, Prof. of European Graduate School, Intl. Director of the Birkbeck Inst. for Humanities, U. of London, and Senior Researcher @ Inst. of Sociology, U. of Ljubljiana, “Multiculturalism, or, the Cultural Logic of Multinational Capitalism,” p. 34-35)
Today, financial crisis is a permanent state of things the reference to which legitimizes
AND
Y, and then, upon your doing X, Y effectively ensues.

====The slumdweller as excluded abject of society highlights the objective violence inherent in the existing order. Capitlalism creates this structure of reality itself. Confronting the violence of this reality is a pre-requisite to preventing the subjective violence of flash-point catastrophies.==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri Bold'; font-size: 13pt;">Žižek '8</span> (Slavoj, Prof. of European Graduate School, Intl. Director of the Birkbeck Inst. for Humanities, U. of London, and Senior Researcher @ Inst. of Sociology, U. of Ljubljiana, <span style="font-family: 'Calibri Italic';">Violence</span>, pgs. 3-6)
Opposing all forms of violence, from direct, physical violence (mass murder,
AND
was surely the precursor of today’s “liberal communists,” including . . .

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">__<span style="font-family: 'Calibri Bold'; font-size: 16pt;">Contention 3: Our Obligation</span>__</span>

====Now is the key time for revolution. The world is waiting for someone else to mobilize us, but we, as individuals, are the dangerous utopians necessary to create radical change.==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri Bold'; font-size: 13pt;">Žižek 9</span> (Slavoj, Prof. of European Graduate School, Intl. Director of the Birkbeck Inst. for Humanities, U. of London, and Senior Researcher @ Inst. of Sociology, U. of Ljubljiana, <span style="font-family: 'Calibri Italic';">First as Tragedy, Then as Farce</span>, pgs. 154-157)
There is only one correct answer to those Leftist intellectuals who desperately await the arrival
AND
and you are pardoned for it – time to get serious once again!

====It is our ethico-political obligation to take responsibility for our own actions. Our belief in the big Other allows capitalism to perpetuate itself by subjugating and eliminating the excluded elements of society.==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri Bold'; font-size: 13pt;">Žižek & Daly 04</span> (Slavoj, Prof. of European Graduate School, Intl. Director of the Birkbeck Inst. for Humanities, U. of London, and Senior Researcher @ Inst. of Sociology, U. of Ljubljiana, and Glyn, Professor Intl. Studies @ Northampton U., [[http://www.lacan.com/zizek-daly.htm]], “Risking the Impossible,” TH)
It is in the light of this more subtle perspective on the real that zizek
AND
that, like Zizek's own thought, exhorts us to risk the impossible.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]