<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[toc]]

</span>
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Substantial</span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Substantial-1NC 3.7 Billion]]1NC 3.7 Billion</span>== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Interpertation – Substantial infrastructure investment is 3.7 billion dollars – current U.S. fiscal policy proves</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Oldershaw 08</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [Mark Oldershaw, 2008,“NATIONAL’S INFRASTRUCTURE PLAN: BUILDING FOR A BRIGHTER FUTURE”,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.national.org.nz/files/2008/infrastructure_policy.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">National’s fiscal policy includes a substantial increase in infrastructure investment over the next six years, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">totalling $3.7 billion</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">. This takes the form of an increase in the capital allowance in each of the next six Budgets, adding to the capital allowances that Labour has already planned.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Violation – they spend less than that</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That’s a voting issue</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">They are obligated to provide enough evidence to prove they are topical – The alternative would be judge intervention.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Annual Review of Criminal Procedure 09 (38 Geo. L.J. Ann. Rev. Crim. Proc. 491)</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The burden of proof consists of</span></span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">two parts: </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the burden of production</span></span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">and the burden of persuasion. </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The party bearing the burden of production must produce enough evidence to allow a factfinder to determine that the fact in question occurred. The party who first pleads the existence of a fact not yet in issue </span></span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">usually </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">has the burden of production</span></span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, but this burden can shift from one party to another. </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">If a party fails</span></span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> to sustain its burden of production, that party is subject to an adverse ruling by the court</span></span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. For instance, the prosecution has the burden of production on every element of the offense charged. </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">If the government fails to produce sufficient evidence</span></span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">for any element, </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">thereby not bringing the fact into issue, the judge may direct a verdict in the defendant's favor</span></span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. See generally LAFAVE, CRIMINAL LAW § 1.8 (4th ed. 2003); MCCORMICK, EVIDENCE §§ 336-337 (5th ed. 1999).</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">They explode the topic – there’s hundreds of small projects that they could build, limiting the topic to huge projects allows the neg to adequately prepare for each of them and have adequate ground against each, there’s no disads to building infrastructure in one small city</span>**


=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Investment]]Investment</span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Investment-1NC New Infrastructure]]1NC New Infrastructure</span>== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Interpretation - Transportation investment must be new infrastructure</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Collenette 99</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Hon. David M. Collenette, P.C., M.P. Minister of Transportation of Canada Transportation in Canada 1999 annual reporthttp://publications.gc.ca/collections/Collection/T1-10-1999E.pdf BK</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Whether </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">made by</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> business or </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">government, “transport investment” can be defined as</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> both </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__new infrastructure construction__</span>** __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">and purchases of new machinery and equipment. Investment **excludes** repair and maintenance expenditure, which are expenditures on **existing infrastructure**, machinery and equipment.</span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Violation – they change current infrastructure</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That’s a voting issue</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ground- There is no links to existing projects or repairs because the programs have already been passed</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Limits- this topic is already huge, allowing for maintenance allows for every infrastructure to be used</span>**

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Infrastructure]]Infrastructure</span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Infrastructure-1NC]]1NC</span>== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Interpretation – Transportation infrastructure are ports, roads, rail systems, and aviation</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Akinwale 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Akeem Ayofe, Professor of Sociology – Covenant University (Nigeria), “The Menace of Inadequate Infrastructure in Nigeria”, African Journal of Science, Technology, Innovation, and Development, 2(3), p. 209-210)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">3. </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Concept of Infrastructure</span>__
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Research on infrastructure dwells on different issues such as education, roads, water supply, power grids, telecommunications, and hospitals (Abosedra et al, 2009; Mandel, 2008; Frischmann, 2007; CBN, 2003; Pendse, 1980). </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Major infrastructures can be **classified** into the**following categories**:</span>__
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1. Energy/Power Infrastructure: electricity, gas and petroleum pipelines</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Transportation__</span>** __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Infrastructure: surface roads, rail system, ports, and aviation</span>__
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">3. Water Infrastructure: Piped water and irrigation</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">4. Communication Infrastructure: mass media, internet, phones, and postalservices</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">5. Health Infrastructure: primary, secondary and tertiary heath care services</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">6. Education Infrastructure: all categories of schools and higher institutions</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Violation – they’re not one of those</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That’s a voting issue</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">They explode the topic – there’s hundreds of projects they could build, limiting the topic down is a pre-requisite to the neg being able to adequately prepare for each aff</span>**


=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#In]]In</span>= 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Throughout=</span>
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#In-1NC]]1NC</span>== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In means throughout</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Words and Phrases 08</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Words and Phrases Permanent Edition, “In,” Volume 20A, p. 205-215 March 2008, Thomson West)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Colo. 1887. In the act of 1861 providing that justices of the peace shall have jurisdiction “in” their respective counties to hear and determine all complaints, ect., </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="background-color: aqua;">the word “in” should be construed to mean throughout</span></span>__ <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">such counties.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The means all of the United States</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Google Dictionary 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [“The”,</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.google.com/#hl=en&authuser=0&q=the&tbs=dfn:1&tbo=u&sa=X&ei=sCgCToT5AsrEswasn9CuDQ&sqi=2&ved=0CCQQkQ4&bav=on.2,or.r_gc.r_pw.&fp=e2cdbf82a93ada0c&biw=1149&bih=696|http://www.google.com/#hl=en&authuser=0&q=the&tbs=dfn:1&tbo=u&sa=X&ei=sCgCToT5AsrEswasn9CuDQ&sqi=2&ved=0CCQQkQ4&bav=on.2,or.r_gc.r_pw.&fp=e2cdbf82a93ada0c&biw=1149&bih=696]]</span>__
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Used to refer to a person, place, or thing that is unique - the Queen - the Mona Lisa - the Nile  Denoting a disease or affliction - I've got the flu  (with a unit of time) The present; the current - dish of the day - man of the moment  Used instead of a possessive to refer to someone with whom the speaker or person addressed is associated - I'm meeting the boss - how's the family?  Used with a surname to refer to a family or married couple - the Johnsons were not wealthy  Used before the surname of the chief of a Scottish or Irish clan - the O'Donoghue  Used to point forward to a following qualifying or defining clause or phrase - the fuss that he made of her - the top of a bus - I have done the best I could  (chiefly with rulers and family members with the same name) Used after a name to qualify it - George the Sixth - Edward the Confessor - Jack the Ripper  Used to make a generalized reference to something rather than identifying a particular instance - he taught himself to play the violin - worry about the future  </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Used with a</span>__ __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">singular noun to indicate that it represents a whole species or class</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> - they placed the African elephant on their endangered list</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">United States means all of the states</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">EPA 06</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (EPA, US Environmental Protection Agency Terminology Reference System, 2-1-2006,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://iaspub.epa.gov/trs/trs_proc_qry.alphabet?p_term_nm=U]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">)</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">United States</span>__
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">When used in the **geographic sense**, means **all** of the States</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">. [[http://iaspub.epa.gov/trs/trs_proc_qry.org_info?P_REG_AUTH_ID=1019&P_LIST_OPTION_CD=ORG|Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics ]]: [[http://iaspub.epa.gov/trs/trs_proc_qry.org_info?P_REG_AUTH_ID=1&P_DATA_ID=11722&P_VERSION=1&P_LIST_OPTION_CD=INFO|Commercial Chemical Control Rules]][[http://iaspub.epa.gov/trs/trs_proc_qry.navigate_term?p_term_id=292529&p_term_cd=TERMDIS|Term Detail]]</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Violation – the aff isn’t throughout the United States</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That’s a voting issue</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We preserve limits – they allow for “city of the week” affs that the neg can never predict</span>**