[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

1AC Iowa Caucus
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Inherency</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We don’t have the naval capabilities to adequately respond to crisis</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Allen</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, former commander US Atlantic Fleet and former president Association of Naval Aviation, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">01</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Richard Allen, retired from active duty in 1996 as commander, Naval Air Force, U.S. Atlantic Fleet, and is the immediate past president of the Association of Naval Aviation., “Aircraft carriers and sea-based air power: Smaller is not better and numbers do count!,” Sea Power, June 2001, jacob</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">During the height … longer be sustained.</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The navy’s role has expanded – but it’s being crippled by a lack of resources</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Whiteneck, et al. ‘10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Dr. Daniel J. Whiteneck, Ph.D., Director for European Programs in the Center for Strategic Studies at the Center for Naval Analyses, former Professor of Political Science at Towson University and Visiting Professor at the U.S. Air Force Academy and at the University of Colorado at Boulder; Dr. Michael Price; Dr. Neil Jenkins; Dr. Peter M. Swartz, Research Analyst at CNA; “The Navy at a Tipping Point: Maritime Dominance at Stake?” Center for Naval Analyses, report prepared for the U.S. Department of Defense, March 2010, p.4-21, [[http://www.public.navy.mil/usff/Documents/navy_at_tipping_point.pdf]])</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">For the past … naval BMD assets.</span>//

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-New Trier 1AC-Plan]]Plan</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in its CVN aircraft carrier fleet.</span>**

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-New Trier 1AC-Economy]]Economy</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The US economy is rapidly declining – laundry list</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Muja 9/13/12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Sahit Muja is a staff writer for The Examiner, “New Poll: Romney leads Obama as the U.S. economy worsens”,[[http://www.examiner.com/article/new-poll-romney-leads-obama-as-the-u-s-economy-worsens]]</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">jd)</span>//
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The unemployment is … environment under Obama.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The recovery will fail – it’s too fragile</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Samson 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Samson, Adam, a writer for Fox News, 7/16/12, Fox News, Gloomy Economic Data Sap Wall Street's Enthusiasm,</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.foxbusiness.com/markets/2012/07/16/gloomy-economic-data-sap-wall-street-enthusiasm/#ixzz20tC63kN|http://www.foxbusiness.com/markets/2012/07/16/gloomy-economic-data-sap-wall-street-enthusiasm/#ixzz20tC63kN]])</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">After posting a … risks "loom large."</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Economy is on the verge of a crash – no resiliency</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Christopher S. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rugaber</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, staff writer, Bloomberg, 6-1-</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2012</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, “US economy added 69K jobs in May, fewest in a year”, Bloomberg Businessweek, [[http://www.businessweek.com/ap/2012-06/D9V4CNRO0.htm]]</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The U.S. economy … the global economy.</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Economic decline causes war</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Zalmay </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Khalilzad</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, was the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992, 2-8-</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2011</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, "The Econom and National Security" www.nationalreview.com/blogs/print/259024</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Today, economic and … era of multi-polarity.</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan solves - Government spending stimulates econ</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Krugman 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Nobel Prize Economics and Professor of Economics and Int. Affairs Princeton, 12 [Paul, End This Depression Now, 2012, p. ]</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In the middle … into this depression</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan immediately stimulates through the economy</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">James </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cypher</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Professor of Economics at CSU-Fresno, Dollars & Sense, July-August, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2002</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, p19(4)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The CEP attempts … otherwise erratic movement.</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">//</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-New Trier 1AC-Navy]]Navy</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Naval power prevents great power conflicts and is key to heg</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Helprin 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">( MARK HELPRIN, a senior fellow at the Claremont Institute, is the author of, among other works, "Winter's Tale" (Harcourt), "A Soldier of the Great War" (Harcourt) and, most recently, "Digital Barbarism" (HarperCollins), The Decline of U.S. Naval Power Sixty ships were commonly underway in America's seaward approaches in 1998, but today there are only 20. We are abdicating our role on the oceans, WSJ</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704150604576166362512952294.html/|http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704150604576166362512952294.html//]] A rad G)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Separated by the … and unrestrained adventurism.</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Scenario 1 is war,</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lack of US naval heg will result in global war</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kagan ‘7</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Robert Kagan, Senior Fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7-19-2007,[[http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html]])</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This is a … an easier path.</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Scenarios 2 is Iran,</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Declining sea power means we lose access to the Strait of Hormuz</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dyer, 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> - journalist and former intelligence analyst, served internationally for US Naval Intelligence from 1983 to 2004 (J.E, “Naval Decline: It Starts with the Small Stuff,” 5-12-2010, [[http://theoptimisticconservative.wordpress.com/2010/05/12/naval-decline-it-starts-with-the-small-stuff/]])</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Each of the … lots of them.</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ensures escalation of conflict – draws the US in conventionally and prompts Iranian aggression</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Talmadge, 8</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Caitlin Talmadge, doctoral candidate in political science at the Security Studies Program, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, former fellow at the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard University, “Closing Time: Assessing the Iranian Threat to the Strait of Hormuz,” International Security, 33(1), Summer 2008, p.115-116,[[http://web.mac.com/caitlintalmadge/Site/Publications_files/Talmadge%20article.pdf]])</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The United States’ … U.S. force posture</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">WW3</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Steinberg, 7</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Jeffrey, The People’s Voice, [[http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/cgi-bin/blogs/voices.php/2007/10/04/cheney_s_ouster_may_be_last_chance_to_st]])</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">On Sept. 25, retired … III has begun."</span>//

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-New Trier 1AC-Airpower]]Airpower</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Advantage 3 is airpower</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Air mobility vital internal link to overall air power- its declining now</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Richard J. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hazdra</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Major, USAF, Fairchild Paper, Air University Press August </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2001</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.au.af.mil/au/aul/aupress/fairchild_papers/Hazdra/Hazdra.pdf]]</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Since airlift was … national security requirements.</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Scenario 1 is HEG</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Airpower is vital to maintain U.S. hegemony</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Major William K. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lewis</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, senior pilot in the T-37, T-38, AT-38 and F-15 Eagle, Distinguished Graduate of the Squadron Officer School and the Air Command and Staff College, and graduate of the School of Advanced Airpower Studies, June </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2002</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, “UCAV – THE NEXT GENERATION AIR-SUPERIORITY FIGHTER?”, school of advanced airpower studies @ Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama.</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Air superiority has … the foreseeable future.</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Collapse of heg causes great power transition wars, destroys democratic peace, and causes economic collapse – Apolarity results – can’t solve any world problems</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bradley </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thayer</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Minnesota, December, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2006</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, "In Defense of Primacy,” The National Interest, Lexis.</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Retrenchment proponents seem … the world's ills.</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Scenario 2 is Terrorism.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">US air power is key to fighting terrorism</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rand 03</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, RAND Project Air Force, “Annual Report 2003”, 2003, [[http://www.rand.org/pubs/annual_reports/2005/AR7089.pdf]]</span> //<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">ER</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The war on … and other locations.</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That prevents nuclear war</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Chuck </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Freilich</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Senior Fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, 4-</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2010</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, “The Armageddon Scenario: Israel and the Threat of Nuclear Terrorism” [[http://www.biu.ac.il/Besa/MSPS84.pdf]] ER</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">There is little … more nuclear terrorism.</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Scenario 3 is nuke war</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Airpower prevents multiple scenarios for nuclear war</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Zalmay </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Khalilzad</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> and Ian O. Lesser. “Sources of Conflict in the 21st Century: Regional Futures and U.S. Strategy,” </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1998</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR897/]]</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The first key … Myanmar, or North Korea.</span>//

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-New Trier 1AC-Solvency]]Solvency</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan solves, carriers are key to sea power, air mobility, and airpower overall</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Allen</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, former commander US Atlantic Fleet and former president Association of Naval Aviation, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">01</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Richard Allen, retired from active duty in 1996 as commander, Naval Air Force, U.S. Atlantic Fleet, and is the immediate past president of the Association of Naval Aviation., “Aircraft carriers and sea-based air power: Smaller is not better and numbers do count!,” Sea Power, June 2001, jacob</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Most fundamentally, naval … in other regions.</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nothing can challenge a US carrier, more carriers are the only way to preserve hegemony – all other solutions fail</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Allen</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, former commander US Atlantic Fleet and former president Association of Naval Aviation, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">01</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Richard Allen, retired from active duty in 1996 as commander, Naval Air Force, U.S. Atlantic Fleet, and is the immediate past president of the Association of Naval Aviation., “Aircraft carriers and sea-based air power: Smaller is not better and numbers do count!,” Sea Power, June 2001, jacob</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Size and Mobility: The Keys to Survival During the Navy … States of America.</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Aircraft carriers key to US power projection</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rubel 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Professor Robert Rubel is Dean of Naval Warfare Studies at the Naval War College. “The Future of Aircraft Carriers”, Naval War College Review, Autumn 2011, [[http://www.usnwc.edu/getattachment/87bcd2ff-c7b6-4715-b2ed-05df6e416b3b/The-Future-of-Aircraft-Carriers]] EG)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Geopolitical Chess Piece. It has been … disconnect is magnified.</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Aircraft carriers key to Hegemony-power projection, airpower, and humanitarian intervention</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">US Navy 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (“Aircraft Carriers – CVN”, Fact File, January 6, [[http://www.navy.mil/navydata/fact_display.asp?cid=4200&tid=200&ct=4]] EG)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Description Aircraft carriers … replace USS Enterprise (CVN 65).</span>//

===//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2AC</span>//=== 
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A2-CAP K</span>//
# **Perm- Mere rejection can’t solve- the perm is an ethical act against cap and solves better**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Martin ‘10</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robert Martin, RVI English Representative – RVI is Renaissance Vanguard International, an organization founded on Communitarian and Distributist principles, “Centrifuge Capitalism” – Amerika – Jun 21st, 2010 – http://www.amerika.org/politics/centrifuge-capitalism/)</span>

Centralization and capitalism are necessary<span style="font-size: 8pt;">for any intelligent civilization, </span>yet in excess drains the<span style="font-size: 8pt;">base </span>population of any sustenance whatsoever, leaving them<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> unemployed, homeless and </span>starving <span style="font-size: 8pt;">at worst. </span>The answer<span style="font-size: 8pt;">to this event </span>is not a swing on the pendulum all the way onto total equality<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> fisted socialism out on a plate for everyone who isn’t rich, </span>that would be devastating for organization<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, but is a more natural ecosystem type of financing of a near-barter economics with different values and currencies for localized entities and more buoyant monetary for inter-localities – only monetizing where absolutely necessary. </span>Without<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>higher economics<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that goes beyond small barter communities, </span>there could be no space programs<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>or planetary defences providing the technology or the organization necessary to survive extinction events<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> or fund a military etc, it’s critical for the structure of the super-organism – </span>yet<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> too much and </span>some individuals inside of it become so padded from<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> outside </span>reality that they completely ignore the world around them.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Centralization is pseudo gravity of the political variant, it sucks everything down into a point, and through this it creates a civilization, a planet of its own amidst a world of other civilizations all coalescing out of species of life at a specific evolutionary capacity. Global modern day capitalism, in its most destructive phase, is made out of a ‘substance’ that cannot overcome itself to produce wealth through its centralization, as far as it has gone now. But it is possible, if many ‘planets’ ‘stars’ or everything that makes up a wealthy locality all evolve to revolve around a central core, then this will produce a kind of ‘active centralization’ where the dead and cold rock of debt is stripped apart of its structure and is made into pure wealth, pure value and then jetted out of the core of civilization, thereby producing wealth on a higher niche via fusing the negative debt with the unseen gravity of its social environment. Evolution is at a somewhat constant rate and afflicts every gene and meme in existence at varying energies, if we don’t adapt to our environment then we will be at the mercy of the ourselves alone, likewise if we don’t adapt ourselves we will be at the mercy of our environment alone. Although good for some, for the future it is severely disabling and cannot allow for space exploration. </span>Capitalism,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> like every theory, is memes, therefore it can be improved by alternating the frequencies and wavelengths of its usage, it </span>can be evolved to be more collective<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>to refertilize<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the environment so that individuals can once again contribute back into the centralization </span>instead of a<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ‘once in a civilization </span>opportunity’ where we have one big boom and the rest is dumped<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the toilet for </span>the peasants to feast.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Like these active galaxies, absorb that which gets too centralized and jet it out as high energy wealth across the void of space, this jet then crushes the inert clouds, or communities, around it into fusing stars of their own. </span>Modern capitalism needs a black hole at its centre<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>therefore the individuals<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> at the core of its centrifuge will be spaghetified and </span>will have their <span style="font-size: 8pt;">organizations and </span>corporations torn apartinto<span style="font-size: 8pt;">sub atomic </span>values that then are then fused into <span style="font-size: 8pt;">exotic </span>wealth able to drive civilization into space and into creating new homes on distant planets for our species.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The centralization, combined with its spin, acts as a funnel to the higher castes of society that are then able to create beyond themselves enough that we can produce strong civilizations, culture, technology and mechanization. </span>So remember//**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">you shit eating socialists,</span>**//don’t throw the baby out with the bathwater or<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> your </span>people will not have a<span style="font-size: 8pt;">n intelligent </span>future at all, regressing into<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> your </span>economic swamps is not a viable solution<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


# **Vauge alts bad- they let the neg shift advocacies and steal aff offense- reject the K and the team.**

# **our addiction to oil is the cause of exploitation—this is a reason the alt cant solve and the perm does**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Wilkerson 06’ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Joseph, Professor of Environmental Science, Energy and Psyche: Resource Addiction in the Technological Age, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ecopsychology.org/journal/ezine/archive3/addiction.pdf]]</span></span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 8pt;">, April 2006 //STRONG]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “as Berry describes, </span><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 11.5pt;">we become addicted.</span>


# **Corporate enlightenment proves capitalism is self-correcting**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hollender and Breen 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – * Founder of the American Sustainable Business Council, a progressive alternative to the Chamber of Commerce, **Editorial Director of the Fast Company**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jeffrey Hollender, Bill Breen, “The Responsibility Revolution: How the Next Generation of Businesses will Win,” pg. 5-6</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Why is this different</span> from the drumbeat for corporate accountability that started at the beginning of the decade, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">after</span> the <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Enron, WorldCom, and Tyco</span> debacles? • Companies, in the wake of such scandals, must now work harder to protect their reputations. • <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Global brands,</span> which are battling to crack markets all over the world, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">are now expected to perform a social role</span>. <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Customers</span>, thanks to the Internet, now <span style="font-size: 11pt;">have more power than ever before—the power to scrutinize companies’ activities and to organize boycotts at the slightest sign of misbehavior</span>. • <span style="font-size: 11pt;">The body politic</span>, seared by Ponzi schemes and the meltdown in financial markets, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">is punishing ‘‘bad companies’’ and demanding that all companies ‘‘do good.’’</span> • Employees now expect companies to adopt a purpose that’s bigger than profit—a key factor in the competition for A+ talent. • Nongovernmental organizations (<span style="font-size: 11pt;">NGOs) are growing exponentially and are relentlessly pushing companies to contribute to society</span>. • <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Stakeholders are pressuring</span> institutional <span style="font-size: 11pt;">investors to adopt strong</span> principles of governance and <span style="font-size: 11pt;">a responsible investing strategy</span>. People across the political spectrum are concluding that despite the U.S.’s government bailouts of Wall Street and the U.S. car industry, business is still fast enough and nimble enough to innovate solutions to some of the world’s thorniest problems. Two proof points among thousands: Unilever’s pledge to certify as sustainable all of its Lipton tea bags sold globally, which promises to lift one million African tea growers out of poverty.11 Or <span style="font-size: 11pt;">recall the U.S. federal government’s feeble response to</span> the devastation caused by Hurricane <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Katrina. Wal-Mart,</span> with its world- class logistical operation—along with the help of countless individual volunteers and non-profits—<span style="font-size: 11pt;">proved to be the </span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">real first responder</span>**. More than anything, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">climate change is forcing business and society itself to rethink everything</span>, from transportation to energy sources to geo-politics to cities. When the oil baron T. Boone Pickens attacked the United States’ petroleum-based economy as a risk to national security, it was clear that** <span style="font-size: 11pt;">minds have changed</span>**. <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Formerly fringe notions that business should be environmentally and socially sustainable have </span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">moved to the mainstream</span>**—and <span style="font-size: 11pt;">the business landscape has been </span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">fundamentally transformed</span>**.


# **Floating PIKS Bad- they decrease policy education and take aff ground- voter for fairness and education**

# <span style="font-size: 8pt;">6.</span> **Capitalism not the root cause of war and the alt doesn’t solve**
**Martin 90**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Brian Martin, Department of Science and Technology Studies, University of Wollongong, Australia, Uprooting War, 1990 edition http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/90uw/uw13.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The discussion so far concerns capitalist firms within a particular state. The wider question is, </span>what role does the world capitalist system play in the war system? When examining particular wars, the immediate role of profit and accumulation are often minimal. Examples are World War Two, the Indochinese War and the many Middle East wars. Even in many colonial empires, immediate economic advantages for the capitalist class have played a minor role<span style="font-size: 8pt;">compared to issues of expansion and maintenance of state power. The role of capitalism mainly entered through its structuring of economic relations which are supervised separately and jointly by capitalist states. The main military service of the state to capitalists in the international system is to oppose movements which threaten the viability of capitalist economic relations. This includes state socialism and all movements for self-management. At the same time, the way this state intervention operates, namely through separate and potentially competing state apparatuses, can conflict with the security of capitalism. </span>Wars and militaryexpenditurescan hurt national economies, as in the case of US government expenditures for fighting in Vietnam<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Only some struggles against capitalism have potential for challenging the war system. Efforts to oppose capital by mobilising the power of the state do little in this direction. In particular, promotion of state socialism (the destruction of capitalism within a state mode, with the maintenance of bureaucratic control and military power) does little to address the problem of war. The trouble here is that </span>much of the socialist left sees capitalism as the sole source of evil in the world. This approach is blind to the roots of social problems that do not primarily grow out of class domination, including racism, sexism, environmental degradation and war. Because of this blindness, even the struggle against capitalism is weakened, since attention is not paid to systems of power such as patriarchy<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and bureaucracy </span>which are mobilised to support capitalism as well as other interests.

# **Capitalism solves war**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Cudd 10 – Dean of Humanities and Professor of Philosophy @ KU</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Anne Cudd, “Capitalism for and Against: A Feminist Debate,” Google Book</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Does capitalism cause more wars? This has long been an argument of socialists against capitalism, but it seems a flimsy one.</span> First, it is clear that the <span style="font-size: 11pt;">communist experiments</span> of the twentieth century <span style="font-size: 11pt;">were</span> every bit as <span style="font-size: 11pt;">militaristic and capable of aggressive wars</span> as the capitalist ones. <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Second,</span> it is commonly asserted, and I think Professor Holmstrom would agree, that <span style="font-size: 11pt;">democratic nations do not wage war</span> against each other. But <span style="font-size: 11pt;">democratic countries tend toward capitalism, since that seems to be what people choose when given the chance. As with slavery, the logic of capitalism </span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">tells</span>****<span style="font-size: 11pt;">against war</span>**, in general, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">as that wipes out potential trading partners. Capitalist competition is a positive-sum game, not a zero or negative sum</span>. I agree wholeheartedly with Professor Holmstrom's assertion that security is than broader military security; the <span style="font-size: 11pt;">security</span> of persons and property generally <span style="font-size: 11pt;">is the necessary condition for capitalist development</span>.


====<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> **A2-States** </span>==== 

==== ==== 

====States have no funding for transportation infrastructure – budget deficits and revenue uncertainty==== 

Shirley <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ybarra</span>, Senior Transportation Policy Analyst. "Reason Foundation." Reason Foundation. N.p., 6-26-<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2012</span>, http://reason.org/news/show/temporary-fix-for-transportati-1

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">State transportation trust funds are under severe pressure</span> as well. Almost every state's transportation trust fund is predominantly financed with gas tax revenues, which have been declining due to higher gas prices<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, less driving and people driving more fuel efficient vehicles</span>. In the face of financial uncertainty at both the federal and state levels, it is no wonder that <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">most state transportation departments will be forced to make cautious decisions about their future projects</span>. They simply don't know how much money they'll have. In addition, many states are facing budget deficits. California's deficit is $15 billion, for example. As governors prepare budgets, they should propose budget cuts and cost-saving measures. States will also likely "borrow" money from their transportation trust funds in order to make ends meet elsewhere. "Borrowing" is effectively an additional transportation budget cut that will cause major infrastructure projects to be further delayed.

====States fail – companies wont invest==== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">American Public Transportation Association, 2012</span> – non-profit that advocates for the advancement of public transportation programs in the U.S., “An Inventory of the Criticisms of High-Speed Rail: with Suggested Responses and Counterpoints,” p. 36, http://www.apta.com/resources/reportsandpublications/Documents/HSR-Defense.pdf

If the Post read the Review Group report carefully, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">it would better understand why </span>private capital has been reluctant to openly commit to the project<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. The demonstration of firm public sector financial commitments will be an absolute necessity prior to approaching sources of private capital, it stressed. In other words, </span>investors won’t sink money into a project that’s under the threat of rescission by the likes of Rep. Lewis.




=Negative= 
===Strategy=== 
Iowa Caucus
Round 2 v. Saint Paul Central (Ruralism)
States CP
Cap K
Aspec
Elections DA

2NR= Elections

Round 4 v. Lane Tech(NIB)
T-Direct Investment
States CP
Elections
Cap K
2NR=Elections

Round 6 v. Washington( Gas Tax)
States CP
Elections
T
Nietche K
2NR= Elections
= = 
=Questions?= 
Email- Alayna- arouse315@gmail.com 
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]