[[toc]]
=Top Matter= 
Email kevinlcolbert@gmail.com for specific cites/questions

=Affirmative= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Yucca - Nuclear Waste</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Yucca - Nuclear Waste-Contention 1: Inherency]]Contention 1: Inherency</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Despite Obama, Congress has put Yucca Mountain back on the docket as the permanent repository for nuclear waste, but no promises have been made towards implementation</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Alvarez 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [Robert; Senior scholar at the institute for policy studies in Washington DC, former senior policy advisor at the Department of Energy “Improving Spent-Fuel Storage at Nuclear Reactors”</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #231f20; font-size: 8pt;">In January 2010…resistant manner</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Temporary repositories are at the brink of capacity – a switch to a permanent disposal site is needed</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Miller 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [July 28; Craig: </span><span class="st" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Editor of the Harvard Mental Health Letter and MD, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NPR, “Nuclear Waste Piles Up As Repository Plan Falters”</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Diablo Canyon</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">....</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">management of nuclear waste, she said</span>__

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Yucca - Nuclear Waste-Contention 2: Vulnerability]]Contention 2: Vulnerability</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Waste is vulnerable to terrorist attacks for two reasons –</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">First, lack of security leaves waste susceptible to terrorist acquisition</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Caldicott, 6</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [Helen, Founder and President of the Nuclear Policy Research Institute “Nuclear Power is not the answer” pg. 89-92</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Timemagazine recently</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">…..so incredibly low it is not credible</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Secondly, the plutonium byproduct from reactors is uniquely susceptible—this incentivizes terrorists to acquire these materials and build dirty bombs</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ruff 6</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [Tilman: associate professor in infectious diseases and public health physician; Associate Professor in the Nossal Institute for Global Health, University of Melbourne; medical advisor for the International Department of Australian Red Cross; and technical advisor on immunisation in Pacific island countries for UNICEF[[http://www.mapw.org.au/glossary/term/112|i]] and AusAID “Nuclear Terrorism”</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plutonium</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">isotopes are inevitably produced when</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">….ranging from ‘excellent to appealing’.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Terrorists use these materials to make WMDs and dirty bombs that risk warfare</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ruff 6</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [Tilman: associate professor in infectious diseases and public health physician; Associate Professor in the Nossal Institute for Global Health, University of Melbourne; medical advisor for the International Department of Australian Red Cross; and technical advisor on immunisation in Pacific island countries for UNICEF[[http://www.mapw.org.au/glossary/term/112|i]] and AusAID “Nuclear Terrorism”</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nuclear terrorism could take many</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">….more compact, modular, and concealable.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That escalates to nuclear war</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ayson 10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Robert Ayson, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, 2010 (“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">A terrorist nuclear attack, and even the use of nuclear…</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">help the chances of nuclear restraint.</span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A shift to a permanent geological repository is necessary in order to secure nuclear waste from terrorist acquisition of nuclear materials</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Susanne E. **Vandenbosch** and Robert **Vandenbosch 12** [American Physical Society “A Blue Ribbon Commissions Proposal for Breaking the Nuclear Waste Stalemate” </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">It is under this key element that </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the Commission</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">…..</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">for making nuclear weapons.</span>__

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Yucca - Nuclear Waste-Contention 3: Sustainability]]Contention 3: Sustainability</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The nuclear power industry is ramping up now on a global scale and other countries are looking to the US for modeling – absent a permanent repository for nuclear waste, we’ll lose our leadership role in the nuclear power industry which will be filled in by other countries</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Domenici & Miller 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [July; Pete: Senator and Senior Fellow at the Bipartisan Policy Center Warren: PhD, is a private consultant and a part time Research Professor at Texas A & M University and assistant secretary for nuclear energy at the U.S. Department of Energy “Maintaining US Leadership in Global Nuclear Energy Markets: A Report of the Bipartisan Policy Center’s Nuclear Initiative”</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nuclear power already plays</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">…risk of nuclear weapons proliferation.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Global Warming is real and anthropogenically induced from the use of fossil fuel based technologies. Drastically reducing emissions is key to avoiding dangerous climate disruptions.</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Somerville 11** - (</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Richard Somerville, Distinguished Professor Emeritus and Research Professor at Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California, San Diego, Coordinating Lead Author in Working Group I for the 2007 Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 3-8-2011, “CLIMATE SCIENCE AND EPA'S GREENHOUSE GAS REGULATIONS,” CQ Congressional Testimony, Lexis)</span>

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">In</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> early </span><span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">2007</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, at the time of….near zero well within this century.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fossil fuels, coal, and renewable energies are failing –the nuclear power industry is the feasible technology that could cause a shift to sustainable energies, absent this, extinction is inevitable from warming</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Greenwood 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [July 24; Veronique: Degree in molecular, cellular, and developmental biology from Yale, staff writer at DISCOVER and former writer for Yale Environment 360 “The Lesser Evil: Nuclear or Coal?”</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">“</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">If I compare the downsides</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">….</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">make nuclear power even greener.</span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Even if nuclear power is vulnerable, it is __comparatively__ better than the alternatives</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Epstein 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [Alex, fellow at the Rand Institute, specializes in energy issues; BA from Duke University, was editor and publisher of the </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Duke Review</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> for two years. “Nuclear Power Is Extremely Safe -- That's the Truth About What We Learned From Japan”. July 23, 2011.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">The grounds for this move….endangering its citizens’ health</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Global warming will reach a tipping point within the decade – positive feedbacks would raise sea level and threaten food security which causes extinction </span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Brown</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Director and Founder of the global institute of Environment in the U.S., </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">2008</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[Lester E. Brown, “Plan B 3.0: Mobilizing to Save Civilization”]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">In 2004, Stephen Pacala….under these extreme stresses</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Yucca - Nuclear Waste-Plan Text]]**Plan Text**</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment for a permanent geological repository at Yucca Mountain.</span>**

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Yucca - Nuclear Waste-Contention 4: Solvency]]Contention 4: Solvency</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The DOE will take the lead on coordination with national, state, local, and native governments to accommodate for route management, waste management, and disposal of nuclear waste from temporary to a permanent geological repository at Yucca Mountain</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lanthrum et al 09</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [G. Lanthrum, F. Moussa U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Civilian Radioactive Waste Management; J. Patric, P. Bolton “Overview of the Office of Civilian Radioactive Waste Management’s National Transportation Plan – 9338”</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">__The transportation system__….__preliminary suite of national routes__</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The plan solves – increasing transportation of nuclear waste to Yucca Mountain ensures safe access to permanent disposal sites and prevents native opposition </span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Western Governors Association 11</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [September 13; independent, nonprofit organization representing the Governors of 19 states and three US-Flag Pacific islands. Address issues that include natural resources, the environment, human services, economic development, intergovernmental relations and international relations. “Spent Nuclear Fuel Transportation Concerns”</span>

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Governors find that as a result….inspecting and escorting shipments</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dig Once</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Yucca - Nuclear Waste-Contention 1: Inherency]]Contention One: Rural Exclusion</span>=== 

**The Federal Government is pushing for increased Broadband Access nationwide, spurred by President Obama’s 2012 “Dig Once” executive order, which mandates a set of best practices that must be established by June 2013 in order to expand access to the web.**
Chris **Janson**, a senior product manager in Ciena’s industry marketing group, August 14, **2012**. [Ciena Insights Blog,” <span class="s1">“Dig Once” Initiative a step towards U.S. broadband success” <span class="s2">[[http://www.ciena.com/connect/blog/Dig-Once-Initiative-a-step-towards-US-broadband-success.html]]</span></span>] (BD)
<span class="s3">To help address this, </span><span class="s4">on June 14, 2012, President Obama issued an </span>
<span class="s4">AND</span>
steering Universal Service Fund and eRate monies towards that purpose is under discussion.
**But this is not enough – 19 million remain without access to broadband. Leaving last mile connectivity up to the discretion of other actors perpetuates exclusion.**
**Federal Communication Commission 12** [August 21 2012 “Eight Broadband Progress Report” ([[http://hraunfoss.fcc.gov/edocs_public/attachmatch/FCC-12-90A1.pdf]]) [KC]

<span class="s5">We have</span> also <span class="s5">continued to push </span>forward with our Broadband Acceleration Initiative <span class="s5">to lower the </span>
<span class="s4">AND</span>
<span class="s4">.S. prices for these higher speed services exceed many other countries. </span>

**For Example, Rural African-American and low income communities in Mississippi have less access to broadband service because of last mile connectivity and/or price.**
**Wiley and Johnson 12** [Maya Wiley, President, The Center for Social Inclusion and Derrick Johnson, Executive Director, Mississippi State Conference NAACP will discuss the report’s findings “Landmark Study Shows Race Predicts Access to Broadband in Mississippi” (<span class="s6">[[http://www.diversityinc.com/diversity-press-releases/landmark-study-shows-race-predicts-access-to-broadband-in-mississippi/]]</span>) [KC]

<span class="s5">The Center for Social Inclusion (CSI)</span> and Mississippi State Conference NAACP released a
AND
<span class="s4">and adults’ capacity to learn suffers significantly when they cannot access the Internet. </span>

**This causes electronic-redlining that reinforces exclusion of peripheral groups**
Bosah **Ebo, 1998**. [“Internet or Outernet?” <span class="s4">Cyberghetto or cybertopia? : race, class and gender on the Internet</span> ed. by Bosah Ebo] p. 6 (BD)

<span class="s3">Critics argue that </span><span class="s4">access to cyberspace seems </span><span class="s3">currently to be </span><span class="s4">concentrated in the hands of </span>
<span class="s4">AND</span>
<span class="s4">the integration of peripheral groups into mainstream cultural interactions and creates a cyberghetto.</span>


**This results in internet “have-nots” that perpetuates cycles of exclusion preventing social mobility**
<span class="s7">Susan P. **Crawford 11**, NYT, Dec. 3, [New York Times, “The New Digital Divide”<span class="s8">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/12/04/opinion/sunday/internet-access-and-the-new-divide.html?_r=0&pagewanted=print]]</span>] (BD)</span>
<span class="s9">Such </span><span class="s4">numbers may seem proof that America is, indeed, online. But they </span>
<span class="s4">AND</span>
have wired Internet access at home, compared with 72 percent of whites.


**And the elite access to internet that increases inequality and information redlining is a manifestation of racism that dictates power and mobility**
Alecia **Wolf, 1998**. [“Internet or Outernet?” <span class="s4">Cyberghetto or cybertopia? : race, class and gender on the Internet</span> ed. by Bosah Ebo] p. 2 (BD)

<span class="s4">Equality of access necessarily affects Internet equality.</span> While a standard telephone line can be
AND
communities are “connected” in a nondiscriminatory manner (Action Alert 1994).

**The Internet has become the primary mediator of social relationships. Investigating the role of race, class, and gender is germane to the question of exclusion and access.**
Bosah **Ebo, 1998**. [“Internet or Outernet?” <span class="s4">Cyberghetto or cybertopia? : race, class and gender on the Internet</span> ed. by Bosah Ebo] p. 2 (BD)

<span class="s4">Access to cyberspace becomes even more important as new notions of social identities develop, </span>
<span class="s4">AND</span>
<span class="s4">have access to the new cyberculture will inevitably stand to benefit the most.</span>


**The Digital Divide is a reflection of Society – this causes inequalities and an indifferent government. Only the plan solves.**
Barney **Warf**, Univ of Kansas, **2010** ( IGI Global “The Digital Divide in the
<span class="s10">U.S. in the 21st Century” <span class="s4">[[http://techstyle.lmc.gatech.edu/wp-content/uploads/2011/10/digitaldivide2.pdf]]</span>] (BD)</span>

<span class="s4">The digital divide in the U.S. reflects the </span><span class="s9">unique constellation of cultural</span>
AND
<span class="s9">what is clear is that </span><span class="s4">without them, the digital divide will persist.</span>

**Because we are privileged in terms of our race and our gender and because we are participants in an activity that takes for granted its use of technology, like computers and access to the internet, we offer the following plan:**

**The President of the United States should extend the “Dig Once” executive order to mandate and fund the build-out of last mile connectivity with open access conduit and fiber-optic roads.**

**As a forum that encourages methods to fight oppression, the internet deconstructs hierarchies, as it lacks the exclusion found in face to face encounters.**
Bosah **Ebo, 1998**. [“Internet or Outernet?” <span class="s4">Cyberghetto or cybertopia? : race, class and gender on the Internet</span> ed. by Bosah Ebo] p. 2-3

Proponents of the Internet see the technology as a great equalizer because virtual communities do
AND
<span class="s4">platforms that subvert patriarchal hierarchy in the social and economic structure of society.</span>

**Federal action is key to unlocking the Internet’s emancipatory potential by alleviating service providers’ prohibitive high costs associated with extending broadband services to rural areas.**
**New America Foundation 09** [June “Linking Broadband with Transportation Infrastructure: New America Foundation Applauds Klobuchar/Warner Bill” ([[http://wirelessfuture.newamerica.net/pressroom/2009/linking_broadband_transportation_infrastructure_new_america_foundation_applauds_klobuchar_warner_bill]]) [KC]

The New America Foundation applauds <span class="s5">this forward-thinking legislation</span>. "As the nation
<span class="s4">AND</span>
efficient means to promote the deployment of fiber into communities across the country.

**We are a form of targeted universalism that is the beginning of an exploration into deconstructing exclusion – monolithic universalism is what is the problem, only President Obama coming to terms with his exclusion is key to solving**
**Powell and Watts 10** [John A. Caitlin “The Journal of Law in Society, Negotiating the New Political and Racial Environment” Vol. 11, 2010]
<span class="s4">It is crucially important to connect the individual to the structural, and vice-</span>
<span class="s4">AND</span>
racial resentment, they sacrifice much of the interest of non-whites.

**The Internet is fundamental for the mobilization of social movements and insurgent politics. Any alternative results in notions of exclusion that perpetuate the Digital Divide.**
**Castells 7** [Manuel, Annenberg School for Communication, University of Southern California. International Journal for Communication “Communication, Power and Counter-power in the Network Society” ([[http://www.itu.dk/people/khhp/speciale/videnskabelige%20artikler/Castells_2007%20-%20Communication%20power%20in%20the%20network%20society.pdf]]) [KC]

By counter-power I understand the capacity by social actors to challenge and eventually
AND
<span class="s4">. That is building networks of meaning in opposition to networks of instrumentality.</span>

**Moreover, we must fight within the walls of institutions like the state to challenge forms of domination that result in methods of oppression like racism**
<span class="s4">**Grossberg 1992**</span> (Lawrence, Professor of Communication Studies @ University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. We Gotta Get Out of This Place: Popular Conservativsm and Postmodern Culture, p. 390-391)

<span class="s9">But this would mean that </span><span class="s4">the Left could not remain outside the systems of governance</span>
<span class="s4">AND</span>
<span class="s4">as well as the moral responsibility) to fight them [social disgraces].</span>


===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Yucca - Nuclear Waste-Contention 1: Inherency]]Contention Two: Impact Framing</span>=== 

**Utilitarian calculus ignores the actuality of racism; in their framing, racism still outweighs.**
Charles <span class="s11">**Mills**</span>, 19<span class="s11">**97**</span>, <span class="s4">The Racial Contract</span>, p. 96-102
<span class="s12">This </span><span class="s4">partitioned moral concern can</span><span class="s12"> usefully </span><span class="s4">be thought of as</span><span class="s12"> a kind of </span><span class="s4">"Herrenvolk </span>
<span class="s4">AND</span>
<span class="s4">if you start with this, then you will end up with that.</span><span class="s12">)</span>


**Structural violence outweighs all of your magnitude claims**
<span class="s13">**Hintjens 7** </span>[Helen Hintjens is Lecturer in the Centre for Development Studies, University of Wales, “MDF Understanding Development Better”]
From Johan Galtung, famous Norwegian peace ‘guru’, still alive and heads up
AND
<span class="s4">**violence…is neither natural nor inevitable**</span><span class="s14">”, p. 301 (Prontzos). </span>

**Predictions are impossible – linear analysis causes policy failure**
**Sa, 4** – Deug Whan, Dong-U College, South Korea, (“CHAOS, UNCERTA I N T Y, AND POLICY CHOICE: UTILIZING THE ADAPTIVE MODEL,” International Review of Public Administration, vol. 8, no. 2, 2004, scholar)RK

<span class="s3">In many cases, </span><span class="s4">a small choice might lead to overwhelming results</span><span class="s3"> that generate either </span>
AND
states, the same environments, and governed by the same causal relationships.

**No risk of nuclear war or great power conflict—//nuclear deterrence//.**
<span class="s15">**Tepperman 9**</span> — Jonathan Tepperman, Deputy Editor of //Newsweek//, Member of the Council on Foreign Relations, now Managing Editor of //Foreign Affairs//, holds a B.A. in English Literature from Yale University, an M.A. in Jurisprudence from Oxford University, and an LL.M. in International Law from New York University, 2009 (“Why Obama Should Learn to Love the Bomb,” //The Daily Beast//, August 28th, Available Online at http://www.thedailybeast.com/newsweek/2009/08/28/why-obama-should-learn-to-love-the-bomb.print.html, Accessed 01-27-2012)

<span class="s4">A growing and compelling body of research suggests that nuclear weapons</span><span class="s12"> may not, in </span>
AND
<span class="s4">oppressive, but **nothing in their behavior suggests they have a death wish**</span><span class="s9">.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Freight Rail</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Yucca - Nuclear Waste-Contention 1: Inherency]]Plan Text</span>=== 

<span style="font-size: 48px;">United States federal government should substantially increase its freight rail infrastructure investment in the United States.</span>



We’ll clarify.



===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Advantage One - Freight Overload</span>=== 

**An increase in freight demand is inevitable due to the coming population crunch. New infrastructure is key, but businesses can’t do it alone.**

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Treasury</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> 3-23-</span><span class="SmalltextChar">__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">12</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (The Department of the Treasury is responsible for analyzing and reporting on current and prospective economic developments in the U.S. and world economies and assisting in the determination of appropriate economic policies. Treasury conducts research to assist in the formulation and articulation of public policies and positions of the Department on a wide range of microeconomic issues,“A NEW ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT,” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/economic-policy/Documents/20120323InfrastructureReport.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> ;)</span>




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">The merits of </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">infrastructure</span>....
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">can be no more business as usual</span>.”

**This unchecked rail congestion will collapse the global supply chain.**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">BAF</span>**</span> 20<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">11</span>**</span> (Building America’s Future, A<span class="fblongblurb"> national, bipartisan coalition dedicated to infrastructure investment and reform, February 2011, “Falling Apart and Falling Behind,” </span>[[http://www.bafuture.com/sites/default/files/Report_0.pdf]] ;)
In the 21st century, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">globalization...</span>
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">and revenues with them.</span>

**It’s reverse causal – improving rail capacity upholds the global flow of trade.**
**Horsley 11**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (John, Executive director of the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, “Freight-Rail Bottom Line Report,” pdf ;)</span>
Freight-rail service provide ...
trade by value.

**Breakdown of global transportation causes nuclear war –accesses every impact.**
<span class="Underline">**Dempsey 2k**</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(Paul Stephen, Professor of Law and Director of the Transportation Law Program at University of Denver, Director of the National Center for Intermodal Transportation, former attorney for the Interstate Commerce Commission and the US Civil Aeronautics Board, Summer 2000, 27 Transp. L. J. 367, Lexis Nexis)</span>
As the gateways...
retard economic growth

**Free trade empirically solves conflict escalation.**
**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Griswold 5</span>** [Daniel, Director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the Cato Institute, [[http://www.freetrade.org/node/282]]]
Of course, free...
trade also comes 


===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Advantage Two - Peak Oil</span>=== 



**Status quo initiatives won’t solve in time – Peak oil is coming before 2020.**
**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Kumhof and Muir 12</span>** (Michael and Dirk, Michael Kumhof is the deputy chief of the modeling division at the research department of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), Dirk Muir is in the International Monetary Fund’s Research Department and Economic Modeling Division, October 25th 2012, “Oil and the World Economy: Some Possible Futures,” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/wp/2012/wp12256.pdf]]</span> ;)


<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">This paper, based...</span>

in our simulations.


**That will lead to an age of scarcity – immediate action to build resilience is necessary.**

<span class="Underline">**Wakeford 12**</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (Jeremy, senior lecturer in the School of Economics at UCT and is Research Director of the. Association for the Study of Peak Oil South Africa, July 27th 2012, “Peak oil is no myth,” </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.engineeringnews.co.za/article/peak-oil-is-no-myth-2012-07-27]]</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> ;)</span>

<span class="Underline"> </span>

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Peak oil is....</span>

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">sustainable energy economies. </span>


**The plan provides a transportation backbone not dependent on oil, solving the worst case scenarios of the peak.**

Alan S. **<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Drake ’10</span>** <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">*Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group</span>

[“A Citizen's Guide to an Oil Free Economy, Chapt. 1”, Association for the Study of Peak Oil & Gas USA, [[http://aspousa.org/2010/10/a-citizens-guide-to-an-oil-free-economy-chapt-1/]], October]

Benefits - Transferring inter-city....

are investing today.


**Electrification of rail will cover 85% of needs in the event of a crisis – that prevents oil rationing.**

Alan S. **<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Drake ’10</span>** <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">*Consulting Engineer and Founder of Streetcars Desired Everywhere, an Electric Transportation Advocacy Group</span>

[“A Citizen's Guide to an Oil Free Economy, Chapt. 1”, Association for the Study of Peak Oil & Gas USA, [[http://aspousa.org/2010/10/a-citizens-guide-to-an-oil-free-economy-chapt-1/]], October]


Chapter #1 – Electrified and Improved ...

oil to critical needs.


**Peak oil will escalate resource competition and cause national outrage within the US.**

<span class="Underline">**King**</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> 20</span><span class="Underline">**08**</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(Neil, Wall Street Journal analyst regarded as being in the “economic mainstream,” whose involvement as an analyst has enhanced greatly the credibility of peak oil concerns, “Peak Oil: A Survey of Security Concerns,” Center for a New American Security Working Paper, September 08, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://se1.isn.ch/serviceengine/FileContent?serviceID=ISN&fileid=7D4B6FDF-1951-EBEC-FA16-8A86D1F74087&lng=en]]</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">)</span>

A similar peak...

the country’s travails.


**That means the US will ignite global wars for oil – they’ll override rational calculations.**

<span class="Underline">**King**</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> 20</span><span class="Underline">**08**</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(Neil, Wall Street Journal analyst regarded as being in the “economic mainstream,” whose involvement as an analyst has enhanced greatly the credibility of peak oil concerns, “Peak Oil: A Survey of Security Concerns,” Center for a New American Security Working Paper, September 08, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://se1.isn.ch/serviceengine/FileContent?serviceID=ISN&fileid=7D4B6FDF-1951-EBEC-FA16-8A86D1F74087&lng=en]]</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">)</span>



In the U<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">nited </span>S<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">tates ....</span>

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">does, look out.”</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">8 </span>


**This lashout will cause extinction.**

<span class="Underline">**Lewis**</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> 19</span><span class="Underline">**98**</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(Chris H, Professor in Sewall Academic Program at CU-Boulder, “The Coming Age of Scarcity,” Pg 56)</span>


Most critics would ...

of global civilization.


**Absent resource wars, we are so dependent on oil, the peak will cause __mass outrage__ and __regional wars__ around the globe.**

<span class="Underline">**King**</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> 20</span><span class="Underline">**08**</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(Neil, Wall Street Journal analyst regarded as being in the “economic mainstream,” whose involvement as an analyst has enhanced greatly the credibility of peak oil concerns, “Peak Oil: A Survey of Security Concerns,” Center for a New American Security Working Paper, September 08, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://se1.isn.ch/serviceengine/FileContent?serviceID=ISN&fileid=7D4B6FDF-1951-EBEC-FA16-8A86D1F74087&lng=en]]</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">)</span>



Many of the...

China, India, and Japan.


**Post-peak resource wars are the only scenario for nuclear war. Multilateralism solves all other instances of escalation – but the peak is the “elephant in the room.”**
**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Watson 5</span>** (Roland, Author of various reports and the investment newsletter The New Era Investor, “Peak Oil & Nuclear War,” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.powerswitch.org.uk/portal/index2.php?option=com_content&do_pdf=1&id=912]]</span> ;)


Now here we are 30 years on ...

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">oil for protection" racket. </span>


**Waiting until the peak means we won’t survive the transition. Action now to adapt is critical.**

<span class="Underline">**Roberts**</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> 20</span><span class="Underline">**04**</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(Paul, Regular Contributor to Various Periodicals, Finalist for the National Magazine Award in 1999 and for the New York PublicLibrary Award for Excellence in Journalism in 2005, “The End of Oil”, Pg 12)</span>


Yet despite the ...

from new opportunities.



===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Solvency </span>=== 



**The plan results in a net increase of capacity and electrification – that solves all bottlenecks and congestion.**
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">**Drake** et al</span>, Jan. **200<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">9</span>**, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">(A. Drake, Consulting Engineer, A. M. Bassi, Senior Modeler, Millennium Institute, E. L. Tennyson, Professional Engineer, Retired; Emeritus Member TRB, H. R. Herren, President, Millennium Institute)</span>, “Evaluating the Creation of a Parallel Non-Oil Transportation System in an Oil Constrained Future,” http://www.steelinterstate.org/sites/default/files/Transportation_MI09.pdf, p. 7-8</span>


<span style="text-align: justify;">The “high end” cost....</span>

<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">truck traffic to future rail.</span></span>


**Capacity investment is __necessary__ to prevent __freight overload__.**
<span style="text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Mulvey and Szabo, ’11</span>** (<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Francis P. Mulvey, a commissioner of the Surface Transportation Board in Washington; and Joseph C. Szabo, head of the Federal Railroad Administration in Washington</span>, 5-22-2011, “The Future of Rail,” Wall Street Journal,” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703834804576301230350030512.html)</span>


<span style="text-align: justify;">MR. MULVEY: Many factors ...
</span>

<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">to grow market share.</span></span>






=Negative= 
Note: Kevin was partners with Sophie during Grapevine - Stratford and was partners with George from Spring Woods - Current
==Round Reports== 
===Grapevine=== 

Round 1 vs. Katy Taylor (Port Security)
2NR: EIS CP

Round 4 vs. Bishop Guertin (Dredging)
2NR: Foucault K

Octas vs. Crosby (Military ATC)
2NR: Foucault K and Gusterson Turn

===Stratford=== 

It was either Foucault or Privatization CP/Ptx I dont remember the specific rounds

===Spring Woods/Memorial=== 

Round 2 vs Crosby (Military ATC)
2NR: Politics and Prolif Good + Case Defense

Round 4 vs Reagan (Disabilities)
2NR: Wilderson

===Mayde Creek=== 

Round 1 vs Bellaire (Nat Gas)
2NR: Pity Turn (Neitzsche) and Death

Round 3 vs. Cy Something (HSR)
2NR: Dedev

Quarters vs. Crosby (Military ATC)
2NR: Foucault K and Death

Semis vs Crosby (Military ATC)
2NR: Foucault K and Case

Finals vs Crosby (Military ATC)
2NR: Death and Nuclearism

===UT=== 

Round 1 vs St. Vincent (Bering Strait)
2NR: Wilderson K

Round 4 vs Little Rock Central (IWW)
2NR: Nuclearism and Death

Round 5 vs Coppell (Guam)
2NR: Foucault K

Doubles vs Westwood (Hydrogen Fuel)
2NR: Foucault K, Case, Condo Good

Octas vs St. Vincents (D-Lose Decontruction/Fun)
2NR: Wilderson K

Quarters vs Reagan (Conolly)
2NR: Wilderson K

===UIL Districts=== 

Round 1 vs Katy Taylor (Clean Streets)
2NR: Wilderson K

Round 2 vs local team (Dredging)
2NR: Privates CP

Round 3 vs local team (Dredging)
2NR: Privates CP

===Colleyville=== 

Round 2 vs Katy Taylor (Wilderson)
2NR: Anthro K

Round 4 vs St. Marks (NIB)
2NR: Nuclearism and Death

Round 5 vs Clear Lake (Speed Bad/ Dredging?)
2NR: Privates CP

===Berk=== 

Round 1 vs Loyola (Guam)
2NR: Death and Nuclearism

Round 4 vs BAUDL (Middle Passage)
2NR: Occupy K

Round 5 vs Dallas Jesuit (IWW)
2NR: Race K

===TFA State=== 

Round 2 vs Westwood (Disabilities)
2NR: Wilderson

Round 4 vs Roysce City (NIB)
2NR: Foucault

Round 5 vs Barbers Hill (Road Maintenance w/ no terminal impacts)
2NR: Privatization CP and Ptx DA

===UIL State=== 

Round 2 vs Sashe (Electric Freight Rail)
2NR: Case and Prolif DA

Round 3 vs Clear Lake (Mississippi River Delta)
2NR: Topicality - TI

Round Octas vs Bellaire (Nuclear Waste)
2NR: Case and Oil DA

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]