[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#September-October-Affirmative]]Affirmative</span>== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Due Process AC</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">First</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, as a starting point for morality, all moral theories presume the inherent worth of moral agents as grounds for constraints upon action, otherwise morality would have no reason to require anything. </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">QUINN</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Quinn, Warren S. Actions, Intentions, and Consequences: The Doctrine of Doing and Allowing. The Philosophical Review, Vol. 98, No. 3 (Jul., 1989). JSTOR. <</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2185021]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">></span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Second</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, we assert practical judgments as universal moral truth claims, so any moral rule must be applicable to all rational agents absent distinction. </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">REATH</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Andrews Reath, “Formal Approaches to Kant’s Formula of Humanity,” 2009 (To appear in Sorin Baiasu and Mark Timmons, eds, Kant on Practical Justification: Interpretive Essays (Oxford University Press)</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thus</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, our universal will to self-sufficiency as moral agents creates a negative obligation to non-interference with others.</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">ENGSTROM</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Stephen Engstrom. Professor of Philosophy at the University of Pittsburgh. "Universal Legislation as a Form of Practical Knowledge."</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">As such</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, any restriction of autonomy demands justification. Only constitutional due process protections protects individual freedom by allowing fair trials to determine guilt. </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">ALLAN</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Allan, T.R.S. Procedural Fairness and the Duty of Respect. Oxford Journal of Legal Studies, Vol. 18, No. 3 (Autumn, 1998), pp. 497-515. Oxford University Press.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, an institutional set of impartial standards provides a procedural basis of enforcement of moral norms.</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">RAWLS</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">John Rawls. "A Theory of Justice, Revised Edition." 10. INSTITUTIONS AND FORMAL JUSTICE</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">First</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, the NDAA permits indefinite detention of noncitizens based on executive discretion, barring the right to due process and trial.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The National Defense Authorization Act. H.R. 1540, 112 Cong. (2011) (enacted). Print. "National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012, Section 1021."</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Second</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, even if non-citizens are granted trial, military tribunals restrict access to adequate legal counsel, denying them a fair trial to defend themselves. </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">WANG</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Tova Andrea Wang, Senior Program Officer and Democracy Fellow at The Century Foundation. "The Military Tribunals Debate." The Century Foundation. 2003.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Third</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, lower standards for evidence increase the likelihood of wrongful conviction. </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">WANG 2</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fourth</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, lack of judicial review prevents any recourse in wrongful convictions. </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">WANG 3</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fifth</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, lack of public trials and civilian jury for non-citizens subverts transparency and public scrutiny, skewing trial decisions. </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">TURNER</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SERRIN TURNER, Harvard Law School, Associate Counsel for the Liberty & National Security Project at the Brennan Center for Justice at NYU School of Law, and STEPHEN J. SCHULHOFER, Robert B. McKay Professor of Law at NYU Law School. "THE SECRECY PROBLEM IN TERRORISM TRIALS." LIBERTY & NATIONAL SECURITY PROJECT. BRENNAN CENTER FOR JUSTICE AT NYU SCHOOL OF LAW. 2005.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sixth</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, only civilian courts have a multiple safeguards to prevent intelligence leak and promotes the use of high quality evidence, improving fair trial procedures. </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">TURNER 2</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Seventh</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, constitutional law and historical precedent mandate that non-citizens receive the same due process protections as citizens- any alternative lacks the fair standards of civilian court. </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">COLE</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">David Cole, Professor of Law, Georgetown University Law Center. “Are Foreign Nationals Entitled to the Same Constitutional Rights As Citizens?.” Georgetown Law Faculty Publications. March 2010.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Eighth</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, violations of due process open the door for additional restrictions of civil liberties. </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">MORELAND</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thomas H. Moreland, Chair of Committee on Federal Courts. The Association of the Bar of the City of New York Committee on Federal Courts. THE INDEFINITE DETENTION OF “ENEMY COMBATANTS”: BALANCING DUE PROCESS AND NATIONAL SECURITY IN THE CONTEXT OF THE WAR ON TERROR. 2004. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ninth</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, lack of due process undermines credibility of the rule of law and encourages other countries to uphold the same standards of unfair treatment for U.S. citizens. </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">RADDACK</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jesselyn A. Radack. "You Say Defendant, I Say Combatant: Opportunistic Treatment of Terrorism Suspects Held in the United States and the Need for Due Process." Review of Law & Social Change. Volume 29. 2005.</span>



==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#September-October-Negative]]Negative</span>== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Consent NC</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">100% analytic case why citizenship is a morally relevant distinction.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1. lack of mutual consent</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2. distinct moral communities</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">NSC CP</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">CP Text: The United States ought to create a National Security Court to try non-citizens accused of terrorism.</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">MCCARTHY AND VELSHI</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Andrew C. McCarthy, 2009, Director of the Center for Law & Counterterrorism at the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies and Alykhan Velshi, Staff Attorney at the Center for Law & Counterterrorism, “We Need a National Security Court."</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Intel DA</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Respecting the inherent worth of individuals requires saving the greatest amount possible for an impartial decision-maker. </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">RAKOWSKI</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Eric Rakowski. “Taking and Saving Lives.” Columbia Law Review. June 1993.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">I contend affirming threatens the wellbeing of US citizens- the negative advocates treatment of non-citizens accused of terrorism in military tribunals because only they protect classified information.</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">ELSEA 10</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jennifer K. Elsea, Congressional Research Service, Legislative Attorney. "The Military Commissions Act of 2009: Overview and Legal Issues." April 6, 2010.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, due to superior intelligence, status quo counterterrorism efforts are successful. </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">CARAFANO et al. 11</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">James Jay Carafano, Deputy Director, The Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies and Director, Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, Jena Baker McNeill, Jessica Zuckerman, Research Associate at Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, May 20, 2011, “39 Terror Plots Foiled Since 9/11: Examining Counterterrorism’s Success Stories” </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Heritage Foundation</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">But</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, due process forces the public announcement and disclosure of critical secret terrorist intel. </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">MCCARTHY</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Andrew C. McCarthy, 2009, Director of the Center for Law & Counterterrorism at the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies, lead prosecutor in the seditious conspiracy trial against Sheikh Omar Abdel Rahman and eleven others, and Alykhan Velshi, Staff Attorney at the Center for Law & Counterterrorism, “We Need a National Security Court” AEI.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, this is empirically verified. </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">KRAUTHAMMER</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Charles Krauthammer, American Pulitzer Prize-winning syndicated columnist, political commentator, and physician. His column is syndicated to more than 275 newspapers and media outlets. “In defense of secret tribunals," CNN Politics. November 19th, 2001.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, disclosure requirements make foreign allies less willing to provide us with intelligence. </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">MCCARTHY 2</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, good intelligence is key to counterterrorism efforts- it reduces the risk by 90%, self-reported by al-Qaeda terrorists themselves.</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">COBURN 11</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Andrew Coburn et al 2011, Maria Paul, Vikram Vyas, Gordon Woo, Weimeng Yeo “Terrorism in the Post-9/11 Era.” Risk Management Solutions. 2011.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, the impact is extinction– a strike by terrorists culminates in global nuclear war and destruction.</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">MORGAN</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dennis Ray Morgan, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies. "World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race." South Korea Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, moral uncertainty means we default to preventing extinction as a side constraint on morality. </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">BOSTROM</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nick Bostrom, 2001 Professor of Philosophy, Oxford University [Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, March 2002. First version: 2001 March, JStor.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, any risk of util means extinction is bad for the purposes of decision-making. </span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">BOSTROM 2</span>**

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]