=Affirmative= 
==Dowling 1AC== 
====Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its expedited investment in port deepening projects in the United States.==== 
===Contention 1 is Shout out to politics=== 
====Obama has expedited approval for projects, but not allocated funds – our aff is still inherent, but you don’t have any disads.==== 
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Morgan and Rabin 7/19</span>**– Miami Herald reporter, environment reporter (Curtis and Charles, “White House Speeds Up Permits, Offers No New Cash For Port Miami Dredge Project”, The Miami Herald, July 21 2012, [[http://www.miamiherald.com/2012/07/19/2902727/white-house-speeds-up-permits.html]])//CB//
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The White House</span>//__<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> on Thursday </span>__//<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">…</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> all remaining federal reviews</span>//__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">.”</span>__

===Contention 2 is a Dredge a Day, Keeps the Economist Away=== 

====The Panama Canal expansion will fundamentally change seaborne commerce – US ports require __new harbor deepening__ or they won’t be able to compete for post-Panamax ships==== 
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bridges 2011 </span>****–**Chairman of the Board of the American Association of Port Authorities and Executive Director of Virginia Port Authority (Jerry A., “Testimony of Jerry A. Bridges Chairman of the Board of the American Association of Port Authorities and Executive Director of Virginia Port Authority before the United States House of Representatives Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee Hearing: the Economic importance of Seaports: Is the United States Prepared for 21st Century Trade Realities?” , October 26, 2011, [[http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyWater/2011-10-26%20Darcy.pdf)/MM|http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyWater/2011-10-26%20Bridges.pdf)//MM]]

Since the birth of our nation, … access to seaports. We cannot wait.

====The perception of a federal commitment to port infrastructure is vital to __retain foreign customers__ – this will collapse the recovery==== 
**Calhoun 11**-- President of Cargo Carriers (Cargill) and Chairman of Waterways Council, Inc (Rick, “DREDGING FOR PROSPERITY”, Marine Log, August, ProQuest, [[http://proxy.lib.umich.edu/login?url=http://search.proquest.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/docview/889143450?accountid=14667]]”) EL

Just like the nation itself,<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> … </span>in the future of our inland waterways transportation system.

====Federal port infrastructure funding is increasing but not substantially for __new__ harbor deepening projects – the federal government’s __uncertain commitment__ prevents new projects==== 
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Szakonyi 12</span>— associate editor of the Journal of Commerce (Mark, “The Hill Ramping Up Dredging Efforts”, Journal of Commerce, 5/7, ProQuest) EL

__The push by U.S. ports …__, more meaningful long-term decisions.

====And these federal regulations mean any new projects will take __decades__ unless the federal government expedites construction==== 
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Nagle, 2012</span>**- President and CEO of the American Association of Port Authorities (Kurt J., “Testimony of Kurt J. Nagle President and CEO of the American Association of Port Authorities Before the United States House of Representatives Appropriations Committee Energy and Water Development, and Related Agencies Subommittee”, Budget Hearing- U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Assistant Secretary, Chief of Engineers, March 7, 2012, [[http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/EWTestimony%20Mar2012%20Final.pdf)/MM|http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/EWTestimony%20Mar2012%20Final.pdf)//MM]]

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">First, //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the funding level of … </span>//</span>so that we can meet the challenges of today and tomorrow.

====Seaport competitiveness is the vital internal link to US economic growth – seaports represent a quarter of US GDP and contribute __over 3 trillion__ to the economy==== 
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Nagle, 11</span>** --- president and chief executive officer of the American Association of Port Authorities (December 2011, Kurt, Industry Today, “Association: American Association of Port Authorities; Port-Related Infrastructure Investments Can Reap Dividends,” vol. 14, no. 3, [[@http://www.industrytoday.com/article_view.asp?ArticleID=F370]])

It seems <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the U</span>nited <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">S</span>tates <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">willingly … </span>to maintain federal navigation channels.

====And the status quo is only expediting 5 ports - prioritizing funding shortchanges small ports and destroys competitiveness==== 
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bridges 2011</span>**–**Chairman of the Board of the American Association of Port Authorities and Executive Director of Virginia Port Authority (Jerry A., “Testimony of Jerry A. Bridges Chairman of the Board of the American Association of Port Authorities and Executive Director of Virginia Port Authority before the United States House of Representatives Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee Hearing: the Economic importance of Seaports: Is the United States Prepared for 21st Century Trade Realities?” , October 26, 2011, [[http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyWater/2011-10-26%20Darcy.pdf)/MM|http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyWater/2011-10-26%20Bridges.pdf)//MM]]

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Some may suggest … in determining federal investment. </span>

====Boosting economic competitiveness is vital to preventing military retrenchment – risks great power wars==== 
**Khalilzad, ’11** – Bush’s ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the UN and former director policy planning at the DOD (Zalmay, “The Economy and National Security”, National Review, 2-8-11, [[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad]])

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Such scenarios would … //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the world toward a new, dangerous era of multi-polarity.</span>//</span>

====And, alternatives to growth kill hundreds of millions—we can’t “turn off” the economy.==== 
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Barnhizer 6</span> — David R. Barnhizer, Emeritus Professor at Cleveland State University’s Cleveland-Marshall College of Law, 2006 (“Waking from Sustainability's "Impossible Dream": The Decisionmaking Realities of Business and Government,” <span style="text-decoration: none;">Georgetown International Environmental Law Review</span>(18 Geo. Int'l Envtl. L. Rev. 595), Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis)
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The scale of </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">social needs</span>//</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">, … </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">consequences of our behavior.</span>//</span>

===Contention 3 is plop, plop, fizz, fizz=== 

====The Panama Canal expansion means the US will try to export liquid natural gas to Europe==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Eaton, 2012</span>** – reporter for the Houston Business Journal (Collin, “Economists differ on Panama Canal expansion's impact “, Houston Business Journal, May 29 2012, [[http://www.bizjournals.com/houston/blog/money-makers/2012/05/economists-differ-on-panama-canal.html]]) // MGD

Economists at a recent forum__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">,</span>__ … but it won’t necessarily be a game-changer.

====This requires increasing US harbor deepening to be successful==== 
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Ebinger et al. </span>****<span style="font-size: 11pt;">12</span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> -- </span>Task Force Co-Chair of Brookings Institution Natural Gas Task Force("Evaluating the Prospects for Increased Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas from the United States", January, p. 15, Brookings, www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf)//GP//

//Shipping Capacity The// <span style="font-size: 12pt;">successful </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">… </span>a dramatic decline in shipping costs to Asia. 40
====Expanding US LNG exports is vital to ending European gas dependence on Russia==== 
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Hulbert, 5/26</span>**– a Lead Analyst at European Energy Review and consultant to a number of governments, most recently as Senior Research Fellow, Netherlands Institute for International Relations (Clingendael), was previously Senior Research Fellow at ETH Zurich working on energy and political risk. He started work in the City of London, advising on energy markets and political risk, as Senior Energy Analyst at Datamonitor for leading global utilities, and headed up the Global Issues Desk at Control Risks Group, specializing in political risk, geopolitics and security analysis for multinational companies, governments and institutional investors. He was also seconded to work in Washington, D.C., to enhance CRG's political risk offerings in North America. (Matthew, “Why American Natural Gas Will Change The World”, Forbes, **5/26/12**, [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/matthewhulbert/2012/05/26/why-american-natural-gas-will-change-the-world/)/GP|http://www.forbes.com/sites/matthewhulbert/2012/05/26/why-american-natural-gas-will-change-the-world/)//GP]]

__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Europe will watch </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">… __frack in its own backyard.__</span>

====Russia’s monopoly on natural gas threatens Eurasian security and pro-democracy efforts==== 
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Baran, 7 </span>-** senior fellow and director of the Center for Eurasian Policy at the Hudson Institute in Washington, D.C. **(**Zenyo, “ EU Energy Security: Time to End Russian Leverage,” THE WASHINGTON QUARTERLY AUTUMN 2007, [[http://ao.hudson.org/files/publications/07autumn_baran.pdf]])

__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The </span>__<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">lack of reliable</span>//</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> and </span>__//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">... </span>//__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">and drug trafﬁcking in Central Asia and the Caucasus would increase.</span>__

====That Causes Eurasian instability==== 
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Asmus, 8</span>**- Executive Director of the Transatlantic Center at the German Marshall Fund of the United States, in Brussels, From 1997 to 2000, he served as U.S. Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs (Ronald, “ Europe's Eastern Promise; Rethinking NATO and EU Enlargement,” Foreign Affairs. New York: Jan/Feb 2008. [[http://www.jstor.org.proxy.lib.umich.edu/stable/pdfplus/20020270.pdf?acceptTC=true]])

IN THE early 1990S, after the Iron Curtain … **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">very different from one in which an autocratic, nationalist Russia is on the rise. </span>__**
====That results in Nuclear War==== 
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Mcdermott 11</span>**- specializes in Russian and Central Asian defense and security issues and is a Senior Fellow in Eurasian Military Studies, The Jamestown Foundation, Washington DC, Senior International Research Fellow for the Foreign Military Studies Office (FMSO), Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, and Affiliated Senior Analyst, Danish Institute for International Studies, Copenhagen. McDermott is on the editorial board of Central Asia and the Caucasus and the scientific board of the Journal of Power Institutions in Post-Soviet Societies. He recently wrote The Reform of Russia’s Conventional Armed Forces: Problems, Challenges and Policy Implications (Roger, “General Makarov Highlights the “Risk” of Nuclear Conflict”, 12/6/11, The Jamestown Foundation, [[http://www.jamestown.org/details/?tx_bzdstaffdirectory_pi1%5BshowUid%5D=140&tx_bzdstaffdirectory_pi1%5BbackPid%5D=60&no_cache=1]])//GP

In the current election season … __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">the old dogs of the Cold War would wish **to chew** on.</span>__

===Contention 4 is solvency=== 

====The plan will allow the US to double exports in the next 5 years==== 
**USA Today 11** – news agency (Larry Copeland, “A goal to be port of call for all; U.S. sites digging in to accommodate big ships,” USA Today, October 3, 2011, lexis)//CBs//
//It's just before noon on a recent weekday, and the nation's fastest-growing container shipping port is bustling with activity.//
//Massive, 10-story-high cranes__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">… </span>__//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This will keep us very competitive</span>//__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">." </span>__

====Finally, there are no prior questions - empirical validity is a sufficient justification for action. Emphasis on metaphysical hurdles destroys any chance of effectively describing the world and guiding action – our aff is a disad to any alternative==== 
**­­Owen 2** (David Owen, Reader of Political Theory at the Univ. of Southampton, Millennium Vol 31 No 3 2002 p. 655-7
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Commenting on the ‘philosophical turn’ in IR, … </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">a potentially </span><span class="CardText2Char">vicious circle arises.</span>