[[toc]]
=**Feminist Economics**= 
Economic Predictions and analyses are based on masculine mathematical modeling, not empirical data. Treating economics as objective and neutral leads to flawed predictions and continues masculine domination of the field. Vote negative to analyze the influence of gendering in economics to reform the economic method.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Nelson 96</span> (Julie A. Nelson, Feminist Economist, Professor of Economics and Department Chair at the University of Massachusetts. June 28, 1996. “The Masculine Mindset of Economic Analysis” published in The Chronicle of Higher Education 42(42), June 28, 1996, p. B3. [[http://www.facstaff.bucknell.edu/jshackel/iaffe/julienelson.html]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To many people outside the ... are useful are economists themselves.</span>

=**Social Ecology**= 
**The root cause of environmental destruction is social problems in society. Acting without solving for social problems masks this root cause and kills any aff solvency.**
**Bookchin 93**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Murray Bookchin. Cofounder and director emeritus of the Institute for Social Ecology. //Animal Rights to Radical Ecology//, “What Is Social Ecology.” http://dwardmac.pitzer.edu/Anarchist_Archives/bookchin/socecol.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What literally defines </span><span class="Underline">social ecology</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ...</span><span class="Underline"> is more cosmetic than curative. </span>

**Acting with the state will never solve for social problems. Vote neg to reject state action in favor of social anarchism to bring the power back to the communities**
**Bookchin 98** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Murray, Cofounder and director emeritus of the Institute for Social Ecology. Left Green Perspectives, No. 38. [[http://www.social-ecology.org/1998/04/left-green-perspectives-38/]].</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span>the state rarely bends to<span class="Underline"> ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> transformation of society (which the system must resist). </span>

=<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Security</span>= 

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Infrastructure Control by the affirmative reentrenches an ideology of Critical Infrastructure Protection which defines infrastructure as targets to continue the endless cycle of insecurities and also justify targeted warfare.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Collier & Lakoff 8</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(PhD in Anthropology @ Berkeley & PhD in Sociocultural Anthropology @ Berkley (Stephen J. & Andrew, “The Vulnerability of Vital Systems: How “Critical Infrastructure” Became a Security Problem” //The Politics of Securing the Homeland: Critical Infrastructure, Risk and Securitisation// 2008 [[http://anthropos-lab.net/wp/publications/2008/01/collier-and-lakoff.pdf)/JES|http://anthropos-lab.net/wp/publications/2008/01/collier-and-lakoff.pdf)//JES]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In this chapter we ask: Where did this ... such as Critical Foundations, cited above.</span>

Reject the affirmative—Only rejection the logic of security allows us to be emancipated from this ideology and develop a better politics. We don’t need to reform or replace security, only to return the gift of the state and deny its biopolitics.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Neocleous 8</span> (Mark Neocleous, professor of critique of political economy at Brunei University. “Critique of Security” pages 185-186)

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The only way out of ... brave enough to return the gift</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.143 </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>


=<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Heidegger</span>= 


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Any attempt to explore space is a misguided attempt to conquer universal truth. Seeking this point of objectivity will only replicate the Aff’s harms and destroy Being.</span>

<span class="DefaultParagraphFont1">**Arendt 61**</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> [Hannah, American political philosopher, student of Heidegger, “The Conquest of Space and the Stature of Man” The New Atlantis Fall 2007]</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">It is at this point, it seems ...</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> know of, but have been destroyed.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The alternative is to do nothing because only doing nothing allows for Being to reveal itself</span>

<span class="DefaultParagraphFont1">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Harman in 09</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Graham, Professor of Philosophy @ American University in Cairo, “Cambridge Journal of Economics”, 2009, Vol. 34(1), __Technology, objects and things in Heidegger__ p.17-25) JM</span>

Another word in Heidegger's constellation ... into a mere wish to know’<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Heidegger, 1994, pp. 71–2)</span>.