[[toc]]
=All Will Be Updated In Due Time. Sorry For Delay.= 
=Info= 
==Speakers== 
Priten Shah: 2N/1A (pshah@teach2learnfoundation.org)
Mihir Paradkar: 2A/1N (mparadkar225@gmail.com)
==Tournaments== 
Greenhill
Georgetown
New Trier
Big Bronx
Capitol
UMich
Scranton
Blake
=Aff= 
==1ACs== 
===UMich=== 
====Terrorism==== 
Our advantage is Terrorism
Port WMD detection capabilities lacking
Kouri 12 (Jim Kouri, CPP, the fifth Vice President and Public Information Officer of the National Association of Chiefs of Police, has served on the National Drug Task Force and trained police and security officers throughout the country, 2/22/12, U.S. bound cargo remains vulnerable to terrorists, WMD [[http://www.examiner.com/law-enforcement-in-national/u-s-bound-cargo-remains-vulnerable-to-terrorists-wmd]])MPARA

It’s been more than a decade since Islamic terrorists attacked the U.S.,
AND
of the Secure Freight Initiative (SFI) pilot program in December 2006."

Maritime shipments carry 95 percent of American international trade
Anthony 06(Lieutenant Colonel Hodges Anthony, America’s International Ports and Intermodal Transportation System: Ill-Prepared for Biological Weapons of Mass Destruction, 8 March 2006, U.S. Army War College,[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA449367]])MPARA

Maritime transportation depends on 361 American ports for ingress and egress of 95 percent of
AND
. The access to our ports is only one potential threat posed by terrorists
Terrorists are still a threat- they can move in the shadows and have orchestrated big attacks
DAVEED GARTENSTEIN-ROSS, terrorism scholar, NDT Champ, 10-2, 12, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/10/03/reports_of_al_qaedas_death_have_been_greatly_exaggerated]]
Al Qaeda is returning to the shadows. The experiment by al-Shabab,
AND
of many months of effort to build up a jihadi network in Libya.
Al Qaeda's senior leadership, according to the report, had dispatched high-level
AND
AQIM would "join hands with the al Qaeda clandestine network in Libya."
Terrorist groups can still attack- their networks are resilient and spread-out
Dozier 11 (Kimberly Dozier, AP, Al Qaeda WMD Use Likely, Former U.S. Officials Say, citing Mike Leiter, the just-retired director of the National Counterterrorism Center and former CIA Deputy Director John McLaughlin, 7/28/11, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/07/28/al-qaeda-wmd_n_912779.html]])MPARA

"He's not as charismatic ... but he may be more disciplined, he said
AND
and the other groups still have enough organization and staff to keep attacking.

Terrorists are motivated to use WMD
GOODIN 2006 (Robert, Robert Goodin is distinguished professor of philosophy at the Research School of the Social Sciences at the Australian National University, where he has taught since 1989. Prior that to he spent a decade teaching government at the University of Essex, What’s Wrong With Terrorism)

It was once thought that larger strategic considerations would inhibit terrorists from using weapons of
AND
even to unknowing or unwilling victims of the epidemics that they initiate.'

Terrorist groups seek WMDs to attack the US
Mowatt-Larsen 10 (Al Qaeda Weapons of Mass Destruction Threat: Hype or Reality? A Timeline of Terrorists' Efforts to Acquire WMD, Paper, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs January 2010Author: Rolf Mowatt-Larssen, Senior Fellow, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs
[[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/al-qaeda-wmd-threat.pdf]])

Several terrorist groups have actively sought weapons of mass destruction (WMD) of one
AND
the fundamental objectives that lie behind their WMD intent have changed over time.
The terrorist threat is real – they want to kill us
ELSHTAIN 2003 (Jean Bethke, Prof of Social and Political Ethics at U Chicago, Just War Against Terrorism, p. 94-95)

Those who do
AND
“Yes, but…” crowd.
They aim to attack high value American targets to create fear

George Friedman, founder of Stratfor, 2012, The Next Decade: Empire and Republic in a Changing World, p. 80

From a terrorist’s perspective, wasting a nuclear weapon on Spokane, Washington, or
AND
to inflict the kind of damage a weapon of mass destruction can engender.
Scenario one is nuclear terrorism
Maritime smuggling of nuclear material is the most likely scenario- it’s not extremely difficult to obtain and intact nukes are hard to come by
Cochran et. Al 08 (Dr. Cochran received his Ph.D.
AND
office, , Apr2008, Detecting Nuclear Smuggling, EBSCO)MPARA

To wreak havoc, terrorists could steal, purchase or be given a fully assembled
AND
of nuclear sites of concern in countries once part of the Soviet Union.
Enough highly enriched nuclear material is loose to make 200,000 nukes
Hoffman 10 (David E. Hoffman is a contributing editor to FP. His 2009 book, [[@http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0385524374?ie=UTF8&tag=fopo-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=0385524374|The Dead Hand: The Untold Story of the Cold War Arms Race and Its Dangerous Legacy,]] is the winner of the 2010 Pulitzer [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/04/12/time_is_of_the_essence?page=0,1|Prize]] for General Nonfiction, 4/12/2010, “Time is of the Essence”, http://www.foreign policy.com/articles/2010/04/12/time_is_of_the_essence?page=0,1)MPARA

In the years since then, much has been done to physically secure the loose
AND
nooks and crannies where the fissile material is vulnerable to theft or diversion.
Improvised nuclear weapons with modern fissile material are easy to detonate
Cochran et. Al 08 (Dr. Cochran received his Ph.D.
AND
office, , Apr2008, Detecting Nuclear Smuggling, EBSCO)MPARA

To make matters worse, it is conceivable that terrorists could smuggle HEU into the
AND
. The only real impediment, therefore, is secretly gathering sufficient material.
Detection in transit is key
Hoffman 10 (David E. Hoffman is a contributing editor to FP. His 2009 book, [[@http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0385524374?ie=UTF8&tag=fopo-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=0385524374|The Dead Hand: The Untold Story of the Cold War Arms Race and Its Dangerous Legacy,]] is the winner of the 2010 Pulitzer [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/04/12/time_is_of_the_essence?page=0,1|Prize]] for General Nonfiction, 4/12/2010, “Time is of the Essence”, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/04/12/time_is_of_the_essence?page=0,1]])MPARA

Aside from better locks on doors, much of the concern about nuclear security is
AND
must involve customs and security agencies to interdict the materials on the move.

Nuclear terrorism causes global nuclear war
Robert Ayson, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, 2010 (“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)

But these two nuclear worlds—a non-state actor nuclear attack and a
AND
consultation from Washington that the latter found itself unable or unwilling to provide.¶
Scenario two is bioterror
States are the most likely producers of biological weapons but terrorists are the most likely to use them
Anthony 06(Lieutenant Colonel Hodges Anthony, America’s International Ports and Intermodal Transportation System: Ill-Prepared for Biological Weapons of Mass Destruction, 8 March 2006, U.S. Army War College, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA449367]])MPARA

Before an assessment of the current capabilities for responding to a threat is considered,¶
AND
-state actors have expressed interest in using WMDs, including biological¶ weapons

Terrorists can easily steal biological weapons
Graham 08 (Bob Graham, a former governor of Florida and U.S. senator, was chairman of the Commission on Weapons of Mass Destruction Proliferation and Terrorism. BIOTERRORISM Preventing a greater threat, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/18/opinion/18iht-edgraham.1.18791453.html]])MPARA

I left Pokrov without much confidence in the security afforded the most lethal biological materials
AND
resort, the last two decades have seen an explosion of biological dangers.
Biological weapons are resistant to drugs and are easy to disperse
Cook and Woolf 02 (Michelle Stem Cook, Research Assistant Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division, Amy F. Woolf, Specialist in National Defense Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division April 10, 2002 Preventing Proliferation of Biological Weapons: U.S. Assistance to the Former Soviet States http://www.fas.org/spp/starwars/crs/RL31368.pdf)MPARA

According to unclassified reports, the Soviet/Russian BW program developed and produced genetically
AND
bomblets that could spin and spread disease as they fell from the sky.
Vaccines are too costly to develop for pharmaceutical companies- even federal funding for these efforts fails
Hylton 11 (Wil S. Hylton is an American journalist. He is a contributing writer for The New York Times Magazine[1] and a correspondent for GQ, October 26, 2011, How Ready Are We for Bioterrorism? [[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/10/30/magazine/how-ready-are-we-for-bioterrorism.html?pagewanted=all&_r=0)MPARA]]

Developing a new vaccine is vastly more complicated than increasing the supply of one that
AND
the contract, not one other major project was in development under BioShield.

Maritime transport is a key method of bioweapon attack- effective measures are not in place
Anthony 06(Lieutenant Colonel Hodges Anthony, America’s International Ports and Intermodal Transportation System: Ill-Prepared for Biological Weapons of Mass Destruction, 8 March 2006, U.S. Army War College,[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA449367]])MPARA

For terrorists seeking to inflict massive harm on the United States, international cargo transport
AND
United States… There’s no question the system is open and vulnerable.” 56

Terrorists would attack multiple targets before a biological threat was recognized
Nicolson 01(Bioterrorism¶,Bioterrorism and Biological Warfare Agents¶,Prof. Garth L. Nicolson¶,The Institute for Molecular Medicine, 2001, [[http://www.immed.org/illness/bioterrorism.html]])MPARA

The most likely target for bioterrorism is a major city or other densely crowded areas
AND
nature of patients seeking medical attention at different institutions and at different times.
Biological terror causes extinction
Parson, ‘6–(Ted Parson is Joseph L. Sax Collegiate Professor of Law, Professor of Natural Resources & Environment, and (by courtesy) Professor of Public Policy at the University of Michigan. His research examines international environmental law and policy, the role of science and technology in public policy, and the political economy of regulation., “The Big One: A Review of Richard Posner’s Catastrophe: Risk and Response,” [[http://www-personal.umich.edu/~parson/website/pdf/parson-jel-45-posner-catastrophe-review.pdf]].)

For his fourth risk, in case you are not scared enough, Posner turns
AND
tried to develop them. Suitable lab facilities exist in dozens of countries.
====Plan==== 
Thus the Plan:
The United States federal government should provide substantial investment in cargo container screening at ports in the United States through ultra-high speed gas chromatography.

====Solvency==== 
Contention Two is Solvency
Gas chromatography analyzes the contents of a container within 10 seconds
Ituh, 10(Archibong J. Ituh International Trade Specialist Aurora Networks, Inc. February 2010Port Security Technology for Closed Container Inspection at United States Seaports of Entry[[https://scholarsbank.uoregon.edu/xmlui/bitstream/handle/1794/10209/Ituh-2010.pdf?sequence=1]])MPARA

Abstract: Ultra-high speed gas chromatography is a powerful analytical method for analysis
AND
provides information reported in the Review of the Literature section of the paper.
And, Gas chromatography solves false alarms- it recognizes substances based on their unique composition of chemicals
Ituh, 10(Archibong J. Ituh International Trade Specialist Aurora Networks, Inc. February 2010 Port Security Technology for Closed Container Inspection at United States Seaports of Entry[[https://scholarsbank.uoregon.edu/xmlui/bitstream/handle/1794/10209/Ituh-2010.pdf?sequence=1]])MPARA

According to Staples (2006), although the system is useful for sampling any accessible
AND
, it must see everything and ¶ miss nothing (Staples, 2006).
Current methods of cargo container scanning fail
Cochran et. Al 08 (Dr. Cochran received his Ph.D.
AND
office, , Apr2008, Detecting Nuclear Smuggling, EBSCO)MPARA

The Department of Homeland Security began installing first-generation detector systems--known as
AND
to continue to fund such acquisitions in light of the machines' checkered history.

Port security is an area of federal authority
NC. Ariel Pinto and Ghaith Rabadi Engineering Management and Systems Engineering Old Dominion University 2011(US Port Security; Chapter 12)

The U.S. Maritime Transportation Security Act (MTSA),designed to protect
AND
. and 2) inspection times for U.S. export cargoes.
States don’t have the personnel or expertise
Holmes 12(Captain John M. Holmes¶ Deputy Executive Director of Operations¶ Port of Los Angeles, American Association of Port Authorities, represents over 150 port authority organizations throughout the Western Hemisphere, 3/7/12, “Testimony of Captain John M. Holmes”, http://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/hhrg-112-ap15-jholmes-20120307.pdf )

Moving the funding to the states is also a big concern for AAPA. Port
AND
the program to ensure that funding for port security is not diluted further.

====Framework==== 

Contention Three is: Our Framework:
We should focus on solving terrorism first
ELSHTAIN 2007 (Jean Bethke Elshtain is the Laura Spelman Rockefeller Professor of Social and Political Ethics at the University of Chicago, The Price Of Peace: Just War in the Twenty-First Century, Edited by Charles Reed and David Ryall)

Of course it is sometimes the case that elements of movements that resort to terrorism
AND
a patronising gesture that traffics in the most demeaning sorts of cultural stereotypes.
We have to weigh consequences- absolute deontological standards are contradictory and can’t be applied to policymaking
Michael Ignatieff, Professor of Human Rights, HarvardUniversity, LESSER EVILS, 2004, p. 20-1

As for moral perfectionism, this would be the doctrine that a liberal state should
AND
, and thus respect for one right might lead us to betray another.
The possibility that nuclear war can lead to extinction shatters all philosophical frameworks – must act to prevent nuke war first.
Schell, policy analyst and proliferation expert, 2000 (Jonathan, “The Fate of the Earth”, p. 94-5)

To say that human extinction is a certainty would, of course, be a
AND
to withdraw the threat we now pose to the earth and to ourselves.
Act to save the most lives – imperfect knowledge doesn’t justify inaction
Cowen 4 (Tyler, Professor of Economics – George Mason University, “The Epistemic Problem Does Not Refute Consequentialism”, 11-2, http://www.gmu.edu/jbc/Tyler/Epistemic2.pdf, p. 14-15)

The epistemic critique relies heavily on a complete lack of information about initial circumstances.
AND
uncertainty should not stop us from pursuing large upfront benefits of obvious importance.
Role-playing is uniquely empowering --- this imagination is critical to understand how the government reaches decisions, how to hold it accountable and determine how we should act
Rawls ‘99 (John, Professor Emeritus – Harvard University, The Law of Peoples, p. 54-7)
Developing the Law of Peoples within a liberal conception of justice, we work out
AND
, for in that case it would be incompatible with freedom of speech.

Policy analysis should precede discourse—it’s the most effective way to challenge power and discourse focus ignores real problems
Jill Taft-Kaufman, Professor in the Department of Speech Communication And Dramatic Arts at Central Michigan University, 1995 (“Other ways: Postmodernism and performance praxis,” The Southern Communication Journal, Volume 60, Issue 3, Spring, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via ProQuest Research Library)

If the lack of consistency between postmodernism's self-styled allegiance to the oppositional and
AND
political agendas, institutions, agencies, and the budgets that fuel them.

===Greenhill=== 
====Terrorism==== 
Contention one is Terrorism
Port WMD detection capabilities lacking
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kouri 12</span> (Jim Kouri, CPP, the fifth Vice President and Public Information Officer of the National Association of Chiefs of Police, has served on the National Drug Task Force and trained police and security officers throughout the country, 2/22/12, U.S. bound cargo remains vulnerable to terrorists, WMD [[http://www.examiner.com/law-enforcement-in-national/u-s-bound-cargo-remains-vulnerable-to-terrorists-wmd|__http://www.examiner.com/law-enforcement-in-national/u-s-bound-cargo-remains-vulnerable-to-terrorists-wmd__]])MPARA

It’s been more than a decade since Islamic terrorists attacked the U.S.,
AND
of the Secure Freight Initiative (SFI) pilot program in December 2006."

And, maritime shipments carry 95 percent of American international trade
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Anthony 06</span>(Lieutenant Colonel Hodges Anthony, America’s International Ports and Intermodal Transportation System: Ill-Prepared for Biological Weapons of Mass Destruction, 8 March 2006, U.S. Army War College,[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA449367|__http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA449367__]])MPARA

Maritime transportation depends on 361 American ports for ingress and egress of 95 percent of
AND
. The access to our ports is only one potential threat posed by terrorists

Terrorists are motivated to use WMD
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">GOODIN</span> 20<span style="font-size: 11pt;">06</span> (Robert, Robert Goodin is distinguished professor of philosophy at the Research School of the Social Sciences at the Australian National University, where he has taught since 1989. Prior that to he spent a decade teaching government at the University of Essex, What’s Wrong With Terrorism)

It was once thought that larger strategic considerations would inhibit terrorists from using weapons of
AND
even to unknowing or unwilling victims of the epidemics that they initiate.'
The terrorist threat is real – they want to kill us
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">ELSHTAIN</span> 20<span style="font-size: 11pt;">03</span> (Jean Bethke, Prof of Social and Political Ethics at U Chicago, Just War Against Terrorism, p. 94-95)

Those who do not argue outright that the United States is the author of its
AND
this seems to have seeped into the “Yes, but…” crowd.

Maritime smuggling of nuclear material is the most likely scenario- it’s not extremely difficult to obtain and intact nukes are hard to come by
Cochran et. Al 08 (Dr. Cochran received his Ph.D.
AND
office, , Apr2008, Detecting Nuclear Smuggling, EBSCO)MPARA

To wreak havoc, terrorists could steal, purchase or be given a fully assembled
AND
of nuclear sites of concern in countries once part of the Soviet Union.
Enough highly enriched nuclear material is loose to make 200,000 nukes
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Hoffman 10</span> (David E. Hoffman is a contributing editor to FP. His 2009 book, [[@http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0385524374?ie=UTF8&tag=fopo-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=0385524374|The Dead Hand: The Untold Story of the Cold War Arms Race and Its Dangerous Legacy,]] is the winner of the 2010 Pulitzer [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/04/12/time_is_of_the_essence?page=0,1|Prize]] for General Nonfiction, 4/12/2010, “Time is of the Essence”, http://www.foreign policy.com/articles/2010/04/12/time_is_of_the_essence?page=0,1)MPARA

In the years since then, much has been done to physically secure the loose
AND
nooks and crannies where the fissile material is vulnerable to theft or diversion.
Improvised nuclear weapons with modern fissile material are easy to detonate
Cochran et. Al 08 (Dr. Cochran received his Ph.D.
AND
office, , Apr2008, Detecting Nuclear Smuggling, EBSCO)MPARA

To make matters worse, it is conceivable that terrorists could smuggle HEU into the
AND
. The only real impediment, therefore, is secretly gathering sufficient material.
Detection in transit is key
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Hoffman 10</span> (David E. Hoffman is a contributing editor to FP. His 2009 book, [[@http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0385524374?ie=UTF8&tag=fopo-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=0385524374|The Dead Hand: The Untold Story of the Cold War Arms Race and Its Dangerous Legacy,]] is the winner of the 2010 Pulitzer [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/04/12/time_is_of_the_essence?page=0,1|Prize]] for General Nonfiction, 4/12/2010, “Time is of the Essence”, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/04/12/time_is_of_the_essence?page=0,1]])MPARA

Aside from better locks on doors, much of the concern about nuclear security is
AND
must involve customs and security agencies to interdict the materials on the move.

Nuclear terrorism causes global nuclear war
Robert **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ayson</span>**, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, 20**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">10</span>** (“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)

But these two nuclear worlds—a non-state actor nuclear attack and a
AND
consultation from Washington that the latter found itself unable or unwilling to provide.¶
A successful attack would trigger the close of ports world-wide, destroying the economy and halting trade
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Schanzer and Eyerman</span>, 20<span style="font-size: 11pt;">10</span> (David H., Associate Professor Sanford School of Public Policy at Duke University, Joe,
Senior Research Methodologist Director, Health Security Program RTI International, “Strategic Risk Management in Government: A Look at Homeland Security”, Homeland Security Council; 3/31, [[http://www.homelandcouncil.org/pdfs/digital_library_pdfs/ibmstrategicriskmanagementingovt.pdf]])

For instance, imagine the consequences of a suc­cessful attack on twin ports of Los
AND
at the end of August 2005 produced a large loss for our economy.
Econ collapse means nuke war
T.E. <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bearden</span>, LTC U.S. Army (Retired), <span style="font-size: 11pt;">2K</span>
[“The Unnecessary Energy Crisis: How to Solve It Quickly,” [[http://www.freerepublic.com/forum/a3aaf97f22e23.htm]], June 24]

History bears out that desperate nations take desperate actions. Prior to the final economic
AND
, and perhaps most of the biosphere, at least for many decades.
Trade collapse means global war
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Panzner 8</span> – faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase (Michael, “Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse,” p. 136-138)

Continuing calls for curbs on the flow of finance and trade will inspire the United
AND
between Muslims and Western societies as the beginnings of a new world war.

Multiple factors increase the risk of bioterror
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Anthony 06</span>(Lieutenant Colonel Hodges Anthony, America’s International Ports and Intermodal Transportation System: Ill-Prepared for Biological Weapons of Mass Destruction, 8 March 2006, U.S. Army War College,[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA449367|__http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA449367__]])MPARA

In 2004, the United States’ National Intelligence Council issued its third report entitled Mapping
AND
potential for agents that are more difficult to detect and defend against. 19
States are the most likely producers of biological weapons but terrorists are the most likely to use them
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Anthony 06</span>(Lieutenant Colonel Hodges Anthony, America’s International Ports and Intermodal Transportation System: Ill-Prepared for Biological Weapons of Mass Destruction, 8 March 2006, U.S. Army War College, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA449367|__http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA449367__]])MPARA

Before an assessment of the current capabilities for responding to a threat is considered,¶
AND
-state actors have expressed interest in using WMDs, including biological¶ weapons

Terrorists can easily steal biological weapons
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Graham 08</span> (Bob Graham, a former governor of Florida and U.S. senator, was chairman of the Commission on Weapons of Mass Destruction Proliferation and Terrorism. BIOTERRORISM Preventing a greater threat, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/18/opinion/18iht-edgraham.1.18791453.html]])MPARA

I left Pokrov without much confidence in the security afforded the most lethal biological materials
AND
resort, the last two decades have seen an explosion of biological dangers.
Maritime transport is a key method of bioweapon attack- effective measures are not in place
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Anthony 06</span>(Lieutenant Colonel Hodges Anthony, America’s International Ports and Intermodal Transportation System: Ill-Prepared for Biological Weapons of Mass Destruction, 8 March 2006, U.S. Army War College,[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA449367|__http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA449367__]])MPARA

For terrorists seeking to inflict massive harm on the United States, international cargo transport
AND
United States… There’s no question the system is open and vulnerable.” 56

Terrorists would attack multiple targets before a biological threat was recognized
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Nicolson 01</span>(Bioterrorism<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶,</span>Bioterrorism and Biological Warfare Agents<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶,</span>Prof. Garth L. Nicolson<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶,</span>The Institute for Molecular Medicine, 2001, [[http://www.immed.org/illness/bioterrorism.html]])MPARA

The most likely target for bioterrorism is a major city or other densely crowded areas
AND
nature of patients seeking medical attention at different institutions and at different times.
Biological terror causes extinction
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Parson, ‘6</span>–(Ted Parson is Joseph L. Sax Collegiate Professor of Law, Professor of Natural Resources & Environment, and (by courtesy) Professor of Public Policy at the University of Michigan. His research examines international environmental law and policy, the role of science and technology in public policy, and the political economy of regulation., “The Big One: A Review of Richard Posner’s Catastrophe: Risk and Response,” [[http://www-personal.umich.edu/~parson/website/pdf/parson-jel-45-posner-catastrophe-review.pdf]].)

For his fourth risk, in case you are not scared enough, Posner turns
AND
tried to develop them. Suitable lab facilities exist in dozens of countries.
====Plan:==== 
The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in cargo container screening at ports in the United States through ultra-high speed gas chromatography.

====Solvency==== 
Contention two is solvency
Gas chromatography analyzes the contents of a container within 10 seconds
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Ituh, 10</span>(Archibong J. Ituh International Trade Specialist Aurora Networks, Inc. February 2010Port Security Technology for Closed Container Inspection at United States Seaports of Entry[[https://scholarsbank.uoregon.edu/xmlui/bitstream/handle/1794/10209/Ituh-2010.pdf?sequence=1]])MPARA

Abstract: Ultra-high speed gas chromatography is a powerful analytical method for analysis
AND
provides information reported in the Review of the Literature section of the paper.
And, Gas chromatography solves false alarms- it recognizes substances based on their unique composition of chemicals
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Ituh, 10</span>(Archibong J. Ituh International Trade Specialist Aurora Networks, Inc. February 2010 Port Security Technology for Closed Container Inspection at United States Seaports of Entry[[https://scholarsbank.uoregon.edu/xmlui/bitstream/handle/1794/10209/Ituh-2010.pdf?sequence=1]])MPARA

According to Staples (2006), although the system is useful for sampling any accessible
AND
, it must see everything and ¶ miss nothing (Staples, 2006).
Port security is an area of federal authority
NC. Ariel <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Pinto and</span> Ghaith <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Rabadi</span> Engineering Management and Systems Engineering Old Dominion University 20<span style="font-size: 11pt;">11</span>(US Port Security; Chapter 12)

The U.S. Maritime Transportation Security Act (MTSA),designed to protect
AND
. and 2) inspection times for U.S. export cargoes.
States don’t have the personnel or expertise
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Holmes 12</span>(Captain John M. Holmes<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Deputy Executive Director of Operations<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Port of Los Angeles, American Association of Port Authorities, represents over 150 port authority organizations throughout the Western Hemisphere, 3/7/12, “Testimony of Captain John M. Holmes”, http://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/hhrg-112-ap15-jholmes-20120307.pdf )

Moving the funding to the states is also a big concern for AAPA. Port
AND
the program to ensure that funding for port security is not diluted further.

====Framework==== 
Policy analysis should precede discourse—it’s the most effective way to challenge power and discourse focus ignores real problems
Jill <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Taft-Kaufman</span>, Professor in the Department of Speech Communication And Dramatic Arts at Central Michigan University, 19<span style="font-size: 11pt;">95</span> (“Other ways: Postmodernism and performance praxis,” The Southern Communication Journal, Volume 60, Issue 3, Spring, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via ProQuest Research Library)

If the lack of consistency between postmodernism's self-styled allegiance to the oppositional and
AND
political agendas, institutions, agencies, and the budgets that fuel them.
We have to weigh consequences- absolute deontological standards are contradictory and can’t be applied to policymaking
Michael<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> Ignatieff</span>, Professor of Human Rights, HarvardUniversity, LESSER EVILS, 20<span style="font-size: 11pt;">04</span>, p. 20-1

As for moral perfectionism, this would be the doctrine that a liberal state should
AND
, and thus respect for one right might lead us to betray another.
We should focus on solving terrorism first
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">ELSHTAIN </span>20<span style="font-size: 11pt;">07</span> (Jean Bethke Elshtain is the Laura Spelman Rockefeller Professor of Social and Political Ethics at the University of Chicago, The Price Of Peace: Just War in the Twenty-First Century, Edited by Charles Reed and David Ryall)

Of course it is sometimes the case that elements of movements that resort to terrorism
AND
a patronising gesture that traffics in the most demeaning sorts of cultural stereotypes.
=Neg= 
==Disadvantages== 
===Elections DA (Obama Good- Russia Relations)=== 
====1NC==== 
====2NC Impact Iran Strikes==== 
===Oil DA=== 
===Sequestration Politics DA=== 
Sequestration is at the top of the agenda---it’ll be close, but there’s still time for a deal
Sara <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Sorcher and</span> Nancy <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Cook, 9/15</span>/12, White House Cranks Up Pressure with Stark, But Vague, Sequester Report, www.nationaljournal.com/whitehouse/white-house-cranks-up-pressure-with-stark-but-vague-sequester-report-20120915

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">When the much-</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> providing this particular report.</span>
Plan drains Presidential capital. Even once-popular transportation issues now hurt the White House.
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Freemark ‘12</span>
(Yonah – Master of Science in Transportation from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Bachelor of Arts in Architecture, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Yale University with Distinction. Also a freelance journalist who has been published in Planning Magazine; Next American City Magazine; Dissent; The Atlantic Cities; Next American City Online; and The Infrastructurist – He created and continues to write for the website The Transport Politic – The Transport Politic – “On Infrastructure, Hopes for Progress This Year Look Glum” – January 25th, 2012 – [[http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2012/01/25/on-infrastructure-hopes-for-progress-this-year-look-glum/]])

President Obama barely mentions the need for improvements in the nation’s capital stock in his
AND
more than replicate the existing law, perhaps with a few bureaucratic reforms.
Obama capital critical to resolve the logjam on Capitol Hill and get a budget deal
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Fox News, 9-12</span>, 12, [[http://www.foxnews.com/on-air/on-the-record/2012/09/12/moodys-puts-pressure-congress-debt-deal-most-predictable-crisis-youll-ever-see#ixzz26GDjJCeB|http://www.foxnews.com/on-air/on-the-record/2012/09/12/moodys-puts-pressure-congress-debt-deal-most-predictable-crisis-youll-ever-see#ixzz26GDjJCeB]]

VAN SUSTEREN: How the president and Congress -- how can you all let this
AND
It's costing all of us, you know, money every single day.
Impact – global war
Michael <span style="font-size: 11pt;">O'Hanlon</span>__,__ Director of Research and Senior Fellow @ Brookings in the 21st Century Defense Initiative<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">2012,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> September 23</span>(The Future of National Defense and the U.S. Military Ten Years After 9/11, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/testimony/2011/0913_defense_budget_ohanlon.aspx]]</span>)

If such a plan is not approved, defense and national security will automatically suffer
AND
It is not the time for America to come home from the world.

==Counterplans== 
===Investment PIC=== 
The United States federal government should substantially increase its necessary transportation infrastructure spending for the Job Access and Reverse Commute program in the United States.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“Investment” is a euphemism used to lure the public into a false sense of fiscal responsability</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Lowry '11</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[Rich Lowry, editor of the National Review, syndicated columnist, 1/25/2011, "The 'Investment' Eupemism", pg. online @ www.nationalreview.com/articles/257831/investment-euphemism-rich-lowry#// bprp]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> Pres. Barack </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Obama hopes … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">40-year grip on the House.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">This regime of sanitized language actively conceals the horror of totalitarianism---by insulating people from understanding the situations’ full meaning, they become detached from any sense of ethical responsibility</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Davidsson ‘03</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Elias Davidsson, Centre for Research on Globalization, 3 ([[http://www.aldeilis.net/jus/econsanc/debate.pdf]])</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">In order to effectively describe a … which humanitarian law has sprung</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">This cynical detachment authorizes the genocidal extermination of the planet</span>
**Rank 09** (Hugh, Professor of English at Governors State University and the first Chair of the National Council of Teachers of English Committee on Public Doublespeak, [[http://webserve.govst.edu/pa/Schema/confusion.htm]])
Jargon is so used to intensify our own "good. " However, jargon
AND
devastating, more catastrophic than any weapon ever used before in human history.
===States=== 
Text: The fifty state governments and territories of the United States and Washington, D.C., should substantially increase its investment in participatory transportation infrastructure for persons with dementia through a Value-Added Tax.

A VAT could raise over 750 billion dollars
Josh Barro, '12 (Josh Barro is a contributor to Forbes.com and a fiscal- policy analyst based in New York, “Value-Added Tax Would Raise Tons for U.S. Coffers”, www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-02/value-added-tax-would-raise-tons-for-u-s-coffers.html)

With little appetite
AND
apply to health-care services.

==Kritiks== 
===Race K=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A. REFERENCING “RACE” PERPETUATES THE MYTH THAT IT IS A RELEVANT CATEGORY</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Richard T. Ford, Professor of Law, Stanford University, UCLA LAW REVIEW, August 2000, p. 1806</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">At a minimum,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">feature of daily life</span>__

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">B. RACE IS COMPLEX—LAW PLAYS KEY ROLE IN ITS CONSTRUCTION</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Ian F. Haney Lopez, Professor of Law, University of California, Boalt Hall, White by Law: the legal construction of race, 1996, p. 17 (HARVCL3168)</span>

Finally, racial meaning systems are complex, containing both ideological and material components.
AND
inequality the ensuing reality becomes a further justification for the ideas of race.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">C. THINKING AND TALKING ABOUT “RACE” GIVES IT ITS FORCE</span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Reginald Leamon Robinson. Professor of Law, Howard University School of Law, Boston College Third World Law Journal, Spring 2000, p. 236</span>

Basically, if race arises from a consciousness matrix, does race necessarily have an
AND
a great unreachable beyond but also remain external, objective, and real.

<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 9pt;">D. ALTERNATIVE: REJECT THE CONCEPT OF RACE -- ABSENT OUR REFERENCES, RACE DOES NOT EXIST</span>

Reginald Leamon Robinson. Professor of Law, Howard University School of Law, Boston
AND
way, race is not only constructed but is also a consciousness matrix.
===Economic Predictions K=== 
===Deterrence K=== 
**Linear predictions of deterrent relationships fail – too many variables.**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Jervis</span>** **<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">97</span>** – (Robert, professor of international affairs – Columbia, “Complex Systems: The Role of Interactions,” in Complexity, Global Politics, and National Security, eds. David S. Alberts and Thomas J. Czerwinski, National Defense University)

First Interactions: Results Cannot
AND
environmental degradation inevitable

**Ahmed 11 –** (2011, Dr. Nafeez Mosaddeq Ahmed is Executive Director of the Institute for Policy Research and Development (IPRD), an independent think tank focused on the study of violent conflict, he has taught at the Department of International Relations, University of Sussex, "The international relations of crisis and the crisis of international relations: from the securitisation of scarcity to the militarisation of society," Global Change, Peace & Security Volume 23, Issue 3, 2011 Taylor Francis)

Unfortunately, orthodox IR
AND
planetary annihilation?61


**The alternative is resilience rather than security – instead of attempting to forecast and prevent catastrophic events in the future, we should accept their unpredictability and instead emphasize societal resilience and fault-tolerance. Open ended investigation creates beneficial externalities that enhance resilient and avoid system collapse.**
**Cavelty and Giroux 12** – (6/20/12, Myriam Dunn, PhD from the University of Zurich, Head of the New Risk Research Unit at the Center for Security Studies, ETH Zurich, and Jennifer, researcher in the Crisis and Risk Network, ETH Zurich, MA in International Policy from the Monterey Institute of International Studies, “The Good, The Bad, and The Sometimes Ugly: Complexity as Both Threat and Opportunity in the Vital Systems Security Discourse,” DRAFT version of a chapter for World Politics at the Edge of Chaos: Reflections on Complexity and Global Life, edited by Emilian Kavalski, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2088161)

3.2 Resilience and the Certainty
AND
distribution and responsibilities.

==Topicality== 
===1NC T- Physical Assets=== 
===1NC T- Not Pipelines=== 
===1NC T-Military=== 
“Infrastructure” must be available for __public__ use --- military equipment is excluded
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Fourie 6</span> (Johan, Chief Operating Officer ArcelorMittal South Africa, “Economic Infrastructure: A Review of Definitions, Theory, and Empirics”, South African Journal of Economics, 74(3), September, Wiley Online Library)

One way to define infrastructure is to describe it in terms of its characteristics.
AND
, while urban planners might refer to them as transportation modalities and utilities.”

They don’t meet this- carriers don’t provide public services
Vote neg for limits- the affirmative justifies any military infrastructure that more than doubles the topic- this topic is already huge and it’s the beginning of the year so voting neg now is key
==Intel (Just ask...again will update soon)== 
===Greenhill=== 
====Round 2==== 
2NR: Deterrence K
====Round 3==== 
Spending DA + States CP
====<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">Round 3</span>==== 
Spending DA + States CP
====<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">Round 3</span>==== 
Spending DA + States CP
====<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">Round 3</span>==== 
Spending DA + States CP
====<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">Round 3</span>==== 
Spending DA + States CP
====<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">Round 3</span>==== 
Spending DA + States CP