[[toc]]
==== ==== 
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
===**Earl Campbell AC**=== 

The aff advocates that the United States extend to non-citizens accused of terrorism the same constitutional due process protections it grants to citizens.

Normative statements are constrained by context – our context is facts of the natural world. Naturalism, therefore is the only standard acceptable to generate ethics. Smith.

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Smith, Michael. Ethics and the A Priori: Selected Essays on Moral PsychologyAnd Meta-Ethics. Cambridge University Press. Michael Smith is Professor of Philosophy at Princeton University. 2004</span>

Torturing Babies is wrong…of empirical science

Naturalism commits us to consequentialism.
, The mental states of pleasure and pain are objective goods that should be respectively maximized and minimized Thomas Nagel writes

Thomas Nagel, //The View From Nowhere//, HUP, 1986: 156-168.

Sensory pleasure is good…in such cases

And deontology halts action

The moral obligations…sovereignty it enjoys

Lastly, Any Neg Counterplan or advocacy must be accompanied by independent solvency evidence.

Contention One is Afghan stability
A. Targeted killing destroys Afghan legal credibility <span class="cite">Hentoff</span>

(<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nat, member of the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press, senior fellow at the Cato Institute, “Obama’s Extra-Judicial Killers Subvert American Values”, Milford Daily News and www.cato.org, accessed June 25 2010)</span>

Obama has permitted…changed our Constitution

That undermines stability <span class="cite">Durch </span>
(William J., Co Director project on the future of the PKO @ Stimson Cent. “Afghanistan: Keeping the Peace Without Hardly Trying” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.stimson.org/fopo/pdf/Afghan_KeepingPeaceWithoutTryingrev112602.pdf]]</span>
Al Qaeda and the Taliban…guaranteed without it
Afghan instability causes Central Asian conflict
<span class="cite">Szayna and Oliker 2003</span>

(Thomas S., and Olga, both RAND analysts. “Faultlines of Conflict In Central Asia and the South Caucasus” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/2005/RAND_MR1598.sum.pdf|www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/2005/RAND_MR1598.sum.pdf]]</span>)
The situation in…South Caucasus conflicts.
The impact is nuclear war
<span class="cite">Blank 2k</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Stephen J., Exepert on Post-Soviet States @ Strat Stud Inst. “American Grand Strategy and the Transcaspian Region,” World Affairs. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.findarticles.com/cf_dls/m2393/2_163/67046851/p1/article.jhtml?term|www.findarticles.com/cf_dls/m2393/2_163/67046851/p1/article.jhtml?term]]</span>
Thus conditions for…than almost everywhere
Terrorists can’t get nucs Westmore
<span style="display: block; font-size: 9pt; text-align: left;">Can terrorists really acquire nuclear weapons?</span>

<span style="display: block; font-size: 9pt; text-align: left;"> by Peter Westmore (Peter Westmore is national president of the National Civic Council. ) May 1, 2010 http://newsweekly.com.au/article.php?id=4293</span>
Al Qaeda cannot…is a fantasy
Even so, drone strikes causes more terrorism. SHAH.
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">SIKANDER AHMED,University of Michigan Ann Arbor; Assistant Professor of Law and Policy, LUMS University, Lahore, Pakistan, War on Terrorism: Self Defense, Operation Enduring Freedom, and the Legality of U.S. Drone Attacks in Pakistan) A.L.</span>
Drone attacks exacerbate…for their causes
Contention 2: Soft power

American soft power is in decline
Mitchell, Lincoln A. “Is U.S. Soft Power Declining Too?” October 15, 2010. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">ttp://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&cad=rja&ved=0CCIQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Facademiccommons.columbia.edu%2Fdownload%2Ffedora_content%2Fdownload%2Fac%3A140861%2FCONTENT%2FIs_U.S._Soft_Power_Declining_Too.pdf&ei=W-o8UJiyCoia9gTOm4DgAg&usg=AFQjCNFoOovQcQv2Jfcyzq2UK4EvTD4Ikg&sig2=puzjPFudBXHYwBxhI82Rfw</span>
It is difficult…require some innovation
Giving due process rights to detainees is key to repair our image abroad
<span class="CitesChar">Coleman __Wagner__- 200__9__, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Soft Power and International Public Opinion: U.S Presidents and the Treatment of Prisoners of War,http://web3.unt.edu/honors/eaglefeather/wp-content/2009/08/Wagner_Coleman.pdf</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">The military commissions</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">…war on terrorism </span>
**Soft power is key to manage global crises Hamre ‘7:**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">CSIS COMMISSION ON SMART POWER:A smarter, more secure America, 2007. Forward: restoring America’s Inspirational Leadership, by John J. Hamre. </span>[[http://www.csis.org/component/option,com_csis_pubs/task,view/id,4156/type,1/#_blank|http://www.csis.org/component/option,com_csis_pubs/task,view/id,4156/type,1/#_blank]]
The threat America…sources of power
**The lack of an strong US presence will cause power conflicts that escalate into nuclear wars. Kagan ‘7:**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Kagan, 7 (Robert, senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Policy Review, August/Sept, “End of Dreams, Return of History”)</span>
Several large powers…least two centuries
**Any use of nuclear weapons will escalate and cause extinction.**

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Founder of NZ Nuclear-Free Peacemaking Association [Larry, “RACING TOWARD EXTINCTION,” Dec 10, http://nuclearfree.lynx.co.nz/racing.htm] </span>
Nuclear weapons have…which ends humanity
Underview
1. permissibility goes aff
2. aff gets rvi’s
3. social contract only when a rights tradeoff occurs
==Negative== 
===**Kevin Durant NC**=== 
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">ought also equates to can.</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Gracyk’s explains:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Theodore Gracyk Philosophy Department Minnesota State University Moorhead. </span>__<span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">http://web.mnstate.edu/gracyk/courses/phil%20318/ought-can_Outline.htm</span>__

Ought implies can…did nothing wrong

**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">There is just too much bias against those accused with terrorism. Wedgewood.</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">Ruth </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">Wedgwood</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">, Professor of Law at Yale Law School, December 3rd, </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">2001</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">, “The Case for Military Tribunals” Wall Street Journal. http://www.law.yale.edu/news/3297.htm</span>

In federal court…witnesses fear revenge

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">fact finding is impossible</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">. Stimson.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">Charles </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">Stimson</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">, Senior Legal Fellow at the Heritage Foundation, April 5th, </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">2011</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">, “Testimony before Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security,” United States House of Representatives. http://www.heritage.org/research/testimony/2011/04/justice-for-america-using-military-commissions-to-try-the-911-conspirators</span>

Certain cases face…derail the prosecution

===**Phelps NC**=== 

Uniqueness: Obama will win—prefer recency and Gallup Poll. US News 8/27,
Lauren Fox, writer for US News, “Americans Predict Obama Will Win, Even if They are Voting for Romney” August 27, 2012
A Gallup Poll…the better leader

Obama sweeps three-forths of the electoral votes. Silver 9/5,
Nate Silver, “Sept. 4: The Simple Case for Why Obama Is the Favorite” 9/5/12
Our forcast has…will eventually lose

B is the link:
The tribunals they use for Gitmo violate due process rights
SICHREM writes,
<span style="background-color: white;">SICHREM, or </span>**<span style="color: #333333;">South India Cell for Human Rights Education and Monitoring,</span>** “Human Rights Violation: Guantanamo Bay” 2004 http://www.sichrem.org/popup.php?ArtifactID=432
The combatant Status…from naming prisoners

democrats want Guantanamo bay to stay open. 2/9,
<span style="color: #333333;">Andrew Rosenthal, writer for NY times, “</span>Hurray for Guantanamo Bay” February 9, 2012

70 percent of…it in operation

Obama’s pushing to ratify CTBT – his defeat crushes the initiative. Schneidmiller 11,
Chris <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Schneidmiller</span> ,"Senate Decision Key to Future of Test Ban Treaty," Global Security Newswire, 7-18-<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">11</span>, http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20110714_9351.php

U.S. approval draw…would remain frozen

US Ratification Is Key To Prevent Global Prolif and Nuke War. Davis 09,
Ian <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Davis</span>, Co-Executive Director of the British American Security Information Council, “Getting the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Back on Track” 05-11-<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">2009</span>.

Test of an…CTBT secure ratification

Or......

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 16px;">Romeny will undercut if not ban the EPA,</span>
John M. Broder 8/18/2011 “Bashing E.P.A. Is New Theme in G.O.P. Race”, New York Times.
The Environmental Protection Agency is emerging......to regulate carbon emissions.

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 16px;">EPA key to check runaway warming</span>,
Christian <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Parenti</span> (writer for the Nation) April <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">2010</span> NPR "The Nation: The Case for EPA Action"
On April 1 the Environmental Protection Agency established......The EPA is our last, best hope.


====Try or die – warming makes extinction inevitable –==== 
Bill <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Henderson</span> (Environmental Scientist) Aug 19 <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">2006</span> “Runaway Global Warming – Denial,” [[http://www.countercurrents.org/cc-henderson190806.htm]].
The scientific debate about human.....in the world we share.


=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]