[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Greenhill 1AC</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in the American Marine Highway.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Contention 1 is the Economy.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Lack of demand is holding the economy back now.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Stiglitz 7/22</span>**
(Joseph E. Stiglitz, recipient of the <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.latimes.com/topic/arts-culture/nobel-prize-awards-8006070.topic|Nobel Prize]]</span> in economics, chaired President Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers and was chief economist of the <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.latimes.com/topic/economy-business-finance/world-bank-group-ORGOV000265.topic|World Bank]]</span>. , “America's prosperity requires a level playing field”, LA Times, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.latimes.com/news/opinion/commentary/la-oe-stiglitz-inequality-20120722,0,4061042.story]]</span>, Brian Nguyen)

Despite what the debt … the decades after World War II.

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Three internal links:</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">First is Jobs</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Plan creates jobs that spill over.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Comeaux 11</span>**
(Noel P., “America’s Marine Highway Report to Congress ” AICP, PMP Transportation/Maritime Planner, US Department of Transportation - Maritime Administration , <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/MARAD_AMH_Report_to_Congress.pdf]]</span>, Brian Nguyen)

America’s Marine Highway … throughout the economy.
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Second is Congestion</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Marine highways are key to solving congestion.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Comeaux 11</span>**
(Noel P., “America’s Marine Highway Report to Congress ” AICP, PMP Transportation/Maritime Planner, US Department of Transportation - Maritime Administration , <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/MARAD_AMH_Report_to_Congress.pdf]]</span>, Brian Nguyen)

Traffic congestion imposes … underutilized national asset.
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Third is Shipping. </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Plan is key to competitive shipping.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Comeaux 11</span>**
(Noel P., “America’s Marine Highway Report to Congress ” AICP, PMP Transportation/Maritime Planner, US Department of Transportation - Maritime Administration , <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/MARAD_AMH_Report_to_Congress.pdf]]</span>, Brian Nguyen)

Marine Highway services can … than the other.
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Economic decline causes war. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Royal 10</span>**
(Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)

Less intuitive is … ancillary to those views.
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Growth is sustainable.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Cudd 11</span>**
(Ann E., Professor of Philosophy, Associate Dean for Humanities, University of Kansas, “Capitalism, For and Against - A Feminist Debate,” Cambridge University Press, Section 3, Brian Nguyen)

I agree with Professor Holmstrom … privately owned good.
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Contention 2 is the Navy – </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The shipbuilding industry is in decline – makes the Navy unsustainable.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Goure 10 </span>**
(Dr. Daniel, Vice President with the Lexington Institute, a nonprofit public-policy research ,the director of the Office of Strategic Competitiveness in the Office of the Secretary of Defense, senior analyst on national security and defense issues with the Center for Naval Analyses, Science Applications International Corporation, SRS Technologies, R&D Associates and System Planning Corporation, “THE CONTRIBUTION OF THE JONES ACT TO U.S. SECURITY”, Lexington Institute, Brian Nguyen)

At the same time, … national security requirement.
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The American Marine Highway is key to the shipbuilding industry and naval capabilities. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Harris 11</span>**
(Fred , writer for the Martine Industry and worked to enhance the shipbuilding industry for the Navy in the past. He has over 30 years of experience in the maritime sector and has successfully corporations to a more successful Industrial Base, “America needs a marine highway system”, The San Diego Union-Tribune, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.utsandiego.com/news/2011/may/06/america-needs-a-marine-highway-system/?print&page=all]]</span>, Brian Nguyen)

The __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">nation’s maritime strategy</span>__, … strengthening the nation’s industrial base.
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Scenario 1 is Iran and China </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Decline of current naval capabilities means the closure of the Strait of Hormuz and China conflict.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 11pt;">Dyer 10</span>**
(J.E, journalist and former intelligence analyst, served internationally for US Naval Intelligence from 1983 to 2004 “Naval Decline: It Starts with the Small Stuff,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://theoptimisticconservative.wordpress.com/2010/05/12/naval-decline-it-starts-with-the-small-stuff/]]</span>, Brian Nguyen)

The function of navies, … most capable naval platforms
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">US-China conflict causes extinction.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Cheong 2k</span>**
(Ching, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” Lexis, Brian Nguyen)

THE high-intensity scenario … destruction of civilization.
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Iranian attempts to close the Strait of Hormuz leads to World War III.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Giraldi 12</span>**
(Phillip, former <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Counter-terrorism|counter-terrorism]]</span> specialist and <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Military_intelligence|military intelligence]]</span> officer of the <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States|United States]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Central_Intelligence_Agency|Central Intelligence Agency]]</span>(CIA) and a columnist and television commentator who is the Executive Director of the <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Council_for_the_National_Interest|Council for the National Interest]]</span>, a group that advocates for more even handed policies by the U.S. government in the <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Middle_East|Middle East]]</span>. ,“What War With Iran Might Look Like”, Antiwar.com, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://original.antiwar.com/giraldi/2012/01/11/what-war-with-iran-might-look-like/]]</span>, Brian Nguyen)

It might start … ignited World War III.
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Iran doesn’t need to fully seal the strait to provoke escalation.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Talmadge 8</span>**
(Caitlin, a doctoral candidate in political science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,where she is a member of the Security Studies Program. During the 2007–08 academic year, she was a fellowat the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard University, “Closing Time Assessing the Iranian Threatto the Strait of Hormuz”, International Security, Vol. 33, No. 1 (Summer 2008), p. 115 – 116, Brian Nguyen) Note: MCM = Naval Anti-mine Capabilities

Most important, Iran … to reopen the strait.
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Scenario 2 is Middle Eastern terrorism </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Naval power key to stopping Middle Eastern nuclear terrorism.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Johnson 4</span>**
(Austin C., Naval Postgraduate School, “The Future Of The U.S. Navy In The Persian Gulf”, NPS, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nps.edu/Academics/centers/ccc/research/StudentTheses/johnson04.pdf]]</span>, Brian Nguyen)

Terrorist attacks could … and support ground forces.
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Rhodes 09</span>**
(Richard Rhodes, affiliate of the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford University, Former visiting scholar at Harvard and MIT, and author of “The Making of the Atomic Bomb” which won the Pulitzer Prize in Nonfiction, National Book Award, and National Book Critics Circle Award., “Reducing the nuclear threat: The argument for public safety”, 12-14-09, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/op-eds/reducing-the-nuclear-threat-the-argument-public-safety)/SK|http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/op-eds/reducing-the-nuclear-threat-the-argument-public-safety)//SK]]</span>

The response was … name of sending a message__.__
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Scenario 3 is BMDs</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Naval capabilities key to sea-based BMDs.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Goure et al 8</span>**
(Dr. Daniel, Vice President with the Lexington Institute, a nonprofit public-policy research ,the director of the Office of Strategic Competitiveness in the Office of the Secretary of Defense, senior analyst on national security and defense issues with the Center for Naval Analyses, Science Applications International Corporation, SRS Technologies, R&D Associates and System Planning Corporation, “Sea based missile and air defenses: A Key to U.S. Naval Power in the 21st Century”, Lexington Institute, Brian Nguyen)

The ability to … missile defense system.
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Sea BMDs solve nuclear escalation.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Hicks 8</span>**
(Alan B., Rear Admiral Alan B. Hicks, USN, is Program Director and Commander, Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense. “Seabased Ballistic Missile Defense”,National Defense University, Joint Force Quarterly, Issue 50, Brian Nguyen)

Maritime BMD is … advance in a crisis.
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Scenario 4 is Piracy</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Naval capabilities key to countering Gulf of Aden Piracy.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Carafano et al 9</span>**
(James Jay Carafano et al, Ph.D big deal, Richard Weitz, Ph.D Senior Fellow and Director of the Center for Political-Military Analysis at Hudson Institute, and Martin Edwin Andersen, senior fellow of the Hoover Institution [“ Maritime Security Fighting Piracy in the Gulf of Aden and Beyond” Heritage foundation, Brian Nguyen)

The U.S. Navy’s … the joint force.
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Unchecked piracy will make the region unstable and that spreads worldwide.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Carafano et al 9</span>**
(James Jay Carafano et al, Ph.D big deal, Richard Weitz, Ph.D Senior Fellow and Director of the Center for Political-Military Analysis at Hudson Institute, and Martin Edwin Andersen, senior fellow of the Hoover Institution [“ Maritime Security Fighting Piracy in the Gulf of Aden and Beyond” Heritage foundation, Brian Nguyen)

The Pirate Universe. … acts could increase.
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Instability leads to conflict.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bereketeab 11</span>**
(Redie, Panel for The Horn of Africa at the Brink of the 21<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>st<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Century – coping with fragmentation, <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>isolation and marginalization in a globalization environment, “State Crisis, Conflicts and International Intervention in the Horn of Africa”, Brian Nguyen)
Inter-state Conflicts … destabilise the other.
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Those wars go global.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Glick 7</span>**
(Caroline, geo-politics analyst serving as Assistant Foreign Policy Advisor to Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu,” Condi's African holiday<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>”The Jerusalem Post, Brian Nguyen)

The Horn of Africa … killing nine Chinese and 65 Ethiopians.
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Piracy in the Gulf destroys the ocean ecosystem.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Middleton 8</span>**

(Roger, consultant researcher in the Africa Program at the Chatham House, the Royal Institute of Economic Affairs, “Piracy in Somalia: Threatening Global Trade, Feeding Local Wars”, October 2008, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.chathamhouse.org/sites/default/files/public/Research/Africa/1008piracysomalia.pdf]]</span>, Brian Nguyen)

What piracy does to … shipping is very real.
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Marine ecosystem degradation causes extinction.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Craig 3</span>**
(Robin Kundis, Craig, Associate Professor of Law, Indiana University School of Law, 2003 Associate Professor of Law, Indiana University School of Law, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155)

Biodiversity and ecosystem function … go out of business as a result.
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Scenario 5 is Resource Wars</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Decreased naval capabilities leads to resource wars.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Eaglen and McGrath 11 </span>**
(Mackenzie Eaglen is Research Fellow for National Security in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, at The Heritage Foundation. Bryan McGrath is a retired naval officer and the Director of Delex Consulting, Studies and Analysis in Vienna, Virginia. On active duty, he commanded the destroyer USS Bulkeley (DDG 84) and served as the primary author of the current maritime strategy, “Thinking About a Day Without Sea Power: Implications for U.S. Defense Policy”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2011/05/Thinking-About-a-Day-Without-Sea-Power-Implications-for-US-Defense-Policy]]</span>, Brian Nguyen)

Global maritime trade declines … food transportation costs even higher.
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Those wars go global.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Klare 6</span>**

(Michael, professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College, Mar 6 2006, “The coming resource wars” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.energybulletin.net/node/13605]]</span>, Brian Nguyen)

It's official: the … water, food and energy.
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Contention 3 is Solvency </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Marine highways work and federal leadership is key. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Comeaux 11</span>**
(Noel P., “America’s Marine Highway Report to Congress ” AICP, PMP Transportation/Maritime Planner, US Department of Transportation - Maritime Administration , <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/MARAD_AMH_Report_to_Congress.pdf]]</span>, Brian Nguyen)

Our nation’s current … Marine Highway services.
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">AMH will be used and is possible now.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Herbert Engineering Corp 11</span>**
(Herbert Engineering Corp, professional engineers in transportation planning, “American Marine Highway Design Project Final Report”, U.S. Maritime Administration, Brian Nguyen)

The following are … the two terminus ports.
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Plan solves shipbuilding, congestion, and Europe proves that fed leadership is key – investment has started, we just need more funding. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Wiley 11</span>**
(Rob, National Defense University, “Industry Study Final Report Shipbuilding Industry”, NDU, p. 20, Brian Nguyen)

The US can look … the US commercial shipbuilding industry.
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Your disads are non-unique—the status quo grants minor funding to maritime transport now</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Barry 10</span>**
(Keith, Wired Contributor “DOT to Turn Underused Waterways Into Marine Highways”, July 23, 2010, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.wired.com/autopia/2010/07/dot-turns-underused-waterways-into-marine-highways]]</span>, Brian Nguyen)

A new priority of … existing projects and proposals.

=Negative= 
Greenhill
Round 1 vs Highland Park HS (Inland Waterways with Steel and Agriculture)
2NR
Elections
Case

Round 3 vs San Dieguito Academy GS (Next Gen Air Traffic Control with Economy and Airpower)
2NR
Fear K
<span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Arial,Helvetica,Sans-Serif'; font-size: x-small; text-align: -webkit-left;">
</span>
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]