[[toc]]
=Notes= 
**Cites will be posted soon after they are read. If you have any pre-round questions just ask :)**

**For questions/cites email: paikjoseph[at]gmail[dot]com**

=September - October= 

==OCSL== 

===AC=== 

**V: Util**

**VC: Reducing Terrorist Threat**

__**Contention 1: Legitimacy**__

**<span style="background-color: white;">Military commissions don’t provide sufficient due process rights </span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Ip 12</span>**<span style="background-color: white;"> [John, Professor of Law at the University of Auckland], “Military Commissions and Discrimination Against Non-Citizens (March 19, 2012). THE PSYCHOLOGY OF PREJUDICE: INTERDISCIPLINARY PERSPECTIVES ON CONTEMPORARY ISSUES, Nova, 2012]</span>

**<span style="background-color: white;">Legitimacy is the key internal link to solving terrorism - eliminates support base</span>**
**Lunday and Rishikof 08** <span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">[KEVIN E. LUNDAY [Captain and judge advocate in the U.S. Coast Guard.] & HARVEY RISHIKOF [professor of law and former chair of the Department of National Security Strategy, National War College], “DUE PROCESS IS A STRATEGIC CHOICE: LEGITIMACY AND THE ESTABLISHMENT OF AN ARTICLE III NATIONAL SECURITY COURT”, CALIFORNIA WESTERN INTERNATIONAL LAW JOURNAL Vol. 39, 2008]</span>

__**Contention 2: International Cooperation**__

**<span style="background-color: white;">Due process causes anti-americanism and destroys coalition-building measures</span>**
**McCarthy and Velshi 09** <span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">[Andrew C. McCarthy (Andrew C. McCarthy is Director of the Center for Law & Counterterrorism at the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies), Alykhan Velshi, (staff attorney at the Center for Law & Counterterrorism, where he focuses on the international law of armed conflict and the use of force), “We Need a National Security Court”, American Enterprise Institute, 2009]</span>

**<span style="background-color: white;">Coalitions key - intelligence and military assistance measures make cooperation vital</span>**
**Forgarty 05**<span style="background-color: white;"> [Gerard F., Director General, Workforce Planning and Retention, Australian Defence Force, “Is Guantanamo Bay Undermining the Global War on Terror?”,Parameters, August 2005]</span>

__**Contention 3: Extremism**__

**<span style="background-color: white;">Due process is key to prevent terrorist radicalization - fuels terrorist propaganda</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Waxman 09</span>**<span style="background-color: white;"> [Matthew C., Associate Professor, Columbia Law School; Adjunct Senior Fellow, Council on Foreign Relations; Member of the Hoover Institution Task Force on National Security and Law], “ADMINISTRATIVE DETENTION OF TERRORISTS: WHY DETAIN, AND DETAIN WHOM?”, JOURNAL OF NATIONAL SECURITY LAW & POLICY, March 19, 2009]</span>

**<span style="background-color: white;">And it prevents our ability to prevent attacks</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Roth 08</span>**<span style="background-color: white;"> [Kenneth, American attorney and has been the executive director of Human Rights Watch since 1993],“After Guantanamo: The Case Against Preventive Detention”, //Foreign Affairs//, the Council on Foreign Relations, May/June 2008]</span>

**<span style="background-color: white;">The impact is mass death</span>**
**Wilkinson and Hartwig 10 [**<span style="background-color: white;">Claire Wilkinson, [Vice President – Global Issues], Robert P. Hartwig, [Ph.D., CPCU], “TERRORISM RISK: A REEMERGENT THREAT”, Insurance Information Institute, 2010]</span>

===<span style="background-color: white;">NC</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: white;">V: Util</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white;">VC: Reducing Terrorist Threat</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">States cannot agree to moral norms</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Williams</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> [Bruce Professor of Media Studies and Ph.D of Political Science at the University of Virginia], “State Morality in International Relations”, The American Political Science Review, Vol. 17, No. 1 (Feb.,1923).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Especially in the status quo</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kennan 85** [George, He is Professor Emeritus at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton.]“Morality and Foreign Policy” Foreign Affairs, Vol. 64, No. 2 1985. pp. 205-218] </span>

__**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention 1: Drone Strikes</span>**__

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Due process prevents drone strikes</span>**
**Gerstein 12** [http://www.politico.com/blogs/under-the-radar/2012/09/obama-us-seeks-due-process-in-drone-strikes-134889.html]

**That's the key internal link into solving terrorism globally**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bergen [CNN National Security Analyst],“Drone is Obama's weapon of choice”, [[http://www.cnn.com/2012/09/05/opinion/bergen-obama-drone/index.html]]. RFK</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Also demoralizes and prevents recruitment in the long term</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Statman 04</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> [Daniel, Professor of Philosophy at Haifa University], “Targeted Killing”, Theoretical Inquiries in Law, Vol 5 No. 1, January 2004, p. 191]</span>

=November - December= 


==La Costa Canyon== 

===AC=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">V: Util</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">VC: Saving the most amount of human lives</span>**

__**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention 1: Economy</span>**__

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Scenario 1 is the Fiscal Cliff: </span>**

**The fiscal cliff is coming – absent reform and economic stimulus, sequestration beginning on January 1st will bring us to the worst recession in __decades__**
**Hutchison 9/21**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, U.S. Senator from the great state of Texas, 9/21/2012 (Kay Bailey, “A Looming Threat to National Security,” States News Service, Lexis)</span>

**Three reasons why Universal Health Care is Key –**

**<span style="background-color: white;">A Subpoint is __Small Businesses__: Universal Healthcare is key to sustaining U.S. small businesses</span>**
**Embry 11**<span style="background-color: white;"> [A Universal Health Care Option Is Good for Small Business and US Global Competition By Dennis Embry , Small business owner, columnist] on February 27, 2011,</span><span style="color: #3b5998;">[[http://www.nurturingenvironments.org/2011/02/27/a-universal-health-care-option-is-good-for-small-business-and-us-global-competition/]]]</span>

**AND small businesses are the lynchpin of economic competitiveness and sustainability – subsumes their defense**
**SBA 10** [Small Business Administration, [[http://www.sba.gov/content/interagency-task-force-federal-contracting-opportunities-small-businesses]]]

**Be highly skeptical of their defense – it’s empirically proven in Taiwan**
**Fen et al. 03** [Jui-Fen, Rachel Lu, William C. Hsiao<span style="background-color: white;">Does Universal Health Care make Health Care Insurance More Affordable? Lessons from Taiwan]</span>

**B Subpoint is Economic Security – Good health expands individual productivity and incomes, acting as independent stimulus**
**Ruger 10** [Jennifer Prah Ruger, Law Professor-Yale, 2010, Health and Social Justice, p. 166]

**C Subpoint is __Fiscal Discipline__ – Universal Health Care saves money because companies don’t have to ensure work benefits and we solve jo****b lock – prevents tradeoff with pharmaceutical companies**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Mohit 09</span>**<span style="background-color: white;"> [Bezhad, Universal Health Care Can Save Our Economy and Keep 1.7 million Jobs in the U.S.: Part III]</span>

**The impact is multiple scenarios for nuclear war**
**Harris and Burrows 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer is a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]</span>

__**Contention 2: Poverty**__

**Universal health care is key to ensure massive amounts of uninsured citizens due to increasingly unaffordable health care services, especially for those in poverty - the impact is 3 deaths per __hour__**
**Morgan 12** [David, Reporter, Reuters], “Report: 26,000 uninsured Americans die each year”,<span style="font-family: Arial;">[[http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/47892292/ns/health-health_care/t/report-uninsured-americans-die-each-year/#.UI_nN2nwJ80|http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/47892292/ns/health-health_care/t/report-uninsured-americans-die-each-year/#.UI_nN2nwJ80]]</span>]

**The impact of poverty constitutes 200 millions deaths per year of every single decade - equivalent to those who would die in a hypothetical nuclear war**
**Abu-Jamal 98**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mumia, award-winning PA journalist, 9/19, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.flashpoints.net/mQuietDeadlyViolence.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

__**Contention 3: Bioterrorism**__

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bioterrorist attack is inevitable and coming soon but we aren’t prepared</span>**
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">**Katel 9** (Peter, former TIME journalist, frmr writer for World Bank, won the Interamerican Press Association’s Bartolome Mitre Award, “Homeland Security: Is America safe from terrorism today?” CQ Researcher, 2/13/09,</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; text-align: left;">[[http://library.cqpress.com/cqresearcher/document.php?id=cqresrre2009021300]])</span>
**Universal health care is key to preventing and mitigating bioterrorist attacks**
**Greene 04** [Shane, PhD, <span style="background-color: white;">May 2004, “Bioterrorism and Health Care Reform: No Preparedness Without.” </span><span style="color: #3b5998;">[[http://virtualmentor.ama-assn.org/2004/05/pfor2-0405.html]]] </span>

**The impact is extinction**
**Horowitz, 05** [<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Ph.D. in Political Science from Harvard (Does Proliferation Matter? Assessing the Empirical Impact of Biological, Chemical and Nuclear Weapons on International Security, p. 19]</span>

===**AC (Rounds 1 & 3) Rancho Bernardo HQ & Claremont AK**=== 

**Added one contention:**

__**Contention 4: Framework**__

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Extinction prevents the possibility of valuing moral goodness and is always impermissible</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Seeley 86** [Central Committee for Conscientious Objectors, “The Handbook of Non-Violence” p. 269-70] </span>

**Philosophy removed from politics cedes the political sphere to the right - causes extinction - prefer evidence specificity over their __generic__ theory**
**Arras 10** [John, the Porterfield Professor of Biomedical Ethics and Professor of Philosophy at the University of Virginia], "Theory and Bioethics", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Summer 2010 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = <<span style="font-family: Arial;">[[http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/sum2010/entries/theory-bioethics/]]</span>>.

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AC (Round 6) vs. Loyola BF</span>=== 

**Added one contention:**

__**Contention 4: Framework**__

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A) Our framework is that you evaluate the affirmative against a competitive policy option or the status quo. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Prefer our framework because:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1. Plan focus – we allow for a stable locus for links and comparison of alternatives. Their framework makes confusion and judge intervention inevitable. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2. Ground – they access a massive amount of K frameworks, links, and impacts. They can leverage framework to moot the 1AC. We can never predict what we will have to compare the plan to. Even if we get ground, it’s bad and unpredictable.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">3. Topic education – their framework encourages generic Ks that get rehashed every year. We change the topic to learn about new things. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Extinction outweighs – no coping mechanisms, no experience, no trial-and-error, future generations</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Bostrom 2** (Nick Professor of Philosophy and Global Studies at Yale.. www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html.)JFS</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The alternative is dangerous. Abandoning state politics cedes it to the elites – causing war, slavery, and authoritarianism </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Boggs 2K</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (CAROL BOGGS, PF POLITICAL SCIENCE – SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA, 00, THE END OF POLITICS, 250-1</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">To create real change, the use of political institutions is essential. Though we may have the best intentions to create change and make a difference, there is no way that we can actually do anything without a foot in the political world.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cook 92</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Anthony, Associate Professor, Georgetown Law, New England LR, Spring, 26 New Eng.L. Rev. 751)</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">NC</span>=== 

**V: Justice**

**VC: States Rights**

__**Contention 1: State Implementation**__

**<span style="background-color: white;">The states solve Universal Health Care better - Universal health care implemented at the state level ensures better health policy because it ensures interstate variation is taken into account, and ensures better monitoring and revision of policies.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Briffault 92</span>**<span style="background-color: white;"> [Richard, “Federalism and Health Care Reform: Is Half a Loaf Really Worse than None?” //Hastings Constitutional Law Quarterly, Vol 21:611, 1992//]</span>

**<span style="background-color: white;">State reform expands access to universal health care by being able to address the needs of specific communities.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Smedley et al 08</span>**<span style="background-color: white;"> ["Report Examines State Health Care Reforms That Target Minorities, Immigrants, Non-English Speaking Residents", Brian Smedley, Ph.D., Beatrice Alvarez, Rea Panares, M.H.S., Cheryl Fish-Parcham, M.S.W., and Sara Adland. The Commonwealth Fund, April 25 2008]</span>

**<span style="background-color: white;">The CP solves for affordability since states can continue existing programs that have already worked, and prevents high pricing due to uncertainty.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Weil 12</span>**<span style="background-color: white;"> [Alan, M.P.P., J.D. “The Value of Federalism in Defining Essential Health Benefits.” New England Journal of Medicine 366;8. February 23, 2012.</span>[[http://www.nejm.org/doi/pdf/10.1056/NEJMp1200693]]<span style="background-color: white;"> AW.]</span>

__**Contention 2: Federalism**__

**<span style="background-color: white;">A Subpoint is the Status Quo: States have control of health policy now – the Supreme Court’s ruling sets a strong precedent in favor of federalism.</span>**
**Davenport 12** [“Federalism’s Silver Lining in the Health Care Decision.” Forbes, 6/29/12.]

**<span style="background-color: white;">B. Link: Federal control of health care, traditionally a state issue, tramples states’ rights and destroys federalism. Health Care is a key issue – federal control here spills over and destroys the very essence of federalism. Federalization of traditional state, such as health care policy, snowballs into greater federal control of policies everywhere</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Briffault 92</span>**<span style="background-color: white;"> [Richard, “Federalism and Health Care Reform: Is Half a Loaf Really Worse than None?” Hastings Constitutional Law Quarterly, Vol 21:611, 1992] AT. “Nevertheless, reliance on …worse than none?”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">C. Subpoint is the Impact – the impact here is twofold</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">First - Federalism solves human rights – this is the only way to administer justice</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Calabresi 95** (Steven G. Calabresi, professor of law at Northwestern University)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Second - US Federalism prevents tyranny.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Siefel 08** Associate Professor of Law and Political Science at Duke University School of Law (Neil S, “INTERNATIONAL DELEGATIONS AND THE VALUES OF FEDERALISM”, Law and Contemporary Problems, Winter, [[http://scholarship.law.duke.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=2321&context=faculty_scholarship]])</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Tyranny must be rejected in EVERY INSTANCE</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Petro 74** (Sylvester Petro, Wake Forest Professor, Toledo Law Review, 1974)</span>

===**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Specific Strategies</span>**=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">vs. Meadows SK</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">NC: Pharma DA, States + Federalism, Case</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">NR: Case Turns</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">vs. Esperanza WC</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">NC: States + Federalism, Efficiency DA, Case</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">NR: States CP </span>**

=January - February= 

=March - April=