[[toc]]
Hey. Here are my cites, but I also might use somthing either [[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Flower Mound (TX) - Jacob Arnett#September-October-Affirmative|Jacob Arnett]] or [[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Flower Mound (TX) - Matt Gmitro|Matt Gmitro]] 's pages. Feel free to email me, stephen.adkison@yahoo.com for other cites/informations about my cases.
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
===Derrida AC=== 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">V-Justice</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ethical frameworks that evaluate what is right are created through an arbitrary creation of boundaries. There is always an outside “I” that we are incapable of understanding from our original viewpoints.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Wood (ALLEN W. WOOD. Fichte’s Intersubjective I (Stanford University, USA) Inquiry, Special Issue: Kant to Hegel, edited by Susan Hahn Volume 49, Number 1 (February, 2006))</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The conception of mind...its own subjectivity.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ethics are always haunted by those that are excluded. Through the necessary drawing of boundaries, ethics is always inscribed in an economy of violence.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hagglund 1 (Martin, Junior Fellow in the Harvard Society of Fellows, “The Necessity of Discrimination: Disjoining Derrida and Levinas”, 2004 [AAK]) </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In effect, every...it is violated </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Thus, the laws of justice always fail to satisfy our desire for moral rules and require constant rearticulation.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Balkin 1 (Jack M., [Assistant Professor of Law, University of Missouri—Kansas City, Harvard University A.B, 1978, J.D. 1981.], "Deconstructive Practice and Legal Theory" (1987), Faculty Scholarship Series, Paper 291)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In sum, law...choose between them.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Our responsibility to other is therefore an indefinite responsibility.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Balkin 2 (Jack M., [Assistant Professor of Law, University of Missouri—Kansas City, Harvard University A.B, 1978, J.D. 1981.], "Deconstructive Practice and Legal Theory" (1987), Faculty Scholarship Series, Paper 291)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">These remarks suggest...this for certain.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This is inherent to the concept of ethics itself – To separate the content of morality from how it’s function has been defined doesn’t make any sense.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hagglund 2 (Martin, Junior Fellow in the Harvard Society of Fellows, “The Necessity of Discrimination: Disjoining Derrida and Levinas”, 2004 [AAK])</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In effect, every...to possible contestation.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">S-Embracing Alterity</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Contention 1: Borders</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The idea of a nation is a construct of the state in an attempt to establish a stable identity while denying the lack of a prior one. This creates an unending constitution of state identity that is always in flux.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Campbell 1 (David, [Professor of Cultural and Political Geography, Department of Geography, Durham University, UK], “Writing Security”, University of Minnesota Press, 1992, pp 8, pdf, SA)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Indeed, much of the...would be death</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Foreign policy is thus based in the establishment of boundaries that separate the foreign from the domestic.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Campbell 2 (David, [Professor of Cultural and Political Geography, Department of Geography, Durham University, UK], “Writing Security”, University of Minnesota Press, 1992, pp 69, pdf, SA) </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Put simply, the...over the other</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The separation of foreign and domestic through the creation of borders inherently otherizes the foreign.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Campbell 3 (David, [Professor of Cultural and Political Geography, Department of Geography, Durham University, UK], “Writing Security”, University of Minnesota Press, 1992, pp 78, pdf, SA)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Finally, the above ...Policy helps achieve.</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">We embrace alterity by using due process to shatter the citizen/non-citizen dichotomy.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Franks 09 (Mary Anne, [Doctorate in Philosophy from Oxford in 2004] Guantanamo Forever: United States Sovereignty and the Unending State of Exception, 2009, online, SA)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The due process...is carried out.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Contention 2: Terrorist</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Terrorists are the new Other, and the discourse of terrorism has moved them into a subhuman category.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Lummis 04 (C. Douglas, [former professor at Tsuda College in Tokyo] “The Terrorist as a New Human Type”, 2004, online, SA)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In the past several...the person did.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This creates a self-fulfilling prophecy; it fuels recruitment for organizations and heightens the fear of the target population</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Jackson 07(Richard, Ph.D in conflict resolution, 2007, Government and Opposition, Vol. 42, No. 3, pp. 394–426, “Constructing Enemies: ‘Islamic Terrorism’ in Political and Academic Discourse)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">At a more...their only recourse.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Treating terrorism as wrong rather than evil allows the US to stop terrorism while not otherizing terrorists.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ivie 03 (Robert L, [Indiana University Communications Professor and Department Chair], 2003, “Evil Enemy Versus Agonistic Other: Rhetorical Constructions of Terrorism”, Ebsco)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">If the rhetoric...contingent upon rearticulation</span>
==Negative== 
===Afghan Tribunal CP=== 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A. CounterPlan text-Afghan based hybrid domestic-international courts ought to extend non-citizens accused of terrorism due process protections.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dickinson 1 (Laura A, [Associate Professor, University of Connecticut School of Law], “USING LEGAL PROCESS TO FIGHT TERRORISM: DETENTIONS, MILITARY COMMISSIONS, INTERNATIONAL TRIBUNALS, AND THE RULE OF LAW”, Southern California Law Review Vol 75:1407, September 2002, pdf, SA)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Another option that...other terrorist acts. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">B. Competition- 1. Int actor and ilaw. 2. Trial by judges. 3. Same implies no differences.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">C. Solvency</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">International law protects due process rights.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dickinson 2 (Laura A, [Associate Professor, University of Connecticut School of Law], “USING LEGAL PROCESS TO FIGHT TERRORISM: DETENTIONS, MILITARY COMMISSIONS, INTERNATIONAL TRIBUNALS, AND THE RULE OF LAW”, Southern California Law Review Vol 75:1407, September 2002, pdf, SA)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Although less explored...rights is respected.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hybrid courts are empirically effective and getting better-look to East Timor.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dickinson 3 (Laura A, [Associate Professor, University of Connecticut School of Law], “USING LEGAL PROCESS TO FIGHT TERRORISM: DETENTIONS, MILITARY COMMISSIONS, INTERNATIONAL TRIBUNALS, AND THE RULE OF LAW”, Southern California Law Review Vol 75:1407, September 2002, pdf, SA)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The United Nations...has gained independence. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">D. Net Benefits</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">1. Soft Power-an International system increases US Soft Power.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dickinson 4 (Laura A, [Associate Professor, University of Connecticut School of Law], “USING LEGAL PROCESS TO FIGHT TERRORISM: DETENTIONS, MILITARY COMMISSIONS, INTERNATIONAL TRIBUNALS, AND THE RULE OF LAW”, Southern California Law Review Vol 75:1407, September 2002, pdf, SA)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Increased protection of...Arab Muslim world.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Soft Power is key to stopping terrorism.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Nye 04 (Joseph S, “Soft Power and American Foreign Policy”, Harvard IR prof., vol. 119, no. 2, p. 257)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Look again at...the new challenges.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Nuclear terrorism exists and leads to mass death, suffering, and nuclear war.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Chesney 97 (Robert, [Charles I. Francis professor of law at the University of Texas School of Law] “National Insecurity: Nuclear Material Availability and the Threat of Nuclear Terrorism,” Loyola of Los Angeles International and Comparative Law review, November 1, 1997, online, AZ)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The horrible truth...other policy considerations.</span>
===<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Biopower K</span>=== 

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A. Link-Legal Protection of rights legitimates a system of domination and normalization. Two warrants.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Pickett (Brent L, [Professor of Political Science and Chairman of the Social Sciences Department, at Chadron State College], 2000, THE SOCIAL SCIENCE JOURNAL, July, p. 43)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The critique of liberal...a friendly disposition.</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;">B. Impact</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">We must free ourselves from repression if we are to ever experience value at all. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Jun 1 (Nathan. [PhD in Philosophy, Professor at Midwestern State University] "Deleuze, Values, and Normativity." Deleuze and Ethics. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press, 2011. 93. MG)</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The process of creating...to ethical life.</span>




<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This is specific to the value of life. Life is not something intrinsically valuable. It is only valuable in the becoming of life and relational dynamics.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Jun 2 (Nathan. [PhD in Philosophy, Professor at Midwestern State University] "Deleuze, Values, and Normativity." Deleuze and Ethics. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press, 2011. 93. MG)</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A. C. Ewing famously...and instrumental value. </span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Alternative</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Reject the affirmative mindset of reaching normative truths and instead embrace nomadic thought where we leave morality in a constant state of change. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Massumi (Brian Massumi. Translators Foreword: Pleasures of Philosophy. A Thousand Plateaus.)</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">"Nomad thought" does...Power builds walls. </span>
=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 
[[media type="custom" key="21100462"]]
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]