[[toc]]
=Notes= 
Questions, comments or specific cite requests:

Aff: michaeljamesmcIntire@gmail.com

Neg: andrewjayhayes@gmail.com


=Affirmative= 

==1AC - Zizek - Greenhill== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contention 1</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contention 1 is the Status Quo</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Status quo mass transit policy attempts to separate the social from the economic – the result is the privileging of rich, white communities</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Grengs ’04</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> – Associate Professor of Urban and Regional Planning at the University of Michigan ( Joe, CITY, VOL. 9, NO. 1, APRIL, “The abandoned social goals of public transit in the neoliberal city of the USA”,[[http://communitylearningpartnership.org/share/docs/Grengs.Abandoned_Social_Goals_of_Public_Transit.pdf/JC|http://communitylearningpartnership.org/share/docs/Grengs.Abandoned_Social_Goals_of_Public_Transit.pdf//JC]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Hidden </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">behind </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">the surge … public purpose of mass transit.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This split is problematic –it turns consciousness into a means for profit</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Marsh 95</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, Professor of Philosophy at Fordham University, PhD from Northwestern University</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(James, Critique Action and Liberation, p 277)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Ideally, nature, </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">workers' … source of their value.</span>__


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Resisting capitalism’s reliance on economic evaluation is the ultimate ethical responsibility – the current social order guarantees social exclusion on a global scale</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Žižek and Daly, 04 </span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">– *Slavoj Žižek is a researcher at the institute for sociology at Ljubljana and **Glyn Daly: Having taught at Essex and Manchester Universities, Glyn joined the Politics course team in 1999. Glyn is responsible for the Level 2 core module in International Studies, Global Imaginations: Ideas and Identities. He is also active in the area of Political Theory, and teaches and co-ordinates SOC1001 Introduction to Political Theory, SOC3006 Making of Modern Political Thought, and offers a specialist option on SOC3028 Ideology, Fantasy and Film in the final year. He has published a range of articles on Political Theory, Marxism and Post-Marxism and the Politics of Ideology and Fantasy and is currently writing a book on the work of the Slovenian philosopher Slavoj Zizek for Sage. Glyn has recently completed a training course for supervising PhD students.(“Risking the Impossible”, 2004, [[http://www.lacan.com/zizek-daly.htm]])//MP//**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">For Zizek it is imperative … sound matrix.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And, this separation prevents concern for the environment – that puts all life on earth in a precarious position</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Foster, 02</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (John Bellamy, Professor of environmental sociology, Marxism, and political economy at the University of Oregon, Ecology Against Capitalism, //p 66-67)//</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__The consequences of such …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and must be superseded.</span></span>**


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And, separation of the social and the economic makes endless war inevitable – it becomes a business</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rajiva 6</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> – Masters in Economics, Doctoral work in international relations and political philosophy </span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Lila, The New Centennial Review 6.1 (2006) 133-169, “Prometheus The Emergence of the Police State in America“)</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Indeed, to act with impunity, </span>__… not be the logical outcome?__</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Moreover, focus on profit over people creates an urban underclass – this is justified with racism</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Wilson 10**</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Carter, professor of political science at the University of Toledo, The Dominant Class and the Construction of Racial Oppression: A Neo-Marxist/Gramscian Approach to Race in the United States, Google Scholars) </span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">In the final analysis, several … analysis of contemporary racism.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And, crisis become inevitable in a world where we prioritize the economic over everything</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Harvey 10</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (David, Professor at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York (CUNY) and Director at the Center for Place, Culture, and Politics,</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">paper prepared for the American Sociological Association Meetings in Atlanta, August 16th, 2010, “The Enigma of Capital and the Crisis this Time”, Google Books)</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">There are abundant signs, however, … Let us consider each of these.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Separating the economic from the social undermines true democracy – it allows the elite to dominate society</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Reich, 07****</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert B., former Harvard University professor, “How capitalism is killing democracy,” Foreign Policy//, September-October, accessed online using General OneFile, 07-17-08)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Why has capitalism succeeded while … </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">invariably trump common concerns.</span>__


===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Aff-1AC - Greenhill Round 1-Contention 2]]Contention 2</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contention 2 is the Universal</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In the face of neoliberalism Andrew and I demand that:</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The United States federal government will ensure funding for all its mass transit transportation infrastructure needs.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Privatizing mass transit causes social exclusion and extinction – we need the spectre of communism to re-emerge</span>**
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Zizek 09**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Slavoj, Professor of Sociology at the Institute for Sociology, Ljubljana University, “Censorship Today: Violence, or Ecology as a New Opium for the Masses”[[http://schwarzemilch.files.wordpress.com/2009/02/censorship-today.pdf]]//HH)jc//</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Last but not least, new forms of apartheid, … </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the hypothesis</span>__ <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">to </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">deploy itself</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The affirmative represents an ethical shift that embraces contingency in the face of certainty – This represents a dramatic shift from existing, unquestioned institutions</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Žižek and Daly 2004</span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Slavoj, professor of philosophy at the Institute for Sociology, Ljubljana, and Glyn, Senior Lecturer in Politics in the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences at University College, Northampton, Conversations with Zizek, page 18-19)MP</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">For Zizek, a </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">confrontation with </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">the … </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">to risk the impossible.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Locating a single contradiction may seem trivial, but the key is to tie it to universal struggles – fighting these struggles is vital to survival</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Žižek</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">09</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">--Slavoj Žižek is a researcher at the institute for sociology at Ljubljana (New Left Review 57, May-June 2009, “How to Begin at the Beginning”[[http://www.newleftreview.org/II/57/slavoj-zizek-how-to-begin-from-the-beginning)JC]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">It is not enough to remain … so is to act preventively.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Our affirmative overcomes the fear of finding a revolutionary subject– This allows reaction to the system’s contradictions</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Žižek</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">09</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">--Slavoj Žižek is a researcher at the institute for sociology at Ljubljana (New Left Review 57, May-June 2009, “How to Begin at the Beginning”[[http://www.newleftreview.org/II/57/slavoj-zizek-how-to-begin-from-the-beginning)JC]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">So where are we today, … hypothesis, against all odds?</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The dialectic is vital to ideology shift –resolves antagonisms</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Zizek 2009</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Professor of Philosophy at University of Ljubljana (Slavoj, “THE SUBLIME OBJECT OF IDEOLOGY: 2nd Edition”, Preface, pgs. xvii and xviii, SW)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">One should here reread Lacan's … </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">in their 'positive' role?</span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Our plan acts as a metaphoric condensation of social restructuring</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Zizek 04</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Professor of Philosophy at University of Ljubljana(Slavoj, In These Times, “The Free World … of Slums”,[[http://www.inthesetimes.com/article/1090/]] SW)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">What, then, happens to Human …. </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">seeds of the future.</span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Our particular demand can have a subversive effect. Our 1AC politicizes the contradictions of capitalism to make a better system possible.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dean, 05</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> - teaches political theory. Her research and writing focus on the contemporary space and possibility of politics. Books include: Solidarity of Strangers (1996), Aliens in America (1998), Publicity's Secret (2002), Zizek's Politics (2006), Democracy and Other Neoliberal Fantasies (2009), Blog Theory: Feedback and Capture in the Circuits of Drive (2010) (*Jodi, “Žižek Against Democrocy”, 2005, [[http://tinyurl.com/llnbtt]])//MP//</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">I’ve argued thus far that … no ‘itself’ absent this ‘beyond’)</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Planning for specific scenarios is impossible – ethics should be a prior question</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kessler 08</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> [Oliver professor of Sociology at University of Bielefeld, “From Insecurity to Uncertainty: Risk and the Paradox of Security Politics” Alternatives 33 (08), 211-232 LO]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">The problem of the second method … </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">can be assessed with relative certainty.</span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Demand is key</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dean ’06</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> - Prof. of Political Science @ Hobart and William Smith Colleges (Jodi, </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Zizek’s Politics</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, p. 187)JC</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Žižek appeals to the act in order … </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">what one must do</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Status quo decision-making hurts minorities</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Odell 2004</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (University of Illinois is an Associate Professor of Philosophy (Jack, Ph.D., “On Consequentialist Ethics,” Wadsworth, Thomson Learning, Inc., pp. 98-103) Herm </span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A classic objection to …</span>__ <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Gods for the welfare of the group.</span>

==1AC - DAR - Alta== 

===**Plan Texts**=== 
**Plan: The Department of Defense should substantially increase funding and implementation of the Defense Access Roads program for transportation infrastructure projects in the United States.**

**Plan: The Department of Defense should substantially increase funding to the Defense Access Roads program for transportation infrastructure projects in the United States.**

===**Deterrence Advantage**=== 
**Global hotspot escalation is inevitable – 40 different conflicts have the potential to draw in great powers and go nuclear**
**Hellman, 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Martin E. Hellman - Professor of Electrical Engineering, Stanford University, Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers), remodified 9-27-2012 on the website posted - on “[[@http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1|citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1]].</span>
Every day, there is a<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> … </span>is pulled in nuclear roulette.

**There are multiple hotspots across the globe that could explode at any moment**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Boesler, 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Matthew-reporter for Business Insider's markets desk. Previously, he hosted Benzinga Radio, a business news and investing program. He holds a degree in economics from the University of Michigan., August 6, “Citi Presents 14 Global Hot Spots That Have The Potential To Explode”, [[http://www.businessinsider.com/citi-geopolitical-risks-2012-8?op=1]]) CW</span>
<span class="Underline">The European economy is deteriorating … given the higher economic stakes."</span>

**Troop movement speed is the vital internal link- checks escalation**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Daniel </span>**Goure 12** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Vice President with the Lexington Institute, a nonprofit public-policy research organization headquartered in Arlington, Virginia, M.A. in international Relations, Ph.D. in Russian Studies, Former Deputy Director, International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, former adjunct professor in graduate programs at the Center for Peace and Security Studies at Georgetown University, and an adjunct professor at National Defense University since 2002) August 22, “Cutbacks in Critical Enablers Threaten to Undermine New Defense Strategy” [[http://www.defpro.com/news/details/38548/?SID=e97a6eb6bb85eba71ac0f7bebb724743]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The Obama Administration’s Defense Strategic … overseas and operate once deployed. </span>

**This overwhelms all alt causes – lets us do more with less**
**McNabb 11**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">- retired Air Force general (Duncan J., “We Measure Success Through the Eyes of the War Fighter,” Air and Space Power Journal, Winter, [[http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a555500.pdf]])//mat//</span>
//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Strategic Context Demands More with … positions to enable global reach.</span>//

//**Good transportation around US bases is vital to this rapid response**//
//**Derr**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Ray, NCHRP Senior Program Officer, (TRANSPORTATION RESEARCH BOARD of the NAS-NRC, “Transportation Operations Programs: Status & Critical Issues,” Aug 25, http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/archive/notesdocs/20-7(181)%20final%20report.pdf)</span>//
//__The National__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">System of Interstate … </span>__military operations would be staged.__//

//**But, military relocations undermine that**//
//**Moran 9** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">James P Moran(Committee on Appropriations),7/27/2009,Congress of The United States(House Of Representations), [[http://alexandrianews.org/2009/wp-content/uploads/2009/07/gates-letter.pdf]]</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Thank you for your continued … </span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 7pt;">duties will be negatively impacted. </span>//

//**Independently, that congestion causes an attrition of military talent and key personnel – makes the whole deployment process unmanagable**//
//**NAS 11**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [National Academy of Science (Transportation Research Board), expertise in transportation budgeting and policy, military budgeting and policy, infrastructure planning, state and local infrastructure management, economics, and military facility planning, 2011, “Federal Funding of Transportation Improvements in BRAC Cases: Special Report 302”, [[http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=13104]] </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Increased highway traffic generated by … impacts of military personnel relocations.</span>//

//**Crushes our overall military efficiency – transportation infrastructure is key**//
//**Messina 11**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Debbie Messina(PhD In Journalism),PilotOnline.com, “Region's roads impede Navy mobility, report finds”, [[http://hamptonroads.com/2011/07/regions-roads-impede-navy-mobility-report-finds]]</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">About </span>125,000 Navy personnel use area … <span class="Underline">challenges on their daily commutes.</span>//

//**This perception of collapsing responsiveness ensures deterrence collapse and war**//
//**Spencer, 2k** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Jack Spencer – Senior Research Fellow for The Heritage Foundation, September 15, 2000, “The Facts About Military Readiness”, [[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2000/09/bg1394-the-facts-about-military-readiness]]]</span>//
//<span class="Underline">U.S. military readiness cannot be … national interest, </span>thereby preserving peace<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>//

//**These conflicts escalate and go nuclear without US military superiority to cap escalation**//
//**Bosco, 06**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (David, senior editor at Foreign Policy magazine, Los Angeles Times, “Could This Be the Start of World War III?”, 7/23, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.latimes.com/news/opinion/commentary/la-op-bosco23jul23,0,7807202.story?coll=la-opinion-center]]</span>)</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">IT WAS LATE JUNE in … or China would respond militarily. </span>//

//**The plan solves credible conventional deterrence – other forms fail**//
//**Gerson, 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - research analyst at the Center for Naval Analyses, a federally funded research center in Alexandria, Va., where his research focuses on deterrence, nuclear strategy, counterproliferation, missile defense, and arms control. He is a graduate of the University of Texas and the University of Chicago. (Michael S., “Conventional Deterrence in the Second Nuclear Age”, 2009, http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/parameters/Articles/09autumn/gerson.pdf)</span>//ahayes
<span class="Underline">Deterrence is</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> once again a topic … </span>for<span class="Underline"> conventional **aggression and coercion**.</span>

**This controls all impact scenarios**
**Carlucci, 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - MBA at Harvard, Princeton, Former U.S. Secretary of Defense, Deputy director of the CIA (Frank, “Frank Carlucci on Nuclear Deterrence and Strategic Defenses” Updated 8-11-09, http://www.nuclearfiles.org/menu/key-issues/nuclear-weapons/history/cold-war/strategy/report-carlucci-deterrence_1989-01-17.htm)//ahayes</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Since 1945, there has been only … </span><span class="Underline">which they may contemplate aggression.</span>

====**China Module**==== 
**Credibility and strength are key to prevent war in the South China Sea**
**Cronin and Kaplan 12**//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;"> [Patrick M. Cronin, Senior Advisor and Senior Director of the Asia-Pacific Security Program at the Center for a New American Security, and Robert D. Kaplan, Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, “Cooperation from Strength The United States, China and the South China Sea”, Center for New American Security,[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_CooperationFromStrength_Cronin_1.pdf]]]</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">There is an ineluctable geostrategic … the same set of rules.</span>//

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Nuclear war </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">ANI, 9/16</span>**//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“Why China's nuclear weapons strategy could rapidly escalate conventional weapons strike to nuclear,” The Washington Sun,[[@https://www.google.com/search?q=ANI+News&oq=ANI+News&sugexp=chrome,mod=11&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8]])</span>**Red**</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 7pt;">Washington, Sep 16 (ANI):</span> __<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">An</span>____<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;"> expert … **accelerated and unavoidable**</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 7pt;">," they warned.</span></span>//

====**Syria Module**==== 
**Risk of Syrian or terrorist CBW use is high – deterrence is key to prevent it**
**Eisenstadt, 12** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">– Michael, director of the Military and Security Studies Program at The Washington Institute (“Dealing with Syria's Chemical Weapons: Military Options,” The Washington Institute, http://www.washingtoninstitute.org/policy-analysis/view/dealing-with-syrias-chemical-weapons-military-options)**Red**</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Given the complexities of military … by other states of concern.</span>

**That causes extinction and outweighs all other impacts****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_msocom_1|[ML1]]] </span>**
**Ochs 02**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]</span>
__Of all the weapons of …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the highest of all crimes.</span>


===**Planning Advantage**=== 
**Civil-military planning policy is dazed and confused – leadership solves**
**TRB 11**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Transportation Research Board of the National Academies, “Federal Funding of Transportation Improvements in BRAC Cases,” http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/sr/sr302.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Institutional Misalignment The BRAC 2005 process … vehicle trips and service costs.</span>

**DAR is key– funding transfer mechanism and effects on surrounding communities**
**GAO, 11**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (January, “High-Level Federal Interagency Coordination Is Warranted to Address </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Transportation Needs beyond the Scope of the Defense Access Roads </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Program”, [[http://www.gao.gov/assets/320/315277.html]] SW)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">*Note: Table Removed</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">DOD is currently implementing several … request meets DAR eligibility criteria. </span>

**Participation in domestic construction efforts institutionalizes a model for foreign efforts – perception is key**
**DSB 05**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Defense Science Board, “Institutionalizing Stability Operations Within DoD”, [[http://www.acq.osd.mil/dsb/reports/ADA441078.pdf]] SW)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">There are parallels between the … to further improving that partnership.</span>

**Lack of leadership prevents global stability operations– coordination solves**
**Serafino and Weiss, 08** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Specialist in International Security Affairs for Foreign Affairs AND Analyst in International Trade and Finance for Foreign Affairs (Nina M. and Martin A., </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">“Peacekeeping and Conflict Transitions: Background and Congressional Action on Civilian Capabilities”, SW)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The creation of S/CRS in … capabilities to perform those tasks.</span>

**That makes state collapse inevitable**
**Serafino and Weiss, 08** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Specialist in International Security Affairs for Foreign Affairs AND Analyst in International Trade and Finance for Foreign Affairs (Nina M. and Martin A., </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">“Peacekeeping and Conflict Transitions: Background and Congressional Action on Civilian Capabilities”, SW)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The perception that </span>__international terrorism …__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">based on effective, transparent institutions.</span>

**Nuclear war**
**ASC et. al., 2003**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[African Studies Centre et al, December, The Transnational Institute, The Center of Social Studies, Coimbra University, and The Peace Research Center – CIP-FUHEM, “Failed and Collapsed States in the International System,” December, http://www.globalpolicy.org/nations/sovereign/failed/2003/12failedcollapsedstates.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">In the malign scenario of … </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">attacks on their national security</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">. </span>


===**Solvency**=== 
**Obama is already tied to politically unpopular transportation funding increases – backlash inevitable**
**Boak 8/13** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Josh Boak (writer for the Fiscal Times) August 13, 2012 “New Law Puts “Bridge to Nowhere” Back on Track” New Law Puts “Bridge to Nowhere” Back on Track Read more at [[http://www.thefiscaltimes.com/Articles/2012/08/13/New-Law-Puts-Bridge-to-Nowhere-Back-on-Track.aspx#HMclpbMZJlcMLaRe.99|http://www.thefiscaltimes.com/Articles/2012/08/13/New-Law-Puts-Bridge-to-Nowhere-Back-on-Track.aspx#HMclpbMZJlcMLaRe.99]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Remember Alaska’s infamous “</span>bridge to … <span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Somebody else made that happen.</span>

**The plan creates financial certainty – which is key to sustained operations**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">NAS 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [National Academy of Science (Transportation Research Board), expertise in transportation budgeting and policy, military budgeting and policy, infrastructure planning, state and local infrastructure management, economics, and military facility planning, 2011, “Federal Funding of Transportation Improvements in BRAC Cases: Special Report 302”, [[http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=13104]] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Competition for MILCON Funds Finding 11 </span>… <span style="font-size: 8pt;">priority projects for environmental streamlining.</span>

**The DAR program has been reformed already – investment is key**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">ADC,</span>11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Association of Defense Communities) March 2011 “Pentagon to Revise Road Funding Criteria” [[http://www.defensecommunities.org/pentagon-to-revise-road-funding-criteria/#|http://www.defensecommunities.org/pentagon-to-revise-road-funding-criteria/#]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In response to recommendations in a … </span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 8pt;">efforts,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">” according to her testimony.</span>

**Our argument is reverse causal – even small efficiency improvements have huge effects on military transportation**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">NAS 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (National Academy of Science (Transportation Research Board)) “Federal Funding of Transportation Improvements in BRAC Cases: Special Report 302”, [[http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=13104]]</span>
<span class="Underline">Transportation </span>programs to reduce congestion<span class="Underline"> … regional congestion and delay levels</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Hundreds of mission critical transportation infrastructure improvements are waiting for funding now**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">NGA,</span>**9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(National Governors Association) “State Transportation Activities to Support Mission Growth” http://www.nga.org/files/live/sites/NGA/files/pdf/0906MISSIONGROWTH.PDF</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Executive Summary </span>Significant growth in<span class="Underline"> … gap is expected to grow.</span>

**Congress and Obama have passed massive transportation infrastructure investments now, but they don’t solve the aff**
**Cooper, 9/5** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Donna Cooper (Senior Fellow with the Economic Policy team, Kristina Costa is a Research Assistant in Economic Policy) and Keith Miller (intern with the Economic Policy team at the Center for American Progress) September 5, 2012 “Creating a National Infrastructure Bank and Infrastructure Planning Council” [[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/economy/report/2012/09/05/36409/creating-a-national-infrastructure-bank-and-infrastructure-planning-council/]]</span>
Congress and<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the </span>Obama<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> administration </span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 7pt;">… </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">operate a federal infrastructure lending initiative.</span>

=Negative= 
==Topicality and Procedurals== 
===T - Investment=== 

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Investment is direct federal spending </span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">CBO, 9</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> – Congressional Budget Office (“Subsidizing Infrastructure Investment with Tax-Preferred Bonds”, October,[[http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/106xx/doc10667/10-26-taxpreferredbonds.pdf]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">In this analysis, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">investment </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">…research and development</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===T - Military=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A. Interpretation: U.S. law defines “infrastructure” as only non-military</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">National Infrastructure Improvement Act ,‘7 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 80%;">(National Infrastructure Improvement Act of 2007 – Passed by the Senate, [[http://uspolitics.about.com/od/legislation/l/bl_s775.htm]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">(4) INFRASTRUCTURE(A) .... waste disposal facility.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A substantial investment is over 20%</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Traficant et. al 89</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> –</span><span style="font-size: 80%;"> former member of US House of Representatives(James, written with other Congressmembers, Bill Summary & Status 101st Congress (1989 - 1990) H.R.2489, 5/24/89, [[http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d101:h.r.02489]]:)//EM</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">(C) SUBSTANTIAL INVESTMENT ....on the first day of such period.</span>

===T - Federal Reserve Board=== 

**A. Interpretation - ‘Its’ is a possessive pronoun showing ownership**
**Glossary of English Grammar Terms, 2005**
<span style="font-size: 80%;">(http://www.usingenglish.com/glossary/possessive-pronoun.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;"> Mine, yours, his, hers, its, … to show possession or ownership.</span>
<span style="font-size: 80%;">EG. This is your disk and that's mine. (Mine substitutes the word disk and shows that it belongs to me.)</span>

**B. violation Federal Reserve is a private bank and it NOT a federal agency.**
**__ECB 12__**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">(Economic Collapse Blog, Michael the author has a law degree from the University of Florida law school. He also has an LLM from the University of Florida law school. February 8th 2012, “10 Things That Every American Should Know About The Federal Reserve” http://theeconomiccollapseblog.com/archives/10-things-that-every-american-should-know-about-the-federal-reserve)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Economic Collapse Blog, Michael … the Fed is foreign-owned.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="Underline">Disadvantages</span></span>== 
===**Fiscal Cliff DA**=== 

**Obama using bully pulpit now to force republican compromise on fiscal cliff**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dave </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Boyer** **and**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Susan </span>**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Crabtree</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (writers for the Washington Times) </span>**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">November 28</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 2012 ‘Obama seeks public’s leverage in ‘fiscal cliff’ fight” http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2012/nov/28/obama-amps-pressure-budget-deal/</span>
<span class="Underline">Forgoing direct negotiations with House … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">told reporters after the meeting.</span>

**PC will be key**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kimberly </span>**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Atkins</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (writer for the Boston-Herald) </span>**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">November 8</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 2012 “Prez returns to D.C. with more clout” http://bostonherald.com/news/columnists/view/20221108prez_returns_to_dc_with_more_clout</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When President </span>Obamareturned<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> yesterday </span><span class="Underline">… </span>plenty of fight in them.

**Transportation is still unpopular and polarized- requires Obamas political capital**
**Politico 11/8/12**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">- (Kathryn A. Wolfe, “More gridlock for transportation?” November 8, 2012, [[http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=CA423B44-8BE3-44DF-AC16-F2D5D1B432D2]]) AE</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> President Barack Obama has championed … a federal cost share exceeding $5 million.</span>

**Impact is global econ collapse**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Harold </span>**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Mandel</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (writer for the Examiner) </span>**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">September 27</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">**,** 2012 “Fitch says fiscal cliff could set off global recession (Video)” http://www.examiner.com/article/fitch-says-fiscal-cliff-could-set-off-global-recession</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The ratings agency stated, "</span>The<span class="Underline"> U.S. </span>… <span class="Underline">be bad news for everyone</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Economic collapse causes global nuclear war**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Friedberg and Schoenfeld, 2008</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Aaron, Prof. Politics. And IR @ Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School and Visiting Scholar @ Witherspoon Institute, and Gabriel, Senior Editor of Commentary and Wall Street Journal, “The Dangers of a Diminished America” [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]]]</span>
__Then there are__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the dolorous </span>… internal travails with external adventures__.__

===1NC DoT Disad=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Funding pressure means transportation secretary nomination will focus on efficiency now – plan undermines that</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bloomberg, 11/15/12</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(“Obama May Choose New Transportation Secretary To Make Trains Run On Time,” For Construction Pros.com,[[http://www.forconstructionpros.com/news/10830207/obama-may-choose-new-transportation-secretary-to-make-trains-run-on-time)Red]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">With LaHood leaving leadership of … to increase federal transit funding.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Technocrat is key to effective HSR implementation</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Smith, 11/18/12</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Stephen, Bloomberg transportation contributor/commentator (“New DOT chief could set tone for transportation,” Bloomberg,[[http://www2.tbo.com/news/opinion/2012/nov/18/vwviewo1-new-dot-chief-could-set-tone-for-transpor-ar-567134/)Red]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">As President Barack Obama selects … how you accomplish physical things."</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">High-speed rail solves warming and oil dependence – continuous improvements, alternative energy sources and lower costs</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Baxandall et al. 11</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">PhD., Prof at Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government, (Phineas, November 10, 2011, “A Track Record of Success: High-Speed Rail Around the World and Its Promise for America,” [[http://www.copirgstudents.org/reports/co/track-record-success-high-speed-rail-around-world-and-its-promise-america)JCP]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">As America moves toward construction … warming pollutants by 99 percent.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Warming causes extinction</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mazo 10</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The best estimates for global … social, cultural and political changes.</span>





==Counter Plans== 
===Navy CP=== 



**Text: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its development and deployment of submarine, surface combatants, seabasing and sealift capability.**

**That solves**
**Alberto**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, et al.,</span> **5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Lieutenant Colonel Ronald P., U.S. Army, Colonel Michael G. Archuleta, U.S. Air Force, Lieutenant Colonel Steven H. Bills, U.S. Air Force, Commander William A. Bransom, U.S. Navy, Mr. Kenneth Cohen, Department of State, Commander William A. Ebbs, U.S. Navy, George Manjgaladze, Ministry of Defense, Republic of Georgia, Commander Elizabeth B. Myhre, U.S. Navy, Audrea M. Nelson, DA, Robert L. Riddick, Department of Defense, Colonel Christopher M. Ross, U.S. Army, Julia N. Ruhnke, DA, Lieutenant Colonel Gregory M. Ryan, U.S. Marine Corps, Colonel David D. Thompson, U.S. Air Force, Commander Hugh D. Wetherald, U.S. Navy, Dr. Mark Montroll, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Dr. Michael Farbman, USAID, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Captain David B. Hill, U.S. Coast Guard, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, “SHIPBUILDING”, The Industrial College of the Armed Forces, National Defense University, 2005, http://www.ndu.edu/icaf/programs/academic/industry/reports/2005/pdf/icaf-is-report-shipbuilding-2005.pdf, Deech)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">***note – seabasing = naval capability that provides commanders with the ability to conduct selected functions and tasks at sea without reliance on infrastructure ashore**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In conclusion, </span><span class="Underline">our study found ... </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nation of the vessel.</span>**

Sealift spefically solves
Conway, their author, 07**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (James T., General, U.S. Marine Corps, Gary Roughead, Admiral, U.S. Navy, Thad W. Allen, Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard, “A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower,” October, http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Deter major power war. .... enable extended campaigns ashore.</span>

====<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2NC Solvency </span>==== 

**Subs solve navy effectiveness planning**
**Rush, 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Public Affairs Office for Commander, Submarine Forces Pacific; (David, SURGE PROTECTORS SUBMARINES PROVE VITAL TO THE NAVY'S FLEET RESPONSE PLAN” 2004, [[http://www.navy.mil/navydata/cno/n87/usw/issue_24/surge.htm]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the face of decreasing … them more rapidly.</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Sealift is key to USPACOM effectiveness</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Gulledge and Keating 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[Jay Gulledge, Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, served on the faculties of Tulane University and the University of Louisville, Timothy J. Keating, retired United States Navy admiral of PACOM, 2010 “Future Naval Operations in Asia and the Pacific” in “Climate and Energy Proceedings 2010”, Johns Hopkins University, page 344-345,[[http://www.jhuapl.edu/ClimateAndEnergy/Book/Chapter/Chapter7.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">The instrument of foreign... ...</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">success in the region.</span>__



===**EIS CP**=== 

**Text: The United States federal government should submit the (((Plan))) to a binding environmental life cycle assessment. The results of the life cycle assessment should be incorporated and implemented.**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">LCA is key to efficient transportation infrastructure policy – current process are inefficient</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Schenck, 9</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">- </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">Institute for Environmental Research and Education American Center for Life Cycle Assessment (Rita, February 22nd, “The Business Case for Life Cycle Assessment in US Policy and Legislation”[[http://lcacenter.org/Data/Sites/1/SharedFiles/whitepapers/thebusinesscaseforlca.pdf]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">Over the last forty .. package expenditures.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This solves the aff and is __uniquely__ key to environmental leadership</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Schenck, 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">- American Center for Life Cycle Assessment Institute for Environmental Research and Education (Rita C., “A Roadmap to Environmental Product Declarations in the United States” June 2010,[[http://lcacenter.org/pdf/Roadmap-to-EPDs-in-the-USA.pdf]])//ahayes</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">Environmental Product Declarations (</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">... </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">that needs to be done includes.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Extinction</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Harris, 1</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">- </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">Lecturer at Lignan University, Associate Fellow – Oxford Center for Environment, Ethics, and Society at Mansfield College, Oxford University, (Paul G., The Environment, International Relations, and U.S. Foreign Policy, p. 241-242)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">In addition to promoting ... moral agents, to make a Kantian argument65).</span>

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">2NC Solvency </span>==== 


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Only LCA ensures a __holistic__ assessment – empirics</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Chester and Horvath 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> – Mikhail Chester is an Assistant Professor at Arizona State University in the School of Sustainable Engineering and the Built Environment and Arpad Horvath is a Professor in the Engineering and Project Management Program and in the Energy, Civil Infrastructure and Climate Program (Fall, “Life-Cycle Environmental Assessment of California High Speed Rail” [[http://www.uctc.net/access/37/access37_assessing_hsr.pdf]])</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A life-cycle analysis ...</span>__ __<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">cleaner and higher-ridership modes.</span>__



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">LCA is key to comprehensively assessing</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Schenck 2009</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">- Institute for Environmental Research and Education American Center for Life Cycle Assessment (Rita, February 22nd, “The Business Case for Life Cycle Assessment in US Policy and Legislation” [[http://lcacenter.org/Data/Sites/1/SharedFiles/whitepapers/thebusinesscaseforlca.pdf]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">But carbon credits are only the be... benefits at lower environmental and economic costs.</span>

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Counterplans-EIS-2NC Say Yes]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2NC Say Yes</span></span>==== 


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The mechanism means the plan is implemented and credible </span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Beder, 10</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">professor in the Faculty of Arts at the University of Wollongong in New South Wales, Australia (Sharon, “Bias and Credibility in Environmental Impact Assessment” Chain Reaction, No. 68, February 1993, pp28-30, Updated 2010 – Page agrees editorial changes may have been made since then, Published online in 2001, first published 2003)//ahayes//</span>

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Such blatant omissions, although sometimes … they have with each other. </span>//


//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Say yes**</span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Horvath, 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Ph.D. Associate Professor University of California, Berkeley Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering (Arapd, “Environmental Life-cycle Assessment of Infrastructure Systems” 2009, [[http://www.nae.edu/File.aspx?id=15631]])</span></span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">ahayes</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">ENVIRONMENTAL MODELING OF ... answers with certainty. </span>


====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Counterplans-EIS-2NC A2 Solvency Deficit]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2NC A2 Solvency Deficit</span></span>==== 


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Overcomes your solvency deficits</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Park et al 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> – Ph.D Associate Professor Civil and Environmental Engineering (Bryan, May, “quantifying benefits of cooperative adaptive cruise Control toward sustainable transportation system” [[http://cts.virginia.edu/docs/UVACTS-14-5-161.pdf]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">2.4 Life Cycle Assessment in Transportation ... actuated signalized intersection.</span>

===**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Commissions CP</span>**=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Text: The United States Congress should establish an independent National Surface Transportation Commission empowered to submit to Congress recommendations for transportation infrastructure investment. Congress will allow 60 days to pass legislation overriding recommendations by a two-thirds majority. If Congress doesn’t vote within the specified period, those recommendations will become law. The Commission should recommend to Congress that (((PLAN))).</span>**



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It solves the aff and avoids politics – key to effective transportation policy</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Transportation Policy Commission, 07</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">– Full name – National Surface Transportation Policy and Revenue Study Commission (“Final Report - Volume I: Recommendations,” National Surface Transportation Policy and Revenue Study Commission, December 2007,[[http://ntl.bts.gov/lib/33000/33400/33441/final_report/vol_1_chapter_1.htm]])</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Red</span>**
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Role of an Independent Commission</span>__ <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">… which they so heavily rely.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Will pass and doesn’t drain capital</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mayer ’07</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Kenneth,- professor of political science at the University of Wisconsin, Madison “THE BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE PROCESS: IS IT POSSIBLE TO MAKE RATIONAL POLICY?”)</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__The conventional wisdom was that … came //anywhere close// to passing__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


===Communities CP=== 

(Don't remember the exact plan text, was a spin on Rowland Hall's:)

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We affirm the topic as a site of multiple forms of dwelling and as an opportunity to come to terms with homelessness. Thus, Resolved: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States.</span>**



<span class="Underline">**Communities Solve**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Burt et. al, 6** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Martha, Carol Pearson, and Ann Elizabeth Montgomery, “Strategies For Preventing Homelessness”, 2/9/06, ([[http://www.urban.org/publications/1000874.html]]) Chieco </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Every day in the United States,.... effective to prevent homelessness. </span>

====1NC Centralization==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The affirmatives acceptance of centralization discourages individualism- causes global wars and extinction</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Papworth 01</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(John, Senior Editor @ Ecologist + Founder of Fourth World Review, Peace Through Social Empowerment, "Primary Causes,"[[http://www.williamfranklin.com/4thworld/academicinn/jp14.html]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It is simply … genuine social progress.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The counter plan challenges the inevitability of centralization and opens up local communities for action</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Papworth 01</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(John, Senior Editor @ Ecologist + Founder of Fourth World Review, Peace Through Social Empowerment, "Primary Causes,"[[http://www.williamfranklin.com/4thworld/academicinn/jp14.html]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Supposing then our … one Brussels-dominated Government.</span>

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#NEG-CP-States-2NC Centralization Overview]]2NC Centralization Overview</span>==== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Root cause- turns case</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Papworth 95</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(John, Senior Editor @ Ecologist + Founder of Fourth World Review, Small is Powerful, “The Monster”, page 2-3, 1995)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We need to see that … would scarcely arise at all. </span>



==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="Underline">Kritiks</span></span>== 
===**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Security</span>**=== 

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The aff attempts to bring Apollonian order to a Dionysian world by eliminating all that is foreign and unknown so that it conforms to the rational - Their mindset is the cause of all wars and security discourse</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Der Derian 98</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (James, Prof of PoliSci at the U of Massachusetts, "The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard," Cianet, http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz12.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Nietzsche transvalues both Hobbes's and ….</span>**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">recycling the desire for security.</span>__**


**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Their claims of a “benevolent hegemony” or an “idealized world post plan” only link them harder to our kritik – they paint anything outside of their benevolent hegemony as inhuman, justifying all forms of violence against them</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Rasch 03</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (William, Professor of Germanic Studies at Indiana University, “Human Rights as Geopolitics: Carl Schmitt and the Legal Form of American Supremacy”, Cultured Critique, pg. 54) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">"To preach and announce … subhuman </span>//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">as its enemy twin</span>////<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">.9</span>//

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The alternative is to reject the affirmative and to accept the world as is – only in this way can we find meaning within and escape the cycle of violence</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Turanli, 3</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">- Prof of Department of Humanities and Social Sciences @ Istanbul Technical University (Aydan, "Nietzsche and the Later Wittgenstein: An Offense to the Quest for Another World," Pg. 62, Muse, AHayes)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The craving for absolutely …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">out of the fly-bottle</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">" (PI §309). </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Voting negative allows a new concept of security– we go beyond looking at the world as a threat, which allows us to truly affirm life </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Der Derian, 98</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(James, Prof of PoliSci at the U of Massachusetts, "The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard," Cianet, http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz12.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">What if we leave the desire …extirpation of difference. </span>


===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Capitalism</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Their improvement of transportation infrastructure is a tool of capitalism – it attempts to squeeze more ‘work’ from workers and reduces nature to a commodity</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Monboit 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(George, author of The Age of Consent: A Manifesto for a New World Order and Captive State: The Corporate Takeover of Britain, Poisoned Arrows, Amazon Watershed and No Man's Land, and Heat: how to stop the planet burning and Bring on the Apocalypse?, June 6th 2011, “The true value of nature is not a number with a pound sign in front: Cost-benefit analysis of nature is rigged in favour of business”,[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2011/jun/06/monetisation-natural-world-definitive-neoliberal-triumph]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Cost-benefit analysis is systematically … can be swapped for money.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cap causes extinction through environmental destruction, space weaponization and nuclear war – focus on short-term wealth and attempts to maintain superiority</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Marko 2003</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">—(“ Anarchism and Human Survival: Russell's Problem”, Indymedia UK,</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.indymedia.org.uk/en/2003/05/68173.html]] SW)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bertrand Russell throughout his long … occupy more of its time.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Alternative: Reject the affirmative to problematize elitist domination</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We need to take back politics – systems of politics are sustained only by our engagement with them – working w/in doesn’t solve</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Meszaros 8</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Istvan, Chair of Philosophy at the University of Sussex, The Challenge and Burden of Historical Time, p323-328)</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The unreality of postulation</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> … as an ongoing historical enterprise.</span>


====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**2NC Turn**</span>==== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Turns the Aff - Capitalism makes infrastructure decline inevitable</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fraser 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Steve,writer and historian @ Columbia "More than Greed," Dissent Vol 59 Num 1 2012, Muse SW)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Why? Maybe that decision stems … </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, will grow ever more draconian.</span>__



====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Link - Warming**</span>==== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rhetoric about C02 being the root of climate change makes it seem as if a simple excess of a natural element is at fault—masking the economic arrangement that caused such destructive practices. Only radical questioning can prevent environmental disaster.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Swyngedouw,</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">06</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Erik, Dept of Geography, School of Environment and Development, Manchester University, “Impossible “Sustainability” and the Post-Political Condition”, Forthcoming in: David Gibbs and Rob Krueger (eds.) Sustainable Development, www.liv.ac.uk/geography/seminars/Sustainabilitypaper.doc)</span>

__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">I have not been able …</span>__ <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">activity, banned by ‘Nature’ itself.</span>



====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**2NC Perm**</span>==== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Reformism DA – Their political project becomes a consumable single issue movement that doesn’t produce a universal demand on the system – it incorporates it into existing structures of domination</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Zizek, 99</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Slavoj, Senior Researcher at the University of Ljubljana, Repeating Lenin </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.marxists.org/reference/subject/philosophy/works/ot/zizek1.htm]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Today, we already can discern … ” (or, as we usually out it, “feasible”)</span>



====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Kritiks-Capitalism-2NC AT: Social Movements]]**2NC AT: Social Movements**</span>==== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Social movements against capitalism can succeed—they are growing and uniting.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Foster, 02</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (John Bellamy, Professor of environmental sociology, Marxism, and political economy at the University of Oregon, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ecology Against Capitalism,</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> p 40-41. )</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Ultimately </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the defense of the …</span>__ <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">century are to be found.</span>



===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Virilio K</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The drive to improve transportation infrastructure is rooted in a worship of speed—time conquers space as we seek endless acceleration which dissolves politics</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Virilio, 1997 </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School (Paul, Open sky, verso, print, 81-83) </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">BZ</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">But let us get back … long-distance to be connected.</span>//


//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Our worship of acceleration makes a catastrophic Accident inevitable—the politics of speed turn the case and guarantee war and extinction**</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Sykes, 2009** </span>////<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">graduate student at the university of north texas (Jason, “Paul Virilio’s critique of speed, technology, and institutions”, pdf available online)</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> BZ</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In Virlio’s view, the war … down. “We must politicize speed. (Virilio, 1983, pg. 35)”</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The alternative is to brake—academic discussions must slow down and critically investigate the politics of speed before we come to a decision. Your responsibility as an intellectual is to vote negative to foster democratic engagement and not rush to judgment</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Glezos 2009 </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ph.D. in political theory and international relations from Johns Hopkins University, now works in the department of political science at University of Regina (Simon, “ The politics of speed: Capitalism, the state and war in an accelerating world” [dissertation] pg. 93-94) //BW</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The goal then is thus … war and the (Globalitarian) state.</span>

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Kritiks-Virilio K-2NC Overview]][[#NEG-K-Virilio K-2NC Overview]]2NC Overview</span>==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The impact outweighs –</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A. Endless war – their obsession with speed reduces society to constant preparation for nuclear war, simultaneously making the nuclear accident inevitable – it’s try or die for the alt</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Virilio, 2006 </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School (Paul, war and cinema: the logistics of perception, 7-10) //BZ</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Since Antiquity, military institutions have … under the category of weapons.</span>


====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Kritiks-Virilio K-2NC Framework]][[#NEG-K-Virilio K-2NC Framework]]2NC Framework</span>==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Failure to reconceptualize political debate turns us into voiceless automatons unable to respond to real suffering</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Virilio, 2005</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School (Paul, the information bomb, verso, print, 65-66) //BZ</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">‘Brevity is the soul of … stupid comment attributed to them.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">assuming the role of the legislator lets us off the hook for our own responsibility in solving violence.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kappeler, 95</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Susanne, The Will to Violence, p. 10-11)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">`We are the war' does … values of war and violence.</span>


====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Kritiks-Virilio K-2NC Alternative]][[#NEG-K-Virilio K-2NC Alternative]]2NC Alternative</span>==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Slowing down is necessary to prevent the destruction of the planet – try or die</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Virilio and Lotringer, 2002 </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School; Professor Emertius of philosophy at Columbia (Paul and Sylvere, crepuscular dawn, verso, print, pg 59-64) //BZ</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And now we would have … time, just like the theater.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Security K</span>=== 

**<<<INSERT LINK>>>**



**Enmity motivated by security causes extinction, their construction of threats is a pre-requisite to war becoming possible**

**Mack 1988**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (John E., M.D. an American psychiatrist, writer, and professor at Harvard Medical School. He was a Pulitzer Prize-winning biographer. “The Enemy System” 1988. </span><span style="color: #000099;">[[http://www.johnemackinstitute.org/passport/enemysystem.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, MT)</span>



__The threat of nuclear annihilation has …..__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> this reality must become a major focus of our educational system.</span>



**Our alternative is to reject the security fetishism of the 1AC, their flawed methodology and their discourse to eschew the logic of security.**



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Breaking our obsession with security is necessary for alternatives to emerge.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Neocleous 2008</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (Mark is a Professor at Brunel University, Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History, he joined Brunel University in the Department of Government in 1994. Since then he has published numerous books and articles. His most recent work has been towards the development of a critique of security. “CRITIQUE OF SECURITY” 2008. Pg. 185-186, MT)</span>



__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The only way out</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> of such a dilemma…. be brave enough to return the gift.</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">143</span>


==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Strategies </span>== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Updated as of UNLV </span>


===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Bingham </span>=== 


Round 2 vs. Olympus JM - HSR
1NC: Hagel Nomination Politics, T - Vehicles, Cap K, Commissions CP, Case Defense
2NR: Case Defense, Politics

Round 3 vs. Idaho Falls YM - Amtrak (I think)
1NC: Hagel Nomination Politics, T - Vehicles, T - Loan Guarentees, Cap K, Multi-Plank Adv. CP, Case Defense
2NR: Case Defense, Politics

Round 6 vs. Rowland Hall AK - Hillman
1NC: Framework, States CP, Hagel Nomination Politics, T - In the US, Cap K, Case Defense
2NR: Cap K

Semis vs. Rowland Hall AS - Homelessness/Nomadism
1NC: Framework, Communities CP (Decentralization Net Benefit), Hagel Nomination Politics, Identity Politics Turns
2NR. Communities CP with Decentralization

===UNLV=== 

Round 1 vs. CPS GY - Mayport
1NC: Immigration Reform Politics, Commissions CP, Security K, T-Military
2NR: Security

Round 3 vs. Notre Dame BG - HSR
1NC: T-Vehicles, FSPEC, LaHood, Cap K, EIS CP, Case
2NR: Lahood, Case

Round 5 vs. Leland AV - NIB
1NC: T-Its, Immigration Reform Politics, Global Local K, Lahood, Case Defense 
2NR: Lahood

Doubles vs. Westminster BP - NIB 
1NC: T-Its, Lahood, Epistemology K, EIS CP, Case Defense 
2NR: Epistemology Stuff