= = 
<span style="font-size: 12.727272033691406px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 17.27272605895996px;">[[toc]]
</span>





=**Heyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy**= 
**For cites, love letters, a nice gchat, and/or a lecture about geopolitical borders, email me at simonpark101 at gmail dot com**

**For questions, comments, complaints, or smart remarks, email angelapark1005 at gmail dot com**

**One day, our wiki is going to be as perfect as Centennial HK's**
=Affirmative= 
=1AC – Wake= 
==1AC – Plan== 
**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its __[[#|investment]]__ in the deployment of Intelligent __[[#|Transportation Systems]]__, including but not limited to smart antennas, in the United States.**
==1AC – Economy== 
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Advantage 1: Economy</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">We control uniqueness - double dip recession is coming __[[#|next]]__ year – only domestic growth efforts solve – none of their resiliency or alt cause __[[#|claims]]__ __[[#|apply]]__</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Sivy, ~’8/28** ~~[August 28, 2012, Michael Sivy is a Chartered Financial Analyst and a former securities analyst for an independent __[[#|stock research]]__ firm. He was an __[[#|investment]]__ columnist at Money for more than 23 years as well as a guest columnist for TIME~’s international edition. Sivy has appeared as a stock-market commentator on __[[#|television]]__, including the networks ABC, CBS, NBC, Fox, CNBC, CNN and MSNBC. In addition, he has been heard on NPR~’s All Things Considered, PRI~’s Marketplace and on the CBS Radio network. "Is the U.S. Headed for a Double-Dip Recession?", http://business.time.com/2012/08/28/is-the-u-s-headed-for-a-double-dip-recession/~~]</span>
In addition to a host of warnings, last Wednesday~’s Congressional Budget Office report did
AND
is hardly likely to do any better as storm clouds start rolling in.

**This kills resiliency**
**Rampell ~’11** – economics reporter for The __[[#|New York Times]]__; wrote for the Washington Post editorial pages and financial section (Catherine, "Second Recession in U.S. Could Be Worse Than First". August 7. http://www.nytimes.com/2011/08/08/business/a-second-recession-could-be-much-worse-than-the-first.html?pagewanted=all)
If the economy falls back into recession, as many economists are now warning,
AND
, and the economy fell into another recession more painful than the first."

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The US key to global economy AND US economic decline leads to strategic retrenchment and global nuclear war.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Friedberg and Schoenfeld, ~’8** ~~[October 21, 2008, Aaron Friedberg is a professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University~’s Woodrow Wilson School, Gabriel Schoenfeld, senior editor of Commentary, is a visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute in Princeton, N.J., "The Dangers of a Diminished America" http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html?mod=googlenews_wsj~~]</span>
With the global financial system in serious trouble, is America~’s geostrategic dominance likely to
AND
reckless with their nuclear toys, just at our moment of maximum vulnerability.

**This risks nuclear war**
**Fordham ~’10** (Tina Fordham, "Investors can~’t ignore the rise of geopolitical risk", Financial Times, 7-17-2010, [[http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/dc71f272-7a14-11df-9871-00144feabdc0.html-http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/dc71f272-7a14-11df-9871-00144feabdc0.html]])
Geopolitical risk is on the rise after years of relative quiet – potentially creating further
AND
would be a very unwelcome time to see the return of geopolitical risk."

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">ITS deployment is key to the economy – reduces congestion, solves __[[#|job growth]]__, and leads to __[[#|high paying jobs]]__ – state budget crisis means only federal role solves.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Keeling and Mooney, ~’11** ~~[2011, Dr. Mary Keeling is a Manager of the IBM Institute for __[[#|Business]]__ Value Center for Economic Analysis. She holds a PhD in Economics from Trinity College, Dublin. Gerard M. Mooney is currently General Manager of Global Smarter Cities. IBM Executive Report, "Transportation and economic development: Why smarter transport is good for __[[#|jobs]]__ and growth" [[http://public.dhe.ibm.com/common/ssi/ecm/en/gbe03441usen/GBE03441USEN.PDF-http://public.dhe.ibm.com/common/ssi/ecm/en/gbe03441usen/GBE03441USEN.PDF]]~~]</span>
High __[[#|unemployment]]__, languid economic growth and growing urbanization make transport~’s role in driving growth
AND
via the goods and services they purchase and those employed to provide them.

**ITS solves congestion – multiple technologies contribute to achieving free flow and reducing congestion**
**Ezell, ~’10** ~~[January, 2010, Stephen Ezell is a Senior Analyst with the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, B.S. from the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University, with an Honors Certificate from Georgetown~’s Landegger International Business Diplomacy program, "Intelligent Transportation Systems", The Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, http://www.itif.org/files/2010-1-27-ITS_Leadership.pdf~~]
ITS improve the performance of a country~’s transportation network by maximizing the capacity of existing
AND
example, state Departments of Transportation) more accountable for providing real results.

**Congestion reduction measures are a pre requisite to growth and a positive stimulus – this is key to productivity**
**Hartgen and Fields ~’9** ~~[David T. Hartgen, Ph.D., P.E. is Emeritus Professor of Transportation Studies at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte. The author of more than 300 studies on transportation policy and planning, he established UNC Charlotte~’s Center for Interdisciplinary Studies in 1989 and now conducts research in transportation policy and planning. M. Gregory Fields is a graduate student at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte pursuing a Ph.D. in georgraphy and urban-regional analysis. He earned his B.S. from the U.S. Military Academy and M.A. from Webster University in St. Louis and UNC Charlotte. "Gridlock and Growth: The Effect of Traffic Congestion on Regional Economic Performance," Reason Foundation 2009 [[http://www.hartgengroup.net/Projects/National/USA/cong_region_performance/2009-06-22_Final_Summary_PS371.pdf-http://www.hartgengroup.net/Projects/National/USA/cong_region_performance/2009-06-22_Final_Summary_PS371.pdf]]~~]
Regional road networks were provided by each region~’s respective planning agency. Using points corresponding
AND
people come to malls and universities from work sites, not from home.

**Congestion destroys business productivity, trucking industry, time usage, and freight – these are all key to growth and the economy**
**Cambridge Systematics ~’2** ~~["The Benefits of Reducing Congestion: NCHRP Project 8-36, Task 22 Demonstrating Positive Benefits of Transportation Investment," January 2002 [[http://www.transportation.org/sites/planning/docs/nchrp22_4.pdf-http://www.transportation.org/sites/planning/docs/nchrp22_4.pdf]]~~]
Congestion in metropolitan areas affects __[[#|business]]__ transportation costs and productivity, and hence the "
AND
. Crashes (often involving injuries or spills) cause even more chaos.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Decline leads to global nuclear wars</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Royal, ~’10** ~~[2010, Jedediah Royal is the Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, "Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives", ed. By Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215~~]</span>
Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict
AND
such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.
==1AC – Hegemony== 
**Advantage 2: Hegemony**

**We will isolate two internal links**

**First is innovation**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">ITS is key to investing in cutting edge technologies – this solves efficiency and innovation</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**BAF, ~’9** ~~[2009, BA Fortune is a bipartisan coalition of elected officials dedicated to bringing about a new era of U.S. investment in infrastructure, "Intelligent Transportation Systems", http://www.bafuture.org/key-topics/sub/intelligent-transportation-systems-its~~]</span>
Traffic congestion cuts into worker productivity, delays deliveries, wastes gasoline and adds to
AND
quality of life for all Americans and that is a goal worth achieving.

**The second internal link is Productivity**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">ITS Deployment is key to productivity</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Pol, ~’10** (James Pol, Team Leader, Program Management and Evaluation at the US Department of Transportation Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) Joint Program Office, "Benefits of Intelligent TransportationSystems (ITS)",2010, [[http://www.its.dot.gov/factsheets/pdf/Benefits_FactSheet.pdf-http://www.its.dot.gov/factsheets/pdf/Benefits_FactSheet.pdf]])</span>
INTRODUCTION __[[#|Intelligent]]__ __[[#|Transportation Systems]]__ (ITS) technologies advance transportation safety and mobility and enhance
AND
have the most broad-based benefit in the area of improved mobility.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Productivity and Innovation are key to and economic competitiveness and hegemony.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Dabney ~’10** ~~[April 25th, 2010, Michael, Writer for the Epoch Times, The Epoch Times, U.S. Competitive Edge in Jeopardy: The U.S. ponders its declining leadership in innovation as Asia and Europe gain steam, http://www.theepochtimes.com/n2/technology/us-competitive-edge-in-jeopardy-34041.html~~]</span>
In his seminal 2002 best-seller "The Creative Class," author Richard Florida
AND
over the last decade, while China was rated first in this category.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Competitiveness prevents great power war – collapse kills hegemony</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Baru,~’9** ~~[March 2009, Sanjaya Barus is visiting Professor at the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy in Singapore Geopolitical Implications of the Current Global Financial Crisis, Strategic Analysis, Volume 33, Issue 2 March 2009, pages 163 – 168~~]</span>
Hence, economic policies and performance do have strategic consequences. In the modern era
AND
they will do so once again in today~’s America remains to be seen.

**Hegemony leads to liberal cooperation – this prevents nuclear war**
**Zhang and Shi ~’11** - *Yuhan, a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C. *** AND*** Lin, Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C. "America~’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry" [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/-http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/]])
Over the past two decades, no other state has had the ability to seriously
AND
forecast in a future that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**US pursuit of hegemony inevitable – it~’s only a question of making it effective**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Kagan, ~’11** ~~[Jan 24, 2011, Robert, contributing editor to The Weekly Standard and a senior fellow in foreign policy at the Brookings Institution. "The Price of Power". The Weekly Standard, Vol. 16, No. 18. [[http://www.weeklystandard.com/articles/price-power_533696.html?page=3-http://www.weeklystandard.com/articles/price-power_533696.html?page=3]]~~]</span>
In theory, the United States could refrain from intervening abroad. But, in
AND
in the kind of international system that American power has built and defended.
=1AC – Georgetown= 
==1AC – Economy== 
**There are no efforts to protect US transportation infrastructure from global change climate now**
**Neumann, ~’9**<span style="color: #262626;"> ~~[December 2009, James Neumann, Resources for the Future is an independent, nonpartisan think tank that about energy, environmental, natural resource, and public health issues, Issue Brief 09-15, "Adaptation to Climate Change: Revisiting Infrastructure Norms"~~]</span>
The federal government is most heavily involved in funding new and improved infrastructure in the
AND
serious, because shovel<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‐</span>ready is almost certainly not climate<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‐</span>ready.

**Specifically, flooding affects will render all of our systems inoperable**
**Leonard, et al, ~’8**<span style="color: #262626;"> ~~[2008, Robert S. Kafalenos, Federal Highway Administration; Kenneth J. Leonard, Cambridge Systematics, "What are the Implications of Climate Change and Variability for Gulf Coast Transportation?", A Report by the U.S. Climate Change Science Program and the Subcommittee on Global Change Research Department of Transportation~~]</span>
As in the case of relative sea level rise, ports, highway, and
AND
considerable as well, depending on the time required to restore system performance.

**Climate change destroys network connectivity—small damages have huge impacts**
**Leonard, et al, ~’8**<span style="color: #262626;"> ~~[2008, Robert S. Kafalenos, Federal Highway Administration; Kenneth J. Leonard, Cambridge Systematics, "What are the Implications of Climate Change and Variability for Gulf Coast Transportation?", A Report by the U.S. Climate Change Science Program and the Subcommittee on Global Change Research Department of Transportation~~]</span>
Relative sea level rise poses the greatest danger to the dense network of ports,
AND
well. See table 4.3 for a summary of this information.

**C02 emission and negative feedbacks mean warming is inevitable – it is only a question of mitigating and adapting to it**
**Solomon et al ~’9**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, </span>~’9 (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Susan- member of the US National Academy of Sciences, the European Academy of Sciences, and the Academy of Sciences of France, Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Chairman of the IPCC, February 10, "Irreversible climate change due to carbon dioxide emissions" PNAS, Vol 106, http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2009/01/28/0812721106.full.pdf)</span>
Over the 20th century, the atmospheric concentrations of key greenhouse gases increased due to
AND
magnitude that is directly linked to the peak level of carbon dioxide reached.

**Climate change will destroy every sector of our transportation infrastructure**
**Schwartz, ~’11**<span style="color: #262626;"> ~~[Henry G. Schwartz, Jr., NAE, Consultant Transportation Research Circular E-C152, June 2011 "Adapting to Climate Change: Another Challenge for the Transportation Community", [[</span>http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/circulars/ec152.pdf-http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/circulars/ec152.pdf]]<span style="color: #262626;">, pp. 27-36~~]</span>//
//The transportation planners, designers, and operators of this nation~’s transportation systems face many//
//AND//
//change be more apparent than on the vast transportation network of this country.//

**This collapses growth**
**Little, ~’11**//<span style="color: #262626;"> ~~[04/05/11, Richard Little is the Director of the Keston Institute for Public Finance and Infrastructure Policy, "Infrastructure Investment and U.S. Competitiveness," [[</span>http://www.cfr.org/united-states/infrastructure-investment-us-competitiveness/p24585-http://www.cfr.org/united-states/infrastructure-investment-us-competitiveness/p24585]]<span style="color: #262626;">~~]</span>
The massive network of seaports, waterways, railroads, and highways we built in
AND
their upkeep or own both the responsibility for economic decline and its consequences.

**Global economic decline leads to miscalculation and crisis escalation**
**Harris and Burrows, ~’9**<span style="color: #262626;"> ~~[Mathew, PhD European History at Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer, member of the NIC~’s Long Range Analysis Unit "Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis" [[</span>http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf-http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]<span style="color: #262626;">~~]</span>//
//Increased Potential for Global Conflict Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and//
//AND//
//within and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world.//

**This is reverse causal - growth makes war impossible**
**Boudreux, professor of economics, ~’6**//<span style="color: #262626;"> ~~[10/20/06, Donald J., Chair of the Economics Department at George Mason University, "Want World Peace? Support Free Trade", November 20, [[</span>http://www.csmonitor.com/2006/1120/p09s02-coop.html-http://www.csmonitor.com/2006/1120/p09s02-coop.html]]<span style="color: #262626;">~~]</span>
During the past 30 years, Solomon Polachek, an economist at the State University
AND
are to seek, or even to tolerate, harm to these foreigners.

**We~’ll isolate two specific scenarios**
==1AC – Highways== 
**Highways are at risk from climate change impacts – storm surge, flooding, and erosion will cause bottlenecks that exacerbate the pressure on the system**
**Leonard, et al, ~’8**<span style="color: #262626;"> ~~[2008, Robert S. Kafalenos, Federal Highway Administration; Kenneth J. Leonard, Cambridge Systematics, "What are the Implications of Climate Change and Variability for Gulf Coast Transportation?", A Report by the U.S. Climate Change Science Program and the Subcommittee on Global Change Research Department of Transportation~~]</span>
As in most parts of the nation, roads are the backbone of the transportation
AND
whether any strength was __[[#|restored]]__ over time (Gaspard et al., 2007).

**First highways—they are key to demand, business productivity, manufacturing industry—empirical research proves**
**Keane ~’11**<span style="color: #262626;"> ~~[Thomas P. Keane is an economist in FHWA~’s Office of Policy Development. He works both in research relating to the economic impacts of highway infrastructure investment and on the FHWA Congestion Pricing Team in the areas of variable tolling and parking pricing issues. He has been employed by FHWA since November 1990. He has a master~’s degree in applied economics from the University of Maryland. "The Economic Importance of the National Highway System," Federal Highway Administration, Initially written in 1996, Updated 4/08/11 [[http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/publications/publicroads/96spring/p96sp16.cfm-http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/publications/publicroads/96spring/p96sp16.cfm]]~~]</span>
When transportation decision-makers at the federal, state, and local levels discuss
AND
900 full-time, on-site, highway construction jobs nationally.

**Highway failure collapses the manufacturing industry—investment independently revitalizes it**
**Hermann, ~’11**<span style="color: #262626;"> ~~[Andrew Herrmann, P.E. SECB, F.ASCE President American Society of Civil Engineers, "Impact Of Infrastructure Investment On The Manufacturing Sector", pg lexis~~]</span>
Infrastructure __[[#|Investment]]__ = A Healthy Economy The job-creation potential of infrastructure investment is
AND
to maintain and improve the nation~’s infrastructure: Increase federal leadership in infrastructure;

**Manufacturing is critical to US defense industrial base**
**Thompson, ~’11** <span style="color: #262626;">~~[2/14/2011, Loren Thompson is a contributor to Forbes, "Intelligence Community Fears U.S. Manufacturing Decline,", [[</span>http://www.forbes.com/sites/beltway/2011/02/14/intelligence-community-fears-u-s-manufacturing-decline/-http://www.forbes.com/sites/beltway/2011/02/14/intelligence-community-fears-u-s-manufacturing-decline/]]<span style="color: #262626;">~~]</span>
Last week, the federal government reported that the U.S. trade deficit
AND
little evidence that they grasp the urgency of halting America~’s decline in manufacturing.

**That~’s key to US deterrence posture**
**Eaglen and Sayer, ~’9**<span style="color: #262626;"> ~~[May 22, 2009, Mackenzie M. Eaglen and Eric Sayers, "Maintaining the Superiority of America~’s Defense Industrial Base," pg online Heritage Backgrounder, No. 2276 May 22, 2009~~]</span>
The Foundation of American Military Strength Since World War II, the United States has
AND
and Marine to remain adequately __[[#|prepared]]__ for a full spectrum of potential operations.

**That solves global nuclear wars.**
**Robinson ~’1** <span style="color: #262626;">C. Paul Robinson, president and director of the Department of Energy Sandia National Laboratories, "A White Paper: Pursuing a New Nuclear Weapons Policy for the 21st Century," 3/22/2001, http://www.nukewatch.org/importantdocs/resources/pursuing_a_new_nuclear_weapons_p.html</span>
I served as an arms negotiator on the last two agreements before the dissolution of
AND
attack with nuclear weapons; but the choice would be in our hands.
==1AC – Seaports== 
**Storm surge and sea level rise from climate change decimates ports and waterways – they are critical to the economy**
**Leonard, et al., ~’8**<span style="color: #262626;"> ~~[2008, Robert S. Kafalenos, Federal Highway Administration; Kenneth J. Leonard, Cambridge Systematics, "What are the Implications of Climate Change and Variability for Gulf Coast Transportation?", A Report by the U.S. Climate Change Science Program and the Subcommittee on Global Change Research Department of Transportation~~]</span>
Due to their location, marine facilities are most vulnerable to storm surge and relative
AND
costs to system users would be dramatically higher, if not prohibitively higher.

**And port infrastructure is the vital internal link for US agriculture competitiveness – freight movement and exports**
**Casavant ~’11**<span style="color: #262626;"> ~~[7/19/11 Hayk Khachatryan is a Research Associate and Director. Ken Casavant is the Professor at the Freight Policy Transportation Institute at the School of Economic Sciences at Washington State Unviersity "THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN U.S. TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS AND INTERNATIONAL TRADE," [[</span>http://wstc.wa.gov/Meetings/AgendasMinutes/agendas/2011/July19-20/documents/11_0719_BP5_FPTIInfrastTrdPolicyRept.pdf-http://wstc.wa.gov/Meetings/AgendasMinutes/agendas/2011/July19-20/documents/11_0719_BP5_FPTIInfrastTrdPolicyRept.pdf]]<span style="color: #262626;">~~]</span>
The efficient and affordable freight transportation system that facilitates the linkage to international markets has
AND
PNW) economy to the rest of the world through the 16 ports.

**That~’s key to global food production**
**Stulp, ~’9**<span style="color: #262626;"> ~~[3/20/2009, John Stulp is an agriculture commissioner in Colorado, "America~’s economy needs farmers," http://www.journal-advocate.com/news/2009/mar/20/americas-economy-needs-farmers~~]</span>
While farmers and ranchers constitute less than 2 percent of our population, they feed
AND
__[[#|continue]]__ to undergird the economy with products that touch every American every day.

**Food crises escalate**
**Calvin, ~’2**<span style="color: #262626;"> (William H, Univ Washington, A Brain For All Seasons, http://faculty.washington.edu/wcalvin/BrainForAllSeasons/NAcoast.htm)</span>
The population-crash scenario is surely the most appalling. Plummeting crop yields will
AND
longer do so if it lost the extra warming from the North Atlantic.
==1AC - Plan== 
**Thus the Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its climate resiliency investment in transportation infrastructure in the United States.**
==1AC – Solvency== 
**Federal action is key**
**Smith, ~’10**<span style="color: #262626;"> ~~[March 2010, Pew Center for Global Climate Change, Joel B. Smith, Jason M. Vogel, Stratus Consulting Inc, Terri L. Cruce and Stephen Seidel Heather A. Holsinger Pew Center On Global Climate Change, "Adapting to Climate Change: A Call for Federal Leadership", http://www.c2es.org/docUploads/adaptation-federal-leadership.pdf~~]</span>
The federal government has a critical role to __[[#|play]]__ in an effective and coordinated approach
AND
and Budget (OMB) to ensure the success of¶ interagency efforts.

**Adaptation measures solve – asset management framework can create data to make infrastructure resilient and save costs in the long run**
**Neumann, ~’9**<span style="color: #262626;"> ~~[December 2009, James Neumann, Resources for the Future is an independent, nonpartisan think tank that about energy, environmental, natural resource, and public health issues, Issue Brief 09-15, "Adaptation to Climate Change: Revisiting Infrastructure Norms"~~]</span>
Providing information on climate forecasts to infrastructure engineers and planners will not be sufficient to
AND
which might include such counterintuitive adjustments as designing these assets with shorter lives.
=1AC – Bronx= 
**Same 1AC as Georgetown, just one more card**

**Their spending indicts don~’t apply to the aff—revitalizing our infrastructure has an unmatched multiplier on the economy—infrastructure is a pre-requisite to private sector efficiency**
**Boushey ~’11** ~~[Heather Boushey is a Senior Economist at American Progress. "Now is the Time to Fix our Broken Infrastructure: American Jobs Act will put Millions to Work," Center for American Progress, 9/22/11 [[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/economy/news/2011/09/22/10231/now-is-the-time-to-fix-our-broken-infrastructure/-http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/economy/news/2011/09/22/10231/now-is-the-time-to-fix-our-broken-infrastructure/]]~~]
__[[#|Investing]]__ in infrastructure creates __[[#|jobs]]__ and yields lasting __[[#|benefits]]__ for the economy, including increasing
AND
__[[#|energy]]__ investments we need to __[[#|free]]__ ourselves from foreign oil and climate change.
=1AC – Capitol Round 2= 
==1AC - Racism== 
**White privilege is the unnamed political system that is the modern world – we are all involved in a contractual relation to the state, a racial contract that lies out the foundation of sociopolitical relations –We must aggressively engage a broader debate to situate discussions of race and challenge these assumptions.**
**Mills ~’97** Mills Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago 1997 Charles-; The Racial Contract; p. 1-3
White Supremacy is the unnamed political system that has made the modern world what it
AND
talk is, after all, the political lingua franca of our times.

**The legacy of racism has been embedded in our transportation infrastructure – public transportation is under funded while a culture of suburbia has reinforced racial hierarchies – blacks and other minorities are trapped within the urban ghettos and unable**
**Mandell ~’8** ~~[4/1/08, Bekah Mandell is an A.B. from Vassar College; J.D., Boston College Law School; Director of the Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity Fair Housing Project; Father Robert Drinan Family Fund Public Interest Fellow. "Racial Reification and Global Warming: A Truly Inconvenient Truth," [[http://lawdigitalcommons.bc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1046%26context=twlj-http://lawdigitalcommons.bc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1046%26context=twlj]]~~]
The legacy of anti-public transportation policies continues today.237 Public transportation continues
AND
particular subordinate black identity in diametric opposition to a superior suburban white identity.

**Increasing public transit is key – it remedies past racial injustices and leads to a disruption of the culture of suburbia**
**Seymore ~’5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ~~[Winter/2005, Sean B. Seymore is a PhD at Notre Dame College. "Set the Captives Free%21 Transit Inequity in Urban Centers, and the Laws and Policies Which Aggravate the Disparity," George Mason University Civil Rights Law Journal [[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=dabf6f5de210596884f4b19194a2e566%26csvc=le%26cform=byCitation%26_fmtstr=FULL%26docnum=1%26_startdoc=1%26wchp=dGLbVzV-zSkAz%26_md5=458f242f692ed378721e0b9d498010eb-http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=dabf6f5de210596884f4b19194a2e566%26csvc=le%26cform=byCitation%26_fmtstr=FULL%26docnum=1%26_startdoc=1%26wchp=dGLbVzV-zSkAz%26_md5=458f242f692ed378721e0b9d498010eb]]~~]</span>
Thus far, this Article has explored the roots of transit inequity and its detrimental
AND
must insist that the agencies operate within the law and honor their commitments.

**The transportation decision-making process ignores minorities and only benefits the wealthy, educated population**
**Bullard ~’2K** ~~[Spring 2000, Robert D.-; "TRANSPORTATION EQUITY IN THE 21ST CENTURY: A Newsletter of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University", [[http://www.ejrc.cau.edu/atep%20newsletter%20spr00sm.PDF-http://www.ejrc.cau.edu/atep newsletter spr00sm.PDF]]~~]
Procedural Inequity. Attention is directed to the process by which transportation decisions may or
AND
and fare hikes have reduced access to essential __[[#|social services]]__ and economic activities.

**Racism must be rejected in EVERY INSTANCE without surcease – this is a prerequisite to morality.**
**Memmi ~’2k** ~~[2000, Albert is a Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris, Albert-; RACISM, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165~~]
The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, without intermission, without remission
AND
. True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.
==1AC - Plan== 
**Thus the plan: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its investment in racially just and clean public transportation infrastructure**
==1AC - Warming== 
**Global warming is real – reverse biased evidence proves that it is human caused – this answers ALL your skeptic arguments**
**Muller 7-29-12** ~~[Elizabeth Muller, "250 Years of Global Warming: Berkeley Earth Releases New Analysis," Berkeley Earth Surface Temperature 7/29/12 [[http://berkeleyearth.org/pdf/berkeley-earth-press-release-july-29.pdf-http://berkeleyearth.org/pdf/berkeley-earth-press-release-july-29.pdf]]~~]
According to a new Berkeley Earth study released today, the average temperature of the
AND
__[[#|step]]__ for our team is to think about the implications of our findings."

**The culture of suburbia has contributed to the massive increase in carbon dioxide emissions – approaching this from a racial lens is critical to breaking down the hierarchies surrounding the suburbia culture – public transportation solves**
**Mandell ~’8** ~~[4/1/08, Bekah Mandell is an A.B. from Vassar College; J.D., Boston College Law School; Director of the Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity Fair Housing Project; Father Robert Drinan Family Fund Public Interest Fellow. "Racial Reification and Global Warming: A Truly Inconvenient Truth," [[http://lawdigitalcommons.bc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1046%26context=twlj-http://lawdigitalcommons.bc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1046%26context=twlj]]~~]
The racialization of space and mobility has been a significant cause of global climate change
AND
the structural and institutional blocks resisting any meaningful responses to the climate crisis.

**Independently – investment in clean bus technology is critical to facilitating greater usage and reducing emissions – technology already exists**
**FCHEA ~’11** ~~[Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association. "Building a Commercially Viable National Fuel Cell Electric Bus Program," http://cafcp.org/sites/files/Building%20a%20Commercially%20Viable%20National%20Fuel%20Cell%20Transit%20Bus%20Program.FINAL_.v10.03-25-11.pdf~~]
In just the last few years, zero<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‐</span>emission, hydrogen<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‐</span>powered,
AND
all GHG emissions using carbon<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‐</span>free, renewable sources to produce hydrogen.

**Warming disproportionally affects minorities, we have a moral obligation to stop it**
**Moser and Dilling ~’7** (Susanne Moser is a research scientist at the National
AND
Facilitating Social Change," Cambridge University Press, Pg 7-8 Mkoo)
The problem of global warming is maybe the ultimate ~’~’commons~’~’ problem (Hardin,
AND
from getting bogged down in these characteristics of the problem in different settings.

**These systematic harms of structural violence must come before linear impact calculations – the structural violence of the poorest of the poor have caused thermonuclear wars every year of every decade**
**Abu-Jamal ~’98** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Mumia, award-winning PA journalist, 9/19, http://www.flashpoints.net/mQuietDeadlyViolence.html)</span>
We live, equally immersed, and to a deeper degree, in a nation
AND
every decade, throughout the world. ~~[Gilligan, p. 196~~]
=2AC Blocks= 
==2AC - Climate Leadership Add-On== 
**Federal action on adaptation in transportation infrastructure are critical to US climate leadership**
**Haire et al., ~’10** ~~[6/12/10, Ashley Haire, and Migule A. Figliozzi, and Lindsay Walker, and John MacAuthur. "Preparing Transportation Infrastructure for the Consequences of Climate Change: A Review of Candian and US Efforts," [[http://www.its.pdx.edu/climatechange/Files/CSCE%20Preparing%20Transportation%20Infrastructure%20for%20the%20Consequences%20of%20Climate%20Change%20-%20A%20Review%20of%20Canadian%20and%20US%20Efforts.pdf-http://www.its.pdx.edu/climatechange/Files/CSCE Preparing Transportation Infrastructure for the Consequences of Climate Change - A Review of Canadian and US Efforts.pdf]]~~]
While Canada embraced the need for proactive adaptation efforts early on and has shifted into
AND
. Table 1 summarizes the two nations~’ work with regard to adaptation initiatives.

**US inaction sends the perception of US disinterest over environmental issues—**
**Walter, ~’02** ~~[8/28/2002, Norbert Walter is a Chief Economist for the Deutsche Bank Group, "An American Abdication", http://www.nytimes.com/2002/08/28/opinion/an-american-abdication.html~~]
At present there is much talk about the unparalleled strength of the United States on
AND
a pivotal dimension of political and economic — if not existential — conflict.

**Soft power solves all problems**
**Jervis, ~’09** ~~[January 2009, Robert Jervis—A Professor of International Politics at Columbia University, "Unipolarity: A Structural Perspective", World Politics Volume 61, Number 1~~]
To say that the system is unipolar is not to argue that the unipole can
AND
that others share the American vision and believe that its leadership is benign.
=Negative= 
=Counterplans= 
==Maritime Domain Awarenss Cooperation Counterplan== 
**The United States federal government should press littoral states to sign multilateral terrorism protocols, institute effective structures for measuring and ensuring compliance with their stipulations, conduct regular and rigorous threat assessments in order to inform the parameters of these multilateral protocols, redefine the mandates of existing multilateral security arrangements to play a greater role in countering maritime threats, and encourage the greater commercial use of communication and defensive technologies.**

**CP solves maritime terrorism by encouraging maritime cooperation**
**Chalk, ~’08 –** senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation ~~[Peter Chalk, Ph.D. in political science, University of British Columbia; M.A. in political studies and international relations, University of Aberdeen "The Maritime Dimension of International Security", RAND Report Prepared for the United States Air Force~~]
The maritime environment will likely remain a favorable theater for armed violence, crime,
AND
and accept a greater degree of overall transparency in its underlying corporate structures.
===2NC Solvency=== 
**CP solves maritime cooperation**
**Chalk, ~’08 –** senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation ~~[Peter Chalk, Ph.D. in political science, University of British Columbia; M.A. in political studies and international relations, University of Aberdeen "The Maritime Dimension of International Security", RAND Report Prepared for the United States Air Force~~]
In whatever capacity the United States chooses to support or promote anti-piracy and
AND
of the Middle East, Persian Gulf, and South and Southeast Asia.
===2NC Solves Heg=== 
**Offshore balancing fails while cooperation solves**
**Hoffman, ~’08** ~~[November 2008, From Preponderance to Partnership: American Maritime Power in the 21st Century, Frank Hoffman is a retired Marine officer with 30 years of experience in policy development, strategy and force analysis, and consulting, SM~~]
Our maritime forces have to be designed to support an overall grand strategy. America~’s
AND
them to an international system and a set of rules that benefit all."

**Cooperation is the lynchpin of effective naval power in a world of budget cuts**
**Moore 10** ~~[Charles C. Moore, Naval Aviator, Western Pacific Experience, has a Masters from the US Army War College and Georgetown, currently commanding office at the Naval Air Station in Meridian. "Revitalizing the Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower, 2007, http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/Parameters/Articles/2011summer/Moore.pdf~~]
Summary The Cooperative Strategy remains a relevant foundational strategy document. It clearly defines six
AND
now, lest it risk having these crucial decisions being made by others.
==States Counterplan== 
**Text: The fifty states and all relevant territories including Washington D.C. should**

**States should are coordinated and efficient at investing in transportation infrastructure – they have the funding**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Puentes 2k11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(senior fellow with the Brookings Institution~’s Metropolitan Policy Program where he also directs the Program~’s Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative, "State Transportation Reform: Cut to Invest in Transportation to Deliver the Next Economy," pg online [[http://www.brookings.edu/~~/media/research/files/papers/2011/2/22%20infrastructure%20puentes/0222_infrastructure_puentes.pdf-http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2011/2/22 infrastructure puentes/0222_infrastructure_puentes.pdf]]// um-ef)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">III. A New State Approach An emphasis on fiscal responsibility does not mean states</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Housing coordinates and oversees 14 departments and several economic development programs and commissions.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">States can and should be in charge of transportation funding; they are comparatively better than the federal government</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">**Edwards ~’11** (Chris Edwards - Joint Economic Committee, United States Congress</span><span style="color: #1a1718; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">) "The Downside of Federal Infrastructure Spending ~| Downsizing the Federal Government." The Downside of Federal Infrastructure Spending ~| Downsizing the Federal Government. N.p., october 24th, 2011. Web. 21 June 2012. <http://www.downsizinggovernment.org/downside-federal-infrastructure-spending>.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">My Washington Post op-ed on federal infrastructure yesterday elicited a large and vigorous</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">-ed, but I~’m afraid they didn~’t put their thinking caps on.</span>
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Asian Counter Advocacy</span>== 

**SIMON AND I WILL DEFER TO THE EXPERIENCES OF ___ TO DISMANTLE WESTERN MODERNITY~’S NEED TO "EXPLORE" AND "DEVELOP" BY AFFIRMING THE METAPHOR OF THE RESOLUTION THROUGH THE ESSENCE OF THE ASIAN AMERICAN, "MODEL MINORITY" AND "NEO-RACIST" PERSPECTIVES.**

# **A. CURRENT INSTITUATIONAL RACISM TARGETS THE SOUTHEAST ASIAN. THE SPEECH ACT OF THE 1NC HAS VALUE WITHIN THIS DEBATE.**
**Tang 2k** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">TANG Assistant Professor in the Department of African American Studies and the Asian American Studies Program at the University of Illinois at Chicago 2k Eric-; COLLATERAL DAMAGE: Southeast Asian Poverty in the United States; SOCIAL TEXT 62; Vol. 18, No. 1, Spring; p.67-68.</span>
In their 1988 essay, "Fertility and Adaptation: Indochinese Refugees in the United
AND
It has little, if anything, to do with phases of immigration.

**CHALLENGING AND RECOGNIZING THIS FORM OF RACISM IS KEY TO A) SPURRING MORE EFFECTIVE MOVEMENTS AGAINST RACE AND B) TACKLING THE INSTITUTIONAL DISCRIMINATION OF THE SOUTHEAST ASIAN.**
**Balibar ~’5** Balibar teaches philosophy @ the University of Paris 2k5
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Etienne-; </span>RACE, NATION, CLASS: Ambiguous identities<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">; published 1988 reprinted 1992,1993,1995,1996,1998,2000,2002,2005; p. 20-21.</span>
We can now turn our attention to ~’neo-racism~’. What seems to
AND
is what P.A. Taguieff has rightly called a differentialist racism.

**AND WE MUST COUNTER RACISM AGAINST THE ASIAN POPULATION FIRST**

**A) THE FAILURE TO FOCUS ON SOUTHEAST ASIANS IN RACIAL DISCSOURSE INDEPENDENTLY TURNS SOUTHEAST ASIANS INTO DISCURSIVE "COLLATERAL DAMAGE"**

**Southeast Asians DEFY definitions set out by the immigrant culture of poverty thesis, located**
**AND**
**the COLLATERAL DAMAGE, unintended targets, in the war against the underclass.**
**Tang 2k** TANG Assistant Professor in the Department of African American Studies and the Asian American Studies Program at the University of Illinois at Chicago 2000
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Eric-; </span>COLLATERAL DAMAGE: Southeast Asian Poverty in the United States<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">; SOCIAL TEXT 62; Vol. 18, No. 1, Spring; p.58-59.</span>
Following my discussion of the formation of an immigrant culture of poverty, I discuss
AND
fully exposed-reveals that there is no such thing as the unintended.

**B) COUNTERING THE DISCRIMINATION AGAINST THE ASIAN AMERICAN IS A PRE-REQUISITE TO ANY SOLVENCY: THE MYTH OF THE MODEL MINORITY**

**Without embracing the silent policing of YELLOW bodies, the right co-opts REFORMS and uses the myth of the model minority as AMMUNITION.**
**Thrupkaew ~’02** THRUPKAEW Prospect Senior Correspondent 2k2 Noy-; The Myth of the Model Minority; THE AMERICAN PROSPECT; April 7; [[http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=the_myth_of_the_model_minority-http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=the_myth_of_the_model_minority]]
The model-minority myth has persisted in large part because political conservatives are so
AND
, so people don~’t know the specific needs and contributions of our communities."

===2NC Solvency=== 

**The Counter-Advocacy is the only way to break down the structures of white supremacy as they exist today**
**Le ~’8,** C.N., 4/25/08 ("Racial Tensions and Living in a Colorblind Society," Asian-Nation, http://www.asian-nation.org/headlines/2008/04/racial-tensions-and-living-in-a-colorblind-society/)
It would be great if I could just focus on discussing the positive aspects of
AND
racial tensions seem to be on the rise, not on the decline.

===2NC AT Perm=== 
**Black/white binary artificially NARROWS racial discourse and HARMS racial justice efforts. Antiracist theories and REMEDIES for racial injustice must excavate multidimensional harms that are racial but not endured by Blacks. PROGRESSIVE racial politics can ONLY survive with broad political support yet BINARY politics HINDERS antiracist alliances with whites using divisions to make arguments such as Blacks should EMULATE "model minorities" thus discrediting Blacks~’ claims of racism. Only our multiracial discourse rebuts this DECIETFUL discourse**
**Hutchinson ~’04** Hutchinson Prof of Law, Washington College of Law, American U,~’04
Darren Lenard, Aug 2004 ("Critical Race Theory: History, Evolution, and New Frontiers," American University Law Review, LN)
Ultimately, however, the exclusive deployment of a binary black/white paradigm artificially
AND
that disparages blacks~’ assertions of racial injustice by deploying model minority constructs. n111

**CRITICAL AND SCHOLARLY EXAMINATIONS OF WELFARE PROVE. THE WELFARE DISCOURSE ON RACE IGNORES THE PLIGHT OF ASIANS**
**Tang 2k** TANG Assistant Professor in the Department of African American Studies and the Asian American Studies Program at the University of Illinois at Chicago 2000
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Eric-; </span>COLLATERAL DAMAGE: Southeast Asian Poverty in the United States<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">; SOCIAL TEXT 62; Vol. 18, No. 1, Spring; p.57-58.</span>
Allowing our optimism to gain the best of us, we may view any resistance
AND
and survival, as opposed to the devolution of a decidedly black underclass.

**THE PERMUTATION DOESN~’T SOLVE THE POLICING OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN BODIES BECAUSE the PERMUTATION is a CO-OPTION strategy that is REPRESENTATIVE of the status quo~’s policing of yellow bodies by rendering them INVISIBLE in the discussion of DOMESTIC WARFARE through issues such as poverty.**
**Tang 2k** TANG Assistant Professor in the Department of African American Studies and the Asian American Studies Program at the University of Illinois at Chicago 2000 Eric-; Refugee Reality: Clinton~’s Vietnam Fiction; COLORLINES the national news magazine on race and politics; Issue 10, Fall; [[http://www.colorlines.com/printerfriendly.php?ID=219-http://www.colorlines.com/printerfriendly.php?ID=219]]
During his visit to Vietnam this past week, President Clinton urged the Vietnamese people
AND
the informal, highly exploitative, and ephemeral industries of the ethnic enclave.
==Carbon Tax Counterplan== 
**Text: The United States Federal Government should institute a phased carbon tax**

**Only way to solve global warming – alternative energy alone increases carbon emissions**
**Hsu 11** Shi-Ling, law professor at the University of British Columbia Faculty of Law, Ph.D in Agricultural and Resource Economics and an M.S. in Ecology, both from the University of California at Davis, and a J.D. from Columbia Law School, "Technological innovation that will increase greenhouse gases?", The Dismal Environmentalist, 5/24/11, [[http://dismalenvironmentalist.blogspot.com/2011/05/technological-innovation-that-will.html-http://dismalenvironmentalist.blogspot.com/2011/05/technological-innovation-that-will.html]]
Ralph Winter has a new draft paper out, Innovation and the Dynamics of Global
AND
rates, but I can~’t imagine anybody with a very low discount rate).
=Topicality= 
==Underlying Structures== 
**A. Interpretation - Transportation infrastructure must be the underlying structures like building a road not accessories to a road like new road signs.**
**Trimbath, PhD in Economics, 11**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Susanne, US Chamber.com ~~[website of the US Chamber of Commerce~~], former Senior Research Economist in the Capital Market Studies at the Milken Institute, Senior Advisor on corporate community investment for the Business Civic Leadership Center of the US Chamber of Commerce, PhD in economics from NYU, 2011, "Transportation Infrastructure: paving the way," [[http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/issues/infrastructure/files/2009TPI_Update_Economics_White_Paper_110712.pdf-http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/issues/infrastructure/files/2009TPI_Update_Economics_White_Paper_110712.pdf]], alp)</span>
The strategy applied by the US Chamber of Commerce for the infrastructure performance index project
AND
• Highways • Airports • Railways • Waterways • Intermodal Links
==Substantial== 
**A substantial investment is over 20%**
**Traficant et. al ~’89** ~~[May 24<span class="CardChar">th</span>, 1989, James is a former member of US House of Representatives, written with other Congressmembers, Bill Summary %26 Status 101st Congress ~~[1989 - 1990~~] H.R.2489, [[http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d101:h.r.02489-http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d101:h.r.02489]]: ~~]
~~[C~~] SUBSTANTIAL INVESTMENT DEFINED- The term `substantial investment~’ means any amount which—
`~~[i~~] was added to the capital account for an existing facility during the 3-year period ending on the last day of any taxable year with respect to which such facility is a tax holiday plant, and
`~~[ii~~] caused the sum of all amounts added to such account during such period to exceed 20 percent of the total value of such facility ~~[determined in the manner provided in subparagraph ~~[B~~]~~[ii~~]~~] on the first day of such period.

**Transportation infrastructure spending is %2448.1 billion**
**GAO ~’11**<span class="CardChar"> ~~[</span>June 29th, Government Accountability Office, Funding Used for Transportation Infrastructure Projects, but Some Requirements Proved Challenging, 6/29/11, http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-11-600~~]
This report responds to two GAO mandates under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of
AND
and other studies; and interviewed DOT, state, and local officials.
==Framework== 
**The topic is defined by the phrase following the colon – the United States federal government is the agent of the resolution, not the debaters in the room**
**Webster~’s ~’00** ~~[2000, Guide to Grammar and Writing, [[http://ccc.commnet.edu/grammar/marks/colon.htm-http://ccc.commnet.edu/grammar/marks/colon.htm]]~~]
Use of a colon before a list or an explanation that is preceded by a clause that can stand by itself. Think of the colon as a gate, inviting one to go on… If the introductory phrase preceding the colon is very brief and the clause following the colon represents the real business of the sentence, begin the clause after the colon with a capital letter.

**We provide for plenty of case options and a diversity of arguments. Removing the cap from the policy question within the resolution allows for limitless contexts or avenues through which they could purport to advocate the plan. Our interpretation limits debate to promote politically relevant dialogue and structured communication**
**Lutz ~’00** ~~[2000, Donald S. Lutz, Professor of Polisci at Houston, Political Theory and Partisan Politics p. 39-40~~]
Aristotle notes in the Politics that political theory simultaneously proceeds at three levels—discourse
AND
the theory, not in the moral vision of the non-theorist.

**TURNS ALL THEIR OFFENSE**
**Bruschke and Warner ~’1** ~~[2001, Jon, BRUSCHKE Dpt of Speech Com @ Cal St Fullerton %26 Ede WARNER Prof of Comm @ Univ of Louisville 2k1, Paper presented @ the 2001 Western States Communication Association Convention in Coer d~’Alene, Idaho [[http://commfaculty.fullerton.edu/jbruschke/Papers/Debate%20as%20a%20T-http://commfaculty.fullerton.edu/jbruschke/Papers/Debate as a T]]ool%20of%20empowerment.htm~~]
Academic debate facilitates the development of students as social critics because of its policy oriented
AND
teaches them how to obtain knowledge on any policy question that they encounter.

===2NC Black Framework=== 
**We desperately need authority at the highest levels of power to resolve racism**
**Franklin ~’93** ~~[1993, John Hope, James B Duke Professor Emeritus of History Duke University, 1985-1992 was Professor of legal History in the Law School at Duke University; THE COLOR LINE: Legacy for the Twenty First Century; p.73-74~~]
We now live in an age when the role of government is inevitably important whether
AND
of nation about which so many of us have dreamed but never realized.

**To deny a discussion of political workings through the role play of federal government in the name of race is almost BACKWARDS and serves the exclusionary historical practices of white supremacy.**
**Woodson ~’33** ~~[1933, Carter G.- founder of the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History ~~[1875-1950~~], African American historian and educator; founder and editor of the Journal of Negro History and the Negro History Bulletin; THE MISEDUCATION OF THE NEGRO; p.83-84~~]
Not long ago a measure was introduced in a certain State Legislature to have the
AND
to conform to the policy of "keeping the Negro in his place."

**BLACKS WERE SHUT OUT OF THE DISCUSSION OF MODERN POLITICS**
**Woodson ~’33** ~~[1933, Carter G.- founder of the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History ~~[1875-1950~~], African American historian and educator; founder and editor of the Journal of Negro History and the Negro History Bulletin; THE MISEDUCATION OF THE NEGRO; p.92~~]
In the North the Negroes have a better chance to acquire knowledge of political matters
AND
Negro while the highly favorable party was doing so much for the race.

**Limiting the discussion to matters of SPECIAL concern to Black people from personal experience indicates a STEP BACKWARDS.**
**Woodson ~’33** ~~[1933, Carter G.- founder of the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History ~~[1875-1950~~], African American historian and educator; founder and editor of the Journal of Negro History and the Negro History Bulletin; THE MISEDUCATION OF THE NEGRO; p.94-95
Even the few Negroes who are elected to office are often similarly uninformed and show
AND
internal improvements, labor arbitration, the tariff, and the merchant marine.
=Disadvantages= 
==Elections DA== 
**---Insert Uniqueness---**

**Funding transportation infrastructure is a political loser**
**Orski, ~’12** editor and publisher of Innovation NewsBriefs, an influential and widely read transportation newsletter ~~[Ken Orski, WHY PLEAS TO INCREASE INFRASTRUCTURE FUNDING FALL ON DEAF EARS, [[http://www.newgeography.com/content/002662-why-pleas-increase-infrastructure-funding-fall-deaf-ears-http://www.newgeography.com/content/002662-why-pleas-increase-infrastructure-funding-fall-deaf-ears]]~~]
Finding the resources to keep transportation infrastructure in good order is a more difficult challenge
AND
, planners and consultants that try to make a case for more money.

**---Insert Internal Link---**
===Uniqueness - Wake=== 
**Obama winning Ohio now because Independent voters that determine Ohio favor his economic policy**
**Presta 8/17**
President Obama is leading with independents voters in battleground state Ohio, ELECTIONS 2012AUGUST 17, 2012BY: JOHN PRESTA, [[http://www.examiner.com/article/president-obama-is-leading-with-independents-voters-battleground-state-ohio-http://www.examiner.com/article/president-obama-is-leading-with-independents-voters-battleground-state-ohio]]
Public Policy Polling (PPP) released its latest poll in the key battleground state
AND
the independent voters too. It is the independent voters that decide elections.

**Obama winning Ohio by a slim lead now – it~’s a swing state and – the economy shapes the election**
**Spinelli 8/23** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(John, Examiner, "Latest Ohio Poll shows tight races between Obama and Romney, Brown and Mandel (Video)", [[http://www.examiner.com/article/latest-ohio-poll-shows-tight-races-between-obama-and-romney-brown-and-mandel-http://www.examiner.com/article/latest-ohio-poll-shows-tight-races-between-obama-and-romney-brown-and-mandel]])</span>
In all-important Ohio, the tipping-point state that will make which
AND
identify the most important issue in their presidential choice, the poll reported.
===Uniqueness - Georgetown=== 
**Obama will narrowly win – increased democratic enthusiasm and swing state independents**
**Blumenthal 9/26 ~~[Matt Blumenthal is a staff writer for the Huffington Post; 9/26/2012; Presidential Polls Of Swing States Differ On Size Of Obama~’s Lead; http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/09/26/presidential-polls-2012_n_1915456.html?utm_hp_ref=@pollster~~]**
WASHINGTON — A batch of new polls from two key battleground states produced some of
AND
those changes explain much of the improvement for Obama over the last month.

**Obama will win the election, but it will be close – Leading by 5 points**
**Blanton 9/27 ~~[Dana Blanton is a staff writer for Fox News Network; 9/27/12; Fox News poll: Most voters want change, even as Obama holds edge;** **http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2012/09/27/fox-news-poll-most-voters-want-change-even-as-obama-holds-edge/~~]**
The latest Fox News poll finds the race for the White House holds steady,
AND
ambassador in Libya and violent protests in other Muslim areas around the world.

**Obama will win the election in the status quo – Plan allows Romney to characterize Obama as fiscally irresponsible in the upcoming debates which is the only way for Romney to win the election**
**Rutenberg and Zeleny 9/26 ~~[Jim Rutenberg and Jeff Zeleny are staff writers for the New York Times; 9/26/21; Polls Show Obama Is Widening His Lead in Ohio and Florida; http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/26/us/politics/polls-show-obama-widening-lead-in-ohio-and-florida.html?pagewanted=all~~]**
COLUMBUS, Ohio — For weeks, Republicans in Ohio have been watching with worry
AND
Mr. Romney does not care about the problems of people like them.

**Obama winning among independents now, that~’s key to the election.**
**Waddell and Weinrich 9/27 ~~[MELANIE WADDELL AND GIL WEINREICH are analysts for advisorone; 9/27/12; 3 Reasons Obama Will Capture Independents~’ Vote: Andy Friedman; http://www.advisorone.com/2012/09/27/3-reasons-obama-will-capture-independents-vote-and?page=2~~**
Andy Friedman, political consultant with the Washington Update, says in his commentary released
AND
stems from Congress having adjourned last week without addressing the "fiscal cliff".
===Uniqueness - Capitol=== 
**Obama will win according to intrade – Gamblers are an empirically better predictor of the election then polls. Only a huge scandal like the plan will tip the election**
**Thomson 10/24 ~~[Keith Thomson is a writer and reporter for the Huffington Post; 10/24/12; How Gamblers — History~’s Most Accurate Election Forecasters — Are Betting on 2012; http://www.huffingtonpost.com/keith-thomson/how-gamblers—historys-mo_b_2011534.html~~]**
I don~’t like uncertainty. The current presidential polls — Gallup with Romney leading by
AND
a huge scandal, I can~’t see an outcome other than Obama~’s reelection.

**Obama will win now – recent polls and swing states**
**Witt, ~’10/18** ~~[10/18/12, Ryan, Writer for the Examiner, Updated Obama versus Romney polls in the 10 key battleground states, Examiner, http://www.examiner.com/article/updated-obama-versus-romney-polls-the-10-key-battleground-states-2~~]
The most recent polls, including many released over the last 24 hours, show
AND
6 percent, and still gives Obama overwhelming odds to win the state.
===Internal Link - Iran Strikes=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Obama key to preventing a US or Israeli strike on Iran</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Traub, 12** [January/February 2012, James Traub is a journalist specializing in foreign affairs, writes “Terms of Engagement,” “Foreign Affairs: The “more enemies, fewer friends” doctrine, Washington Monthly, January/February,[[http://www.washingtonmonthly.com/magazine/january_february_2012/features/foreign_affairs034475.php?page=1]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A Republican president would thus move American foreign policy not from the left to the</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. could thus pay a very grave price for a relatively modest gain.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Extinction</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Hirsch 5** - Professor @ UC San Diego (Jorge, “Can a nuclear strike on Iran be averted,” November 21st, EMM - BRW)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Bush administration has put together all the elements it needs to justify the impending</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">of the Hiroshima bomb, enough to erase Earth's population many times over</span>
===Internal Link - Russia Relations=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Obama reelection maintains the US/Russian reset --- Romney will collapse relations</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Weir, 3/27/2012** (Fred, Obama asks Russia to cut him slack until reelection, Minnesota Post, p. [[http://www.minnpost.com/christian-science-monitor/2012/03/obama-asks-russia-cut-him-slack-until-reelection]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Russian experts say there's little doubt the Kremlin would like to see Obama re-</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">If Obama wins the election, it seems likely the reset will continue."</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">US-Russia relations are vital to preventing nuclear war and solving every global issue.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Allison & Blackwill, ‘11</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[Graham, director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard’s Kennedy School, former assistant secretary of defense in the Clinton administration, Robert D., Henry A. Kissinger senior fellow for U.S. foreign policy -- Council on Foreign Relations, served as U.S. ambassador to India and as deputy national security adviser for strategic planning in the Bush administration, both co-chairmen of the Task Force on Russia and U.S. National Interests, co-sponsored by the Belfer Center and the Center for the National Interest, 10-30-11 Politico, “10 reasons why Russia still matters,” [[http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=161EF282-72F9-4D48-8B9C-C5B3396CA0E6]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That central point is that Russia matters a great deal to a U.S</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.S. success, or failure, in advancing our national interests.</span>
==Bond Markets DA== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bond market confidence is stable now, but another round of stimulus spending causes freak out and collapses the economy—err negative there’s an invisible threshold</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Samuelson, ’11** [December 19, 2011, Robert Samuelson has a bachelor's degree from Harvard University and is currently a political analyst for the Washington Times, “The Eclipse of Keynesianism Proceeds”,[[http://www.realclearmarkets.com/articles/2011/12/19/the_eclipse_of_keynesianism_proceeds_99429.html]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The eclipse of Keynesian economics proceeds. When Keynes wrote "The General Theory of</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">risen to hazardous levels, undermining Keynesian economics as taught in standard texts.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The plan collapses the perception of fiscal discipline—transportation funding is a unique test for fiscal questions</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Corker, ’12** [3/8/12, Bob Corker is a Senator from Tennessee, “Senate Must Face Fiscal Reality in Pending Highway Bill”,[[http://www.corker.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?p=News&ContentRecord_id=606a2acd-0ca7-408f-9694-f07ed8220576&ContentType_id=b94acc28-404a-4fc6-b143-a9e15bf92da4&Group_id=650e2033-9317-4405-a8df-47cdd1c9d515&MonthDisplay=3&YearDisplay=2012]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Now, the Senate is considering a two-year federal highway reauthorization bill,</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">avoid what Erskine Bowles called “the most predictable economic crisis in history”?</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Debt sell off collapses US economic leadership</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Eichengreen, ’11** [6/9/11, Barry Eichengreen is the George C. Pardee and Helen N. Pardee Professor of Economics and Professor of Political Science at the University of California, Berkeley, “How to Kill a Dollar”, [[http://www.project-syndicate.org/commentary/how-to-kill-a-dollar]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">If there is a threat to the dollar, it stems not from monetary policy</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">on. Congress, indeed everyone in America, should take him seriously.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nuclear war—specifically with China and Iraq stability</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Mead 4**-Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations (Walter Russell, “America's sticky power,” Foreign Policy, March 2004)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">U.S. military force and cultural appeal have kept the United States at</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.S.-led global system appear desirable, inevitable, and permanent.</span>
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Kritks</span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Taoism K</span>== 
**Death and misfortune are inevitable and joy comes through acceptance – imposing plans on the world only brings more suffering**
**Slabbert 01** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">~~[Jos, Taoist teacher and philosopher, "Tao te Ching: How to Deal with Suffering" [[http://www.taoism.net/theway/suffer.htm-http://www.taoism.net/theway/suffer.htm]]~~] //AJO</span>
Dealing with loss Express yourself completely, then keep quiet. Be like the forces
AND
the more we tamper with it, the more damage we will do.

**The alternative is to embrace inaction, even in the face of extinction – only that can prevent true disaster**
**Kirkland 98**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – phd east Asian languages, associate prof of religion, UGA (""RESPONSIBLE NON-ACTION" IN A NATURAL WORLD : PERSPECTIVES FROM THE NEI-YEH, CHUANG-TZU, AND TAO-TE CHING." [[http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/ECO.pdf-http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/ECO.pdf]]) CMR **We don~’t endorse gendered language</span>
This example came to my mind when I began to ponder what the Taoists of
AND
, not even — or more correctly said, especially not — ourselves.
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Race K 1.0</span>== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Their choice of transportation investment is not neutral – they are conscious attempts at increasing racial subordination</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Bullard, Johnson, Torres ‘4** [2004, Robert, Glenn, Angel, , Ph.D., (Environmental Sociology) Highway Robbery Transportation Racism & New Routes to Equity, Cambridge]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Transportation systems do not spring up out of thin air. They are planned·~</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">economically depressed and deteriorating central cities and that transportation apartheid has been created.</span>

**The only acceptable policy option is a rejection of racism.**
**Memmi 2k** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris, 2K Albert-; </span>RACISM<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165</span>
The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, without intermission, without remission
AND
. True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Race K 2.0</span>== 
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A. Exposition - White supremacy is the un-named political system that has made the world how it is today</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Mills ~’97** </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago 1997 Charles-; The Racial Contract; p. 1-3</span>
White Supremacy is the unnamed political system that has made the modern world what it
AND
talk is, after all, the political lingua franca of our times.

**B. Link - Rhetorical silence protects the invisibility of whiteness and preserves material white privilege. Ideological systems are made up of both presences and absences. What is absent, unmarked, the unspoken and unsayable becomes positively marked as the assumed norm.**
**Crenshaw ~’97** <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">professor of speech comm. @ Univ. Ala. Carrie-PhD, USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala; Western Journal of Communication; Resisting Whiteness</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">~’</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">s Rhetorical Silence; 61(3), Summer, p 253-278</span>
This analysis brings into focus several observations about how whiteness operates rhetorically and ideologically in
AND
the ideology of white privilege "works" through rhetorical silence about whiteness.

**C. Impact - Racism is the root cause of all war and genocide**
**Batur ~’7** <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Prof of Sociology @ Vassar 2k7Pinar Batur, PhD @ UT-Austin – Prof. of Scociology @ Vassar, ~’7 ~~["The Heart of Violence: Global Racism, War, and Genocide," in </span>Handbook of the The Soiology of Racial and Ethnic Relations<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, eds. Vera and Feagin, p. 441-443~~])</span>
War and genocide are horrid, and taking them for granted is inhuman.
AND
this "geography of hunger and exploitation" are Iraq and New Orleans.

**A stance against the institutional walls of racism is the only mechanism for survival.**
**Bardnt ~’91** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Director of Crossroads, a nonprofit Organization 19</span>91<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Joseph-ordained minister; </span>"Dismantling Racism: The Continuing Challenge to White America<span style="font-size: 8pt;">; p.155-156</span>
To study racism is to study walls. We have looked at barriers and fences
AND
of the world and ourselves, we dare not allow it to continue

**The only acceptable policy option is a rejection of racism.**
**Memmi 2k** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris, 2K Albert-; </span>RACISM<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165</span>
The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, without intermission, without remission
AND
. True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.

**D. Implications - There is no reason to vote affirmative – there is no link between their proposal and practical, worldly effects**
**Schlag ~’90**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">prof law University of Colorado, 90 PIERRE SCHLAG, PROFESSOR OF LAW@ UNIV. COLORADO, 1990, STANFORD LAW REVIEW, NOVEMBER 1990</span>
In fact, normative legal thought is so much in a hurry that it will
AND
in a position to put any of its wonderful normative advice into effect.

**Normative discourse reinstates the harms of the status quo by making us spectators of political life – our traditional conceptualization of solvency doesn~’t solve anything, and only makes our problems worse.**
**Mitchell ~’95**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, prof communications University of Pittsburgh, 95 Gordon Mitchell, Univ. of Pittsburgh Communications prof, "REFLEXIVE FIAT: INCORPORATING THE OUTWARD ACTIVIST TURN INTO CONTEST STRATEGY", paper presented to the 1995 SCA National Convention</span>
One problem with approaches to fiat which feature such a structural separation between advocate and
AND
advocacy and the action by external actors defended in plan or counterplan mandates.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">E. Alternative - endorse an ideological rhetorical criticism of whiteness. Our speech act of the 1NC is key to uncover and break down the unnamed system of whiteness.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Dr. Crenshaw ~’97** </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION; </span>Resisting Whiteness~’ Rhetorical Silence<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">; 61(3), Summer; pp. 253-278.</span>
Ideological rhetorical criticism reveals the vested interests protected by a particular rhetorical framework for understanding
AND
sense of and justify their privileged social status (van Dijk; Wellman).

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This is something we must do as intellectuals in the debate community</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Dr. Crenshaw ~’97** </span>Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. 1997 Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION; Resisting Whiteness~’ Rhetorical Silence; 61(3), Summer; pp. 253-278.
Because discursive construction of whiteness are typically unmarked in personal, academic, and public
AND
make whiteness visible and overturning its silences for the purpose of resisting racism.

**And, that is the only way to solve racism**
**Davis ~’8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">prof of History of Consciousness and Feminist Studies @ UC, Santa Cruz</span> 2k8
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Angela Y.-former black panther, civil rights activist/scholar; </span>Recognizing Racism in the Era of Neoliberalism<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Vice Chancellor~’s Oration; http://www.abc.net.au/news/opinion/speeches/files/20080318_davis.pdf</span>
Because racism is viewed as an anachronistic vestige of the past, we fail to
AND
answered if we are able to recognize this deep structural life of racism.

**The affirmative~’s decision-making within foreign policy as well as how we evaluate and search for the best policy option within debate is something that must be exposed for how it represents an institutionally racist structure**
**Shaw, ~’04** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">~~[Katharine, </span>Associate Professor of Urban Studies at Ohio State <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Using Feminist Critical Policy Analysis in the Realm of Higher Education: The Case of Welfare Reform as Gendered Educational Policy Source: The Journal of Higher Education, Vol. 75, No. 1, Special Issue: Questions of Research and Methodology, (Jan. - Feb., 2004), pp. 56-79~~]</span>
The methods and theoretical frameworks that dominate current policy analysis have been developed and implemented
AND
tied to prevailing relations of power" (1997a, p. 3).
==Black Feminism K== 
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Sexist silencing occurs within racial political discourse</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hooks</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **’95** former distinguished prof of English @ City College of New York 1995 bell-currently on staff at Berea College in Kentucky, noted scholar and author; KILLING RAGE Ending Racism; pp. 1-3</span>
When race and racism are the topic in public discourse the voices that speak
AND
challenge to all black women, especially progressive black females on the Left.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Black feminism is key to any effort to end racism</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hooks ’95</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> former distinguished prof of English @ City College of New York 1995 bell-currently on staff at Berea College in Kentucky, noted scholar and author; KILLING RAGE Ending Racism; p. 77-78</span>
Challenging and changing the devaluation of black womanhood in this society is central to
AND
of black womanhood is central to the maintenance of white supremacist capitalist patriarchy.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The alternative is to ABANDON a utopian belief in a STRONG Black patriarchy and rethink our notion of manhood and woman hood becoming more WHOLISTIC, both man and woman are SYNONYMOUS with selfhood.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hooks ‘95</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> former distinguished prof of English @ City College of New York 1995 bell-currently on staff at Berea College in Kentucky, noted scholar and author; KILLING RAGE Ending Racism; p. 68-69</span>
Since black men and women are not solving the dilemmas of black life by
AND
coercion (and that includes violence) are used to maintain that authority.
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Abelism K</span>== 
**The affirmative~’s use of "___" represents ableist language – vote negative to fulfill your obligation an educator and reject it**
**Ben-Moshe, ~’06** ~~[Liat Ben-Moshe, Spring 2006, Volume 26, No. 2, Disability Studies Quarterly, "Infusing Disability in the Curriculum: The Case of Saramago~’s Blindness", [[http://dsq-sds.org/article/view/688/865-http://dsq-sds.org/article/view/688/865]]~~]
Using blindness as metaphor in novels reinforces a precarious duality: 1) the perception
AND
what are we missing when we use disability merely as a rhetorical tool?

**The impact comes first – ableist language promotes a model of exclusion that is detrimental to our community**
**Wheelchair Dancer**, 4/28/**8** ("On Making Argument: Disability and Language", http://cripwheels.blogspot.com/2008/04/on-making-argument-disability-and.html Accessed: 4/8/12
If you are feeling a little bit of resistance, here, I~’d ask you
AND
systems of oppression that motivated us to speak out in the first place.

**Voting Issue – Ableist Speech strengthens oppression and destroys the purposes of public debate – the impacts trump the other warrants in their arguments**
**Wheelchair Dancer, 4/28/8** ("On Making Argument: Disability and Language", http://cripwheels.blogspot.com/2008/04/on-making-argument-disability-and.html Accessed: 4/8/12)
carefree speech? — perhaps that feeling can also serve as an indicator of how
AND
systems of oppression that motivated us to speak out in the first place.
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Link - "Biking"</span>=== 
**Bicycle culture is ableist**
**WSB 12** (Winter Snowfall Blog, June 18^^th^^, 2012, http://thewintersnowfall.wordpress.com/2012/06/18/ride-a-bike-asshole-or-ableism-is-the-tragic-flaw-of-bicycle-culture/)
There~’s still a problem: not everyone can ride a bicycle. Some people have
AND
it threatens to reveal bicycles as just another technology, just another option.

**They otherize the disabled – The dichotomy between the car and the bicycle renders those who rely on cars as evil**
**Cupples and Ridley 08** (Julie Cupples and Elisabeth Ridley, Department of Geography, University of Canterbury "Towards a heterogeneous environmental responsibility: sustainability and cycling fundamentalism," Area Vol. 40 No. 2, pp. 254–264, 2008, EBSCO)
The second example emerged during our participation at the first meeting of University of Canterbury
AND
the weekend barbecue and the cleaning of the house- hold do not.
=Negative Strategies= 
==Wake== 
===Round 2 vs. Tranverse City Central CT - High Speed Rail=== 
**1NC**
Elections DA
States CP
Race K 1.0
Auto Industry DA
DeDev (Terrorism Impact)
Warming Good
Case

**2NR**
Elections DA
States CP

YO GUYS DEDEV AND WARMING GOOD - IM SOOOOOOOOOO STRATIGIC
===Round 3 vs. Groves NP - Port Security=== 
**1NC**
T Underlying Structures
Elections DA
States CP
Maritime Domain Awareness Cooperation CP
Taoism K
Case

**2NR**
Elections DA
Maritime Domain Awareness Cooperation CP

MDA AINT EVEN POPULAR
===Round 6 vs. College Prep WA - Rosa Parks Geneology=== 
**1NC**
Framework
Black Feminism K
Asian Counter Advocacy
Case

**2NR**
Asian Counter Advocacy


I LOVE IT WHEN MY 2NR ISNT COMPETITIVE - YOLO SWAG 420 KUSH - VOTE NEG ON PRESUMPTION
==Georgetown== 
===Round 1. vs. Edgemont KX - Electric Rails=== 
**1NC**
T Substantial
Elections DA
States CP
Race K 1.0
Case

**2NR**
Elections DA
States CP
===Round 4. vs. River Hill SS - Derrida=== 
**1NC**
Framework
Asian Counter Advocacy
Black White Binary DA
Case

**2NR**
Framework

I THOUGHT I WON BUT DIS DE-RIDA SCUB BE SAYIN THEY AINT NEED NO TOPIC
===Round 5. vs. Bronx Science LS - Climate Adaptation=== 
**1NC**
T Substantial
Elections DA
States CP
Race K 1.0
Case

**2NR**
Race K

DONT I HAVE SCHLAG?
===Doubles. vs. Bronx Science BK - Climate Adaptation=== 
**1NC**
Elections DA
Carbon Tax CP
Race K 1.0
Hegemony Bad
Case

**2NR**
Elections DA
Hegemony Bad
Case


OMG WHO DA HELL DIS ANASTASIA? WHY SHE USIN HEG - AINT NO ONE NEED HEG
==Bronx== 
===Round 2. vs. Bronx Law AL - Latinidad Performance=== 
**1NC**
Framework
Asian Counter Advocacy
Case

**2NR**
Framework

I WISH I IMPACT TURNED THE AFF, LIKE WTF ANTI BLACKNESS - DEY ANTIWHITE
===Round 4. vs. Baltimore City College BB - (Bio)Politics of Disposability=== 
**1NC**
Framework
Bond Markets DA
Asian Counter Advocacy
Black White Binary DA
Case

**2NR**
Framework

LOOK AT MY SPECIFIC PERFORMANCE STRAT

I DIDNT HAVE A ROUND 6 BECAUSE I WAS TOO BUSY GOING FOR DBE
==Capitol Classic== 
===Round 1. vs. River Hill CL - Fix-It Transportation=== 
**1NC**
Framework
Elections DA
States CP
Race Talk DA
Case

**2NR**
Elections DA
Case

SUMON DROPPED SEVERANCE BAD LIKE WTF HE DOIN - ALO MAKIN NEW ANSWERS
===Round 4. vs. Bronx Science LM - Climate Adaptation=== 
**1NC**
T Substantial
Elections DA
States CP
Race K 1.0
Case

**2NR**
Elections DA
Case

MAN IM SO GOOD I BEAT THE BRONX A TEAM - WHO DA HELL BK?
===**Round 6. vs. Baltimore Poly ES - Stokel Geneology/Battillecycles**=== 
**1NC**
Race K 2.0
Abelism K - "Walking" "Biking"

**2NR**
Abelism K

RACE JUDGE IN THE BACK? WE GOTTA GO FOR ABLEISM YO - SOOOOOO STRATIGIC