[[toc]]
"Questions? Comments? Death Threats?" ~ <span style="line-height: 1.5;">Osayame Gaius-Obaseki</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">On the affirmative, we will post 1AC cites and 2AC cites by request. On the negative, 1NC strategies and 2NR choices. Please email Sahil ([[mailto:spjkpatel@gmail.com|spjkpatel@gmail.com]]) </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;">for all cite requests. If you can't find full text, just email us and we will be happy to provide it.</span>

=Affirmative= 

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1AC—Wake Forest</span>== 

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Surface Transportation Affirmative-1AC—Wake Forest-Plan]]**Plan**</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The United States federal government should increase its surface transportation infrastructure investment sufficient to achieve “minimum tolerable conditions” for roads and bridges and “state of good repair” for transit.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Surface Transportation Affirmative-1AC—Wake Forest-Advantage One—Economic Stimulus]]Advantage One—Economic Stimulus</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">First, stimulus is key to growth in the short-term—no recovery without more government spending.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Stone 12__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — Chad Stone, Chief Economist at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, holds a Ph.D. in Economics from Yale University, 2012 (“Misguided Deficit and Inflation Fears Impede Economic Recovery,” Economic Intelligence—a U.S. News & World Report blog, July 12th, Available Online at [[http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/economic-intelligence/2012/07/12/misguided-deficit-and-inflation-fears-impede-economic-recovery]], Accessed 07-20-2012)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Last week's disappointing jobs report for June showed that a strong labor market recovery remains elusive…Policymakers can eliminate the future costs if they pair short-term stimulus with policies that reduce the deficit in the future when the economy is stronger.</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Second, the plan solves—a substantial investment in infrastructure stimulus would create jobs and boost aggregate demand.</span>**
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Blodget 12**</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — Henry Blodget, co-founder, CEO, and Editor-In Chief of Business Insider, former top-ranked Wall Street analyst, frequent contributor to the magazines Slate, Newsweek, and New York, 2012 (“Yes, It's Time For A Massive Infrastructure Spending Program,” Business Insider, June 19th, Available Online at [[http://www.businessinsider.com/infrastructure-spending-program-2012-6?op=1]], Accessed 09-03-2012)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">I recently laid out the fundamental problem with the US economy…And this, in turn, suggests that ruling out future stimulus in the form of infrastructure investment as a way to help the economy is a major mistake, especially with US infrastructure in such lousy shape and so many US workers idled by the construction industry slowdown.</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Third, infrastructure investment is uniquely effective at stimulating the economy—studies prove.</span>**
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Boushey 11**</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — Heather Boushey, Senior Economist at the Center for American Progress, previously held economist positions with the Joint Economic Committee of the U.S. Congress, the Center for Economic and Policy Research, and the Economic Policy Institute, holds a Ph.D. in economics from the New School for Social Research, 2011 (“Now Is the Time to Fix Our Broken Infrastructure,” Center for American Progress, September 22nd, Available Online at [[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/09/aja_infrastructure.html]], Accessed 06-09-2012)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The value of infrastructure spending…This number include jobs directly created by hiring for the specific project, jobs indirectly created by supplier firms, and jobs induced when workers go out and spend their paychecks and boost their local economy.[8]</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fourth, government stimulus is empirically effective—history is on our side.</span>**
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Boushey and Ettlinger 11**</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — Heather Boushey, Senior Economist at the Center for American Progress, previously held economist positions with the Joint Economic Committee of the U.S. Congress, the Center for Economic and Policy Research, and the Economic Policy Institute, holds a Ph.D. in economics from the New School for Social Research, and Michael Ettlinger, Vice President for Economic Policy at the Center for American Progress, previously served as Director of Economic Analysis and Research at the Economic Policy Institute, holds a J.D. from American University, 2011 (“Government Spending Can Create Jobs—and It Has,” Center for American Progress, September, Available Online at [[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/09/pdf/yes_we_can.pdf]], Accessed 08-06-2012, p. 1)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">President Barack Obama swept into office on a mantra of “Yes, we can.”…Economies around the world reflecting a wide range of economic ideologies understand the importance of government action in the face of economic crises.</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fifth, states can’t stimulate the economy—federal action is key.</span>**
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Bernstein 11**</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — Jared Bernstein, Senior Fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, served as Chief Economist and Economic Advisor to Vice President Joe Biden, holds a Ph.D. in Social Welfare from Columbia University, 2011 (“More Q&A: States Can’t Do Countercyclical Policy and Noise re ‘Unfunded Liabilities’,” On The Economy—Jared Bernstein’s economics blog, July 4th, Available Online at[[http://jaredbernsteinblog.com/more-qa-states-cant-do-countercyclical-policy-and-noise-re-unfunded-liabilities/]], Accessed 06-22-2012)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Q: What with the much benighted Washington debate, what can the states do to improve the economy – or more specifically, fight unemployment?...As the stimulus has faded, layoffs have accelerated.</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sixth, state fundraising decimates the economy—spending cuts and tax increases undercut demand.</span>**
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Quinnell 12**</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — Kenneth Quinnell, political analyst and writer at Crooks & Liars, Adjunct Instructor in History at Tallahassee Community College, 2012 (“New Report Shows State Budget Cuts Have Hurt the Economy,” Crooks & Liars, April 21st, Available Online at[[http://crooksandliars.com/kenneth-quinnell/new-report-shows-state-budget-cut]], Accessed 06-27-2012)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A new report from the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, "Out of Balance: Cuts in Services Have Been States’ Primary Response to Budget Gaps, Harming the Nation’s Economy," places a spotlight on the right-wing assault on state budgets and the harmful effects of the growing trend of budget cuts…States have engaged in such unsustainable and negative tactics to balance their budgets that many more citizens are in vulnerable situations than before the recession.</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">No impact to deficits —treasury yields are negative—investors are paying us to borrow from them.</span>**
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Klein 12**</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — Ezra Klein, blogger for The Washington Post, former associate editor for The American Prospect, holds a B.A. in Political Science from UCLA, 2012 (“The world desperately wants to loan us money,” Wonkblog—a Washington Post blog, July 12th, Available Online at [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/ezra-klein/wp/2012/07/12/the-world-desperately-wants-to-loan-us-money/]], Accessed 07-20-2012)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Financial Times reports that there was record demand for 10-year Treasurys this week…The fact that we’re not doing any of this isn’t just a lost opportunity. It’s financial mismanagement on an epic scale.</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And, growth is the controlling impact—more important than deficits and taxes.</span>**
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Swanson 11**</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — Bret Swanson, President of Entropy Economics—a research firm focused on technology and the global economy, President of Entropy Capital—a venture firm that invests in early-stage technology companies, Visiting Fellow at Digital Society, Fellow at the National Chamber Foundation, former Senior Fellow and Director of the Center for Global Innovation at The Progress & Freedom Foundation, 2011 (“The Growth Imperative,” Forbes, May 27th, Available Online at [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/bretswanson/2011/05/27/the-growth-imperative/]], Accessed 08-29-2012)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The central factor in America’s fiscal future is hardly being discussed…Economic growth helps federal, state, and local budgets, sure, but more importantly creates opportunity for generations of Americans, particularly those whose outlook today seems bleakest.</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And, this accesses every major impact—economic growth is vital to generate the resources needed to meet emerging challenges.</span>**
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Silk 93**</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — Leonard Silk, Distinguished Professor of Economics at Pace University, Senior Research Fellow at the Ralph Bunche Institute on the United Nations at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York, and former Economics Columnist with the New York Times, 1993 (“Dangers of Slow Growth,” Foreign Affairs, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Like the Great Depression, the current economic slump has fanned the firs of nationalist, ethnic and religious hatred around the world…But economic growth – and growth alone – creates the additional resources that make it possible to achieve such fundamental goals as higher living standards, national and collective security, a healthier environment, and more liberal and open economies and societies.</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And, economic decline increases the risk of war—strong statistical support.</span>**
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Royal 10**</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict…As such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Finally, alternatives to growth kill hundreds of millions and cause global conflict—we can’t “turn off” the economy.</span>**
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Barnhizer 6**</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — David R. Barnhizer, Emeritus Professor at Cleveland State University’s Cleveland-Marshall College of Law, 2006 (“Waking from Sustainability's "Impossible Dream": The Decisionmaking Realities of Business and Government,” Georgetown International Environmental Law Review (18 Geo. Int'l Envtl. L. Rev. 595), Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The scale of social needs, including the need for expanded productive activity, has grown so large that it cannot be shut off at all, and certainly not abruptly…The question is not how to achieve a static state but how to achieve what is needed to advance social justice while avoiding and mitigating the most destructive consequences of our behavior.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Surface Transportation Affirmative-1AC—Wake Forest-Advantage Two—U.S. Competitiveness]]Advantage Two—U.S. Competitiveness</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">First, U.S. surface transportation infrastructure is crumbling—continued shortfalls will decimate the economy and American competitiveness.</span>**
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**EDR Group 11**</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — Economic Development Research Group, Inc.—a consulting firm focusing specifically on applying state-of-the-art tools and techniques for evaluating economic development performance, impacts, and opportunities, comprised of economists and planners who are specialists in evaluating the impacts of transportation infrastructure, services, and technology on economic development opportunities, 2011 (“Executive Summary,” Failure to Act: The Economic Impact of Current Investment Trends in Surface Transportation Infrastructure, Report Prepared for the American Society of Civil Engineers by the Economic Development Research Group, Inc., Available Online at[[http://www.asce.org/uploadedFiles/Infrastructure/Report_Card/ASCE-FailureToActFinal.pdf]], Accessed 08-31-2012, p. 3-6)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The nation’s surface transportation infrastructure includes the critical highways, bridges, railroads, and transit systems that enable people and goods to access the markets, services, and inputs of production essential to America’s economic vitality…These exports are lost due to lost productivity and the higher costs of American goods and services, relative to competing product prices from around the globe.</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fortunately, the plan solves—investments to achieve minimally tolerable conditions are needed.</span>**
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**EDR Group 11**</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — Economic Development Research Group, Inc.—a consulting firm focusing specifically on applying state-of-the-art tools and techniques for evaluating economic development performance, impacts, and opportunities, comprised of economists and planners who are specialists in evaluating the impacts of transportation infrastructure, services, and technology on economic development opportunities, 2011 (“Wages, Value-Added, Industrial Output, and Jobs,” Failure to Act: The Economic Impact of Current Investment Trends in Surface Transportation Infrastructure, Report Prepared for the American Society of Civil Engineers by the Economic Development Research Group, Inc., Available Online at [[http://www.asce.org/uploadedFiles/Infrastructure/Report_Card/ASCE-FailureToActFinal.pdf]], Accessed 08-31-2012, p. 19-20)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This report contrasts a transportation system funded at levels comparable to today’s levels with a fully funded system to assess the degree to which U.S. economic conditions are affected by current and projected infrastructure deficiencies…However, if transportation investment levels rise in areas that support building and maintaining minimum tolerable conditions across the system, national jobs, income, and GDP can rise to the levels we have found and quantified in this study.</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And, this prevents global conflict—perception of U.S. economic weakness sparks war.</span>**
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Lieberthal and O’Hanlon 12**</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — Kenneth G. Lieberthal, Director of the John L. Thornton China Center and Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy and Global Economy and Development at the Brookings Institution, former Professor at the University of Michigan, served as special assistant to the president for national security affairs and senior director for Asia on the National Security Council, holds a Ph.D. from Columbia University, and Michael E. O'Hanlon, Director of Research and Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy at the Brookings Institution, Visiting Lecturer at Princeton University, Adjunct Professor at Johns Hopkins University, holds a Ph.D. from Princeton University, 2012 (“The Real National Security Threat: America's Debt,” Los Angeles Times, July 10th, Available Online at [[http://www.brookings.edu/research/opinions/2012/07/10-economy-foreign-policy-lieberthal-ohanlon]], Accessed 07-12-2012)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lastly, American economic weakness undercuts U.S. leadership abroad…The crucial Persian Gulf and Western Pacific regions will likely become less stable. Major war will become more likely.</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Independently, the plan is crucial to revitalize the American steel industry—transportation infrastructure investment is vital.</span>**
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**AISI 12**</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">— American Iron and Steel Institute—an association of North American steel producers, 2012 (“AISI Public Policy Priorities – Promoting a Pro-Manufacturing Agenda,” February 2nd, Available Online at[[http://www.steel.org/~/media/Files/AISI/Public%20Policy/Agenda/AISI2012PublicPolicyAgenda%20_%20Final%20020212.ashx]], Accessed 09-01-2012, p. 11)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Background. A globally competitive economy depends on an effective and efficient transportation infrastructure. The report of the National Surface Transportation Infrastructure Financing Commission to Congress estimates that it will require approximately $200 billion per year, each year, for the foreseeable future to maintain and improve the nation’s highways and transit systems…Authorization of a new act is way overdue. In addition, federal funding through the Highway Trust Fund is currently inadequate. This, coupled with the current economic downturn, has resulted in delays or stoppage of vital transportation projects nationally.</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And, a strong steel industry is the lynchpin of U.S. global leadership.</span>**
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Buyer 7**</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — Steve Buyer, Member of the U.S. House of Representatives (R-Indiana), Colonel in the U.S. Army Reserve, holds a B.S. from The Citadel and a J.D. from Valparaiso University, 2007 (“Statement of Representative Steve Buyer Before the International Trade Commission Regarding the five-year sunset review on Certain Hot-Rolled Carbon Steel Flat Products from Argentina, China, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Netherlands, Romania, South Africa, Taiwan, Thailand, and Ukraine (Inv. Nos. 701 -TA-404-408 and 731 -TA-898-908),” July 31st, Available Online via EDIS (Document # 279239), Accessed 09-01-2012)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A robust steel industry is fundamental to the security and economic viability of this nation…Please take this under consideration while contemplating your decision in this matter - a vital instrument of our national security lies in your hands.</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And, maintaining economic competitiveness is key to hegemony—it prevents great power conflict.</span>**
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Khalilzad 12**</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — Zalmay Khalilzad, Counselor at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, served as the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush, served as the director of policy planning at the Defense Department during the Presidency of George H.W. Bush, holds a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago, 2012 (“It's Foreign Affairs, Stupid,” The National Interest, July 16th, Available Online at [[http://nationalinterest.org/print/commentary/its-foreign-affairs-stupid-7195]], Accessed 07-20-2012)</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The economy trumps national security as the country’s top political issue this election cycle…The lesson of the twentieth century is that nothing is more expensive than such conflicts. So addressing the economic underpinnings of U.S. power is vital.</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Finally, history proves our impact—hegemonic decline causes conflict.</span>**
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Friedberg 11**</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — Aaron L. Friedberg, Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University, holds a Ph.D. from Harvard University, 2011 (“Hegemony with Chinese Characteristics,” The National Interest, June 21st, Available Online at[[http://nationalinterest.org/print/article/hegemony-chinese-characteristics-5439]], Accessed 09-15-2011)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Throughout history, relations between dominant and rising states have been uneasy—and often violent…This is why periods of transition, when a new, ascending power begins to overtake the previously dominant state, have so often been marked by war.</span>
==1AC - GFCA Varsity State== 
===Plan=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Board of Governors of the United States Federal Reserve should substantially invest in transportation infrastructure in the United States.</span>


=== === 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Advantage One—</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 1.1em; line-height: 1.5;">Economic Growth</span>=== 



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">First, the Fed’s bond-buying has pumped 3 trillion into the economy and will continue indefinitely — no disad to Fed action or stimulus is unique.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Reuters 1/30</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — Reuters, 2013 (“Fed keeps stimulus in place as U.S. economy "paused",” Byline Alister Bull and Pedro da Costa, January 30th, Available Online at [[http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2013-01-30/business/sns-rt-us-usa-fedbre90t0tf-20130130_1_dual-mandate-policy-accommodation-monetary-policy]], Accessed 02-04-2013)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The Federal Reserve on Wednesday left in place its monthly $85 billion bond-buying stimulus plan, arguing the support was needed to lower unemployment even as it indicated a recent stall in U.S. economic growth was likely temporary. AND Most analysts do not expect the outlook for the labor market to show the substantial improvement the Fed wants to see this year, keeping it on track for further bond buying.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Second, the economy is not recovering — millions are unemployed and growth has stalled.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Zuckerman 2/1</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — Mortimer Zuckerman, Editor of U.S. News & World Report, Publisher of the New York Daily News, 2013 (“How We Can End Our Modern-Day Depression,” U.S. News & World Report, February 2nd, Available Online at[[http://www.usnews.com/opinion/mzuckerman/articles/2013/02/01/mort-zuckerman-how-we-can-end-our-modern-day-depression]], Accessed 02-05-2013)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">If you went out this morning and saw hundreds of people lining up at soup kitchens, you'd think you were in a time machine, transported back to the Great Depression of the '30s, or the victim of a hallucination incubated by powerful images of those times. AND When economic activity picks up, employers will undoubtedly first choose to increase hours for existing workers.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fortunately, the plan boosts growth — we’ll isolate three internal links.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">First, jobs — current bond-buying won’t stimulate the real economy — the plan is crucial to increase aggregate demand, GDP, and employment in every state.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lau 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — Lawrence J. Lau, Kwoh-Ting Li Professor of Economic Development in the Department of Economics at Stanford University, Ralph and Claire Landau Professor of Economics at The Chinese University of Hong Kong, former vice-chancellor of the Chinese University of Hong Kong, holds a Ph.D. in Economics from the University of California-Berkeley, 2012 (“What should the Fed do to jump-start US economy?,” China Daily, August 17th, Available Online at [[http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/hkedition/2012-08/17/content_15682382.htm]], Accessed 10-17-2012)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The world economy has already experienced both "Quantitative Easing I (QE-I)" and "Quantitative Easing II (QE-II)" operations by the US Federal Reserve Board (Fed). AND (In fact, a similar plan can be used for Greece, so that while Greece needs to reduce its recurrent government expenditures, it can still undertake some capital projects so as to maintain some economic growth and prevent unemployment from becoming too high.)</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Second, investment — the plan spurs private investment in infrastructure — it’s crucial to get conservative investors off the sidelines.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Greider 11/7</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — William Greider, National Affairs Correspondent for The Nation, former reporter and editor at the Washington Post, holds a degree from Princeton University, 2012 (“Can the Federal Reserve Help Prevent a Second Recession?,” The Nation, November 7th, Available Online at [[http://www.thenation.com/article/171126/can-federal-reserve-help-prevent-second-recession|http://www.thenation.com/article/171126/can-federal-reserve-help-prevent-second-recession#]], Accessed 01-23-2013)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Stephen Sleigh, a labor economist and director of the national pension fund for the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers union, has similar ideas about how the Fed can persuade private capital investment to finance major infrastructure projects. AND If that occurs, these and other proposals for action will become highly relevant.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">That’s crucial to economic recovery — traditional stimulus fails.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Carew 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — Diana G. Carew, Economist at the Progressive Policy Institute, formerly served as policy analyst at the Export-Import Bank of the U.S. and as an economist at the Bureau of Labor Statistics, holds an M.A. in Applied Economics from Johns Hopkins University, 2012 (“Move Over Demand, Make Room for Investment,” The Progressive Fix, August 3rd, Available Online at[[http://www.progressivepolicy.org/2012/08/move-over-demand-make-room-for-investment/?utm_source=rss&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=move-over-demand-make-room-for-investment|http://www.progressivepolicy.org/2012/08/move-over-demand-make-room-for-investment/]], Accessed 08-24-2012)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It’s become conventional wisdom: when the economy falters, it’s because people aren’t spending. AND But until they realize that aim misses the mark we will continue to take the slow, winding road forward.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Third, infrastructure — the plan is crucial to revitalize transportation infrastructure — its deterioration crushes the economy.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Reuters 1/15</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — Reuters, 2013 (“Report: 3.5M jobs ride on infrastructure funding,” January 15th, Available Online at[[http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2013-01-15/business/chi-report-35m-jobs-ride-on-infrastructure-funding-20130115_1_janet-kavinoky-infrastructure-projects-highway-projects]], Accessed 02-04-2013)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Imagine a future of broken bridges, roads, sewer systems, power grids, airports and not enough money to fix them or to build new ones to serve an expanding population. AND The study projected the funding gap for infrastructure projects to swell to $4.7 trillion by 2040, resulting in nearly 7 million lost jobs.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Only the plan solves — no disad is unique.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Peterson 13</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — Eric C. Peterson, Transportation Policy Consultant at the Eno Center for Transportation—a neutral, non-partisan think-tank that promotes policy innovation, former Staff Member for U.S. Senator John Warner (R-Va), former Deputy Administrator for the U. S. Department of Transportation’s Research and Innovative Technology Administration, 2013 (“Is Quantitative Easing an Option for Infrastructure Financing?,” Eno Brief Newsletter—a publication of the Eno Center for Transportation, January, Available Online at [[http://www.enotrans.org/eno-brief/is-quantitative-easing-an-option-for-infrastructure-financing]], Accessed 02-20-2013)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Over the past four years, in an effort to stimulate employment and stabilize the national economy, the Federal Reserve has carried out three exercises it referred to as “Quantitative Easing.” AND In both the long-term and the short-term such a move could be highly beneficial and transformative.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">And, growth is the controlling internal-link—even small growth-rate differentials produce large fiscal impacts</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Swanson 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — Bret Swanson, President of Entropy Economics—a research firm focused on technology and the global economy, President of Entropy Capital—a venture firm that invests in early-stage technology companies, Visiting Fellow at Digital Society, Fellow at the National Chamber Foundation, former Senior Fellow and Director of the Center for Global Innovation at The Progress & Freedom Foundation, 2011 (“The Growth Imperative,” Forbes, May 27th, Available Online at [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/bretswanson/2011/05/27/the-growth-imperative/]], Accessed 08-29-2012)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The central factor in America’s fiscal future is hardly being discussed. AND Economic growth helps federal, state, and local budgets, sure, but more importantly creates opportunity for generations of Americans, particularly those whose outlook today seems bleakest.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The impact is large: economic growth is crucial to address all global challenges.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Silk 93</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — Leonard Silk, Distinguished Professor of Economics at Pace University, Senior Research Fellow at the Ralph Bunche Institute on the United Nations at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York, and former Economics Columnist with the New York Times, 1993 (“Dangers of Slow Growth,” Foreign Affairs, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Like the Great Depression, the current economic slump has fanned the firs of nationalist, ethnic and religious hatred around the world. AND But economic growth – and growth alone – creates the additional resources that make it possible to achieve such fundamental goals as higher living standards, national and collective security, a healthier environment, and more liberal and open economies and societies.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Finally, economic decline increases the risk of war—strong statistical support.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Royal 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict. AND Those studies tend to focus on dyadic interdependence instead of global interdependence and do not specifically consider the occurrence of and conditions created by economic crises. As such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Federal Reserve Affirmative-1AC—UGA-Chinese Foreign Direct Investment]]<span style="font-size: 1.1em; line-height: 1.5;">Advantage Two—Chinese Foreign Direct Investment</span></span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">First, Chinese direct investment in the United States is on the brink — failure to improve access will force China to invest elsewhere.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hanemann 12/28</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — Thilo Hanemann, Research Director at the Rhodium Group where he specializes in Chinese Foreign Direct Investment, 2012 (“Chinese FDI in the U.S. in 2012: A Record Year Amid A Gloomy FDI Environment,” China Economic Watch—a publication of the Peterson Institute for International Economics, December 28th, Available Online at [[http://www.piie.com/blogs/china/?p=2147]], Accessed 01-29-2013)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Developments in 2012 also underscored the political hurdles in the process of China becoming a major source of FDI for the US. AND It is too early to declare Europe the winner in the race for Chinese investment, but it is time for Washington to move past politics, emphasize openness and tackle structural reforms to ensure the United States remains a top destination for FDI from China and elsewhere.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Second, infrastructure investment is vital — the status quo is insufficient.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Caijing 12/18</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — Caijing—an independent Beijing-based magazine about finance and economics, 2012 (“Chinese Investment to the U.S. Speeds Up,” Byline Jin Yan and Wang Yanchun, December 18th, Available Online at [[http://english.caijing.com.cn/2012-12-18/112372718.html]], Accessed 01-29-2013)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">With accelerating investment in the United States already a consensus among the Chinese business community, attention has now turned to specific areas for investment. AND Those issues aside, the consensus between the two sides is that if the misunderstandings and current obstacles cannot be overcome, a major opportunity for both sides will be squandered.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Third, the plan solves — it spurs Chinese direct investment in U.S. infrastructure.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Greider 11/7</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — William Greider, National Affairs Correspondent for The Nation, former reporter and editor at the Washington Post, holds a degree from Princeton University, 2012 (“Can the Federal Reserve Help Prevent a Second Recession?,” The Nation, November 7th, Available Online at [[http://www.thenation.com/article/171126/can-federal-reserve-help-prevent-second-recession|http://www.thenation.com/article/171126/can-federal-reserve-help-prevent-second-recession#]], Accessed 01-23-2013)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A solution Sleigh envisions would involve bond borrowing for public-private infrastructure projects that would be “labor-intensive and great for long-term economic growth and would absolutely help us meet our obligations, because these bonds are going to yield 6 to 8 percent on our investments.” AND If that occurs, these and other proposals for action will become highly relevant.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fourth, this improves overall U.S.-China relations and fosters greater cooperation — foreign direct investment is crucial.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hills 12/19</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — Carla A. Hills, Co-chairman of the Council on Foreign Relations, Chair of the National Committee on United States-China Relations, served as United States Secretary of Housing and Urban Development under President and as a U.S. Trade Representative under President Bush, 2012 (“China's investment in the US benefits both,” China Daily, December 19th, Available Online at[[http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/opinion/2012-12/19/content_16030764.htm]], Accessed 01-29-2013)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Leaders of the United States and China have repeatedly stated that the bilateral relationship between the world's two largest economies will shape the 21st century. AND In short, Chinese investment in the US is a win-win proposition for America and for China and should be encouraged by both sides.</span>

**Fifth, U.S.-China cooperation is the controlling impact — it provides a foundation for resolving every global challenge.**
**Dunn et al. 3/1** — Lewis A. Dunn, Senior Vice President at Science Applications International Corporation—an American defense company that works with government agencies including the Departments of Defense and Homeland Security, formerly served as assistant director of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency and ambassador for the nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty in the Reagan administration, Ralph Cossa, President of the Pacific Forum of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, holds a B.A. in international relations from Syracuse University, an M.B.A. from Pepperdine University, and an M.S. in strategic studies from the Defense Intelligence College, and Li Hong, Secretary General of the China Arms Control and Disarmament Association, 2013 (“5 Ways to Build a Stable U.S.-China Strategic Relationship,” Flashpoints—a Diplomat blog, March 1st, Available Online at http://thediplomat.com/flashpoints-blog/2013/03/01/5-ways-to-build-a-stable-u-s-china-strategic-relationship/?all=true<span style="line-height: 1.5;">, Accessed 03-06-2013)</span>
The relationship between the United States and China, one country an established power, the other a rising power, will decisively shape the 21st century world. AND
It would allow scarce leadership attention, political capital, and economic resources in both countries to be used to address pressing domestic, economic, social, and other priorities.

**__Sixth__, relations are critical to making economic interdependence effective—solves __miscalculation__ and __escalation__.**
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">**Bremmer and Gordon 12** — Ian Bremmer, Adjunct Professor of International and Public Affairs at Columbia University, President of Eurasia Group, holds a Ph.D. in Political Science from Stanford University, and David Gordon, Head of Research at Eurasia Group, Former Director of Policy Planning at the State Department, 2012 (“Where Commerce and Politics Collide,” </span>//<span style="line-height: 1.5;">New York Times</span>//<span style="line-height: 1.5;">, October 7</span>th<span style="line-height: 1.5;">, Available Online at [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/08/opinion/08iht-edbremmer08.html?_r=0&pagewanted=print]], Accessed 02-08-2013)</span>
But macro-economic interdependence brings with it a whole range of tactical tensions — over exchange rates, intellectual property, investment rules and standard-setting. AND
Following the leadership transition in Beijing and the presidential election in America, both China and the United States need to reinvigorate their top-level dialogue, and pay more attention to ensuring that domestic politics does not overcome the incentives for conflict avoidance that mutually assured economic destruction has created.

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Finally, that prevents nuclear war and extinction.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Wittner 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — Lawrence S. Wittner, Emeritus Professor of History at the State University of New York at Albany, holds a Ph.D. in History from Columbia University, 2011 (“Is a Nuclear War with China Possible?,” Huntington News, November 28th, Available Online at[[http://www.huntingtonnews.net/14446]], Accessed 02-07-2013)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">While nuclear weapons exist, there remains a danger that they will be used. AND If the American and Chinese people are interested in ensuring their survival and that of the world, they should be working to encourage these policies.</span>

=Negative= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Wake Forest</span>== 

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**2NRs**</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**States**</span>
**Elections — Romney Good with Obamacare bad impacts including economy, pharmaceutical industry and religious freedom**
**Case**

===**1NCs also included**=== 
**Inflation DA**
**Credit Downgrade Turn**

==**GFCA Varsity State**== 

====**2NRs**==== 
**Fed Reserve CP**
**Fiscal Discipline DA**
**Immigration DA**
**Case**

====**1NCs also included**==== 
**Capitalism Critique**
**Inflation DA**
**T-Vehicles**
**Extra T**
**T-Text Flaw**

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]