=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">September-October</span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Affirmative]][[#January-February-Affirmative]]Affirmative</span>== 
**Government Legitimacy Aff**

**Observation: terrorists are being held by the USFG.**

**Value is Morality**

**Standard is maintaining government legitimacy**
Prioritize government legitimacy. Federalist Papers <<<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;">The Fedralist no. 51 Independent Journal 2/6/1788 [James Madison, 4</span>th<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;"> President of USA]>></span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;">First, In a single republic...republic of the United States</span>

**Habeas Corpus vital to separation of powers.**
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"><<</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt;">Marjorie Cohn, Law Professor-Thomas Jefferson School of Law, 2011, National Security, Civil Liberties, and the War on Terror, eds. M. Darmer & R. Fybel, p. 364>></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">In //Boumediene//, Kennedy...imprison a person.</span>

**Without government = State of Nature = Bad**
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"><<Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy </span>//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Tue Feb 12, 2002; substantive revision Sat Aug 23, 2008>></span>//
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">To establish these conditions...good and evil.</span>

**Contention 1) Branches of government disagree**
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"><<Maureen T. Duffy [Doctoral</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 8pt;"> Candidate, O’Brien Fellow, Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada Fellow, McGill Centre for Human Rights and Legal Pluralism, Faculty of Law, McGill University], “The Slow Creep of Complacency”: Ongoing Challenges for Democracies Seeking to Detain Terrorism Suspects, Pace Int’l L. Rev. Online </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Companion, Apr. 2010, at 42.>></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">The language used...public officials.</span>

//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt;"><<Cole, David. "Are Foreign Nationals Entitled to the Same Constitutional Rights As Citizens?."GEORGETOWN LAW The Scholarly Commons. (2003): n. page. Web. 23 Aug. 2012.>></span>//
//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt;">The fact that...the constitutional rule.</span>//

**Contention 2) No DPR = less restriction on government power**
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"><<Scanlon, T.M. (2003). “Due process.” The Difficulty of Tolerance: Essays In Political Philosophy. (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press), 47>></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Due process...main combatants.</span>


**Contention 3) Public trial solves best**
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"><<Flanagan-Hyde, Katherine (2006). "The public's right of access to the military tribunals and trials of enemy combatants." Arizona Law Review 48.585, lexis.>></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">In this context...judicial power.</span>


==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Negative</span>== 
**Util Neg**

**Observation: No need to advocate torture, not in the resolution.**

**Value Morality**

**Standard Utilitarianism**

**Contention 1) Public Trial = Info leaks**
//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"><<Brown, Gerald G. and Carlyle, W. Matthew, "Analyzing the Vulnerability of Critical Infrastructure to Attack and Planning Defenses", Operations Research Department>></span>//
The new paradigm... necessary to do this

**Contention 2) Terrorist retaliation**
//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 1.5;"><<Donohue, Laura. "Terrorism and Trial by Jury: The Vices and Virtues of British and American Criminal Law" Stanford Law Review. 2007>></span>//
One problem with...the trial itself

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"><<Rois Kais, ynetnews.com, 9.23.12, http://www.ynetnews.com/articles/0,7340,L-4284951,00.html>></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">The jihadist organization...mocked Islam's prophet.</span>

**Contention 3) Low security prison = outside crime**
<<<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt; line-height: 1.5;">Tod W. Burke, Ph.D., and Stephen S. Owen, Ph.D>></span>
An inmate escaped...landline telephone use.

<<9/11 Commission Report >>
At 8:46 on...acts of terrorism?

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">November December</span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Affirmative]][[#January-February-Affirmative]]Affirmative</span>== 

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Definitions</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Ought- moral</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">UHC- 2010 World Report</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">01: Autonomy spike</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">02: Gov is efficient</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Schaller </span>**
//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Tom Schaller Professor of Political Science at University of Maryland, Baltimore County [[http://www.fivethirtyeight.com/2010/04/jonah-goldberg-anti-maldistributionist.html]] </span>//

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">03: Taxation fair</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 14.44444465637207px; line-height: 24.44444465637207px;">**Zepezauer**</span>

//Mark Zepezauer [[http://www.zompist.com/richtax.htm]]//


<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">04: Neg uncondo CP or status quo</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">V: Morality</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Stanford</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">achievable</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">S: Preserving Human Life</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">1) Prerequisite</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">2) Right</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">3) Best uphold</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">C1: Save thousands</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Families USA</span>**
//Dying for Coverage” FamiliesUSA report from estimates from the Institute of Medicine <span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.familiesusa.org/resources/publications/reports/dying-for-coverage.html]]</span>//
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Gates</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Charisse Gates received her J.D. from American University’s Washington College of Law, in May 2007. Ms. Gates has previously worked at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the American Cancer Society and has been published in Annals of Behavioral Medicine.</span>//

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">The lack of coverage caused them to not get the care they need- </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 1.5;">The loss of 26,100 people yearly</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt;">C2</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">: Homeless</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">**Armstrong**</span>

//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">philosopher. He is currently working on a book that uses the principles of General Systems Theory to explain how America's epidemic of obesity and disease stems from profitable, but unhealthy, ingredients in the food supply</span>//

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Bankruptcy caused by medical emergencies</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Maide</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Jeff Maide. Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/3665972</span>//

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Untreated mental illness leads to homelessness</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Frieden + Gibbs</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Thomas R. Frieden, MD, MPHCommissioner, NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Linda Gibbs Commissioner, NYC Department of Homeless Services</span>//

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Homelessness causes higher mortality rates</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt;">C3</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">: Swiss solves</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">US would too</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Herzlinger</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Arial;">Professor of Business Administration at the Harvard Business School</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Arial;">[[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15353534]]</span>//


<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt;">C4</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">: UHC only way to solve</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">**Sridhar**</span>

//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Devi Sridhar [University Lecturer in Global Health Politics at the University of Oxford] “Inequality in the United States Healthcare System.” United Nations Development Programme. 2005. [[http://hdr.undp.org/en/reports/global/hdr2005/papers/HDR2005_Sridhar_Devi_36.pdf]]. </span>//

<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Private Too expensive-</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 1.5;"> People still die</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt;">C5</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">: Errors</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Surgeons</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">American College of Surgeons</span>//

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Errors from poor communication</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt;">C6</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">: Racial Violence</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Bhargava</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">[</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Executive Director of the Center for Community Change, “The Color of Healthcare Reform”7 Oct 2009]</span>//

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">UHC stops some racism</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Robinson</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Mary Robinson</span>//

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Racism causes violence</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">C7:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">**Chua**</span>

//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">2005, AMSA Jack Ruteledge Fellow, http://www.amsa.org/AMSA/Libraries/Committee_Docs/CaseForUHC.sflb.ashx</span>//

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Many scenarios saves $</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">**CBO**</span>

//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Harrington (from, “How The Health Care Bill Will Save Us Money”, March 22 2010)</span>//

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Saves 1.3tril</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">**Soros**</span>

//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">George Soros is a Hungarian-American business magnate, investor, and philanthropist</span>//

//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.arabianmoney.net/gold-silver/2011/06/27/world-on-the-verge-of-an-economic-collapse-says-soros/]] </span>//

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Brink of econ collapse</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">**Bearden**</span>

//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Bearden 2K (Lt. Col in US Army) [Thomas, “The Unnecessary Energy Crisis”, Free Republic, June 24, p. online wyo-tjc]</span>//

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Econ Collapse Causes Nuke War, wipes out society</span>


==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Negative</span>== 
//__**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mixed CP</span>**__//

Definitions
Ought: moral obligation
UHC: 2010 World Health Report


V: Morality


S: Veil of Ignorance
**Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy**
//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">First published Tue Feb 27, 1996; substantive revision Sat Dec 20, 2008 http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/original-position/</span>//

Best for disadvantaged


O1: Alternatives Valid
**Ewing**
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">“</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Utilitarianism” Author(s): A. C. Ewing Reviewed work(s): Source: Ethics, Vol. 58, No. 2 (Jan., 1948), pp. 100-111 Published by: The University of Chicago Press</span>//

Diminishing good is immoral


A. Text
**Thibodeaux**
Alternatives to Universal Health Care | Wanda Thibodeaux [[http://www.ehow.com/list_7471991_alternatives-universal-health-care.html#ixzz1ySJz2tJC|http://www.ehow.com/list_7471991_alternatives-universal-health-care.html#ixzz1ySJz2tJC]]
US ought to implement a mixed private and government plan to disadvantaged individuals

<span style="font-family: Arial;">B is the competition</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">The counterplan is mutually exclusive with the ac since the aff must defend a purely public system of health care. </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">The counterplan is also competitive through net benefits.</span>


C:
Advantages
**Brody**
//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">William R. Brody: President of the Salk Institute</span>//

People satisfied with system
Helps neediest