[[toc]]
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">cites - sophiewilsomething@gmail.com</span>

Please watch this video while reading our wiki
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FWiyKgeGWx0
=Affirmative= 
==Yucca - Nuclear Waste== 
===Contention 1: Inherency=== 

**Despite Obama, Congress has put Yucca Mountain back on the docket as the permanent repository for nuclear waste, but no promises have been made towards implementation**
**Alvarez 12** [Robert; Senior scholar at the institute for policy studies in Washington DC, former senior policy advisor at the Department of Energy “Improving Spent-Fuel Storage at Nuclear Reactors”
<span style="color: #231f20; font-size: 8pt;">In January 2010…resistant manner</span>

**Temporary repositories are at the brink of capacity – a switch to a permanent disposal site is needed**
**Miller 11** [July 28; Craig: <span class="st">Editor of the Harvard Mental Health Letter and MD, </span>NPR, “Nuclear Waste Piles Up As Repository Plan Falters”
__Diablo Canyon__....__management of nuclear waste, she said__

===Contention 2: Vulnerability=== 

**Waste is vulnerable to terrorist attacks for two reasons –**

**First, lack of security leaves waste susceptible to terrorist acquisition**
**Caldicott, 6** [Helen, Founder and President of the Nuclear Policy Research Institute “Nuclear Power is not the answer” pg. 89-92

__Timemagazine recently__…..so incredibly low it is not credible

**Secondly, the plutonium byproduct from reactors is uniquely susceptible—this incentivizes terrorists to acquire these materials and build dirty bombs**
**Ruff 6** [Tilman: associate professor in infectious diseases and public health physician; Associate Professor in the Nossal Institute for Global Health, University of Melbourne; medical advisor for the International Department of Australian Red Cross; and technical advisor on immunisation in Pacific island countries for UNICEF[[http://www.mapw.org.au/glossary/term/112|i]] and AusAID “Nuclear Terrorism”

__Plutonium____isotopes are inevitably produced when__….ranging from ‘excellent to appealing’.

**Terrorists use these materials to make WMDs and dirty bombs that risk warfare**
**Ruff 6** [Tilman: associate professor in infectious diseases and public health physician; Associate Professor in the Nossal Institute for Global Health, University of Melbourne; medical advisor for the International Department of Australian Red Cross; and technical advisor on immunisation in Pacific island countries for UNICEF[[http://www.mapw.org.au/glossary/term/112|i]] and AusAID “Nuclear Terrorism”

__Nuclear terrorism could take many__….more compact, modular, and concealable.

**That escalates to nuclear war**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Ayson 10</span> Robert Ayson, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, 2010 (“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A terrorist nuclear attack, and even the use of nuclear…</span>__help the chances of nuclear restraint.__

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A shift to a permanent geological repository is necessary in order to secure nuclear waste from terrorist acquisition of nuclear materials</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Susanne E. **Vandenbosch** and Robert **Vandenbosch 12** [American Physical Society “A Blue Ribbon Commissions Proposal for Breaking the Nuclear Waste Stalemate” </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is under this key element that </span>__the Commission__…..__for making nuclear weapons.__

===Contention 3: Sustainability=== 
**The nuclear power industry is ramping up now on a global scale and other countries are looking to the US for modeling – absent a permanent repository for nuclear waste, we’ll lose our leadership role in the nuclear power industry which will be filled in by other countries**
**Domenici & Miller 12** [July; Pete: Senator and Senior Fellow at the Bipartisan Policy Center Warren: PhD, is a private consultant and a part time Research Professor at Texas A & M University and assistant secretary for nuclear energy at the U.S. Department of Energy “Maintaining US Leadership in Global Nuclear Energy Markets: A Report of the Bipartisan Policy Center’s Nuclear Initiative”

__Nuclear power already plays__…risk of nuclear weapons proliferation.

**Global Warming is real and anthropogenically induced from the use of fossil fuel based technologies. Drastically reducing emissions is key to avoiding dangerous climate disruptions.**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Somerville 11** - (</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Richard Somerville, Distinguished Professor Emeritus and Research Professor at Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California, San Diego, Coordinating Lead Author in Working Group I for the 2007 Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 3-8-2011, “CLIMATE SCIENCE AND EPA'S GREENHOUSE GAS REGULATIONS,” CQ Congressional Testimony, Lexis)</span>

<span class="Underline">In</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> early </span><span class="Underline">2007</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, at the time of….near zero well within this century.</span>

**Fossil fuels, coal, and renewable energies are failing –the nuclear power industry is the feasible technology that could cause a shift to sustainable energies, absent this, extinction is inevitable from warming**
**Greenwood 12** [July 24; Veronique: Degree in molecular, cellular, and developmental biology from Yale, staff writer at DISCOVER and former writer for Yale Environment 360 “The Lesser Evil: Nuclear or Coal?”

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“</span>__If I compare the downsides__….__make nuclear power even greener.__

**Even if nuclear power is vulnerable, it is __comparatively__ better than the alternatives**
**Epstein 11** [Alex, fellow at the Rand Institute, specializes in energy issues; BA from Duke University, was editor and publisher of the //<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Duke Review</span>// for two years. “Nuclear Power Is Extremely Safe -- That's the Truth About What We Learned From Japan”. July 23, 2011.

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The grounds for this move….endangering its citizens’ health</span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Global warming will reach a tipping point within the decade – positive feedbacks would raise sea level and threaten food security which causes extinction </span>**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Brown</span>, Director and Founder of the global institute of Environment in the U.S., <span style="font-size: 11pt;">2008</span>
[Lester E. Brown, “Plan B 3.0: Mobilizing to Save Civilization”]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In 2004, Stephen Pacala….under these extreme stresses</span>

===**Plan Text**=== 
**The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment for a permanent geological repository at Yucca Mountain.**

===Contention 4: Solvency=== 

**The DOE will take the lead on coordination with national, state, local, and native governments to accommodate for route management, waste management, and disposal of nuclear waste from temporary to a permanent geological repository at Yucca Mountain**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Lanthrum et al 09</span> [G. Lanthrum, F. Moussa U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Civilian Radioactive Waste Management; J. Patric, P. Bolton “Overview of the Office of Civilian Radioactive Waste Management’s National Transportation Plan – 9338”

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__The transportation system__….__preliminary suite of national routes__</span>

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The plan solves – increasing transportation of nuclear waste to Yucca Mountain ensures safe access to permanent disposal sites and prevents native opposition </span>**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Western Governors Association 11</span>** [September 13; independent, nonprofit organization representing the Governors of 19 states and three US-Flag Pacific islands. Address issues that include natural resources, the environment, human services, economic development, intergovernmental relations and international relations. “Spent Nuclear Fuel Transportation Concerns”

<span class="Underline">The Governors find that as a result….inspecting and escorting shipments</span>


==<span class="Underline">Racist Highways</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">Contention 1 - The Status Quo</span>=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Transportation infrastructure in the status quo is downright tragic—the USfg needs to get it together </span>**
<span style="vertical-align: baseline;"><span style="font-size: 14pt;">Swaby ’11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Rachel Swaby “WHY AMERICAN ROADS ARE SO BAD</span><span style="color: #9c9c9c; font-size: 8pt;">” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">HTTP://GIZMODO.COM/5857416/WHY-AMERICAN-ROADS-ARE-SO-BAD NOV 8, 2011)</span></span>
If you've driven across the US…can anyone get this road a band-aid?


===Contention 2 - The Greater Good=== 

**We don’t mean to be rude, but the economy sucks**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Blodget 11</span> [Henry, April 11th “Don’t Mean to be Rude, but the Economy Sucks” BusinessInsider - http://www.businessinsider.com/the-economy-sucks-2011-4#ixzz2KoHrDXpX]

In the past couple of months…begins to run out.

**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">And, status quo roads suck so much that not even Al Qaeda has the heart to mess with them</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Onion 11’</span>**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(“Al-Qaeda Claims U.S. Mass Transportation Infrastructure Must Drastically Improve Before Any Terrorist Attacks”) [[http://www.theonion.com/issue/4817/|ISSUE 48•17 ISSUE 47-30]], Jul 28, 2011)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">In a 30-minute video…still standing," he added</span><span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**We’ll isolate three impact scenarios.**

**First is the economy—**
**Roads are a prerequisite to economic productivity – without them, rich white people don’t have anywhere to drive their gas-guzzling $80,000 sports cars to their high-wage jobs**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bragdon 8</span>(Clifford R Vice President for Strategic Initiatives and Executive Director of the Florida Tech Research Park at Florida Institute of Technology. Former Associate Provost and Dean of the University of Florida. Former Distinguished Professor and Executive Director of the Center for Intermodal Transportation Safety and Security, CITSS, (a consortium of all public universities in Florida), established and funded by the U.S. Congress. Former Director and Vice-President of the National Aviation and Transportation Center and Dean for the School of Aviation and Transportation at Dowling College, Long Island, New York. Transportation Security. 2008 Published by Elsevier-Academic and Butterworth Press)

Note that AASHTO…April 1995 (TSA. 2006).

**Second is AIDS—**
**If we don’t suppress the Black Man, the AIDS epidemic will threaten to pollute humanity with its filth**
**The Knights Party 10**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(“Aids is a racial disease: Aids plague worse than bubonic and affects races differently” http://kkk.bz/main/?page_id=744)</span>

Some health experts….dangers of social integration.

**Third is White Genocide—**
**We must put the Black Man in order to prevent the coming Genocide of Whites**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The Knights Party 10</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(“The Coming White Genocide” http://kkk.bz/main/?page_id=570)</span>

Genocide is the planned extermination…cut short for our sake.
===<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Plan Text</span>=== 

**Plan: The United States federal government should invest in the construction of a national highway system to be built over black communities. We'll clarify.**
===<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Contention 3 - Solvency</span>=== 
**Now you might ask us, what does the plan solve for? The better question would be, what DOESN’T the plan solve for? Building highways to displace black people reinvigorates and mobilizes the economy, solves AIDS, and halts the onset of the perilous White Genocide and maintains the purity of white blood. Go America! We’ve already gone this far, it’s time for our nation to finish what it started.**
**The plan will be funded by legalization and subsequent taxation of recreational methamphetamines, and also bake sales.**

===Contention 4 - Real Talk=== 
**Okay, shenanigans aside, the 1AC is a speech act that functions as a means of exposing the ways in which transportation policies in the United States have been historically associated with perpetuation of systemic exclusion and displacement, contributing the construction of “racial spaces” where the black body is swept under the rug in favor of mobilizing Whiteness. Though slavery may have ended in name, its operational logic is still manifested within the status quo and permeates virtually every facet of our lives—socially, economically, or discursively. Rejecting—or worse, ignoring—the Ontology of Blackness justifies genocide, social exclusion, and structural violence**
Robert D. Bullard et al 4 Glenn S. Johnson, and Angel O. Torres, Publish 04, Bullard has a Bachelor's degree in Government at Alabama A&M University, in 1968. His M.A. in Sociology was earned at Atlanta University, in 1972. Bullard obtained his Ph.D. in Sociology at Iowa State University, in 1976, Johnson is an Associate Professor at Clark Atlanta University, Torres is part of the M.C.P. (City Planning), Geographic Information Systems Training Specialist, Book Source: "Highway Robbery Transportation Racism And New Routes to Equity", Page 3-5 :)
Transportation systems…addressed in this book.

**By ironically affirming the resolution, Sophie and I utilize the 1AC as a means of opening debate as a space to challenge status quo institutions and their foundations. It’s in the fact that when you heard the plan text, you were initially shocked at the notion of the USfg building highways over black people—when in actuality it’s been going on for centuries, albeit not in so literal a sense—that we expose the ideological flaws contingent with the state, civil society, and how we engage them respectively.**

**The affirmative advocacy is to engage in an unflinching structural analysis of the ontological position of Blackness—the very possibility of ethics and freedom resides in a rejection of the state and civil society. Resisting the lure of anti-blackness through a genealogy of history’s constitutive void is the starting point for imagining a new world. Burn America down.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kokontis 11 (</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kate, PhD in Performance Studies from UC-Berkeley, “Performative Returns and the Rememory of History: genealogy and performativity in the American racial state,” Dissertation available on Proquest)</span>

On one hand, she addresses….profound absence and loss.


**And, the cognitive space of debate is organized around the governing rules of whiteness—the AFF is key to provoke an epistemological break that can introduce generative chaos into the closed system of violent racialization in which ongoing colonialism, genocides, and nuclear extinction become inevitable.**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Wynter ‘84</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Sylvia, Wynter was invited by the Department of Literature at the University of California at San Diego to be a visiting professor for 1974-75. She then became chairperson of African and Afro-American Studies, and professor of Spanish in the Department of Spanish and Portuguese at Stanford University in 1977. She is now Professor Emeritus at Stanford University, “"The Ceremony Must Be Found: After Humanism" Boundary II, 12:3 & 13:1, JSTOR)</span>

The social behaviors…science of human systems.

**Racism is an a priori issue: It makes all forms of violence inevitable. It must be rejected in every instance. Rejecting racism is the only way to prevent society’s inevitable destruction. Racist dichotomies grant states the power to exterminate – this is the root of all war. We have a moral obligation to reject the object of what the satirical portion of the 1AC criticizes.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mendieta 02</span> <span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">[Eduardo Mendieta, , “To Make Live and to Let Die – Foucault and Racism. 2002]</span>

This is where racism…are biological in nature.





=Negative= 
==Colleyville== 
Round 2 - vs. Friendswood AB
AFF: High Speed Rail
2NR: Wilderson

Round 4 - vs. Grapevine SK
AFF: Plastic Highways
2NR: Dedevelopment

Round 5 - vs. Wakeland DM
AFF: High Speed Rail
2NR: Wilderson

==<span style="font-size: 1.4em; line-height: 1.5;">**Berkeley**</span>== 
Round 2 - vs. St. Vincent CW
AFF: Bering Strait (K/Imagination module)
2NR: T, Framework, Impact turns

Round 4 - vs. SLC HW
AFF: Port Dredging
2NR: Wilderson

Round 5 - vs. Logan CB
AFF: Deconstruction
2NR: Wilderson


email with any specific questions

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]