[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==If you have any questions about disclosed or non-disclosed cases email me at andenick@gmail.com , I'd be happy to help. The only reason i didn't disclose the others is because it takes a little time to disclose, so by all means email me if you have any questions.== 
==Affirmative== 
===Save the Aliens AC=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Ought expresses a moral obligation, thus I value morality.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Affirm on face b/c of constitutionality</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">One</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, **Kant** </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">Now I say: </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">man</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">and ... </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">practical</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> principle of </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">reason </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">whatever</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">.</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn2|[2]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Privileging some agents over others is inconsistent because there is no natural objective reason to give one agent more worth than another, so denying the worth of one agent denies the worth of all agents by denying that which makes all agents valuable. All moral systems must respect the equal worth of agents. Artificial constructions of value fail because they don’t provide objective reasons for constraining actions. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Hypothetical Contractual systems fail in the face of written contracts because otherwise all systems would collapse into conditional rationality, which affirms:</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Case Law for Professionals 2012 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(“ U.S. Constitution: Fourteenth Amendment The Procedure Which Is Due Process” Annotations pg 14, [[http://caselaw.lp.findlaw.com/data/constitution/amendment14/14.html#f181|http://caselaw.lp.findlaw.com/data/constitution/amendment14/14.html#f181]] accessed 8/23/12 aes) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">The Interests Protected: Entitlements and Positivist Recognition .--''The ... understood in Anglo-American countries.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Two</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, sacrificing one person to respect more persons denies the intrinsic value of the more saved because they are mere means, tools whose saving is no longer justified because they have no intrinsic value. **Kamm,** </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Frances. “Non-Consequentialism, the Person as an End-in-Itself, and the Significance of Status.” //Philosophy and Public Affairs// 21, no. 4 (1992). Princeton University Press.</span>
|| **__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Suppose</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">that</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">there was no constraint </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">and it was permissible to minimize the violation of persons' rights not to be harmed ... the properties we have as individuals that necessitate people's relating to us in certain ways and not in others.)</span> ||

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">[When reasons to prefer deontology or utility compete, default to deontology because following deontological side constraints does not preclude the possibility of also being moral under utilitarianism. However, utilitarianism inherently entails violating dignity by justifying sacrifice of one for more, so deontology allows for actions to be moral under both systems, and more accurate if there are reasons to prefer both.]</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Three</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, utility calculations are impossible in the international arena because too many variables are subjective, calculated risk is an illusion. **Dworkin**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">“</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Of course such a</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> [U]tility calculation[s]<span style="font-size: 7.777778148651123px; line-height: 13.333333969116211px;"> ...</span> calculated risk, I have never seen a calculation.’”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">When states are not held to absolute standards they assign probabilities and utilities for their own selfish reasons, thus the only guarantee of moral action is deontology by placing absolute obligations on states. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Fourth,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> aggregating goods is impossible. **Taurek** writes:</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The discomfort of each a large </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> **__even as much pain,__**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Thus the **standard** is **respecting human worth**, meaning respecting the intrinsic value of each human being. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Respecting worth is the most important deontological side constraint because Because human worth is the root of all deontological obligations as individual rights only deserve respect because the person holding them deserves respect, violations of this particular side-constraint outweigh any other deontological obligations. Thus all social contract violations will link to respecting human worth.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The negative burden is to prove there is a distinction between citizens and non-citizens because:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A) If there is no distinction between citizens and non-citizens, then the resolution questions whether or not the US ought treat citizens the same as citizens that is tautologically true. So otherwise, you affirm.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">B)</span> <span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Epistemology</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">C) The lack of context in the resolution demands an interpretation...</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">D) This is the only interp that doesn’t arbitrarily exclude ground...</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">I contend that there is no intrinsic distinction between citizens and non-citizens.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">First, no morally relevant distinction...</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Second, birth is a natural lottery...</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Third, borders are arbitrary... </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">AND</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> Even otherwise, you affirm, because you can’t achieve any value otherwise. Not giving non-citizens rights devalues rights because it removes them from the status of intrinsic. The right to due process is a right that was created in order to protect the rights to life liberty and property to all people. If there are no procedural safeguards in place to protect people’s rights then the rights themselves that due process was created to protect lose all value. If people aren’t held as intrinsically valuable you cant afford value to anything and my opponent can’t achieve morality.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Rights talk blocks</span>

----
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 10pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Auxiliary verb, random house dictionary 2006</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]] Framework of the Metaphysics of Morals</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">ALSO ran-- Aff borders K, constitutionality, Democracy AC, some swaggy skep, and didnt break a few cases.</span>==== 
==Negative== 
===Seppuku NC=== 

Ought implies a moral obligation, thus I value morality.

Morality can only be upheld with some being of supreme moral value that can itself confer value.

**First**, in order to treat people as means to an end and uphold morality one must respect the dignity of all rational beings.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">From James </span>**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Rachels</span>****<span style="font-size: 9pt;">,</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Elements of Moral Philosophy, pp. 114-17,122-23. Copyright © 1986 by Random House, Inc.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Second, and even ... </span>**the moral dimension of the world would simply disappear.**


**Second,** Moral obligations must be possible. A priori jurys burden (jurys wouldn't be filled with peers b/c non citizens dont have jury duty, so no es bueno.)

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Third, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">the affirmative also has the burden of proving that states are moral actors. Otherwise its impossible to have moral obligations because they aren’t moral actors. (another a priori, i know, i'm sorry)</span>
**__<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Gerson</span>__**<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> writes: </span>
<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Gerson, Lloyd P. “Aristotle’s Politics Today.” </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Another way to look at ... chess-playing robot can know that it won. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The best criterion to achieve morality is respecting human dignity. Respecting human dignity is the most important criterion because:</span>
<span style="color: #222222;">1)</span> <span style="color: #222222; font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Epistemology, the theory of knowledge, demands that we presume the equivalence of concepts...</span>
<span style="color: #222222;">2)</span> Assigning rights is based upon intrinsic value and non universal rights arent rights... (more analytic)
3) Refer to rachels.
I contend that extending the right to due process is not consistent with respecting human dignity.
**Brown** states
**The argument**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of the first ...</span> **of a sentimental education**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Richard Rorty).</span>
Thus because affirming is an inherent affront to human dignity I negate.

ALSO ran on neg, Nozick, constitutionality, moral agency, impossible obligations, and a pretty funky micropol that won 1/1 round(s).
=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
===Mcdonalds AC=== 
I affirm.

<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">Trisha</span><span style="color: #222222;"> **Torrey defines universal health care**</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> [Work Supported by National Institute of Health]. “What is Universal Healthcare Coverage?” 2008.</span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-size: 8pt;">http://patients.about.com/od/healthcarereform/a/universal.htm</span>
**<span style="color: #222222;">“Universal healthcare, </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">or "universal coverage" ...</span><span style="color: #222222;"> **in public-private combinations**</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">, and not through single-payer systems.”</span>

The word “ought” expresses a moral obligation, and I value **morality**

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">ought</span>== 
<span class="pg">**//<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;">auxiliary</span>//**</span>[[http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/verb|**//verb//**]]
<span class="dnindex">**<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;">1. </span>**</span><span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;">(used to express duty or moral obligation):</span> <span class="ital-inline" style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;">//Every////citizen////ought to////help.//</span>
<span class="dnindex">**<span style="color: #7b7b7b; font-size: 8pt;">2. </span>**</span><span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;">(used to express [[http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/justice|justice]], moral rightness, or the like):</span> <span class="ital-inline" style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;">//He ought////to////be////punished.////You////ought////to////be////ashamed.//</span>
<span class="dnindex">**<span style="color: #7b7b7b; font-size: 8pt;">3. </span>**</span><span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;">(used to express propriety, appropriateness, etc.):</span> <span class="ital-inline" style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;">//You////ought to////be////home////early.////We////ought////to////bring////her////some////flowers.//</span>
<span class="dnindex">**<span style="color: #7b7b7b; font-size: 8pt;">4. </span>**</span><span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;">(used to express probability or natural consequence):</span> <span class="ital-inline" style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;">//That ought////to////be////our////train////now.//</span>
<span class="ital-inline">//<span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;">Dictionary.reference.com</span>//</span>

First, the affirmation burden is to prove that the US has a moral obligation to guarantee Universal Healthcare. The word guarantee is defined as “provide a formal assurance or promise, esp. that certain conditions shall be fulfilled relating to a product, service, or transaction.” And util doesn't function in round b/c of def of guarantee.

Accept the affirmative interpretation of the resolution, absent clear abuse, because it’s most textual, also turn ground, and philosophical education.

Second, because negate is defined as “to make negative in meaning,” the United States ought not guarantee Universal healthcare to its citizens. Standards : clash, reciprocity, ground.

Third, RVI's for aff only.

Fourth, (Justifying practical reason, you can email if you want it, or an explanation.)

Fifth<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, proper understanding of the world around us first requires a unified conception of the world, which only practical reason allows. </span><span class="LDUnderline"> Korsgaard:</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The parallel point ... </span><span class="LDUnderline">A mere heap of unrelated ideas is not about anything, and therefore cannot count itself as thinking about anything </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">or knowing anything. </span>

SO, practical reason controls the internal link to every moral system.

Situational systems fail because they can’t construct ideals stemming from rationality. Contractual systems also fail because they can differ per each contract and each situation. This type of morality devolves into nihilism because if two conflicting contracts are formed then an action could be deemed moral and immoral at the same time, considering there is no way to weigh contracts, morality loses all its force.

Sixth, aggregating goods is impossible. **Taurek** writes:
**The discomfort of each of a large ...** **even as much pain,**


Thus the **criterion** is **respecting human worth**, meaning respecting the intrinsic value of each human being.
Practical reason requires that we respect human worth because each person is infinitely inviolable so if one persons worth is violated their ability to rationalize is violated and thus the value of all rational beings is violated and all things lose value because what their value is contingent upon loses value. Without human worth there is no morality.

Respecting worth is the most important deontological side constraint because human worth is the root of all deontological obligations as individual rights only deserve respect because the person holding them deserves respect, violations of this particular side-constraint outweigh any other deontological obligations. Thus all social contract violations will link to respecting human worth.

**Contention 1:** Healthcare is key to individual autonomy

The best way for people to be responsible for their own health is to provide universal health care....
**Light[[home#_ftn2|**[2]**]]**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Conservatives’ wariness of government ... attractive picture of a workforce for American business.</span>

And, even without universal healthcare, the sick take from the rest of society. Not only are claims to the contrary non-unique, but also leaving them uninsured makes the problem even worse.
**Light 2**

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Perhaps U.S. political conservatives simply ... </span>**cover cost-shifted, uncompensated care.**

**Contention 2:** Universal healthcare is morally unique in that without it, you can’t respect human worth.

# A. Denying Universal healthcare is a violation of human worth in itself because it denies certain beings access to hospitals and threatens their lives.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Alan </span>**Derickson****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor Labor Relations, Penn State University, 2005, Health Security for All: Dreams of Universal Health Care in America, p. 159-60</span>
**Investigators assessed not only the ...** **excess morality due to lack of health insurance at roughly 18,000 deaths per year.**

So as long as you don’t guarantee all citizens healthcare, 18,000 people die each year because of a lack of healthcare. Guaranteeing healthcare respects human worth because it gives the people the ability to take it into their own hands and protect their own lives, solving for those 18,000 deaths, and respecting human worth.


# B. Healthcare is uniquely distinct within morality from other commodities, denying access because of financial capabilities is at its roots immoral.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Leonard M. </span>**Fleck**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Ethics Professor, Michigan State University, 2009, Just Caring: Health Care Rationing and Democratic Deliberation, p. 40</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The point of the preceding paragraph is that</span> **...** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(and one has no money or health insurance to cover the cost)</span> **will strike most of us as being morally criticizable** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(both unkind and unjust). </span>

# C. At its most basic level the intention of universal healthcare is to give everyone access to hospitals and medical clinics. Insofar as this is just intending to further equal the population, the intention behind the act of guaranteeing universal healthcare is moral, and the US respects human worth by doing it. Insofar as reasons matter in morality, this affirms because the reasons behind the action of guaranteeing universal healthcare are good, so the act itself is good.

# D. Only the health capability paradigm maximizes equitable goals. Equitability is necessary to respect human worth because if X is given better treatment than Y then the Y’s equity is being used to further the equity of X and thus is being used as means to an end and negating violates the standard.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jennifer Prah</span> **Ruger,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Law Professor-Yale, 2010, Health and Social Justice, p. 190 NA</span>
**The health capability ...** **that govern health****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span>**





----
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Christine Korsgaard. “The Normative Constitution of Agency.” Harvard University. NA</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Paul Menzel and Donald Light. A Conservative Case for Universal Access to Health Care [Professor of Philosophy atPacific Lutheran University] Hastings Center Report July-August 2006 pgs 3) NA</span>

====Also ran on aff: Rawls AC, Naturalism AC, Public Private option plan, existential risk AC, Constitutionality, and a narrative.==== 

==Negative== 
===<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">Paul Ryan's CP</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16pt;">Text: The fifty states should adopt a form of universal health care rather than the Federal Government</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16pt;">COMPETITION - The counterplan competes through net benefits – it avoids the federalism disadvantage at the bottom</span>**

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16pt;">Solvency: States better equipped to solve healthcare.</span>**</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Idelson </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">4/16 [Chuck, the Communications Director for the California Nurses Association/National Nurses Organizing Committee, “States May Lead the Way on Healthcare Reform”, </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.guaranteedhealthcare.org/blog/chuck-idelson/2009/04/16/states- may-lead-way-healthcare-reform]</span>
<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">While the federal window remains open for reform, ... </span>__****__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> Missouri, and Washington.</span>__**</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16pt;">The counter plan solves all the case and captures the federalism net benefit. The Idelson evidence says states have empirically been effective at providing social services and is comparative they are more effective than the federal government. Any permutation will link to the net benefits making the counter plan the best policy option.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Federalism DA</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Part 1 is Uniqueness: The Obama administration is restoring federalism. (i'm not really a liberal, but thank God Obama won in November so i didn't have to rewrite any uniqueness.)</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times;">New York Times,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">“Obama shows openness to a broader role for states”, Jan 30, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">2009, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/30/world/americas/30iht-30federal.19809671.html]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>**__<span style="font-family: Times;">Obama</span>__**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;"> administration </span>**__<span style="font-family: Times;">seems to be open ... </span>__**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 1.5;">general often achieve a level of bipartisan cooperation when they band together to pursue lawsuits.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Part 2 is the links: Federal Action on Social Services will hurt federalism—power is being handed over to the states.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Bruce A. </span>**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 16pt;">Weber, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Oregon State University, “Why Should States Care and What Can State Policy Do?”, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">2007, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">- JRAP 37(1):48- 52, http://www.jrap-journal.org/pastvolumes/2000/v37/F37-1-weber.pdf</span>

There are at least two reasons why ... **__for those leaving welfare__**. (Fossett et al., 2002).

**<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Part 3 is the impacts:</span>**
# **<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 16pt;">1.</span>** **<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 16pt;">American federalism is the lynchpin of global security.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 16pt;"> Calebresi</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">95 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[Stephen, Associate Professor, Northwestern University School of Law. B.A. 1980, J.D. 1983, Yale, “Reflections on United States v. Lopez: "A GOVERNMENT OF LIMITED AND ENUMERATED POWERS": IN DEFENSE OF UNITED STATES v. LOPEZ,” 94 Mich. L. Rev. 752, Michigan Law Review, December, 1995]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Small state federalism is a big part of ... Constitution that should absorb more completely the attention of the U.S. Supreme Court.</span>
# **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16pt;">2.</span>** **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16pt;">Modeled U.S. Federalism </span>****<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 16pt;">prevents war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 16pt;">Howard, 03</span>**  <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[Dick, White Burkett Miller Professor of Law and Public Affairs, University of Virginia, “TOWARD CONSTITUTIONAL DEMOCRACY IN IRAQ: AN AMERICAN PERSPECTIVE,” 6/25, http://judiciary.senate.gov/testimony.cfm?id=826&wit_id=2344]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Federalism. Formal federalism, ... </span>**__<span style="font-family: Times;">problems. Such arrangements may be especially important to defuse conflicts</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">of nationality or ethnicity.</span>

(With an optional theory shell if they dont specify an actor in CX, plus if not then 2 more links into Extinction.)

====Also ran on neg a Democracy NC, Nozick NC, Religious freedom DA, Biotech DA, Moral Agency NC, Normativity K, Skep, Doctors neg, and 2 PIC's==== 
=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
===Will disclose after Harvard, but email me if you want any evidence from my cases on this topic.=== 

Running Quantum Mechanics AC, a Narrative, Impartiality AC, Naturalism AC, Util AC, Critical Race Theory, and a Democracy AC, a Bedau 1AR K
Plan texts:
The USFG will restructure its courts to model off of Norway's CJS.
The USFG will restructure its courts to model off of Royce's, "Operationalized Restorative Justice."
The USFG will model its adult justice system off of its juvenile justice system.
The USFG will eradicate its prison system.

AND AN IRONY AFF

===Quantum Mechanics AC=== 

I affirm Resolved: “Rehabilitation ought to be valued above retribution in the US Criminal Justice System.”

Part 1 is Framework.
Ought is defined as indicating moral rightness, <span class="sensecontent">so the value is morality. I reserve the right to clarify.</span>

<span class="sensecontent">Moral arguments are placed within a meta-ethical framework. Meta-ethics conditions what words we can use to meaningfully describe moral claims. Meta-ethical debate functions on a higher level than debates about particular ethical theories, because metaethics literally determines what counts as a warrant for an ethical theory.</span>

<span class="sensecontent">Our ethical theories must exist under the condition of naturalism: All facts must be reducible to scientific facts. This is because</span> the world is causally closed under natural facts. This means that moral considerations must be based in physical facts. **Papineau** writes,
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">In the middle of the nineteenth century the conservation of ...</span><span class="CardsFont12pt">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> only be causes of behaviour if they are identical with those physical antecedents.<span class="CardsFont12pt">[[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]</span></span>**</span>

Causal closure demands that our mental states, and hence moral beliefs, must be rooted in physical facts about us. Only physical facts exist, and only physical facts are truth-functional.
**Further,** Any ethical claims have to be grounded in concrete examinations rather than abstract principles.
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Ryn</span>**[[home#_ftn2|****[2]****]]
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The reasons why a new understanding of universality... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">habits of dealing with the problem of universality and particularity are stifling philosophical renewal.</span>

<span class="sensecontent">Side-constraint theories of ethics try to locate moral truths in the a priori deductions of practical reason. However, since all facts are scientific facts, and all scientific facts are known only by experience, there are no a priori side constraints in nature.</span>

Since there are multiple contradictory interpretations of the topic and I have to adopt one of them in my case, then interpretative issues would be reasons why we adopt a different interpretation rather than punish me with a loss. Voting me down would outweigh any other abuse insofar as it would be impossible for me to not violate theory and lose every round under that interpretation.

The standard for the round is **maintaining consistency with an understanding of quantum mechanics.**

Quantum mechanics is a prerequisite to scientific fact because regular physics cant explain the double slit experiment that proves that photons act as waves and particles, and behave differently based on whether or not they are observed. <span class="ReadSource">Cartlidge</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn3|[3]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In the classic double-slit experiment, first done more than ... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">one</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">a particle is passing through destroys the interference pattern</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">on the screen behind. This is a manifestation of Werner Heisenberg's uncertainty principle, which states that it is not possible to precisely measure both the position (which of the two slits has been traversed) and the momentum (represented by the interference pattern) of a photon.</span>
Which should be impossible, so an explanation is required.
Quantum mechanics proposes an interpretation to solve this dilemma, which will be presented in the next part of the case.

And the only way we can derive an understanding of the microscopic and its applications to the macroscopic is through quantum mechanics.

**Vaidman**[[home#_ftn4|[4]]]defines quantum mechanics

**Quantum mechanics is,**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> at least at first glance and ... </span> **theory makes exquisitely good sense.**

Part 2 is the Many Worlds Interp

Maintaining consistency with quantum mechanics requires an interpretation. **Jones[[home#_ftn5|**[5]**]]** defines MWI

**In this interpretation, every time ...** **a series of branches splitting off of a tree limb.**


I contend that the only plausible interpretation is the Many Worlds Interpretation, for 2 reasons.

**First,** MWI is the only interpretation that avoids quantum collapse.
**Vaidman 2**[[home#_ftn6|[6]]]

**The reason for adopting ...** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">see discussions of nonlocality in </span><span style="color: #712600; font-size: 7pt;">Vaidman 1994</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, </span><span style="color: #712600; font-size: 7pt;">Tipler 2000</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, </span><span style="color: #712600; font-size: 7pt;">Bacciagaluppi 2002</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, and </span><span style="color: #712600; font-size: 7pt;">Hemmo and Pitowsky 2001</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>

Quantum Collapse is the manifestation of randomness within a deterministic system, which throws ethics up to chance, which triggers skepticism, and Quantum collapse is impossible. **Price[[home#_ftn7|**[7]**]]**

**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Many-worlds predicts</span>**<span class="Cut">**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">/retrodicts</span>**</span>thatwavefunctions appear to collapse <span style="font-size: 9px; line-height: 14px;">... </span>**is that wavefunctions just don't collapse and that all branches of the wavefunction exist.**

**Second**, **Price 2** gives four warrants why MWI’s applications aren’t just interpretative, as opposed to different interpretations of Quantum Mechanics.

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">No, for four reasons:</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">First, many-worlds makes... </span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> of linear wave equation.</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (See </span><span style="font-size: 7pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.hedweb.com/manworld.htm#linear|"Is physics linear?"]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">)</span>
So the interpretation of Quantum Mechanics for the round is the MWI.

Part 3 is the implications of the many worlds interp.

# A. The Many Worlds Interp undermines the notion of personal identity. **Vaidman** **3**[[home#_ftn8|[8]]]
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 7pt;">"I" am an object, such as Earth, cat, etc.</span><span style="background-color: white;"> **"I" ...** </span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 7pt;">there is no good answer to the question: Which copy is me? He concludes that</span>**<span style="background-color: white;">personal identity is not what matters when I divide.</span>**

Moreover, lack of personal identity undermines desert-based theories of morality.
**Dresser**[[home#_ftn9|****[9]****]]

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The provocative implications of Parfit's,.. </span>**then no one can deserve punishment for past criminal acts**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Parfit labels this the "Extreme Claim."</span>

# **B.** **MWI justifies determinism. Price 4**[[home#_ftn10|****[10]****]]

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Yes, </span>**many-worlds is a ...**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> but that indeterminism occurs only with the intervention of an observer, when the wavefunction collapses. (See </span><span style="font-size: 7pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.hedweb.com/manworld.htm#copenhagen|"What is the Copenhagen interpretation?"]]</span>

**AND,** Determinism makes retributive justice incoherent.
**Pereboom**[[home#_ftn11|****[11]****]]

**According to the retributivist ....** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">retributivist justification for punishment.</span>
# C. If determinism is true, than the only type of justice with value is Rehabilitation.
**Pereboom 2**[[home#_ftn12|****[12]****]]
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Moreover, </span>**the [determinist]**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> hard incompatibilist</span> ... **can agree to all of this.**


This means you affirm because if something has value than it would be valued above something that has no value, and insofar as retributive justice 1. has no moral standing and 2. If it has one it would be low because its inconsistent with any understanding moral or amoral of the world and Rehabilitative justice is.


Part 4 is the out of round implications.

# A. Accept the aff interpretation
# B. RVIs are uniquely justified for the aff because:
## a. The massive time-skew of
## b. No risk theory would exacerbate neg bias by giving him a free source of no risk offense that comes prior to all AC offense.
## C. I’m willing to clarify in cross-ex.
## D. First, skepticism ...
### a. States have unique obligations
### b. If the government does nothing
### c. Sooner is better than later,
### d. Time skew:
### e. Adaptability:

Thus I urge an affirmative ballot




----
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> David Papineau, “Naturalism,” Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, 2007.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Ryn Claes G. Ryn—1992. “Universality and History:The Concrete as Normative” From HUMANITAS, Volume VI, No. 1, Fall 1992/Winter 1993 ©National Humanities Institute, Washington, DC USA. TC</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref3|[3]]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Cartlidge, Edwin. June 3, 2011. "New 'Double Slit' Experiment Skirts Uncertainty Principle."</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref4|[4]]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 2002. "Many-Worlds Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics."</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">[[home#_ftnref5|[5]]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Jones, Andrew. “What is the Many Worlds Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics?” http://physics.about.com/od/quantumphysics/f/manyworldsinterpretation.htm</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">[[home#_ftnref6|[6]]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 2002. "Many-Worlds Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics."</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">[[home#_ftnref7|[7]]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Everett FAQ [[http://www.hedweb.com/manworld.htm#wavefunctions|http://www.hedweb.com/manworld.htm#wavefunctions]] Price, Michael</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">[[home#_ftnref8|[8]]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 2002. "Many-Worlds Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics."</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">[[home#_ftnref9|[9]]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">[10] Shoemaker, David (Dept of Philosophy, U Memphis). “Utilitarianism and Personal Identity.” //The Journal of Value Inquiry// 33: 183–199, 1999.</span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.csun.edu/~ds56723/jvipaper.pdf|http]][[http://www.csun.edu/~ds56723/jvipaper.pdf|://]][[http://www.csun.edu/~ds56723/jvipaper.pdf|www]][[http://www.csun.edu/~ds56723/jvipaper.pdf|.]][[http://www.csun.edu/~ds56723/jvipaper.pdf|csun]][[http://www.csun.edu/~ds56723/jvipaper.pdf|.]][[http://www.csun.edu/~ds56723/jvipaper.pdf|edu]][[http://www.csun.edu/~ds56723/jvipaper.pdf|/~]][[http://www.csun.edu/~ds56723/jvipaper.pdf|ds]][[http://www.csun.edu/~ds56723/jvipaper.pdf|56723/]][[http://www.csun.edu/~ds56723/jvipaper.pdf|jvipaper]][[http://www.csun.edu/~ds56723/jvipaper.pdf|.]][[http://www.csun.edu/~ds56723/jvipaper.pdf|pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">[[home#_ftnref10|[10]]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Everett FAQ [[http://www.hedweb.com/manworld.htm#wavefunctions|http://www.hedweb.com/manworld.htm#wavefunctions]] Price, Michael</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">[[home#_ftnref11|[11]]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Pereboom, Derk. “Living without Free Will.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">[[home#_ftnref12|[12]]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Pereboom, Derk. “Living without Free Will.”</span>
==Negative== 
Running a pretty versatile overview, Democracy NC, Naturalism NC, Zizek K, Modal Realism NC, Individuality NC, Brudner NC, Emotivism NC, Mutual Accountability NC and 2 Deont NC's

===Individuality NC=== 
I negate.

Ought implies a moral obligation, thus I value morality.

The criterion for the round is **respecting individuality.**
Morality requires that we respect individuality because:
# 1. Morality has to be a guide to action, and if individuality doesn’t exist, then everyone is already taking the exact same actions and actions aren’t guided. Morality loses its purpose and its value at that point.
# 2. Humans have a criterion of identity that makes them individually valuable. If people aren’t valued as individuals then humans aren’t valued as humans, but rather valued as part of a moral blob. Without individuality we have no way to determine morality because morality has to be derived from some sort of starting block, of which cant be an amorphous blob depending on groups.
# 3. Individuality also controls the internal link to all other ethical systems because the only reason other moral systems have been established is because of the individual thought used to establish such systems. If people were not individuals, first a moral system wouldn’t have been established and there would be no weighing of moral systems.

**AND** any conception of morality that reduces individuality isn’t topical, and can’t prove the resolution. If everyone is uniform then either nobody commits crime and everyone is an upstanding citizen, or everyone is a criminal, and nobody can ever run the USCJS so there is no USCJS and he is not proving the resolution. A lack of individuality automatically negates. If the affirmative doesn’t respect individuality their case is turned and you vote negative because the resolution is incomprehensible and there’s no evident distinction between rehabilitation and retribution. So rehabilitation ought not be valued above retribution and you negate.

I contend that rehabilitative justice systems are aimed at **reducing individuality.**

Rehabilitative justice is defined as “Punishment intended to reform a convict so that she can lead a productive life free from crime.” So by nature it’s meant to reform people seen as different or dangerous to our society, but this can never be moral for 3 reasons:

# 1. Rehabilitative justice can never be moral because its aimed at reducing individuality by means of reform. If all people are reformed, or attempted at being reformed, individuality is at its lowest.
# 2. Rehabilitative justice’s ultimate purpose is to make a homogenized society constructed of like minded individuals who follow a set of rules, but this will always lead to some sort of cleansing because it wont work. Flashback 500 years to the Spanish Inquisition who did their best to rehabilitate non-Catholics and reform them.
# 3. Even individuality perceived as dangerous is good, because we have no way of indicating that such individuality is bad. The only norms we can derive standards off of is those constructed out of the worth of individuality.

2:00 lay

===Modal Realism NC=== 
I negate.

Part 1 is the framework.

Ought implies a moral obligation, thus I value morality.

Moral rules are always comparative ...


And negating is the status quo.
**The New York Times** states:

**<span style="background-color: white;">Contemporary American law is ... focus on blame and retribution.</span>**


Absent sufficient offense to win the round, presume neg because:
# 1. If governments acted for no reason ...
# 2. If we make the change it could fail....
# 3. Presume towards the Status Quo.
# 4. The USFG has an obligation not to waste resources...
# 5. If there’s no offense, there’s no ...

Part 2 is Language
Language is important – it is the way in which we construct meaning and value. **Haste** argues,

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Communitarian </span>**thinkers**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> ... person.</span>

The pedagogy of morality, the standard we use to determine the meaning of language in the social sense, and the basis for any conception of justice and human worth, is dependent on discourse and language.

**Further,** The knowledge we retain shapes the way we interpret events, as we apply our own experiences and ideologies to daily occurrences. This is why historians perceive the same event in different ways, despite the objective nature of reality. This knowledge is woven into the discourse we use, and vice versa. **Michel Foucault[[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]** writes:

**Knowledge ...** **unfolded.**


Part 3 is Modal Reality.

The criterion for the round is **valuing discerned actuality.** Actual being defined as “this worldly.” For reasons listed below.

Because language constructs value, we need to construct our value from the way we use and understand our language.

ALL POSSIBLE WORLDS EXIST. (Refer to "On the plurality of worlds." by Lewis

Part 4 is its implications.

(_) Because negating is the status quo, vote neg because our world ought to be valued over other possible presumably real worlds because otherwise we put value of the nonexistent over the existent than our world loses its value, and if our world loses its value.

(_) Vote neg because our world is the way it is for a reason, so reasons turned into truth ought to be valued over unproven reasons.

(_) Fiat based systems fail because they don’t have any existential quantification as to how often this world appears within a current system of possible worlds.

----
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span> //<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Michel Foucault, “The Order of Things,” p. 86</span>//
=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
I'm extempting my cases for mommy judges. #yolo #Natquals
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]
----
[[media type="custom" key="22275580"]]