[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==<span style="color: black;">Plan:</span>== 
<span style="color: black;">PLAN: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase capital investment in inland waterway infrastructure in the United States.</span>
==<span style="color: black;">Advantage 1: Soybeans</span>== 
<span style="color: black;">Inland waterways will collapse without funding</span>
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 16px;">Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, ’12</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;"> [Len Boselovic, “The Consol Energy towboat Aliquippa takes two barges of sand up the Monongahela River to Monessen,” March 18, 2012, http://old.post-gazette.com/pg/12078/ 1217742-113.stm]</span>
While Pittsburgh has some…… described the situation as "a crisis headed for a catastrophe."

<span style="color: black;">Collapse of inland waterways causes a price spike – 89% of soybeans travel through them</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 16px;">USB </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 17px;">12 </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;">Crumbling Inland Waterway System Puts Farmers, Consumers at Risk, Jan 24, 2012 Soybean checkoff study finds that United States could lose global competitiveness, http://www.unitedsoybean.org/media-center/releases/crumbling-inland-waterway-system-puts-farmers-consumers-at-risk/</span>
Just on the Ohio River alone…. Service has oversight responsibilities for USB and the soybean checkoff.
===<span style="color: black;">Scenario 1: China</span>=== 
<span style="color: black;">A price spike collapses Chinese food security</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 16px;">Bloomberg, 12</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;">Alan Bjerga and Whitney McFerron - Feb 17, 2012, U.S. Exporters Make Record Single-Day Soybean Sale to China <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/print/2012-02-17/china-soybean-import-tops-one-day-record-as-ties-with-u-s-growers-expand.html]]</span>, </span>
Soybean exporters in the U.S., …… increasing the need for the oilseed to make livestock feed.

<span style="color: black;">Soybeans are the only internal link to Chinese food insecurity </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 16px;">Dr. Wong and Dr. Huang , March 12</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;">John Wong, Yanjie Huang, China's Food Security and Its Global Implications China: An International Journal, Volume 10, Number 1, March 2012, pp. 113-124 (Article), is Professorial Fellow at the East Asian Institute, National University of Singapore and Yanjie Huang (eaihuan@nus.edu.sg) is Research Assistant at the East Asian Institute, National University of Singapore.</span>
China’s soybean market can….. pose some challenges to food security.

<span style="color: black;">Food insecurity destabilizes China</span>
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 16px;">American Interest 4/29</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;">April 29, 2012, Uh Oh: World Food Prices Spike As Soy Harvest Collapses, http://blogs.the-american-interest.com/wrm/2012/04/29/uh-oh-world-food-prices-spike-as-soy-harvest-collapses/</span>
Among the things we watch here at Via Meadia are trends… could be even more… interesting than we thought.

<span style="color: black;">Chinese instability will trigger a world war</span>
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 16px;">THE STRAITS TIMES</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;">, June 28, </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 16px;">2003</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;">, p. online</span>
But imagine a China disintegrating- on its own, without neo-conservative or Central Intelligence Agency prompting…… the very direction the White House now seems to prefer.
===<span style="color: black;">Scenario 2: Brazil </span>=== 
<span style="color: black;">Brazilian soy production is declining now</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 16px;">Reuters June 5th</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;"> (UPDATE 2-Brazil gov't cuts soy estimate, raises corn view, http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/06/05/grains-brazil-idUSL1E8H529F20120605, P. online) </span>
Brazil's government trimmed its 2011/12…..75.3 million tonnes the year before

<span style="color: black;">Increased soy production caused by price spike destroys Brazilian rainforest biodiversity</span>
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 16px;">Casson in 3</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;">Anne, August, World Wildlife Fund, Oil Palm, Soybeans and Critical Habitat loss: A report prepared for the WWF Forest Conversion Initiative, http://www.wwf.ch/images/progneut/upload/oilpalmsoybeanscriticalhabitatloss25August03.pdf</span>
n Brazil, soybean plantations…35% of the Cerrado remains in a relatively natural state (Kaimowitz & Smith 2001).

<span style="color: black;">Loss of biodiversity causes extinction</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 16px;">Dinner in ‘94</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;">David Dinner, Ph. D in Planetary Science and Geology. “The Army and the Endangered Speciies Act: Who’s Endangering Who?. Military Law Review 143. 1994</span>
To accept that the snail darter, harelip sucker, or Dismal Swamp southeastern shrew….[hu]mankind may be edging closer to the abyss.
==<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">__<span style="color: black;">Advantage 2: Hegemony</span>__</span>== 
<span style="color: black;">US heg is sustainable</span>
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 16px;">Kagan 12</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;"> [Robert Kagan, //Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institute, B.A., Yale University, M.P.P., John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, Ph.D., American University//, January 17, 2012, “Not Fade Away: Against the Myth of American Decline”, Brookings Institute, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/research/opinions/2012/01/17-us-power-kagan]]</span>, DMintz]</span>
Less than a decade ago, most observers spoke not of America’s decline but of its enduring primacy….. when this might no longer be the case, but that moment has not yet arrived.

<span style="color: black;">Waterway collapse destroys US hegemony</span>
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 16px;">Martin, 2009</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;"> Cornel Martin, President and CEO, Waterways Council, "Inland Waterways Investment Is Critical to Economic Recovery - and it's Green” 2009 waterwayscouncil.org/Media%2520Center/articles/Page_%2520from_Cornel_OPED_Marex.pdf</span>
The New Year brings much uncertainty about the economy,….. if we don’t make necessary investments now, our future as a world leader is in jeopardy.

Multipolarity is more destructive unipolarity
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Kagan 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> [Roblert Kagan, //Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institute, B.A., Yale University, M.P.P., John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, Ph.D., American University,// March 14, 2012, “America Has Made the World Freer, Safer and Wealthier”, Brookings Institute, [[http://www.brookings.edu/research/opinions/2012/03/14-us-power-kagan]], DMintz]</span>
We take a lot for granted about the way the world looks today -- the widespread freedom, the unprecedented global prosperity… what the world looked like right before the American order came into being.
===Scenario 1 Middle East War=== 
<span style="color: black;">Heg Solves middle east war</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 16px;">Brzezinski 12</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;"> (Zbigniew, US National Security Advisor to Jimmy Carter, Professor of American Foreign Policy at Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies, scholar at CSIS, Jan/Feb 2012, "8 Geopolitically Endangered Species," www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/01/03/8_geopolitically_endangered_species?page=0,7 SL)</span>
8. ISRAEL and the GREATER MIDDLE EAST America's decline would set in motion tectonic shifts undermining…. a worldwide energy crisis; vulnerability of America's Persian Gulf allies.

<span style="color: black;">Middle Eastern war goes nuclear and draws in great powers</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;">Herbert I. </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 16px;">London 10</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;">, President Emeritus of Hudson Institute, “The Coming Crisis in the Middle East”, June 23, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.hudson.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=publication_details&id=7101&pubType=HI_Opeds]]</span></span>
The gathering storm in the Middle East is gaining momentum…. That is a truly bad sign.
===Scenario 2: Korea=== 
Hegemony is key to stabilize Korea and prevent regional arms races
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Lieber 05</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;"> [Robert J. Lieber, //PhD from Harvard, Professor of Government and International Affairs at Georgetown, former consultant to the State Department and for National Intelligence Estimates// , “The American Era: Power and Strategy for the 21st Century”, pg. 164-166]</span>
On the Korean peninsula, in one of the world’s most dangerous and most heavily armed regions… American regional role by shifting to more flexible force structures with emphasis on high-tech weaponry and long-range precision strikes.

Korean war goes nuclear
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">STRATFOR 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;">(5/26/10, “North Korea, South Korea: The Military Balance on the Peninsula,” [[http://www.stratfor.com/analysis/20100526_north_korea_south_korea_military_balance_peninsula]])</span>
Managing Escalation But no one, of course, is interested in another… they might be if the situation escalates much further.
===Scenario 3: Global Warming=== 
The US is the leader of the global climate change regime- a transition to multipolarity causes warming
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Timmons 11</span><span style="font-size: 11px;">(J. Timmons Roberts, Director of the Center for Environmental Studies at Brown University, Professor of Sociology and Environmental Studies, May 5, 2011 “Multipolarity and the new world (dis)order: US hegemonic decline and the fragmentation of the global climate regime”) //ZA</span>
In this section I expand on how justice positions of negotiating blocs fragmented….. as hegemonic power shifts to the East and South.

Warming causes extinction
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">EAN 12 </span>**<span style="font-size: 11px;">(The, EurActiv Network, EU political news network providing policy information and current events throughout several countries in 15 languages, citing the Royal Society’s findings, 3-20-12, “EU Climate Broker: World Faces 4 Degrees of Warming,” <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.euractiv.com/climate-environment/eu-climate-broker-world-faces-4-degrees-warming-news-511586]]</span>) GZ</span>
Existential risk A report by the Royal Society last year found that with planetary warming of four degrees or more,…. this year to at least start bridging that gap [between two and four degrees],” Runge-Metzger said.
==<span style="color: black;">Advantage 3: China Bashing</span>== 
<span style="color: black;">Growing unemployment will force congress to bash china- lobbies and reelection</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 16px;">Ramirez 12</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;"> (Carlos D. Ramirez, Associate Professor of Economics, Department of Economics, George Mason University, “The Political Economy of “Currency Manipulation” Bashing” March 2012, <span style="color: black;">[[http://econ.la.psu.edu/papers/psu-tsinghua/Carlos%20Ramirez%20-%20The%20Political%20Economy%20of%20'Currency%20Manipulation'%20Bashing.pdf]]</span>, RS)</span>
Why are congressmen so concerned with China’s exchange rate regime?.... variables, including how the legislators ultimately voted on this legislation

<span style="color: black;">The plan is our only hope- investing in inland waterways creates immediate employment and allows the U.S. to double exports over the next five years</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 16px;">Toohey, 11 </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;">--- President and CEO of Waterways Council, Inc. (9/21/2011, Mike, Congressional Documents and Publications, House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment Hearing - "The Economic Importance and Financial Challenges of Recapitalizing the Nation's Inland Waterways Transportation System," Factiva, JMP)</span>
Mr. Chairman, we face a critical time in the history of the waterways in America….. working with the Administration and this Subcommittee to take the necessary steps to recapitalize our Nation's inland waterways system.

<span style="color: black;">Waterway infrastructure improvements are key to boost exports now - establishes trade leadership</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 16px;">Independent Record, 12</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;"> (January 12, 2012, Independent Records, HelenaAir- Montana Daily News, “Efficient waterways key to exports,” <span style="color: black;">[[http://m.helenair.com/mobile/article_622a021e-3ced-11e1-9a56-001871e3ce6c.html]]</span>)</span>
A major infrastructure project near the bottom of Central America could have major repercussions for Montana mining and agriculture…..efficiency of the nation’s interior shipping channels. The ability to grow our country’s exports depends upon it.

<span style="color: black;">Unemployment causes backlash against free trade and China bashing</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 16px;">Jimenez 12 </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;">(Alfredo Montufar-Helu Jimenez, master's student at Georgetown University; degree in political science and international relations from CIDE, Mexico City, “Protectionism Makes Comeback As Recovery Stalls”,http://atlanticsentinel.com/2012/01/protectionism-makes-comeback-as-recovery-stalls/, RS)</span>
As a result, protectionism could gain weight in the upcoming months and….. Perhaps, in this sense, China’s comparative advantage is its very authoritarianism?

<span style="color: black;">China bashing causes war with China</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 16px;">Palmer and Somerville 11</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;"> (*Doug Palmer, Staff writer for Reuters, **Glen Somerville, staff writer for Reuters, “Analysis: Obama to challenge China on trade as election nears”, Reuters, October 13, 2011, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/10/13/us-usa-china-trade-idUSTRE79C72820111013]]</span>, RS)</span>
Analysts cautioned the highly charged political atmosphere in Washington….. spill over into open warfare that could be mutually harmful."

<span style="color: black;">Causes extinction</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 16px;">Cheong ’00</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;"> (Ching Cheong, a senior journalist with The Straits Times, author of //Will Taiwan Break Away: The Rise of Taiwanese Nationalism//, “No one gains in war over Taiwan”, June 26, 2000, Lexis, RS)</span>
THE DOOMSDAY SCENARIO THE high-intensity scenario postulates…..it cannot be ruled out entirely, for China puts sovereignty above everything else.
==<span style="color: black;">Solvency</span>== 
<span style="color: black;">Funding key to solve shutdowns and delays</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 16px;">Mitchell 6/13 </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;"><span style="color: black;">[[http://blog.al.com/press-registerbusiness/2012/06/waterway_association_we_need_m.html]]</span>, Waterway Association: We need more money Published: Wednesday, June 13, 2012, By Ellen Mitchell, Press-Register </span>
Funding for the operation and maintenance of waterways…. other U.S. waterways to move cargo from the Mississippi River to Mobile and further east.

<span style="color: black;">Federal leadership key</span>
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 16px;">Jackson ‘7 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 11px;">USAWC STRATEGY RESEARCH PROJECT LEVERAGING THE STRATEGIC VALUE OF THE U.S. INLAND WATERWAY SYSTEM by Colonel Donald E. Jackson, Jr. United States Army</span>
The inland waterway system of the United States stands as a minimally exploited….. congestion and increase capacity of the freight transportation system at the national level..
=Aff Numba Dos= 
JOIN THE BROTHERHOOD!!!

<span style="font-size: 120%;">(George Orwell, “1984,” pg. 35)</span>
<span style="font-size: 120%;">Winston sank his arms to his sides ... involved the use of doublethink.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gunder & Hillier ‘9(Michael, Senior planning lecturer in the School of <span style="color: black;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Architecture|Architecture]]</span> and <span style="color: black;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Planning|Planning]]</span> at the <span style="color: black;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Auckland|University of Auckland]]</span>, Jean, Professor of Town and Country Planning at School of Architecture, Newcastle University, Planning in Ten Words or Less: A Lacanian Entanglement with Spatial Planning, pgs. 111-112)</span>
<span class="underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The hegemonic network</span>**</span>, or bloc, ...**<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> and desires of everyone is an impossibility</span>** (Gunder 2003a, 2003b).

(Deleuze and Guattari, “Anti-Oedipus”, pg. 132-134)
**__“…men who know how to ...__** **__returns to haunt all relations__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Marsha Rossiter, 2002, “Narrative and Stories in Adult Teaching and Learning”)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A beginning point for a discussion ... and weave it into existing narratives of meaning.</span>


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Pierre Schlag, Byron White Professor of Law at the University of Colorado, Summer 2004, Buffalo Law Review, 52 Buffalo L. Rev. 851)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar1">**"It's not up to you**</span>**__,__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">" said Kronman....</span><span class="UnderlineChar1"> **Nothing else is left of you."**</span>


<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Guattari in 1970, “The Anti-Oedipus Papers”, pg. 262)</span>

“But let’s get back to this dead-end point ... and all this through a pure logic of non-sense.”12

(Deleuze and Guattari, “Anti-Oedipus”, pg. 132-134)
**__“Artaud puts it well: all writing is__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ...</span> **__as well as the market value of its form of content__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”13</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Deleuze and Guattari, “Anti-Oedipus”, pg. 132-134)</span>
“We are deserts,’ said Deleuze ... never of contemplating an achieved ‘being’.”14

If you have questions, ask em dawg: wklausmeyer@yahoo[dot]com
=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]
==**Past 2NRs:**== 
Spending
Privitization w/ Spending
States w/ Spending
Politics (Obama Bad)
CO2 Good w/ Spending
T - Transportation Infrastructure