[[toc]]
=Politics [Sequestration]= 
==1NC Mideast Shell== 


<span class="Underline">**Presidential leadership is key to a compromise—the alternative is war in the Middle East**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Hutchinson**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, US Senator, </span><span class="Underline">**9-21**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">-12 (Kay Bailey, “A … growth and punish working families.</span>

<span class="Underline">**ME war goes nuclear**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Russell**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Naval Postgraduate School National … </span>risk for the entire world.
==2NC Mideast Overview== 

**ME=likely scenario for extinction – most nuclear toys**
<span class="Heading2Char">Fraser</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, former PM of Australia, 7/4/</span><span class="Heading2Char">’11</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Malcom, “Dealing with nuclear terror means plants and weapons,” Taipei Times)</span>

<span class="Underline">Recent history is peppered with</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a … their adjacent spent-fuel ponds.</span>

**Default to our impacts – vertical escalation is more likely than their nebulus “great power war” scenarios – less internal links to go through for the DA – it’s procedural**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ephraim </span><span class="Heading2Char">Kam</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Deputy Head-Jaffee Center for Strategic Studies, </span><span class="Heading2Char">‘7</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (A Nuclear Iran, p. 50, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://d.scribd.com/docs/2o4yoqqhx2btgchcpfug.pdf)[[http://www.tau.ac.il/jcss/memoranda/memo88.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>statements by<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Iranian president … </span><span class="Underline">risk do not yet exist.</span>

==1NC Nukes Shell== 

<span class="Underline">**This threatens nuclear deterrence**</span>
<span class="Underline">**McCorkle 12**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Sherman McCorkle, President and … </span>avoid<span class="Underline"> the harm of </span>sequestration<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Solves bioweapons and escalation**
**Thayer 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Bradley, professor of political science at Baylor University [“THAYER: Preserving our nuclear deterrence,” February 17th, [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2012/feb/17/preserving-our-nuclear-deterrence/]]] </span>
__For deterrence purposes, nuclear weapons__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span>__escalating violence to a higher level__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Extinction**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ochs 2</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> former president of the Aberdeen Proving Ground Superfund Citizens Coalition, member of the Depleted Uranium Task force of the Military Toxics Project, member of the Chemical Weapons Working Group [Richard Ochs, , June 9, 2002, “Biological Weapons Must Be Abolished Immediately,” http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Of all the weapons of … </span>? How slippery is this slope?

==2NC Bioweapons== 
**Recent technology advances make it likely bioweapons**
**Garrett** **11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Laurie Garrett is senior fellow for global health at the Council on Foreign Relations, recipient of the 1996 Pulitzer Prize for her coverage of the Ebola epidemic in what was then Zaire, and author of I Heard the Sirens Scream: How Americans Responded to the 9/11 and Anthrax Attacks, 12/15/11, “The Bioterrorist Next Door”. [[@http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/12/14/the_bioterrorist_next_door?page=0,0]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In September, </span>__an amiable Dutchman__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … of high-security biological laboratories? </span>

**It spreads globally**
**Kellman 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Barry Kellman is the director of the International Weapons Control Center, “Bioviolence: A Growing Threat”, The Futurist, May-June 2008, http://www.wfs.org/March-April09/MJ2008_Kellman.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A looming danger confronts the … </span>**__dire consequences for all humanity.__**

**That causes extinction**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Sandberg et al 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—Research Fellow at the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University. PhD in computation neuroscience, Stockholm—AND—Jason G. Matheny—PhD candidate in Health Policy and Management at Johns Hopkins. special consultant to the Center for Biosecurity at the University of Pittsburgh—AND—Milan M. Ćirković—senior research associate at the Astronomical Observatory of Belgrade. Assistant professor of physics at the University of Novi Sad. (Anders, How can we reduce the risk of human extinction?, 9 September 2008, http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/how-can-we-reduce-the-risk-of-human-extinction)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The risks from anthropogenic hazards … at a rate rivaling Moore's Law.</span>

==2NC Nuke Deterrence== 
**There is no war in a world of nuclear deterrence**
<span class="Underline">**Lieber & Press**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, November-December </span><span class="Underline">**9**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Keir A. … </span><span class="underline0">abroad </span><span class="boldunderline">__rests__ largely __on a bluff__</span>.



==1NC Econ Shell== 
**Leads to economic crisis**
**FT 1/3**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (The Fiscal Times, “The Debt Ceiling: What Exactly Is It?” [[http://www.thefiscaltimes.com/Articles/2013/01/03/The-Debt-Ceiling-What-Exactly-Is-It.aspx#page1|http://www.thefiscaltimes.com/Articles/2013/01/03/The-Debt-Ceiling-What-Exactly-Is-It.aspx#page1]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WHAT IF THE GOVERNMENT DEFAULTS? </span>__A …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">ratings went from AAA to AA+.</span>

**Economic collapse causes war**
**Royal 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215] </span>
First, on the systemic level, … considered ancillary to those views.

==2NC Econ Overview== 
**reverses the norms that have made the squo peaceful**
**Deudney and Ikenberry 09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Daniel, Professor of Political Science at Johns Hopkins, John, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University, The Myth of the Autocratic Revival :Why Liberal Democracy Will Prevail, Foreign Affairs, Jan/Feb]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This bleak outlook is based … </span>__of international integration and cooperation.__

==2NC Impact Blitz== 

<span class="Underline">**Downturn causes war in Asia – draws in China – destroys civilization** </span>
**SEP 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [9/1, Socialist Equality Party, conference, “The breakdown of capitalism and the tasks of the working class”]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">9. The working class must … </span>__the end of human civilisation__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Economic decline prevents space exploration**
**Elhefnawy, ‘8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Nader, B.A. in IR, frequent writer on international affairs, national security and space issues, contributor to the Space Review ( “Economic growth and space development over the long haul”. June 23. The Space Review. [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1156/1|http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1220/1]]) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">No less important is the </span>__… -run demands of space flight.__

==Key to Econ== 
<span class="Underline">**Fiscal Cliff passed but continued attitudes of Contractionary policy—Debt Ceiling results in a shift toward Keynesianism and avoids default**</span>
**Bernstein 1/2**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Jared Bernstein, Senior Fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, former Chief Economist and Economic Adviser to Vice President Joe Biden, senior economist and the director of the Living Standards Program at the Economic Policy Institute, former deputy chief economist at the U.S. Department of Labor, “What Did You Learn From the Cliff Debate, Dorothy?”, [[http://jaredbernsteinblog.com/what-did-you-learn-from-the-cliff-debate-dorothy-and-the-most-important-question-in-todays-politics/]], 2013]</span>
Now that the House has … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">tax cut in American history.”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So, did we learn anything from the episode in reckless governing? Here’s my list, but these are more things we already knew than things we learned:</span>
<span class="Underline">–It’s become a cliché to … pay attention to big money.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">*One exception is the desire by some to move to Ryan-style premium support for Medicare, which may be specific but is a) politically implausible and b) a cost-shifter, not saver.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">–</span>The fiscal debate has … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">whether they try hard enough.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Interestingly, the administration has a chance to make a real difference in this area while at the same time dealing with the Congressional threat noted above: do not negotiate with the Republicans on the debt ceiling.</span>
It is unthinkable<span class="Underline"> that the … </span>be a<span class="Underline"> precious </span>gift to posterity.

<span class="Underline">**Internal link is reverse causal—Budget fights are the only thing keeping the economy from stability**</span>
**Rugaber & Wiseman 1/3**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Associated Press, “Further budget fights threaten to keep US growth and hiring sluggish for much of 2013”, [[http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/ct-sns-bc-us--fiscal-cliff-2013-economy-20130103,0,3454904.story]], 2013]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON (AP) — </span>Housing is rebounding<span class="Underline">. Families … </span>an otherwise fundamentally sound economy.

==US Key to Global Economy== 

**US is key to global economic growth**
**Mead 04**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Walter Russell, Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, Foreign Policy, April 1, pg. Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Similarly, in the last 60 years, </span>__…__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">. U.S. economic might is sticky power.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Recession proves – collapses trade networks**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Levchenko et al 10** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Andrei A. Levchenko, … National Bureaus of Economic Research </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“The Collapse of International Trade During the 2008-2009 Crisis: In Search of the Smoking Gun”, May 5, 2010, http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.171.12&rep=rep1&type=pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">A remarkable feature of the … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the absolute decrease in trade. </span>
==2NC Econ Causes War== 
**Most likely scenario for conflict**
**Schrage ‘9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael J. Green and Steven P., Michael J. Green is Senior Advisor and Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) and Associate Professor at Georgetown University. Steven P. Schrage is the CSIS Scholl Chair in International Business and a Former Senior Official with the US Trade Representative's Office, State Department and Ways & Means Committee, //It's not just the economy//, Available Online @ the Asian Times)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Facing the worst economic crisis … the critical challenges we face. </span>
==Downgrade Impact== 
**Key to Credit Rating**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Press TV, 1/3 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Moody's: More action needed to avoid credit rating downgrade,” http://www.presstv.ir/usdetail/281498.html</span>
Moody's<span class="Underline"> Investors Service </span>announced that a … //to Aa1," the agency said//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**downgrades lead to a global economic crisis**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Goldwein 11</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Marc Goldwein, senior policy analyst for the fiscal policy program at the New America Foundation and former Associate Director of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform (also known as the Bowles-Simpson Commission), 8/11/11, “Drawing a AAA-Road Map for Post-Downgrade America,” The Atlantic, http://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2011/08/drawing-a-aaa-road-map-for-post-downgrade-america/243463/]</span></span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">... Okay, Panic a Little If … </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">to bail out the</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">government</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



=Venezuela Oil= 
==1NC Shell== 

**Venezuelan stability and economic integration increasing but heavily relies on US oil consumption – plan lowers this**
<span class="Underline">**CFR** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">2/9/</span>**09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Council on Foreign Relations, reposted from the AP written by Cesar J. Alvarez and Stephanie Hanson, “Venezuela’s Oil-Based Economy,” http://www.cfr.org/economics/venezuelas-oil-based-economy/p12089#p3)</span>
__Venezuela is South America’s third-… growth of the U__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates.</span>

**Destabilization in Venezuela will spill over into a laundry list of impacts**
**Manwaring 05**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Max Manwaring, Chair of the General Douglas MacArthur Foundation and is a Professor of Military Strategy at the U.S. Army War College, “Venezuela’s Hugo Chávez, Bolivarian Socialism, And Asymmetric Warfare,” October 2005, from the Strategic Studies Institute, [[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/PUB628.pdf]] MC</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President </span>Chávez<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also </span>understands that … <span class="Underline">of poverty, destabilization, and conflict.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">62</span>

==2NC Overview== 

**Dehumanization and genocide outweigh and turn all impacts**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Campbell</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> 20</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">01</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, (Kenneth, Assistant Professor of Political Science and International Relations at the University of Delaware, “Genocide and the Global Village,” p. 15-16)</span>
__Regardless of where or on … of the prevailing international order.__

**3. Venezuelan instability also increases weapons trafficking and WMD prolif which spills over to other nations and causes extinction**
**Utgoff 02**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Deputy Director of the Strategy, Forces, and Resources Division of the Institute for Defense Analyses., Survival, vol. 44, no. 2, Summer 2002, pp. 85–102 “Proliferation, Missile Defence and American Ambitions” </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In sum, </span>__widespread proliferation is … cities or even whole nations.__

==Link: NIB== 

**NIB causes Investment in Clean energy projects.**
**Schwarzenegger,****Rendell,****and****Bloomberg****10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Arnold, Ed, and Michael. “Put our money where our mouth is: Build better”, http://www.politico.com/news/stories/1010/43637_Page2.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The president is correct to … are building a 21st-century infrastructure.</span>

==AT: Venezuela’s Economy UQ== 

**2. Venezuela’s economy is stronger than ever**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">China Daily 12 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“Venezuela: land of opportunities”, June 28th, [[http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/cndy/2012-06/28/content_15528290.htm]]</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span class="Underline">Venezuela</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is a bridge connecting North … </span><span class="Underline">North American and European markets</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**3. Venezuelan economy strong – holding up**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Miami Herald 12 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“China plays increasing role in Venezuela’s economy”, July 12th, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.miamiherald.com/2012/07/12/2893416/china-plays-increasing-role-in.html#storylink=cpy|http://www.miamiherald.com/2012/07/12/2893416/china-plays-increasing-role-in.html#storylink=cpy]]</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span class="Underline">Venezuela</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">n President Hugo Chávez’s socialist … the only one actually working.</span>

==AT: Oil Prices Low== 

**1. Oil prices high now—**
**a. Rising profits and Middle East conflict**
**Shenk 8/7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/12 (Mark, Writer for //Businessweek//, “Oil Near Two-Week High on U.S. Supplies; Brent Tops $110,” http://www.businessweek.com/news/2012-08-07/oil-near-two-week-high-on-u-dot-s-dot-supplies-brent-tops-110)</span>
__Crude climbed to the highest …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">York, </span>__increased to $18.04__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from $17.35 yesterday. </span>

**b. Optimism on EU deal**
**Shenk and Zhou****8/21**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/12 (Mark and Moming, Writer for //Businessweek//, “Oil Climbs to a Three-Month High on Europe Debt Optimism,” http://www.businessweek.com/news/2012-08-21/oil-advances-to-three-month-high-on-european-debt-optimism)</span>
__Oil climbed to a three-month …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.</span>

**c. US supply drop**
<span class="Underline">**Bomkamp 8/17**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">/12 (Samantha, Independent Journalist for … </span>__economists had been expecting a decline.__

**2a. Specifically Venezuelan oil prices higher than 2012 estimates**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">PDVSA 12 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Press Office – Venezuelan Embassy to the U.S, “Venezuela’s Oil Minister: Fair Oil Prices Must Reach $100 Per Barrel”, June 29th, venezuela-us.org/2012/06/29/fair-oil-prices-must-reach-100-per-barrel/)</span>
<span class="Underline">The average price of Venezuelan … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">PDVSA’S </span><span class="Underline">oil and gas projects</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**b. High price is stable**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Vyas 12 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Kejal, Correspondent for Dow Jones Newswires in Caracas, Venezuela; contributing to The Wall Street Journal, “Venezuela's Chavez Says Oil Production, Income to Double by 2019”, July 13th, [[http://www.firstenercastfinancial.com/news/story/49299-venezuelas-chavez-says-oil-production-income-double-2019]]</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">CARACAS, Venezuela--</span><span class="Underline">Venezuelan President</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Hugo </span><span class="Underline">… central government by 41% to $27 billion.</span>

==AT: FARC Turn== 

**1. SQ solves drug wars – Columbia is taking the lead**
**Ramirez 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Luis, Pentagon Correspondent for Voice of America News, “Panetta Hails Colombian Gains in Drug War,” 4/24/12, Voice of America News, Proquest, [[http://proquest.umi.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/pqdlink?vinst=PROD&fmt=3&startpage=-1&vname=PQD&did=2642220911&scaling=FULL&vtype=PQD&rqt=309&TS=1341424439&clientId=17822)//PC]] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">U.S. Defense Secretary Leon Panetta … Colombia, including five advanced Blackhawks. </span>

**2. US involvement only furthers instability, corruption, and causes economic collapse**
**Mauser and Francis 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gary A. Mauser – Professor at the Faculty of Business Administration and the Institute for Urban Canadian Research Studies at Simon Fraser University, June Francis – Associate Professor of Marketing at Simon Fraser University (SFU), “Collateral Damage: The 'War on Drugs,' and the Latin America and Caribbean Region: Policy Recommendations for the Obama Administration,” 1/12/11, [[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1739203)//PC]] </span>
__Latin America’s Andean region, Mexico …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">governments in the LAC region. </span>

**3. US WOD fails and increases organized crime – operations will just shift locations**
**Mauser and Francis 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gary A. Mauser – Professor at the Faculty of Business Administration and the Institute for Urban Canadian Research Studies at Simon Fraser University, June Francis – Associate Professor of Marketing at Simon Fraser University (SFU), “Collateral Damage: The 'War on Drugs,' and the Latin America and Caribbean Region: Policy Recommendations for the Obama Administration,” 1/12/11, [[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1739203)//PC]] </span>
__One of the intractable problems …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">changing international scenario” (Bryan 2000 pg 1)</span>

**4. US WOD increases corruption, crime, homicide, and kills the economy**
**Mauser and Francis 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gary A. Mauser – Professor at the Faculty of Business Administration and the Institute for Urban Canadian Research Studies at Simon Fraser University, June Francis – Associate Professor of Marketing at Simon Fraser University (SFU), “Collateral Damage: The 'War on Drugs,' and the Latin America and Caribbean Region: Policy Recommendations for the Obama Administration,” 1/12/11, [[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1739203)//PC]] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__WOD strategies used in …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">not (e.g. Bahamas, $19,151). (PRS Group, table T7, 2010). </span>

**5. US drug trafficking increases political instability, corruption, and encourages human rights violations**
**Mauser and Francis 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gary A. Mauser – Professor at the Faculty of Business Administration and the Institute for Urban Canadian Research Studies at Simon Fraser University, June Francis – Associate Professor of Marketing at Simon Fraser University (SFU), “Collateral Damage: The 'War on Drugs,' and the Latin America and Caribbean Region: Policy Recommendations for the Obama Administration,” 1/12/11, [[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1739203)//PC]] </span>
__Narco-trafficking also can have … of escalating violence__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Olson et al. 2010).</span>

==AT: Dutch Disease== 

**1. Turn – oil investment prevents Venezuelan state collapse**

**2. The revenue will be directed towards social programs, health care, education, housing, agriculture, and infrastructure**
**Sanchez 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Fabiola, junior correspondent for the Huffington Post, “Venezuela imposes tax on windfall oil prices,” April 26th, 2011, from the Huffington Post, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/huff-wires/20110426/lt-venezuela-oil-tax/]] MC)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">CARACAS, Venezuela — </span><span class="Underline">Venezuela is imposing a … industry under majority state control. </span>

**3. Further oil production will only benefit the Venezuelan economy and dependence is good – it fuels socio-economic reform**
**Rosenburg 07,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Tina Rosenburg, contributing writer for the Washington Post, “Oil meets socialism in Venezuela,” November 3rd, 2007, From The New York Times, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/02/business/worldbusiness/02iht-wbpetro.1.8159725.html?_r=1&pagewanted=all]] MC</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Who holds the world's oil? … </span><span class="Underline">of "The Oil Is Ours!"</span>
=Coercion= 
== == 
==1NC Shell== 

**Federal planning undermines freedom and destroys choice**
**Bohan, 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—author of “Is America Dying?”(Patrick, “Coercion (Part II)”, The Evolution of Mediocrity, 4/6, [[http://pbohan.blogspot.com/2012/04/coercion-part-ii.html)/EM|http://pbohan.blogspot.com/2012/04/coercion-part-ii.html)]] </span>
<span class="Underline">It seems everything the federal … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">law equally enforced amongst corporations? </span>

**Freedom comes before all other impacts**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Sylvester </span>**Petro**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, professor of law at Wake Forest, Spring </span>**1974**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Toledo Law Review, p480</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, one may still insist on echoing Ernest …</span> __identified and__ __resisted with undying spirit.__

==2NC Overview== 

**AND – loss of freedom makes life worthless – outweighs extinction.**
**Raz**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Joseph, Phd Philosophy, THE MORALITY OF FREEDOM, </span>**1991**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, p. 359.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">One way to test the … </span>**__be better than that life__****__.__**

**Guaranteed risk of our impacts means you vote neg on probability.**
**Machan,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Tibor R., </span>**2003**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Professor Emeritus Department of Philosophy @ Auburn University, Research Fellow at Hoover Institution Stanford University, Passion for Liberty pg.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">All in all, then, I support … be violated no matter what!</span>

=Elections [Wake Forest]= 
==1NC Shell== 
**Obama wins now**
Silver 9-5<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Nate Silver – graduated from U Chicago, an AUTHORITY on election analysis for the New York Times and overall badass, “The Simple Case for Why Obama Is the Favorite”, September 5th, 2012, [[http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/05/sept-4-the-simple-case-for-why-obama-is-the-favorite/]]] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But since Mr. </span><span class="TitleChar">Romney’s deficit with Mr. … </span>that<span class="TitleChar"> Mr. </span>Obama is //<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the favorite</span>//<span class="TitleChar">.</span>

**[INSERT LINK]**

**Obama reelection maintains the US/Russian reset --- Romney will collapse relations**
**Weir**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 3/27/</span>**2012**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Fred, Obama asks Russia to cut him slack until reelection, Minnesota Post, p. [[http://www.minnpost.com/christian-science-monitor/2012/03/obama-asks-russia-cut-him-slack-until-reelection]])</span>
<span class="TitleChar">Russian experts say </span>there's little … <span class="TitleChar">likely </span>the //<span style="font-size: 10pt;">reset will continue</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">."</span>

**US/Russian relations prevent nuclear war**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Allison & Blackwill 11</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Graham, director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard’s Kennedy School, former assistant secretary of defense in the Clinton administration, Robert D., Henry A. Kissinger senior fellow for U.S. foreign policy -- Council on Foreign Relations, served as U.S. ambassador to India and as deputy national security adviser for strategic planning in the Bush administration, both co-chairmen of the Task Force on Russia and U.S. National Interests, co-sponsored by the Belfer Center and the Center for the National Interest, 10-30-11 Politico, “10 reasons why Russia still matters,” [[http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=161EF282-72F9-4D48-8B9C-C5B3396CA0E6]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">That central point is that </span><span class="TitleChar">… </span>//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">combat</span>////<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> other transnational terrorist groups.</span>//

==2NC Overview== 
**It’s the only existential threat**
**Bostrum**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, March </span>**2002**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Nick – prof of philosophy at Oxford University and recipient of the Gannon Award, Existential Risks, Journal of Evolution and Technology, p. http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html)</span>
A<span class="TitleChar"> much </span>greater existential risk … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">encounter in the 21st century.</span>

**Obama loves transportation funding – he’ll do the plan in 2013**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Hill 6-4</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [By Keith Laing; “DOT official: Obama support of high-speed rail 'remains as strong as ever'”; 6/4/2012; [[http://thehill.com/blogs/transportation-report/railroads/230777-dot-official-obama-support-of-high-speed-rail-remains-as-strong-as-ever]]; Boyce]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Federal </span><span class="TitleChar">Railroad Administration chief Joseph … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">facing pain at the pump."</span>

<span class="TitleChar">**Romney will cut the plan – hates spending**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Sledge 12 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Matt Sledge is a reporter for the Huffington Post based in New York. A graduate of Brown University, he was previously the Rhode Island director for FairVote; “GOP Candidates' Transportation Infrastructure Talk Praises Tolls But Ignores Jobs”; 1/4/2012; [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/01/04/gop-candidates-transportation-infrastructure-jobs_n_1184314.html]]; Boyce]</span>
<span class="TitleChar">President</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Barack </span>Obama made improving … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">for it themselves through tolls. </span>

==2NC UQ Wall== 
**Prefer our ev – Nate Silver is the best analyst**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Lindgren 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Jim Lindgren - Professor of law at Northwestern University, leading scholar in the growing movement of New Legal Empiricists, How did the pollsters do in predicting the popular vote?, November 5th, 2008, [[http://volokh.com/posts/1225926066.shtml]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">UPDATE: Even though Nate Silver … “final” predictions BEFORE the election.</span>

**Obama wins – fired up base and best polling methods**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Silver 9/6</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- graduated from U Chicago, an AUTHORITY on election analysis for the New York Times and overall badass (Nate, 2012, "Obama Would Be Big Favorite With ‘Fired Up’ Base," http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/06/obama-would-be-big-favorite-with-fired-up-base/)</span>

There’s one advantage<span class="TitleChar"> that</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> President </span>… <span style="font-size: 8pt;">can narrow the enthusiasm gap.</span>

**Experts’ betting odds agree – Obama ahead but its close**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Babones 9/6</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- senior lecturer in sociology and social policy at the University of Sydney in Australia and an associate fellow at the Institute for Policy Studies (Salvatore, 2012, "Forget the Polls: Obama Is the Odds-On Favorite to Win in November," http://truth-out.org/news/item/11381-forget-the-polls-obama-is-the-odds-on-favorite-to-win-in-november)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to the latest Reuters/… the Democrats meet in Charlotte.</span>
==AT Economy / Jobs Report== 
**Job report is superficial and doesn’t hurt Obama**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Silver 9/7 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">-- graduated from U Chicago, an AUTHORITY on election analysis for the New York Times and overall badass (Nate, 2012, "Effect of Jobs Numbers on Presidential Race Is Uncertain," http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/07/effect-of-jobs-numbers-on-presidential-race-is-uncertain/)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Friday’s jobs report was a weak … , despite being better than expected.</span>

**Economy not key – Obama will win for other reasons**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Klein 9/6</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- reports on business, finance, and economics for Newsweek and The Daily Beast (Alex, 2012, "Will the Economy Doom Obama?" http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2012/09/06/will-the-economy-doom-obama.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In a typical campaign year, economics … </span>//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">already baked into the cake</span>//<span class="TitleChar">.”</span>

**Obama wins – stock market is a more important indicator than jobs**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Censky 9/6</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- economy reporter @ CNNMoney (Annalyn, 2012, "Odds of an Obama victory increase with stocks," http://economy.money.cnn.com/2012/09/06/obama-odds-stocks/)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>odds of Obama winning<span class="TitleChar"> … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">-- it's as simple as that.</span>
==AT Polls== 
**Obama ahead in swing states – more important than national polls**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Mangahas 9/8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- Philippine Daily Inquirer (Mahar, 2012, "Predicting the US election," http://opinion.inquirer.net/36252/predicting-the-us-election)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Since the presidential candidates Barack … </span><span class="TitleChar">221</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (131 safe), </span><span class="TitleChar">Romney 182</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (58 safe), and 135 tossups. </span>

**Obama controls polls – empathy gap**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Chaggaris et al 8/28</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- pollster @ CBSNews (Steve, Sarah Dutton, Jennifer De Pinto, Anthony Salvanto, Fred Backus, 2012, "Poll: Ahead of speech, Romney faces empathy gap," http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-250_162-57501351/poll-ahead-of-speech-romney-faces-empathy-gap/)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(CBS News) A </span>new CBS<span class="TitleChar"> … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">to CBS News Exit Polls.</span>

==AT RNC Boost== 
**More evidence – Romney is the first Republican to not get a bump from the RNC – half the voters switched to Obama – answers their third uniqueness card**
<span class="Heading2Char">NYT 9-5</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [“Polls: Little to No Bounce for Romney”, September 5th, 2012, [[http://thecaucus.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/05/polls-little-to-no-bounce-for-romney/]]] </span>
Several new polls show that<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … to 1984, according to CNN polls.</span>


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]