[[toc]]
=Cite Requests= 
Questions, Comments, Concerns about anything Westminster PY debate? contact rahulpatel.debate@gmail.com (I also do aff/neg cites if you want them)

for neg cites you can contact alisayang5@gmail.com
=***AFFIRMATIVE***= 
=1ac Michigan= 
==1ac Warming== 
**Advantage 1 – warming**
**Global warming is happening now**
**Anderegg et al 10** – PhD Candidate @ Stanford in Biology
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">William, “Expert credibility in climate change,” National Academy of Sciences, p. 12107-12109</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Preliminary reviews of scientific literature … </span>forums regarding anthropogenic climate change<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Warming is anthropogenic**
<span class="Cite">**Rahmstorf 8** – Professor of Physics of the Oceans</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Richard, of Physics of the Oceans at Potsdam University, Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto, Edited by Ernesto Zedillo, “Anthropogenic Climate Change?,” pg. 42-4</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is time to turn … which we need to deal.</span>

**We are on the tipping point, right now we can adapt to warming trends but if positive feedbacks are triggered there is no hope**
**Speth 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Dean of Yale school of Forestry</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">James, dean of the Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies at Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut. Currently he serves the school as the Carl W. Knobloch, Jr. Dean and Sara Shallenberger Brown Professor in the Practice of Environmental Policy, The Bridge @ the Edge of the World, pg. 26</span>
<span class="TitleChar">The possibility of abrupt climate … **of species on the planet**</span>**.**

**Don’t believe any defense that doesn’t assume the newest super-computer models – new methods and data mean 100% reverse prediction accuracy**
**ORLCF 4/4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/12-Oak Ridge Leadership Computing Facility</span>**,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">April 4, 2012(http://www.olcf.ornl.gov/2012/04/04/carbon-dioxide-caused-global-warming-at-ice-ages-end-pioneering-simulation-shows/)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Climate science has an equivalent … also essential to this work.</span>

**Global warming is real, feedbacks cause rapid escalation, and it causes population migrations fueling political instability and failed states, escalating to nuclear war and extinction**
**Kaku 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michio Kaku, co-creator of string field theory, a branch of string theory. He received a B.S. (summa cum laude) from Harvard University in 1968 where he came first in his physics class. He went on to the Berkeley Radiation Laboratory at the University of California, Berkeley and received a Ph.D. in 1972. In 1973, he held a lectureship at Princeton University. Michio continues Einstein’s search for a “Theory of Everything,” seeking to unify the four fundamental forces of the universe—the strong force, the weak force, gravity and electromagnetism. He is the author of several scholarly, Ph.D. level textbooks and has had more than 70 articles published in physics journals, covering topics such as superstring theory, supergravity, supersymmetry, and hadronic physics. Professor of Physics — He holds the Henry Semat Chair and Professorship in theoretical physics at the City College of New York, where he has taught for over 25 years. He has also been a visiting professor at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton, as well as New York University (NYU). “Physics of the Future” http://213.55.83.52/ebooks/physics/Physics%20of%20the%20Future.pdf Accessed 6/26/12 BJM</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">By midcentury, the full impact … </span>__a runaway cycle of__ __global warming.__

**Specifically – warming causes polar melting which ensures extinction**
**Hansen 2011 -**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is member of the National Academy of Sciences, an adjunct professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences at Columbia University and at Columbia’s Earth Institute, and director of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies (James E, “Storms of my Grandchildren”)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As long as the total … ed extinctions to a moderate level.</span>

**Left unchecked, warming will cause extinction by destroying the oceans**
**Sify 2010 –**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Sydney newspaper citing Ove Hoegh-Guldberg, professor at University of Queensland and Director of the Global Change Institute, and John Bruno, associate professor of Marine Science</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">at UNC (Sify News, “Could unbridled climate changes lead to human extinction?”, http://www.sify.com/news/could-unbridled-climate-changes-lead-to-human-extinction-news-international-kgtrOhdaahc.html</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The findings of the comprehensive … findings were published in Science</span>

**CO2 emission lead to a proliferation of debris and makes mitigation measures fail**
**Raloff 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Janet Raloff- senior editor science news and founding board member of the Society of Environmental Journalists, managing editor of Energy Research Reports (outside Boston), a staff writer at Chemistry (an American Chemical Society magazine) and a writer/editor for Chicago's Adler Planetarium, August 15 2011, “Growing need for Space Trash Collectors”, http://www.sciencenews.org/view/generic/id/333370/title/Growing_need_for_space_trash_collectors_)//JM//</span>

//__Friction__ __between the atmosphere and … and for debris mitigation strategies.”__//

**Space debris risks false alarms and Russian miscalc—the impact is all out nuclear war.**
**Lewis 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Postdoctoral Fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Study Program</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jeffrey, Worked In the Office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy, Center for Defense Information, What if Space Were Weaponized? July, http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf</span>

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is the second of … nuclear forces to operate safely.</span>//

//**Catastrophic climate change should be measured as the highest priority – do not discount the unpredictable impact it will have on future generations. This is distinctly different from impacts that do not threaten human survival**//
<span class="cite0">**Scorse 8** – Professor of International Studies</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jason, Assistant Professor @ Monterey Institute of International Studies @ Middlebury College, What Environmentalists Need to Know About Economics, Online Book</span>

Even though the science now … choosing the proper discount rate<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Carbon sequestration is key**
**Mack and Endemann 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - *partner in the Houston office and global Chair of the Environmental Transactional Support Practice, provides over 25 years of experience advising on the transactional, environmental and regulatory issues associated with all sectors of the oil and gas industry, power (including both fossil and renewable energy), mining and chemical industries in the United States and abroad, in addition to the development, financing and entitlements for telecommunications and other industrial and public infrastructure facilities in the United States and offshore, **JD, Faculty @ USD Law, provides comprehensive environmental counseling on energy and infrastructure projects, and represents clients in related litigation**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Joel and Buck, “Making carbon dioxide sequestration feasible: Toward federal regulation of CO2 sequestration pipelines,” Energy Policy, http://lw.com/upload/pubContent/_pdf/pub3385_1.pdf</span>**

**At present, approximately 50% of the …** **impacts// from global climate change<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 8</span>**


**Only Clean Coal is able to overcome international political resistance to action on climate change – our evidence is comparative**
**Vanderheiden 11**** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Political Science, University of Colorado at Boulder: Centre for Applied Philosophy and Public Ethics (Steve, “The politics of energy: an introduction”, Volume 20, Issue 5, 2011, http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/09644016.2011.608529) RaPa</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The US Energy Information Administration … </span>__forms of resistance to them.__

==1ac Env Leadership== 

**Developing countries are looking to the US for leadership on CCS – only US funding of pipelines spreads it internationally**
**Schmidt 7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">An award-winning science writer from Portland, ME, has written for Discover Magazine, Science, and Nature Medicine (Charles W., “Carbon Capture & Storage Blue-Sky Technology Just Blowing Smoke?”, VOLUME 115 | NUMBER 11 | November 2007 • Environmental Health Perspective, A539-545) RaPa</span>

__With U.S. research efforts stuck in … planet remains to be seen.__

**US climate leadership is key to US-EU relations.**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Avro in 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11.818181991577148px;">- founder and Editor-In-Chief of Consumer Energy Report ( April 7, 2009. “ EU, U.S. Positions on Climate Change Beginning to Merge” Consumer Energy Report. http://www.consumerenergyreport.com/2009/04/07/eu-us-positions-on-climate-change-beginning-to-merge)</span>


<span class="Underline">U.S. President Barack Obama … to follow suit.”</span>

**The U.S. cant stop global threats to humanity without good relations with Europe—all their disads are inevitable.**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Daalder and Goldgeier 01 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ivo H. Daalder, senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, and James M. Goldgeier, associate professor ofpoliticalscience at George Washington University,Spring 2001, Survival, vol. 43, no. 1</span>

<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif;">The Bush administration enters office … – not NATO or Russia – </span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">first</span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif;">.</span>

**US-European relations solve a global war.**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**O'Sullivan 04** John O'Sullivan, editor of The National Interest, March 2004,</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">www.inthenationalinterest.com/Articles/Vol3Issue13/Vol3Issue13OSullivanPFV.html</span>

<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif;">The report's starting point -- that U</span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">.S.-… </span>____<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">great powers that led to 1914</span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif;">.</span>

**This global war goes nuclear.**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Shakhnazarov 97</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Georgi Shakhnazarov, chairman of the Soviet Academy of Political Science in 1974, presidential adviser in 1990, when Gorbachev assumed the presidency, October 27, 1997, The Daily Yomiuri</span>

<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Bythe year 2010, Korea has … nations involved represent different civilizations.</span>

**Chinese cooperation over clean coal spills over into other areas of relations**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Rock, 05 - </span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">PRINCIPAL DEPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE, BUREAU OF OCEANS AND INTERNATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL AND SCIENTIFIC AFFAIRS (Anthony, HEARING ON CHINA ’S HIGH TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT BEFORE U.S. - CHINA ECONOMIC AND SECURITY REVIEW COMMISSION,</span>
<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">http://www.uscc.gov/hearings/2005hearings/written_testimonies/05_21_22wrts/rock_anthony_wrts.htm)</span>

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Science and technology cooperation with … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Energy sponsored laboratories and universities.</span>

**That’s key to preventing nuclear war**
**Cirincione in ‘00** (Joseph, Director of the Non-Proliferation Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Foreign Policy, “The Asian nuclear reaction chain”, Issue 118, Spring, Proquest)

The blocks would fall quickest …… use of a nuclear weapon since 1945.

**Asia war is the most likely scenario for nuclear escalation—carded impact calc**
**Dibb 2001** - head of the Strategic and Defense Studies Centre in the Research School of Pacific and Asian Studies for The Australian National University, former Deputy Secretary for Strategic Policy and Intelligence in the Australian Department of Defense and director of the Joint Intelligence Organisation (Paul, Naval War College Review, "Strategic trends: Asia at a crossroads", 54:1, ProQuest, WEA)

**__The areas of maximum danger …__** when confronted with major crises.

==**1AC Impact Framing**== 
**Nuclear war doesn’t cause extinction –**

**a) doesn’t cause ice ages or climate change**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Robock 10 </span>– (Alan, Department of Environmental Sciences, Rutgers University, “Nuclear Winter,” WIREs Climate Change, May/June, Wiley Online Library via University of Michigan Libraries)

__While it is important to point ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> enough without these additional effects, however</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**b) Southern Hemisphere survives**
**Martin 82** – (Dr Brian Martin is a physicist whose research interests include stratospheric modelling. He is a research associate in the Dept. of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Australian National University, Journal of Peace Research, No 4, [[http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/82jpr.html]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To summarise the above points, </span>__a major ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">everyone on earth, is highly misleading.[14]</span>

**c) counterforcing solves escalation**
**Mueller 09 –** Woody Hayes Chair of National Security Studies and Professor of Political Science at Ohio State University (John, “Atomic Obsession: Nuclear Alarmism from Hiroshima to Al-Qaeda” p. 8, Google Books)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To begin to approach a condition ...</span> __perish__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> during the first month.15</span>

**d) nuclear testing disproves**
**Cook 10 –** (Nigel B. PhD Computer Programming, BA Physics, “Rescue of trapped survivors in megaton equivalent World War II attacks, and a review of Bolsover's CND "Civil Defence, The Cruellest Confidence Trick"” http://glasstone.blogspot.com/2010/02/rescue-of-trapped-survivors-in-world.html 2/16/10)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ignoring practical limitations... bombs tested in the atmosphere.</span>
==1ac Plan== 
**The United States federal government should facilitate regulated pipeline transportation of captured carbon in the United States.**


==1ac Solvency== 
**Carbon regulation is coming and CCS technology is advancing – facilitating regulated transportation infrastructure is key to jump-starting the commercial industry**
**Zarraby 12** - chemical engineer for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, JD expected from GWU in 2012
Cyrus, “Note: Regulating Carbon Capture and Sequestration: A Federal Regulatory Regime to Promote the Construction of a National Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Network,” 80 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 950, Lexis
Rising food prices, 1 mass migration, 2 … the construction of new CO<2> pipelines. 17

**The //__entire project__// depends on a … national network for pipeline infrastructure**
**IRGC 8**
International Risk Governance Council, “Regulation of Carbon Capture and Storage,” http://www.irgc.org/IMG/pdf/Policy_Brief_CCS.pdf
Large-scale CCS deployment //cannot// //…// structure ofthe CCS industry.

**The federal government is key**
**-eminent domain, single regulator,** **encourages broader CCS investment and //__guarantees__// uniformity**
**Horne 10** – JD @ U of Utah
Jennifer, “Getting from Here to There: Devising an Optimal Regulatory Model for CO<2> Transport in a New Carbon Capture and Sequestration Industry,” 30 J. Land Resources & Envtl. L. 357, Lexis
Siting regulations affect companies' ability … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">will be far more workable.</span>

**It’s reverse causal – federal //__inaction__// … deters private investment in CCS**
**Zarraby 12** - chemical engineer for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, JD expected from GWU in 2012
Cyrus, “Note: Regulating Carbon Capture and Sequestration: A Federal Regulatory Regime to Promote the Construction of a National Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Network,” 80 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 950, Lexis
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">C. Carbon Capture and Sequestration - … </span>that would //limit// private investment<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 88</span>

**Public funding key to catalyze the private sector**
**Posner 10** – Global Director of Energy, The Climate Group (Rupert, “Carbon Capture
and Storage: Mobilising Private Sector Finance” The Climate Group, Ecofin, and the Global CCS Institute, September 20 2010 http://www.theclimategroup.org/_assets/files/CCS-report.pdf)//MR

**__In the current stage, where … funding for other CCS plants.__**

**Even if they win their environment turns CCS is net beneficial to the environment. A dead pond is probably better than global diarrhea.**
**Singh et. al 12** Bhawna Singh recently completed a Ph.D. in industrial ecology at the Department of Energy and Process Engineering at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology. Anders H. Strømman is an associate professor in and manager of the Life Cycle Assessment lab and Edgar G. Hertwich is a professor in and director of the Industrial Ecology Programme at NTNU (Bhawna, Anders H. Strømman, Edgar G. Hertwich, “Environmental Damage Assessment of Carbon Capture and Storage Application of End-Point Indicators”, Journal of Industrial Ecology, Volume 16, Number 3, pdf) RaPa

__In terms of total damage …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">, vegetation type, and so forth.</span>
=1ac Greenhill= 
==1ac Warming== 
**Advantage 1 – warming**
**Global warming is happening now**
**<span class="cite0">Anderegg et al 10</span>** – PhD Candidate @ Stanford in Biology
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">William, “Expert credibility in climate change,” National Academy of Sciences, p. 12107-12109</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Preliminary reviews of scientific literature … </span>forums regarding anthropogenic climate change<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Warming is anthropogenic**
<span class="Cite">**Rahmstorf 8** – Professor of Physics of the Oceans</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Richard, of Physics of the Oceans at Potsdam University, Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto, Edited by Ernesto Zedillo, “Anthropogenic Climate Change?,” pg. 42-4</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is time to turn … which we need to deal.</span>

**<span class="Cite">We are on the tipping point, right now we can adapt to warming trends but if positive feedbacks are triggered there is no hope</span>**
**<span class="Cite">Speth 8 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Dean of Yale school of Forestry</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">James, dean of the Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies at Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut. Currently he serves the school as the Carl W. Knobloch, Jr. Dean and Sara Shallenberger Brown Professor in the Practice of Environmental Policy, The Bridge @ the Edge of the World, pg. 26</span>
<span class="TitleChar">The possibility of abrupt climate … **of species on the planet**</span>**.**

**Don’t believe any defense that doesn’t assume the newest super-computer models – new methods and data mean 100% reverse prediction accuracy**
**ORLCF 4/4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/12-Oak Ridge Leadership Computing Facility</span>**,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">April 4, 2012(http://www.olcf.ornl.gov/2012/04/04/carbon-dioxide-caused-global-warming-at-ice-ages-end-pioneering-simulation-shows/)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Climate science has an equivalent … also essential to this work. </span>

**Global warming is real, feedbacks cause rapid escalation, and it causes population migrations fueling political instability and failed states, escalating to nuclear war and extinction**
**Kaku 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michio Kaku, co-creator of string field theory, a branch of string theory. He received a B.S. (summa cum laude) from Harvard University in 1968 where he came first in his physics class. He went on to the Berkeley Radiation Laboratory at the University of California, Berkeley and received a Ph.D. in 1972. In 1973, he held a lectureship at Princeton University. Michio continues Einstein’s search for a “Theory of Everything,” seeking to unify the four fundamental forces of the universe—the strong force, the weak force, gravity and electromagnetism. He is the author of several scholarly, Ph.D. level textbooks and has had more than 70 articles published in physics journals, covering topics such as superstring theory, supergravity, supersymmetry, and hadronic physics. Professor of Physics — He holds the Henry Semat Chair and Professorship in theoretical physics at the City College of New York, where he has taught for over 25 years. He has also been a visiting professor at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton, as well as New York University (NYU). “Physics of the Future” http://213.55.83.52/ebooks/physics/Physics%20of%20the%20Future.pdf Accessed 6/26/12 BJM </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">By midcentury, the full impact … </span>__a runaway cycle of__ __global warming.__

**Specifically – warming causes polar melting which ensures extinction**
**Hansen 2011 -**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is member of the National Academy of Sciences, an adjunct professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences at Columbia University and at Columbia’s Earth Institute, and director of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies (James E, “Storms of my Grandchildren”)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As long as the total … ed extinctions to a moderate level.</span>

**Left unchecked, warming will cause extinction by destroying the oceans**
**Sify 2010 –**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Sydney newspaper citing Ove Hoegh-Guldberg, professor at University of Queensland and Director of the Global Change Institute, and John Bruno, associate professor of Marine Science </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">at UNC (Sify News, “Could unbridled climate changes lead to human extinction?”, http://www.sify.com/news/could-unbridled-climate-changes-lead-to-human-extinction-news-international-kgtrOhdaahc.html</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The findings of the comprehensive … findings were published in Science</span>

**CO2 emission lead to a proliferation of debris and makes mitigation measures fail**
**Raloff 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Janet Raloff- senior editor science news and founding board member of the Society of Environmental Journalists, managing editor of Energy Research Reports (outside Boston), a staff writer at Chemistry (an American Chemical Society magazine) and a writer/editor for Chicago's Adler Planetarium, August 15 2011, “Growing need for Space Trash Collectors”, http://www.sciencenews.org/view/generic/id/333370/title/Growing_need_for_space_trash_collectors_)//JM// </span>

//__Friction__ __between the atmosphere and … and for debris mitigation strategies.”__//

**Space debris risks false alarms and Russian miscalc—the impact is all out nuclear war.**
**Lewis 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Postdoctoral Fellow in the Advanced Methods of Cooperative Study Program</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jeffrey, Worked In the Office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy, Center for Defense Information, What if Space Were Weaponized? July, http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf</span>

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is the second of … nuclear forces to operate safely.</span>//

//**Catastrophic climate change should be measured as the highest priority – do not discount the unpredictable impact it will have on future generations. This is distinctly different from impacts that do not threaten human survival**//
<span class="cite0">**Scorse 8** – Professor of International Studies</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jason, Assistant Professor @ Monterey Institute of International Studies @ Middlebury College, What Environmentalists Need to Know About Economics, Online Book</span>

Even though the science now … choosing the proper discount rate<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Carbon sequestration is key**
**<span class="Cite">Mack and Endemann 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - *partner in the Houston office and global Chair of the Environmental Transactional Support Practice, provides over 25 years of experience advising on the transactional, environmental and regulatory issues associated with all sectors of the oil and gas industry, power (including both fossil and renewable energy), mining and chemical industries in the United States and abroad, in addition to the development, financing and entitlements for telecommunications and other industrial and public infrastructure facilities in the United States and offshore, **JD, Faculty @ USD Law, provides comprehensive environmental counseling on energy and infrastructure projects, and represents clients in related litigation**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Joel and Buck, “Making carbon dioxide sequestration feasible: Toward federal regulation of CO2 sequestration pipelines,” Energy Policy, http://lw.com/upload/pubContent/_pdf/pub3385_1.pdf</span>**

**At present, approximately 50% of the …** **impacts// from global climate change<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 8</span>**


**Only Clean Coal is able to overcome international political resistance to action on climate change – our evidence is comparative**
**Vanderheiden 11**** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Political Science, University of Colorado at Boulder: Centre for Applied Philosophy and Public Ethics (Steve, “The politics of energy: an introduction”, Volume 20, Issue 5, 2011, http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/09644016.2011.608529) RaPa</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The US Energy Information Administration … </span>__forms of resistance to them.__

==1ac Env Leadership== 

**Developing countries are looking to the US for leadership on CCS – only US funding of pipelines spreads it internationally**
**Schmidt 7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">An award-winning science writer from Portland, ME, has written for Discover Magazine, Science, and Nature Medicine (Charles W., “Carbon Capture & Storage Blue-Sky Technology Just Blowing Smoke?”, VOLUME 115 | NUMBER 11 | November 2007 • Environmental Health Perspective, A539-545) RaPa</span>

__With U.S. research efforts stuck in … planet remains to be seen.__

**US climate leadership is key to US-EU relations.**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Avro in 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">- founder and Editor-In-Chief of Consumer Energy Report ( April 7, 2009. “ EU, U.S. Positions on Climate Change Beginning to Merge” Consumer Energy Report. http://www.consumerenergyreport.com/2009/04/07/eu-us-positions-on-climate-change-beginning-to-merge)</span>


<span class="Underline">U.S. President Barack Obama … to follow suit.” </span>

**The U.S. cant stop global threats to humanity without good relations with Europe—all their disads are inevitable.**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Daalder and Goldgeier 01 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ivo H. Daalder, senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, and James M. Goldgeier, associate professor ofpoliticalscience at George Washington University,Spring 2001, Survival, vol. 43, no. 1</span>

<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif;">The Bush administration enters office … – not NATO or Russia – </span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">first</span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif;">.</span>

**US-European relations solve a global war.**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**O'Sullivan 04** John O'Sullivan, editor of The National Interest, March 2004,</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">www.inthenationalinterest.com/Articles/Vol3Issue13/Vol3Issue13OSullivanPFV.html</span>

<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif;">The report's starting point -- that U</span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">.S.-… </span>____<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">great powers that led to 1914</span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif;">.</span>

**This global war goes nuclear.**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Shakhnazarov 97</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Georgi Shakhnazarov, chairman of the Soviet Academy of Political Science in 1974, presidential adviser in 1990, when Gorbachev assumed the presidency, October 27, 1997, The Daily Yomiuri</span>

<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Bythe year 2010, Korea has … nations involved represent different civilizations.</span>

**Chinese cooperation over clean coal spills over into other areas of relations**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Rock, 05 - </span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">PRINCIPAL DEPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE, BUREAU OF OCEANS AND INTERNATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL AND SCIENTIFIC AFFAIRS (Anthony, HEARING ON CHINA ’S HIGH TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT BEFORE U.S. - CHINA ECONOMIC AND SECURITY REVIEW COMMISSION, </span>
<span style="color: #0d0d0d; text-decoration: none;">http://www.uscc.gov/hearings/2005hearings/written_testimonies/05_21_22wrts/rock_anthony_wrts.htm</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d;">)</span>

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Science and technology cooperation with … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Energy sponsored laboratories and universities.</span>

**That’s key to preventing nuclear war**
**Cirincione in ‘00** (Joseph, Director of the Non-Proliferation Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Foreign Policy, “The Asian nuclear reaction chain”, Issue 118, Spring, Proquest)

The blocks would fall quickest …… use of a nuclear weapon since 1945.

**Asia war is the most likely scenario for nuclear escalation—carded impact calc**
**Dibb 2001** - head of the Strategic and Defense Studies Centre in the Research School of Pacific and Asian Studies for The Australian National University, former Deputy Secretary for Strategic Policy and Intelligence in the Australian Department of Defense and director of the Joint Intelligence Organisation (Paul, Naval War College Review, "Strategic trends: Asia at a crossroads", 54:1, ProQuest, WEA)

**__The areas of maximum danger …__** when confronted with major crises.
==1ac Plan== 
**The United States federal government should facilitate regulated pipeline transportation of captured carbon in the United States.**


==1ac Solvency== 
**Carbon regulation is coming and CCS technology is advancing – facilitating regulated transportation infrastructure is key to jump-starting the commercial industry**
**<span class="Cite">Zarraby 12</span>** - chemical engineer for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, JD expected from GWU in 2012
Cyrus, “Note: Regulating Carbon Capture and Sequestration: A Federal Regulatory Regime to Promote the Construction of a National Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Network,” 80 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 950, Lexis
Rising food prices, 1 mass migration, 2 … the construction of new CO<2> pipelines. 17

**The //__entire project__// depends on a … national network for pipeline infrastructure**
**<span class="Cite">IRGC 8</span>**
International Risk Governance Council, “Regulation of Carbon Capture and Storage,” http://www.irgc.org/IMG/pdf/Policy_Brief_CCS.pdf
Large-scale CCS deployment //cannot// //…// structure ofthe CCS industry.

**The federal government is key**
**-eminent domain, single regulator,** **encourages broader CCS investment and //__guarantees__// uniformity**
**<span class="Cite">Horne 10</span>** – JD @ U of Utah
Jennifer, “Getting from Here to There: Devising an Optimal Regulatory Model for CO<2> Transport in a New Carbon Capture and Sequestration Industry,” 30 J. Land Resources & Envtl. L. 357, Lexis
Siting regulations affect companies' ability … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">will be far more workable.</span>

**It’s reverse causal – federal //__inaction__// … deters private investment in CCS**
**<span class="Cite">Zarraby 12</span>** - chemical engineer for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, JD expected from GWU in 2012
Cyrus, “Note: Regulating Carbon Capture and Sequestration: A Federal Regulatory Regime to Promote the Construction of a National Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Network,” 80 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 950, Lexis
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">C. Carbon Capture and Sequestration - … </span>that would //limit// private investment<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 88</span>

**Public funding key to catalyze the private sector**
**Posner 10** – Global Director of Energy, The Climate Group (Rupert, “Carbon Capture
and Storage: Mobilising Private Sector Finance” The Climate Group, Ecofin, and the Global CCS Institute, September 20 2010 http://www.theclimategroup.org/_assets/files/CCS-report.pdf)//MR

**__In the current stage, where … funding for other CCS plants.__**

**Even if they win their environment turns CCS is net beneficial to the environment. A dead pond is probably better than global diarrhea.**
**Singh et. al 12** Bhawna Singh recently completed a Ph.D. in industrial ecology at the Department of Energy and Process Engineering at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology. Anders H. Strømman is an associate professor in and manager of the Life Cycle Assessment lab and Edgar G. Hertwich is a professor in and director of the Industrial Ecology Programme at NTNU (Bhawna, Anders H. Strømman, Edgar G. Hertwich, “Environmental Damage Assessment of Carbon Capture and Storage Application of End-Point Indicators”, Journal of Industrial Ecology, Volume 16, Number 3, pdf) RaPa

__In terms of total damage …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">, vegetation type, and so forth.</span>




= = 
= = 

=***NEGATIVE***= 
=Topicality= 
==T-military 1NC== 
**Infrastructure is physical capital that provides __public services__ – it excludes the military**
**Fourie 6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Chief Operating Officer of ArcelorMittal South Africa (Johan, ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE: A REVIEW OF DEFINITIONS, THEORY AND EMPIRICS, 9/06, South African Journal of Economics, Vol 74, Issue 3, Wiley Online Library)//EM</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">One way to define infrastructure … as transportation modalities and utilitcies.</span>

**Transportation infrastructure services are strictly limited to facilitating __private economic activity__**
**Musick, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Congressional Budget Office’s Microeconomic Studies Division (Nathan, “Public Spending on Transportation and Water Infrastructure,”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/119xx/doc11940/11-17-infrastructure.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although different definitions of “infrastructure” … Engineers following Hurricane Katrina in 2005).</span>
=Counterplans= 
==Prizes CP 1NC== 
**It’s competitive – the counterplan provides incentives for development and demonstration, but doesn’t have the government do the development itself. Its means ownership**
**Glossary of English Grammar Terms, 2005**
(http://www.usingenglish.com/glossary/possessive-pronoun.html)

Mine, yours, his, hers, __its__, ours, theirs __are__ the __possessive pronouns__ __used to__ substitute a noun __and to show__ possession or __ownership.__
EG. This is your disk and that's mine. (Mine substitutes the word disk and shows that it belongs to me.)

**Inducement prizes and advance market commitments boost private sector technology development – bolsters private sector innovation without picking winners plan and the federal government purchases the result**
**Kalil and Irons, 7** – Center for American Progress (Tom and John, “A National Innovation Agenda: Progressive Policies for Economic Growth and Opportunity Through Science and Technology,” November,
http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2007/11/pdf/innovation_chapter.pdf)

__Use more prizes and Advance Market …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> broad range of topics, prize amounts, and rules. </span>

**Space policy activists are fixated on technology – they wildly exaggerate the benefits and are so disconnected from real world economic and technological constraints that you should reject their claims**
**Day, 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - senior program officer at the National Research Council’s Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board (part of the National Academies, which includes the National Academy of Sciences). He is currently directing several studies for NASA and the U.S. Air Force, including a study of the role and size of the activities conducted by NASA’s astronaut office, a study of NASA’s aeronautics flight test research program, and the Space Studies Board’s recently concluded planetary science decadal survey. He has previously served as an investigator for the Columbia Accident Investigation Board, was the first historian for the Congressional Budget Office, and held both Guggenheim and Verville Fellowships at the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum (Dwayne, “Space fetishism: space activism’s obsession with technological and ideological saviors,” 12/21, The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1534/1)</span>

__You don’t have to spend much time …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> what technologies the activists are excited about.</span>


=Disads= 
==**Innovation Turn 1NC**== 
**Technological risk and cost overruns are __ever-present__ even with __established__ technology because there’s a substantial difference between technological capability and engineering integration. __Speeding__ tech integration through government programs creates massive cost overruns and risks total engineering failure**
**Rendleman and Faulconer,****11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - * USAF, retired Space Law, Policy, and Strategy Contributor Colorado Springs, Colorado AND **President, Strategic Space Solutions, LLC (James and Walter, “Escaping the Space Acquisition Death Spiral”, Part 2, High Frontier, August,**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110825-030.pdf)</span>**

**__Space systems, even quick and …. Time and costs were consistently underestimated__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.” 10</span>**

This flips the entire case – it creates a devastating demonstration effect of failure
__National Research Council 11__ **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Committee on Materials Needs and R&D Strategy for Future Military Aerospace Propulsion Systems of the National Research Council,</span> //Materials Needs and Research and Development Strategy for Future Military Aerospace Propulsion Systems//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As one element there must be, for lack …</span> __manufacturing approach and partners, is critical.__**

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Innovation turn—the private sector can innovate faster and more efficiently than can the government--which will doom your project, this is an internal link turn to your aff </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Garmong 4</span>**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> (Robert Garmong, Ph.D. in philosophy, is a writer for the Ayn Rand Institute in Irvine, CA. The Institute promotes the philosophy of Ayn Rand, author of Atlas Shrugged and The Fountainhead. “Privatize the Space Program” http://rationalargumentator.com/issue20/privatizespace.html)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">After years of declining budgets, public … politics, or will we set them free? </span>


==**DOD Tradeoff 1NC**== 
**<span class="Cite">Nuclear modernization will get funded now, but the defense budget is under severe pressure. </span>**
<span class="Cite">**Priest, 9-15**-12</span>
[Dana, The Washington Post, “Aging U.S. nuclear arsenal slated for costly and long-delayed modernization,” http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/us-nuclear-arsenal-is-ready-for-overhaul/2012/09/15/428237de-f830-11e1-8253-3f495ae70650_story.html]
The U.S. nuclear arsena<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">l</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the…</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> it safe and reliable.</span>

**Restoring carriers messes up the budget – that empirically messes up all other programs.**
**Tiron, 09**

(Roxana, The Hill, “On defense cuts, Obama holds cards”, http://thehill.com/leading-the-news/on-defense-cuts-obama-holds-cards-2009-04-07.html)

Democrats, in particular,… an exception<span class="UnderlineChar">,</span>’ ” Gates said.

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Modernization is on the chopping block -- cutting funds kills deterrence and magnifies global threats. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Trachtenberg, ‘11</span>**
[David J., president and CEO of Shortwaver Consulting, LLC, previously served as principal deputy assistant secretary of defense (international security policy), acting deputy assistant secretary of defense (forces policy), and head of the policy staff of the House Armed Services Committee, 10-1, “Nuclear Fallback,” http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/279610/nuclear-fallback-david-j-trachtenberg#]

Political turmoil in the Middle … //as important as ever.//

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nuclear deterrence is necessary for global stability and preventing WMD warfare -- allowing the arsenal to atrophy guarantees CBW and EMP attacks on the US. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Schneider, ‘8</span>**
[Mark, Senior Analyst -- The National Institute for Public Policy, former senior officer in the DoD in positions relating to arms control and nuclear weapons policy, PhD in history -- USC, JD – GWU, July, “The Future of the U.S. Nuclear Deterrent,” Comparative Strategy 27.4, EBSCO]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the United States</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the world's… Korea, which have been reported in the press.8</span>

==**DOD Tradeoff 2NC cards**== 
===Overview=== 
**Declining deterrent credibility collapses US alliances and triggers a wave of proliferation.**

**Rasmussen ’00** (David, MA in National Security Affairs – Naval Postgraduate School, “Credible Nuclear Deterrence for Japan”, NPS Master’s Thesis, March, http://www.ccc.nps.navy.mil/research/theses/rasmussen00.asp.)
__U.S. maintenance of a__ __…____appear__ “contestable,” or __worth taking__.

**The US can deter Iran**
**Rubin, 2008**, resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute
[Michael Rubin, “Can a Nuclear Iran Be Contained or Deterred?” American Enterprise Institute, November 2008, http://www.aei.org/outlook/28896]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The International Atomic Energy …, the options are unclear.</span>

**Terrorists won’t use the nuclear weapons**
**Ayson 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies, Director of Strategic Studies: New Zealand, Senior Research Associate with Oxford’s Centre for International Studies. “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects. //Studies in Conflict and Terrorism//, Volume 33, Issue 7, July 2010, pages 571-593)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Indeed </span>__some seem willing… to nuclear //compellence.//__

===2NC UQExts – Funding Now=== 


**<span class="Cite">Nuclear modernization will be funded now, but the budgets tight. </span>**
**<span class="Cite">UPI, 9-11</span>**<span class="Cite">-12</span>
[“House to act on spending resolution,” http://www.upi.com/Top_News/US/2012/09/11/House-to-act-on-spending-resolution/UPI-97771347386184/#ixzz26xJmMD1l]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON, Sept. 11 (UPI) -- </span>The U.S. Hous<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">e</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ended its reces…</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">were losers too</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Politico reported.</span>

**There’s sufficient funding allocated to overhaul the aging arsenal now, but support is tenuous.**
<span class="Cite">**RT**, 9-16-12</span>
[“Aging US nuclear arsenal set for multibillion-dollar revamp,” [[http://rt.com/usa/news/us-nuclear-arsenal-modernization-272/]]]

//Washington is set to// //…//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> projected costs of modernization.</span>

===2NC Link Exts – Budget = Zero-Sum=== 

**Sequestration means the budget is zero-sum -- the aff forces huge defense cuts.**
**<span class="Cite">Garamone, ‘12</span>**
[Jim, American Forces Press Service, “Panetta, Dempsey Say Pentagon Feels Sequestration’s Shadow,” http://www.defense.gov/news/newsarticle.aspx?id=67950]

Panetta and<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Army Gen. … not be picked apart piece by piece.”</span>

**The threshold for the link is small -- sequestration has put the defense budget under enormous pressure.**
**<span class="Cite">Alexander, ‘12</span>**
[David, Reuters, 5-9, “Lawmakers move to boost 2013 defense budget,” [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/05/09/us-usa-budget-defense-idUSBRE8481JV20120509]]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"</span>This is a zero-<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…by piece."</span>

===2NC Impact – Nuclear Labs=== 

**Nuclear labs are in decay -- committing funding is necessary to maintain safety and effectiveness.**
<span class="Cite">**Priest, 9-15**-12</span>
[Dana, The Washington Post, “Aging U.S. nuclear arsenal slated for costly and long-delayed modernization,” [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/us-nuclear-arsenal-is-ready-for-overhaul/2012/09/15/428237de-f830-11e1-8253-3f495ae70650_story.html]]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally, </span>there are <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the replacement cost has risen from $600 million in 2004 to $6.5 billion today.</span>

**Strong nuclear weapons labs are key to US scientific leadership and preventing proliferation, nuclear and biological terrorism.**
**<span class="Cite">Perry & Schlesinger et al., ‘9</span>**
[William J., senior fellow -- The Hoover Institution, Michael and Barbara Berberian Professor -- Stanford University, codirector of the Nuclear Risk Reduction initiative and the Preventive Defense Project, former Secretary of Defense, James R., chairman of MITRE, consultant to the Departments of Defense and State, member of the Defense Policy Board, fellow of the National Academy of Public Administration, director of the Sandia National Corporation, “America’s Strategic Posture,” Report of the Congressional Commission on the Strategic Posture of the United States, media.usip.org/reports/strat_posture_report.pdf]

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">It is important to understand </span>the … analysis of foreign programs.
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>

===Nuclear Labs Good – Competitiveness=== 

**Strong nuclear labs are key to scientific leadership and competitiveness.**
**<span class="Cite">Turpen et al., ‘9</span>**
[Elizabeth, Senior associate -- Henry L. Stimson Center, PhD from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, March, “LEVERAGING SCIENCE FOR SECURITY: A STRATEGY FOR THE NUCLEAR WEAPONS LABORATORIES IN THE 21ST CENTURY,” Stimson Center Task Force Report, http://www.stimson.org/cnp/pdf/Leveraging_Science_for_Security_FINAL.pdf]

__O____ur nation is witnessing a… //weapons capabilities.//__
=Specific Strategies= 
==**Greenhill Strategies**== 
**Round 1 -** vs Blake MS (Diego Garcia)
1nc: security K, DOD t/off, elections (obama good), t-military
2nr: elections + case

**Round 3** - vs Bingham HT (C-17 airlifts)
1nc: t-military, elections (obama good), DOD t/off, t-vehicles, security K
2nr: t-vehicles

**Round 6 -** vs Damien MR (aircraft carriers)
1nc: t-military, t-vehicles, elections (obama good), DOD t/off
2nr: t-vehicles

**Doubles -** vs GBN KS (space elevators)
1nc: elections (obama good), stimulus bad, prizes CP
2nr: prizes CP
==Hooch Strategies== 
**Round 2 -** vs Alpharetta CK (NextGen)
1nc: stim bad, elections (obama good), privitization CP, t-substantial
2nr: elections + case

**Round 3 -** vs Alpharetta BM (icebreakers)
1nc: elections (obama good), t-vehicles, multiplank CP (coop w/ russia, HR.801)
2nr: CP + elections

**Round 6 -** vs Dunwoody HW (SUSTAIN)
1nc: cap K, elections (obama good), DOD t/off, t-military
2nr: DOD t/off + case

**Octos** - vs Johns Creek DF (nuclear evacuation)
1nc: taoism K, framework, t-USFG, t-infrastructure, evacuation separation CP
2nr: framework
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]