[[toc]]
=Grapevine 1AC= 

==Plan== 

===The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in Guam.=== 
==Alliance== 
===Realignment has been hampered by delays, uncertainty, and bad transportation infrastructure—squo solves the rest=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Matthews 6-12-12</span> (Laura, International Business Times reporter, June 12, 2012, “Guam Faces Uncertain Future As U.S. Delays Shifting Marines From Okinawa,” <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.ibtimes.com/articles/351154/20120612/guam-military-buildup-relocation-marines-okinawa-real.htm]]</span>, YX)
The talks began … highest enlistment rates.
===Now key—two reasons=== 
===A) Funding—negotiations have forced Japan to pay – undermines relations=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Japan Times 3/25/12 </span>(“Japan asked to shell out extra $1 billion over marines' transfer to Guam”, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.japantimes.co.jp/text/nn20120325b2.html%20//|http://www.japantimes.co.jp/text/nn20120325b2.html //]]</span> Veevz)
Washington is pushing … just 4,700 marines.
===B) Japanese elections—realignment key to LDP victory, solves relations—otherwise kick-out is inevitable=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Xinhua News 7 – 16</span> – 12 (“Okinawa base issue tests U.S. lockstep alliance with Japan”, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://english.china.com/news/international/11020308/20120716/17318482.html]]</span> ck)
"The DPJ's campaign … its political ideology.
===But realignment fails absent the plan=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">GAO 08 </span>(Government Accounatability Office, “DEFENSE ¶ INFRASTRUCTURE ¶ Planning Efforts for the ¶ Proposed Military Buildup ¶ on Guam Are in Their Initial ¶ Stages, with Many ¶ Challenges Yet to Be ¶ Addressed” <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a481050.pdf%20//|http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a481050.pdf //]]</span> Veevz)
In addition, DOD … the military buildup.
===Realignment solves relations—three internals=== 
===A) Perception of ignorance=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Delgado 6/30/12 </span>(Nick Delgado, KUAN – Guam’s News Network, “Guam briefing held on Capitol Hill”, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.kuam.com/story/18921168/2012/06/30/guam-briefing-held-on-capitol-hill]]</span> // Veevz)
Guam – The House … the Japan government.

===B) Uncertainty=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Talmadge 10</span> (Eric Talmadge, Tokyo bureau chief of the Associated Press, 6/23/2010, “ US-Japan security pact turns 50, faces new strains”, [[http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5islkPj_84APsquFWNdqr2kuTwDQwD9GG68080%20//|http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5islkPj_84APsquFWNdqr2kuTwDQwD9GG68080 //]] Veevz)
Uncertainty over a … the United States."

===C) Japanese politics=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ogoura 10</span> (Kazuo, political science professor at Aoyama Gakuin University,“Japan-U.S. relations cry out for new management, dialogue”, 6/13/10, [[http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/eo20100613ko.html%20//|http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/eo20100613ko.html //]] Veevz)
Ripples, frictions, uneasiness, … U.S.-China strategic partnership.
===No alt causes=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Feffer 10</span> (John , co-director of Foreign Policy in Focus at the Institute for Policy Studies, “Okinawa and the new domino effect”, 3-5, [[http://inthesenewtimes.com/2010/03/05/okinawa-and-the-new-domino-effect/]] // Veevz)
Under the circumstances, … Marines to Guam.
===Alliance solves warming=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Calder 10</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Kent E, Director, Reischauer Center for East Asian Studies SAIS/Johns Hopkins University, “U.S. CLIMATE POLICY AND PROSPECTS FOR U.S.</span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math'; font-size: 6pt;">‐</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">JAPAN COOPERATION,” [[http://www.us-jpri.org/en/reports/s1_calder.pdf]])</span>
Active U.S.<span style="font-family: Cambria;">‐</span>Japan cooperation … in both countries.
===Spills over—gets all major emitters onboard=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Patel, 7</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Nirav, Bacevich fellow at the Center for a New American Security, “The U.S.-Japan Alliance Should Evolve to Encompass Environmental Cooperation,”</span>**[[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/1420/the-u-s-japan-alliance-should-evolve-to-encompass-environmental-cooperation|**http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/1420/the-u-s-japan-alliance-should-evolve-to-encompass-environmental-cooperation**]]**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">)</span>**
Historically, U.S.-Japan relations … stability and security.
Global warming is real, anthropogenic, and existential—also a moral side constraint
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hansen 12 </span>James Hansen, PHD, director of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies, May 9, 2012, “Game Over for the Climate”,<span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/05/10/opinion/game-over-for-the-climate.html?_r=1&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss]]</span>, KENTUCKY

GLOBAL warming isn’t … by coming generations.

==Deterrence== 
===Scenario 1 is Military Readiness=== 
===Futenma kills it—five reasons=== 
===A) Flight restrictions=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Harden 10</span>
(Washington Post Foreign Service Correspondent, interviewing LT. General Robling US Marine Commander on Okinawa, “Future of Okinawa base strains U.S.-Japanese alliance”, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/01/23/AR2010012302392.html/greenhill-chris|http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/01/23/AR2010012302392.html//greenhill-chris]]</span>)

The people of … is a factor."
===B) Training Space=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">GAO ‘2 </span>(Government Accountability Office, “Military Training: Limitations Exist Overseas but Are Not Reflected in Readiness Reporting,” Report to the Chairman, Subcommittee on Readiness and Management Support, Committee on Armed Services, U.S. Senate, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d02525.pdf]]</span>)

In Japan, local … facilities in Japan.

===C) Encroachment and temporary ceases=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Montalvo ‘2</span>, of the Temple Environmental Law & Technology Journal (Eric, “Operational Encroachment: Woodpeckers and their Congressman,” Temple Environmental Law & Technology Journal, Spring, 20 Temp. Envtl. L. & Tech. J. 219)

The judicial granting …combat readiness proportionately. n24
===D) Surprise attacks—redundancy solves=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Meyer 2k9</span>
(Carlton, a former Marine Corps officer who participated in military operations around the world. He had written dozens of articles for military magazines, pg online @ <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.g2mil.com/Japan-bases.htm]]</span> //ghs-ef)

Keeping military families, … the Asian mainland.
===E) Geography=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">RIPS 7</span>
(Research Institute for Peace and Security, “Summary of the Report:

Strategic Implications for Japan of the Buildup of U.S. Bases in Guam September 2007”, <span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">[[http://www.rips.or.jp/english/seminars/guam.html/greenhill-chris|http://www.rips.or.jp/english/seminars/guam.html//greenhill-chris]]</span>)

The ongoing buildup … the Japan-U.S. alliance.
===Military readiness is key to heg=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Perry 06</span>
(William J. “The US Military: Under Strain and at Risk”, January, [[http://globalsecurity.org/military/library/report/2006/us-military_nsag-report_01252006.htm]])

In the meantime, … to some contingencies.
AND Heg is good
===American involvement is inevitable – effective hegemony is key to prevent nuclear conflict=== 
Zbigniew <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Brzezinski</span>, national security advisor under U.S. President Jimmy Carter, PHD, JAN/FEB 2012, “After America”, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com.ezproxy.baylor.edu/articles/2012/01/03/after_america?print=yes&hidecomments=yes&page=full]]</span>, KENTUCKY

Not so long … normally be conflict.
===AND – decline causes multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict=== 
Zbigniew <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Brzezinski</span>, national security advisor under U.S. President Jimmy Carter, is author of the forthcoming book Strategic Vision: America and the Crisis of Global Power, JAN/FEB 2012, “8 Geopolitically Endangered Species”, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com.ezproxy.baylor.edu/articles/2012/01/03/8_geopolitically_endangered_species?print=yes&hidecomments=yes&page=full]]</span>, KENTUCKY

With the decline … Persian Gulf allies.

Statistics prove
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Owen 11</span> associate professor of politics – University of Virginia, 2/11/’11 [John, “Don’t Discount Hegemony,” http://www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/11/john-owen/dont-discount-hegemony/]
Andrew Mack and … democracy remains strong.
===Plan solves coming Korean, Taiwan, and Indo-Pak wars – go nuclear=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Armitage et al., 2k </span>(Richard L. Armitage et al., 2000 Kurt M.Campbell, Michael J. Green, Joseph S. Nye et al. fmr. Dep. Secretary of State, CSIS, CFR, JFK School of Government at Harvard (also contributed to by James A. Kelly, Pacific Forum, Center for Strategic and International Studies; Edward J. Lincoln, Brookings Institution; Robert A. Manning, Council on Foreign Relations; Kevin G. Nealer, Scowcroft Group; James J. Przystup, Institute for National Strategic Studies, National Defense University; “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership”, Institute for National Strategic Studies Special Report, October, http://www.ndu.edu/inss/strforum/SR_01/SR_Japan.htm)

Asia, in the … global security strategy.




==Econ== 
===Guam’s econ is stagnating=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Guam EDA ‘11</span> (Guam Economic Development Authority Bureau of Statistics and Plans, University of Guam, Pacific Center for Economic Initiatives, “Guam Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy,”
<span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.bsp.guam.gov/Guam%202011%20Comprehensive%20Economic%20Development%20Strategy.pdf]]</span>, YX)

Guam has seen … 0.5% in 2008.

===Realignment solves – three reasons=== 
- Military spending is a quarter of Guam’s GDP
- Relocation increases population by 20%
- We control uniqueness – foreign investor pullout, businesses shrinking, tourism stagnating now
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AFP 2-29</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">-</span>12 (Agence France-Presse, February 29, 2012, “Economy Suffers as Guam Waits for <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.thejakartaglobe.com/|US Marines]]</span>,” <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.thejakartaglobe.com/business/economy-suffers-as-guam-waits-for-us-marines/501418]]</span>, YX)

Hagatna, Guam. Row … track,” he said.
===The link is reverse causal – failure to realign wrecks Guam’s economy=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Guam Economic Development Authority ‘11</span> (Guam Economic Development Authority Bureau of Statistics and Plans, University of Guam, Pacific Center for Economic Initiatives, “Guam Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy,”
<span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.bsp.guam.gov/Guam%202011%20Comprehensive%20Economic%20Development%20Strategy.pdf]]</span>, YX)

The U.S. Department … of Guam’s economy.
===Growth boosts trade relations=== 
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Calvo et. al. ‘8</span>// (Calvo, Fisher, and Jacob, law firm that specializes in civil litigation, international law, finance, real estate, land use and development, communications, business licensing, bank regulation and licensing, and government regulation, May 28, 2008, “U.S. Military Buildup and Rising Asian Economy Converge to Reshape Guam,” <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://calvofisher.com/news/20080528-military-buildup]]</span>)

ECONOMIC BOOM TIMES … persons or businesses.
===Increases Asian-Pacific trade=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Calvo ‘11</span> (Eddie, Governor of Guam, quoted and paraphrased by Kevin Kerrigan, writer for the Guam News, 9-27-11, “<span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://mail.pacificnewscenter.com/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=17402:governors-weekly-address&catid=45:guam-news&Itemid=156|Governor's Weekly Address: A Case for Guam's Economic as Well as Strategic Importance]]</span>,”

An Open Message … States of America.

===Solves global economic collapse, resource wars, the environment, genocides, terrorism, and global wars=== 
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Panzner ‘9</span>// (Michael Panzner, Prof. at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase, Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse, 2009, p. 136-138)
Continuing calls for … new world war.

=2AC Add-ons= 
==2AC Africa Wars Add-on== 
===African wars coming—goes nuclear=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Deutsch, 01</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Dr. Jeffery Deutsch, Founder – Rabid Tiger Project, 2001 [Rabid Tiger Newsletter, Vol. 2, No. 7, 11-18, http://www.rabidtigers.com/rtn/newsletterv2n9.html)</span>
The Rabid Tiger … to go fishing.

===Plan solves—allows intervention to de-escalate=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kamiya 12 </span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Matake Kamiya is Professor of International Relations at the National Defense Academy of Japan. He was a main author of the report Strategic Implications of an Ongoing Buildup of the US Bases in Guam for Japan, which the Research Institute for Peace and Security published in 2007, 6/20/12, “The Relocation of US Marines from Okinawa to Guam: Strategic Implications for Japan”, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.asianz.org.nz/our-work/track-2/opinions-essays/matake-kamiya%20//|http://www.asianz.org.nz/our-work/track-2/opinions-essays/matake-kamiya //]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Veevz)</span>
How should we … the United States.

==2AC Coral Reefs Add-on== 
===Guam Growth solves corals protection=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NOAA 10 </span>(national oceanic and atmospheric administration, 2010, “GUAM’S CORAL REEF MANAGEMENT PRIORITIES”, http://coralreef.noaa.gov/aboutcrcp/strategy/reprioritization/managementpriorities/resources/guam_mngmnt.pdf // Veevz)
Education and Outreach … and sustainable use.

===Extinction=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Philippine Daily Inquirer ‘2 </span>[“REEFS UNDER STRESS”, 12-10, L/N]
The artificial replacement … planet," she said.