[[toc]]

==Gender K== 

**IR is profoundly gendered. The process of making foreign policy relies upon a discourse of danger designed to secure the legitimation of masculine hegemony to suppress the feminine other. looking to the state as the primary actor in international relations makes violence inevitable**
**Steans 98** [Senior Lecturer in International Relations Theory, Director of the Graduate School for the University of Birmingham, 1998 (Jill, Gender and International Relations, An Introduction, page 108-109)]
Critical approaches to … to understand their lives.24

**Ignorance of gender makes their methodology suspect – error replication is inevitable. The alternative is to investigate how reality is constituted can we develop a basis for action and avoid error replication**
**Peterson and Runyan 99** [professor of political science at the University of Arizona and professor of women’s studies at Wright State University, 1999 (V. Spike and Anne, __Global Gender Issues__, 2nd edition, p. 1-3)]
Whenever we study a … and potentially disastrous, guides.
==Nietzsche K== 
**The aff creates a perfect world that they order themselves to – this engenders hate for the real world, forcing blame on their neighbor**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Paul </span>**Saurette**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, PhD in political theory at John Hopkins U, </span>**in 96**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> "I mistrust all systematizers and avoid them': Nietzshce, Arendt and the Crisis of the Will to Order in INternational Relations Theory." Millenium Journal of International Studies. Vol. 25 no. 1 page 3-6</span>
The Will to Order … philosophical principle of modernity.

**Risk is inherent – their fear of life robs them of everything worth living for.**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">James </span>**Der Derian, 93**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> professor of political science at the U Massachusetts-Amherst and prof of IR at Brown 93</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"The political subject of violence" ed. David Campbell and Michael Dillon, p 101-105</span>
Nietzsche and Interpretive Realism … of risks and benefits.

**Our alternative is to “Do nothing in the instance of the plan.” The refusal to act accepts the inevitability of struggle, allowing us to understand pain positively.**
**Nietzsche, ‘78** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The anti-christ //Human, All too Human.// Aphorism #284 1878</span>
The means to real peace… cloud—and from up high.
==Virilio K== 

**The drive to improve transportation infrastructure is rooted in a worship of speed—time conquers space as we seek endless acceleration which dissolves politics**
**Virilio, 1997**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School (Paul, Open sky, verso, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.rhizomes.net/issue8/kuswa.htm|print,]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 81-83) //BZ//</span>
//But let us get … long-distance to be connected.//

**Our worship of acceleration makes a catastrophic Accident inevitable—the politics of speed turn the case and guarantee war and extinction. Our alternative is the rejection of speed to create a new methodological lens**
**Sykes, 2009**//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – graduate student at the university of north texas (Jason, “Paul Virilio’s critique of speed, technology, and institutions”, pdf available online) </span>//BZ
In Virlio’s view, the … “We must politicize speed. (Virilio, 1983, pg. 35)”

==Apocalyptic Rhetoric K== 

**The affirmative characterizes climate change as an emergency – turns the advantage – our alternative is to use positive and compelling images of a desired future without warming. This does not preclude the possibility of doing the aff**
**Hodder and Martin 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Brian Martin is Professor of Social Sciences at the University of Wollongong, Australia.] Climate crisis? The politics of emergency framing Published in Economic and Political Weekly, Vol. 44, No. 36, 5 September 2009, pp. 53-60. Patrick Hodder and Brian Martin Faculty of Arts, University of Wollongong, Australia *Note: Steve Breyman, Holly Creenaune, Mark Diesendorf, Rowan Huxtable, Jørgen Johansen and Mary Scott made comments on drafts. They do not necessarily agree with the views expressed here.</span>
This frame - this way of … away from polluting industries.

**Frames are a prior question**
**Foust and Murphy 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-*Associate Professor in the Department of Human Communication Studies @ the University of Denver, PhD in Communication Studies @ University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill, **PhD in Communication Studies @ University of Denver (Christina, William, “Revealing and Reframing Apocalyptic Tragedy in Global Warming Discourse” A Journal of</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nature and Culture, Vol. 3, No. 2, pg. 153-154, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1080/17524030902916624]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, DKP]</span>
While frames ‘‘cannot … forecloses all individual judgments’’ (O’Leary, 1993, p. 409).

==Pos Peace K== 

**A crisis focused ethic is wrong – attention to isolated instances of warfare ignores the daily horrors of militarist exceptionalism. This is the precondition for any war to happen**
**Cuomo 1996** – PhD, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Department of Philosophy, University of Cincinnati (Chris, Hypatia Fall 1996. Vol. 11, Issue 3, pg 30)
In "Gender and `Postmodern' War," Robin Schott introduces … to be the inevitability of war and militarism.

**Our alternative is a focus on structural violence – it outweighs the case**
**Abu-Jamal 98** (Mumia, award-winning PA journalist, 9/19, http://www.flashpoints.net/mQuietDeadlyViolence.html)
We live, equally immersed, and to a deeper … terrible violence passes away with them.


==Tech K== 
**The affirmatives science and technology studies are infused with power relations and unintended destructive consequences. The alternative is philosophical science and technology, also known as personal Luddism – it is a pre-requisite to the effective outcomes and it’s a better ontological basis for your aff. That means no permutation can exist, discourse come first and shutting out our discourse demonstrates your power obsession**
**Winner 96** [Langdon Winner is Professor of Political Science in the Department of Science and Technology Studies at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, New York since 1990. In 1973, Winner graduated with a Ph.D. from the University of California, Berkeley. He was assistant professor in Leiden, at MIT, at the University of California, Los Angeles and at the University of California, Santa Cruz. From 1985 onwards he worked at the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute; he was a visiting professor at Harvey Mudd College. The Gloves Come off: Shattered Alliances in Science and Technology Studies Author(s): Langdon WinnerReviewed work(s):Source: Social Text, No. 46/47, Science Wars (Spring - Summer, 1996), pp. 81-91Published by: Duke University PressStable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/466845 .Accessed: 12/05/2012 11:19.]
The acrimonious disputes surrounding social studies of science … in the forefront of every backward step.

==Navy K== 

**Naval discourse is the normalization of patriarchy and us them perspectives – spills over**
**De Bere 2003**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Samantha Regan, lecturer at Peninsula College of Medicine and Dentistry, Military Masculinities Identity and the State, pgs.. 95-98)</span>
MILITARY MEN AND THEIR … service life as a whole.

**That is the root cause of war**
**Cockburn 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Cynthia, visiting prof in the Dept of Sociology at the City University London and honorary prof at the Center for the Study of Women and Gender at U Warwick, "Gender Relations as Causal in Militarization and War" International Feminist Journal of Politics 12.2 Jun]</span>
By contrast, patriarchal gender … of militarism and war.

**Our alternative is to reject Naval Sociology; this does not exclude the navy, only the underlying masculine identity.**
**De Bere 99**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> MILITARY IDENTITIES: MEN, FAMILIES AND OCCUPATIONAL CHANGE by SAMANTHA REGAN DE SERE A thesis submitted to the University of Plymouth in partial fulfilment for the degree of DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY Department of Sociology Faculty of Human Sciences August 1999</span>
The notion of social … is therefore useful here.

==Global Local K== 

**The affirmatives focus on governmental action leaves us powerless to the government and causes violence**
**Kielburger and Kielburger 07**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Craig Kielburger [Education: York University, University of Toronto, University of Trinity College, Schulich School of Business] and Marc Kielburger [Education: Harvard University, University College, Oxford] are founders of Free the Children and co-authors of Me to We. Act now to defy 'bystander effect' Published on Thursday March 29, 2007 Global Voices</span>
That's because most people … going on," he explains.

**Our alternative is the participation of (___) and I – epistemic location is key**
**Nayar 99** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Copyright (c) 1999 Transnational Law & Contemporary Problems Transnational Law & Contemporary Problems Fall, 1999 9 Transnat'l L. & Contemp. Probs. 599. “SYMPOSIUM: RE-FRAMING INTERNATIONAL LAW FOR THE 21ST CENTURY: Orders of Inhumanity” Jayan Nayar (Ph. D from the University of Cambridge, Professor of International Development Law and Human Rights and the University of Warwick) cylab.info/u/JQ/texts/Nayar-_Orders_of_Inhumanity.doc</span>
"We" are participants in … essential message of Mahatmas.