[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC- VMT-Valley== 
===Contention 1: Insolvency=== 
Highway demand continues to grow even as purchasing power erodes- the result is too little capital investment and loss of US economic competitiveness as VMT continues to rise
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">American Association State Highway and Transportation Officials 7 (American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, //“Transportation Invest In Our Future: Revenue Sources to Fund Transportation Needs,”// </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AASHTO</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">, September 2007, [[http://www.transportation1.org/tif4report/TIF4-1.pdf]]) DMD</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The future needs of the</span>U.S. surface transportation <span style="font-size: 8pt;">system are great and the</span> costs<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to provide them</span> are increasing<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Much of the system of highways, bridges, public transportation, and railroads built during the past century is getting older and needs ……………… </span>we are engaged in <span style="font-size: 8pt;">an intensive </span>competition<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the global economy</span>with <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Japan and Europe and</span> emerging economies such as China and India, all of which are investing<span style="font-size: 8pt;">massively </span>to modernize their transportation systems<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Our</span>current levels of capital investment<span style="font-size: 8pt;">for highways, transit and rail</span>fall<span style="font-size: 8pt;">40 to 50 percent </span>short of the levels needed.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The purchasing power of the funding currently provided is being undercut by rapidly increasing construction costs.</span>


An infrastructure funding crisis is imminent- failure to create a sustainable source of revenue will add to the deficit and stifle economic growth
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rahman et al 11 (Lazeena, Graduate School of Business and Public Policy student at Stanford, Kumi Harischandra, Justine Isola, and Anthony Suen, graduate students in Stanford’s International Policy Studies program, //“Going Forward: Prospects for Transitioning from Gas Taxes to Vehicle-Miles-Traveled Fees,”// Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 2011, p. ix) APB</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The National Surface Transportation Infrastructure Financing Commission predicts that if current policy stands,</span>the country will be faced with a funding gap of $400 billion between 2010 and 2015<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and $2.3 trillion from 2010 to 2035 (Figure 2).8 Figure 2: A widening gap between federal revenue and investment needs (2010-35) Source: “Paying Our Way: A New …………………..</span>Delaying a decision on <span style="font-size: 8pt;">whether to provide additional </span>funding<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to cover current shortfalls </span>will only further contribute to the <span style="font-size: 8pt;">national </span>deficit.


State mileage charges are inevitable, but the federal government must act now to ensure interoperability- this was the unanimous recommendation of the bipartisan Transportation Infrastructure Financing Commission
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">National Surface Transportation Infrastructure Financing Commission 9 (Chaired by Robert Atkinson, President of the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, //“Paying Our Way: A New Framework for Transportation Infrastructure,”// </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NTSIF Finance Commission</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">, February 2009, [[http://financecommission.dot.gov/Documents/NSTIF_Commission_Final_Report_Advance%20Copy_Feb09.pdf]]) LD</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Direct user charges in the form of </span>**__mileage-based user charges are the most__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">viable and </span>**__sustainable__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">long-term “user pay”</span> **__option__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">for the federal government to raise adequate and appropriate revenues to provide the federal share of funding for the system. Both real-world examples and academic research demonstrate that</span> **__VMT fee systems have the capacity <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">not only</span> to raise__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">……………. </span>quickly, lest states<span style="font-size: 8pt;">orregions</span>implement <span style="font-size: 8pt;">equipment and </span>technologies that will be incompatible<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and not easily retrofitted to any future national VMT-based charge technologies. While the initial investment of capital—financial, intellectual, and political—needed in the transition to a VMT-based system may be significant, the Commission unanimously agrees that this is the best path forward. A VMT-based charge system is the best option for raising the revenues the nation needs and supporting the national policy goals to which we aspire.</span>
===Plan=== 
Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment for implementation of distance based user fees in the United States.
===Advantage 1: Highways=== 
Transportation infrastructure investment is the foundation of US prosperity- current low levels of investment risk economic decline and loss of competitiveness
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mineta and Skinner, former US Secretaries of Transportation, 10 (Norman Y and Samuel K., former Secretaries of Transportation, //“Well Within Reach: America’s New Transportation Agenda,”// </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The Miler Center Conference Report</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">, 2010 [[http://web1.millercenter.org/conferences/report/conf_2009_transportation.pdf]]) Azimi</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Since our founding, the United States has been a nation on the move. From the great westward expansion of the 1800s to the completion of the first transcontinental railroad in 1869, the construction of the Interstate Highway System a century later, the advent of the mass-produced automobile, and the emergence of a modern commercial airline industry, mobility has been central to American ideals and identity—and to American prosperity. Today, some</span>4 million miles of roads<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 600,000 highway bridges, 117,000 miles of rail, 11,000 miles of transit lines, 19,000 airports, 300 ports, and 26,000 miles of commercially navigable …………….s, </span>and reducing<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the environmental and national security</span> liabilities of our continued dependence on petroleum<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> fuels for nearly all our transportation needs. The task is two-fold: to maintain and improve existing infrastructure and systems, which are increasingly overloaded and inadequately maintained, while also investing in the new systems and technologiesthat will be needed to meet the mobility needs of the future.</span>


New investments in transportation infrastructure are critical to US economic strength
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mineta and Skinner 10 (Norman Y and Samuel K., former Secretaries of Transportation, //“Well Within Reach: America’s New Transportation Agenda,”// </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The Miler Center Conference Report</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">, 2010 [[http://web1.millercenter.org/conferences/report/conf_2009_transportation.pdf]]) Azimi</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The United States, which once invested prodigiously in transportation infrastructure, has for more than a generation now leaned ever more heavily on assets built in a previous era. New investments have not sufficed to adequately maintain existing infrastructure, much less to develop the additional capacity and cutting-edge technologies needed to improve the performance of the overall transportation system in the face of growing demand. This approach has already had consequences: the amount of time and money lost to traffic congestion in major U.S. metropolitan areas keeps increasing and many transportation facilities are worn, overloaded, and inefficient. The result is a system that is too often aggravating and costly to its users: it is at best, highly susceptible to large-scale disruptions when even small things go wrong and, at worst, subject to catastrophic and occasionally deadly failures. Meanwhile, the nation’s dependence on polluting fuel, much of it imported from overseas, continues to grow; scarce public resources are used to build projects of dubious value while critical bottlenecks go unaddressed; and traditional planning processes remain fragmented and focused on building more roads rather than fostering livable communities. Longer term, one of the more worrisome consequences of staying the current course involves the potential loss of international competitiveness.</span>To compete with emerging economic powerhouses <span style="font-size: 8pt;">like China, </span>the United States will need <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to become more efficient. This includes making </span>new investments in transportation infrastructure<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. As a ………………omic </span>importance of the nation’s transportation system<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
Economic decline causes protectionism and war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Royal 10 (Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, //“Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,”// </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, 2010, p. 213-215)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict. Political science literature has contributed a moderate degree of attention to the impact of economic decline and the security and defense behavior of interdependent states. Research in this vein has been considered at systemic, dyadic and national levels. Several notable contributions follow. First, on the systemic level, Pollins (2008) advances Modelski and Thompson’s (1996) work on leadership cycle theory, finding that </span>rhythms in the global economy are associated with the<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> rise and </span>fall of a pre-eminent power and <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">……………….</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> arising</span> from economic decline<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, sitting </span>governments have<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> increase </span>incentives to fabricate <span style="font-size: 8pt;">external military </span>conflicts to create a ‘rally around the flag’ effect<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Wang (1996), DeRouen (1995), and Blomberg, Hess, and Thacker (2006) find supporting evidence showing that economic decline and use of force are at least indirectly correlated. Gelpi (1997), Miller (1999), and Kisangani and Pickering (2009) suggest that the tendency towards diversionary tactics are greater for democratic states than autocratic states, due to the fact that democratic leaders are generally more susceptible to being removed from office due to lack of domestic support. DeRouen (2000) has provided evidence showing that periods of weak economic performance in the United States, and thus weak Presidential popularity, are statistically linked to an increase in the use of force. In summary, recent economic scholarship positively correlated economic integration with an increase in the frequency of economic crises, whereas political science scholarship links economic decline with external conflict at systemic, dyadic and national levels. This implied connection between integration, crisis and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention.</span>


Loss of US competitiveness leads to major war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lieberthat & O’Hanlon 12 (Kenneth and Michael, //“The real national security threat: America’s debt,”// </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fremont Tribune</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">, June 6, 2012, [[http://fremonttribune.com/news/opinion/columnists/the-real-national-security-threat-america-s-debt/article_52706e86-c775-11e1-8cbd-0019bb2963f4.html]]) CAS</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Alas, globalization and automation trends of the last generation have increasingly called the American dream into question for the working classes. Another decade of underinvestment in what is required to remedy this situation will make an isolationist or populist president far more likely because much of the country will question whether an internationalist role makes sense for America — especially if it costs us well over half a trillion dollars in defense spending annually yet seems correlated with more job losses. Last, American</span> economic weakness undercuts U.S. leadership<span style="font-size: 8pt;">abroad. </span>Other countries sense our weakness<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ………………..,</span>there is <span style="font-size: 8pt;">now</span> a <span style="font-size: 8pt;">much</span> more urgent<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> big-picture</span> issue: restoring U.S. economic strength.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nothing else is really possible if that fundamental prerequisite to effective foreign policy is not re-established.</span>
Hegemony solves war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Khalilzad 95 (Zalmay, RAND, Former US Ambassador to the UN, //“Losing the moment? The United States and the world after the Cold War,”// </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The Washington Quarterly</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">, March 22 1995, http://www.accessmylibrary.com/article-1G1-16781957/losing-moment-united-states.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Under the third option, the</span> United States<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> would ………………………</span> of another hostile <span style="font-size: 8pt;">global</span> rival, enabling<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the United States and</span> the world to avoid <span style="font-size: 8pt;">another global cold or hot war and all the attendant dangers, including</span> a global nuclear exchange.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. leadership would therefore be more conducive to global stability than a bipolar or a multipolar balance of power system.</span>


===Advantage 2: Warming=== 
Warming is real and human caused
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rahmstorf 8 (Stefan, paleoclimatologist, Professor at the Potsdam Institute for Climate Research, //"Anthropogenic Climate Change: Revisiting the Facts,"// </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Potsdam Institute</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">, 2008, [[http://www.pik/|http://www.pik]] potsdam.de/~stefan/Publications/Book_chapters/Rahmstorf_Zedillo_2008.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This paper discussed the evidence for the anthropogenic increase in atmospheric CO2 concentration and the effect of CO2 on climate, finding that this</span>anthropogenic increase is proven <span style="font-size: 8pt;">beyond reasonable doubt and that a mass of evidence points to a CO2 effect on climate of 3°C ± 1.5°C global warming for a doubling of concentration. (This is the classic IPCC range; my personal assessment is that, in the light of new studies since the IPCC Third Assessment Report, the uncertainty range can now be narrowed somewhat ………………. of whom were initially quite skeptical, including myself) </span>that anthropogenic global warming is a reality<span style="font-size: 8pt;">with which we need to deal.</span>

Warming is the largest risk of extinction
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Deibel 7 (Terry L., professor of IR at National War College, //“Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today Anthropogenic – caused by CO2,”// </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Foreign Affairs Strategy</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">, 2007)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally, </span>there is one major existential threat <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to American security (as well as prosperity) of a nonviolent nature, which, though far in the future, demands urgent action.</span> It is the threat of global warming <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to the stability of the climate upon which all earthly life ………………. era’s </span>equivalent of nuclear winter <span style="font-size: 8pt;">at least as serious and considerably better supported scientifically. Over the long run </span>it puts dangers from <span style="font-size: 8pt;">terrorism and traditional </span>military challenges to shame. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is a threat not only to the security and prosperity to the United States, but potentially to the continued existence of life on this planet. </span>


Curbing VMT is critical to stabilizing warming- prevents loss of species, displacement, famine, and disease

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Sperling and Cannon 8 (Daniel, Professor of Civil Engineering and Environmental Science and Policy, Director of the Institute of Transportation Studies at the University of California, Davis, Acting Director of the UC Davis Energy Efficiency Center, and James, Editor of Energy Futures, //“Reducing Climate Impacts in the Transportation Sector,”// __Springer__, December 8, 2008, pg. 118) PCS</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Climate scientists now estimate that global</span> carbon emissions must stabilize at <span style="font-size: 8pt;">about 70-</span>80 percent below 1990 levels of CO2<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …………… </span>CO2 emissions <span style="font-size: 8pt;">from surface transportation in 2055 </span>93 percent above 1990 levels.
Only reducing vehicle miles traveled solves GHG emissions in the transportation sector

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Bishins et al 11 (Allison, Project Manager, US Transport and Climate, EMBARQ at World Resources Institute, Nathan Sandwick, research analyst in the U.S. Transport and Climate Program at EMBARQ at The World Resources Institute Center for Sustainable Transport, and Radha Neelakantan, Transportation Program Specialist at ITS America, //“The Role of Driving in Reducing GHG Emissions and Oil Consumption,”// __World Resources Institute__, 2011, pg. 1, [[http://pdf.wri.org/role_of_driving_in_reducing_ghg_emissions.pdf]]) PCS</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Transportation in the United States is at a critical juncture: Roads, bridges, transit, and rail are poorly maintained and underfunded, and the surface transportation reauthorization bill, with its expected performance management and financial reforms, has been delayed far beyond the original expiration date of September 2009. There is widespread recognition by citizens, politicians, and transportation advocates that </span>the current transportation system is unsustainable<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, both from a fiscal perspective (…………………..</span>in order to reduce GHG emissions and oil consumption.


Reducing emissions in the transportation sector is key to solve warming
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ewing et al 7 (research professor at the National Center for Smart Growth, University of Maryland, associate editor of the Journal of the American Planning Association, Keith Bartholomew, assistant professor of urban planning in the University of Utah’s College of Architecture and Planning, Steve Winkelman, director of the Transportation Program at the Center for Clean Air Policy, Jerry Walters, chief technical officer with Fehr & Peers Associates, a California- based transportation planning and engineering firm, and Don Chen, founder and executive director of Smart Growth America, has worked for the Surface Transportation Policy Project and the World Resources Institute, “//Growing Cooler: The Evidence on Urban Development and Climate Change//,” </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The Urban Land Institute</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">, 2007, [[http://postcarboncities.net/files/SGA_GrowingCooler9-18-07small.pdf]]) PCS </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Scientific consensus now exists that </span>greenhouse gas accumulations due to human activities are contributing to global warming <span style="font-size: 8pt;">with …………….</span> the growth of transportation CO2 emissions in the United States.
VMT reduction is key- technological advancements and fuel efficiency will be offset by massive VMT increases
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ewing et al 7 (research professor at the National Center for Smart Growth, University of Maryland, associate editor of the Journal of the American Planning Association, Keith Bartholomew, assistant professor of urban planning in the University of Utah’s College of Architecture and Planning, Steve Winkelman, director of the Transportation Program at the Center for Clean Air Policy, Jerry Walters, chief technical officer with Fehr & Peers Associates, a California- based transportation planning and engineering firm, and Don Chen, founder and executive director of Smart Growth America, has worked for the Surface Transportation Policy Project and the World Resources Institute, //Growing Cooler: The Evidence on Urban Development and Climate Change//, </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The Urban Land Institute</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">, 2007, [[http://postcarboncities.net/files/SGA_GrowingCooler9-18-07small.pdf]]) PCS </span>

Transportation CO2 reduction can be viewed as a three-legged stool<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, with </span>one leg related to vehicle fuel efficiency, a second to the carbon content<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of ………………. </span>many Americans now spend more time commuting than they do vacationing<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
===Contention 2: Solvency=== 
We can begin phasing in a VMT based system now- the Oregon trial demonstrates the concept is feasible and privacy can be protected, but Congress must act to create a national architecture
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wachs 9 (Martin, director of the Transportation, Space, and Technology Program at the RAND Corporation, //“After the Motor Fuel Tax Reshaping Transportation Financing,”// </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Issues in Science and Technology</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">, Summer 2009, http://www.issues.org/25.4/wachs.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Motor fuel taxes can continue to provide a great deal of needed revenue for a decade or two. But several types of more</span> efficient, and<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> more </span>equitable, user charges are ready to be phased in<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. ………………., </span>it should complement <span style="font-size: 8pt;">such</span> efforts by putting an early system into <span style="font-size: 8pt;">actual</span> application <span style="font-size: 8pt;">on a voluntary or limited basis. For numerous reasons, then, the time is near for Congress to act, and for citizens to ensure that it does. The debate that is about to begin will indicate whether the nation's system of governance has the ability to make complex technological choices that are both cost-effective and just. </span>


A VMT fee solves- it provides sustainable revenues for highway construction and maintenance and appropriately prices negative externalities
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mineta and Skinner 10 (Norman Y and Samuel K., former Secretaries of Transportation, //“Well Within Reach: America’s New Transportation Agenda,”// </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The Miler Center Conference Report</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">, 2010 [[http://web1.millercenter.org/conferences/report/conf_2009_transportation.pdf]]) Azimi</span>

The Interstate Highway System was built with the premise that users<span style="font-size: 8pt;">of roadways </span>would pay for them.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> As originally …………………………..of day </span>or differentiating<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> among </span>types of vehicles based on<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> their</span> emissions<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> performance or the amount of wear they impose on highways. In short, the technology exists to design funding mechanisms that are not only more rational, but that also create the market signals needed to address important transportation externalities.</span>
A fee of just 2 cents per mile is sufficient to maintain infrastructure investment over the long term
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mineta and Skinner 10 (Norman Y and Samuel K., former Secretaries of Transportation, //“Well Within Reach: America’s New Transportation Agenda,”// </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The Miler Center Conference Report</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">, 2010 [[http://web1.millercenter.org/conferences/report/conf_2009_transportation.pdf]]) Azimi</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There is a broad consensus that </span>federal highway<span style="font-size: 8pt;">maintenance and </span>investment<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> needs </span>should <span style="font-size: 8pt;">continue to</span> be funded through a user-pay system<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. ………………..</span> generate the revenue necessary to support an appropriate level of investment over the long term<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Because of these two features, many policy analysts view the VMT fee as a clear first choice compared to other new highway funding mechanisms that have been proposed or considered.</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">VMT fees effectively price sprawl and emissions, incentivizing better land use and eliminating unnecessary driving</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Harischandra et al 11(Kim, Research Economist in the Fraser Institute's Fiscal Studies Department, Justine Isola, Master's student at Stanford University studying international security and cooperation, Lazeena Rahman, Graduate Student at Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research, and Anthony Suen, Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research //“A Tax that’s Run Out of Gas,”// </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Stanford University,</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> 2011, pgs. 1-2, [[http://ips.stanford.edu/sites/default/files/shared/OpEd_Carnegie.pdf]] March 2011) ZLH</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Moving beyond gas taxes will not mean abandoning the environment or energy independence. </span>Charging drivers for being on the road would discourage unnecessary trips and reduce the number of hours Americans spend<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in ……………….. target diverse goals, but in line with the core objectives of the bipartisan fiscal commission, it</span> will also help us avoid a transportation system headed for insolvency.









==1AC- NIB- Valley== 
===Observation 1 – Lebron Stinson=== 
We begin this round by presenting the story of Lebron Stinson. Stinson lives in Chattanooga, Tennessee and is currently unemployed. He has realized something that many unemployed people across the nation know, the jobs are in one place, and he is in another. Without a car or proper access to public transportation, Stinson can’t get to those jobs. This article was written by Peter Goodman July 11th, 2012.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Unemployment Problem Includes Public Transportation That Separates Poor From Jobs, July 11th, 2012, __[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/07/11/unemployment-problem-public-transportation_n_1660344.html]]__)</span>
CHATTANOOGA, Tenn. -- In the two months since he lost his job driving a delivery truck for a door company…. had transport, I’d be back at work by now. I know this."

===<span class="Underline">Thus the plan:</span>=== 

<span style="font-size: 14pt;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States by creating the National Infrastructure Bank solely for the purpose of public transportation. </span>


===<span class="Underline">Observation 2 – Jobs</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">US federal transportation policy’s focus on a society that revolves around the movement of automobiles has disproportionately isolated the impoverished twice over </span>
**The Leadership Conference Education Fund 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Where We Need to Go: A Civil Rights Roadmap for Transportation Equity, March 2011)</span>
b. Transportation policy affects access to economic opportunity i. Current transportation policy fails to bridge the growing divide between… Those in rural areas often face challenges accessing __[[#|jobs in]]__ rural areas or traveling to jobs in the urban core.

Removing the barriers to a functional public transportation sector will unlock $1 trillion of economic potential
**Donohue, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> --- president and chief executive officer of the US Chamber of Commerce (9/8/2011, Thomas J., Christian Science Monitor, “The highway to jobs - via better infrastructure,” Factiva, JMP)</span>
Throughout America’s history, feats in infrastructure, like… Fortunately, we are the same nation that built our world-class system in the first place. If anyone is up to the challenge, we are. Thomas J. Donohue is president and chief executive officer of the US Chamber of Commerce, the world’s largest business federation

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">By ignoring the benefit of investing in Public Transportation, the United States will doom millions of Americans to the same fate as Lebron Stinson. </span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">RAHMAN ‘11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- former Ambassador and Chairman of the Centre for Foreign Affairs Studies. (Ashfaqur . “Another global __[[#|recession]]__?”. August 21. http://www.thedailystar.net/newDesign/news-details.php?nid=199461)</span>
Several developments, especially in Europe and the US, fan this fear… Therefore, <span class="Underline">we may be in a new double dip or W-shaped recession</span>.


The establishment of a National Infrastructure Bank addresses the isolation caused by the job deficit effecting 14 million Americans daily
**Tyson 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Professor @ the Haas School of Business of UC-Berkeley, PhD in Economics @ MIT, BA Summa Cum Laude in Economics @ Smith College, former Chair of the US President’s Council of Economic Advisers, served as the Director of the National Economic Council [Laura, The Washington Post, “What it will take for President Obama and big business to bring back American jobs,” 9/18/2011, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/on-leadership/for-president-obama-and-american-business-fixing-the-us-jobs-deficit/2011/08/18/gIQAhW8ZNJ_story.html]], DKP]</span>

The immediate crisis confronting the U.S. economy is the jobs deficit, not the budget deficit…. Obama administration to reduce multi-year delays in the approval of infrastructure projects that would otherwise create tens of thousands of good-paying jobs in the next few years.


By putting Lebron Stinson back to work we have the opportunity to increase the health and welfare of the impoverished and middle class of the United States
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">John Iceland 12, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">professor, Sociology, Penn State, 2012 [Poverty in America, 2012 p. 48]</span>
There are several reasons why poverty continues to be a critical issue in the United States. First, the hardship that often accompanies poverty plainly has adverse… stimulates economic growth and raises average standards of living.


===<span class="Underline">Observation 3 - Solvency</span>=== 

The National Infrastructure Bank will leverage private – public investments to fund projects of regional and national significance directing capital to the most important uses
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Rohatyn, 2011 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Felix G. Rohatyn, Special Advisor to the Chairman and CEO, Lazard Freres and Co. LLC, Brookings Institution, Council on Foreign Relations, “Infrastructure __[[#|Investment]]__ and U.S. Competitiveness” April 5, http://www.cfr.org/united-states/infrastructure-investment-us-competitiveness/p24585)</span>
<span class="Underline">While America's economic competitors and partners around the world make…</span> President <span class="Underline">Obama and Congress should take action promptly</span>.


The failing state of our transportation infrastructure is something that we can fix. The creation of a National Infrastructure Bank will allow for increased public investment in transportation infrastructure, leverage private investment, increase the share of money going to projects that need it, and make the current funding mechanisms easier and faster.
**Miller, Costa, and Cooper 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Keith Miller is an intern with the Economic Policy team at the Center for </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">American Progress and a __[[#|student]]__ at the Georgetown Public Policy Institute, Kristina Costa is a Research Assistant in Economic Policy at the Center for </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">American Progress, and Donna Cooper is a Senior Fellow with the Economic Policy team at the Center for American Progress. September 2012, [[http://www.americanprogress.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/InfrastructureBankReport.pdf|__http://www.americanprogress.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/InfrastructureBankReport.pdf__]])</span>
Infrastructure forms the foundation of the U.S. economy. Without highways, power… implemented by both industrialized and developing nations, while also encouraging the adoption of the best investment and planning practices at all levels.


We end our speech the way we began—with Lebron Stinson’s aspirations in an America with a current transportation policy creating roadblocks to reduce the job deficit

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">'I WAS A PART OF THAT'</span>



For Lebron Stinson, time seems… find a job with fair pay and be productive.'"