[[toc]]
=Intel= 
For Aff: Cites email: mazimi43@gmail.com
For neg Cites email: jake3111@gmail.com

Also see [[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Johns Creek (GA) - Jake Davis & Josh Foretich|Johns Creek DF]], [[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Johns Creek (GA) - Marcus Azimi & Chelsea Thorpe|Johns Creek AT]], or [[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Johns Creek (GA) - Marcus Azimi & Edward Xiao|Johns Creek AX]] for previously read arguments
=Affirmative= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Nuclearization**</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Contention 1: Duck**</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The national highway system was created as a mechanism for evacuation from nuclear war</span></span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Squires 9 </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Richard, The Interstate Sprawl System, </span>[[http://www.opednews.com/articles/The-Interstate-Sprawl-Syst-by-Richard-Squires-090112-110.html]]

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">The coup de grace came from the ... as joyful as a bureaucratic picnic</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nuclear defense uses the idea of all hazards planning to create an apparent affinity between natural disasters and nuclear exchange</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Clarke 99 </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lee, Prof of Sociology @ Rutgers , Mission Improbable: Using Fantasy Documents To Tame Disaster, pg. 73-4</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">The idea of "solving problems" i... hurricanes, earthquakes, and so forth.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The apparent affinity between nuclear war and natural disasters facilitates evacuation planning, this planning is a way to pretend that we can control the uncontrollable</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Clarke 99 </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lee, Prof of Sociology @ Rutgers , Mission Improbable: Using Fantasy Documents To Tame Disaster, pg. 98-100</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Once an affinity is created...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">social conflict, the topic of the next chapter.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This normalizes nuclear war and allows for the creation of artificially constructed “nuclear expertise”</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Clarke 99 </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lee, Prof of Sociology @ Rutgers , Mission Improbable: Using Fantasy Documents To Tame Disaster, pg. 97-8</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Folding natural disasters and nuclear attack into the same category ...reliable, that it can be drawn upon</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">These evacuation plans legitimize nuclear war and create a system of rationality that justifies new wars, torture and terror to be unleashed on the enemy de jour</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Dudely 7 </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Michael, Research Associate with the Institute of Urban Studies at the University of Winnipeg, Theory & Event, 10:2, Revisiting Cold War Ideology in the Secure City: Towards a Political Economy of Urbicide</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">20. In his 1999 book, Mission Improbable: ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;"> foray beyond received conventional wisdom is viewed as unthinkable.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Thus: Vote aff to increase our intellectual investment in transportation infrastructure by recognizing that nuclear evacuation plans legitimize unnecessary risks</span>**

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Hooch Octos-Contention two: Cover]]**Contention two: Cover**</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">These plans to use freeways to evacuate are fantasy documents, they aren’t intended to be used but serve a symbolic and rhetorical purpose in order to control the frame of debate, convincing the public that the risks our leaders take in our name are acceptable, while at the same time determining who can and who can’t speak on the issue of nuclear weapons. This system results in threat construction and risks annihilation. Voting Aff ruptures current politics and enables new ways of talking about the nuclear complex</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Clarke 99 </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Lee, Prof of Sociology @ Rutgers , Mission Improbable: Using Fantasy Documents To Tame Disaster, pg. 167-171</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">A short while ago I claimed that ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;"> frankly that they can not control the uncontrollable</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nuclear weapons play a role in our everyday lives, highways are just the most obvious marker, the entirety of the national infrastructure is built around the nuclear-industrial complex, causing massive deaths world-wide</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Masco 6 </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Joesph, Prof of Anthropology, U of Chicago, The Nuclear Borderlands, pg 24-7</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">The strange new intimacy of life in the nuclear age is ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">has engendered new tactile experiences of everyday life in the United States, and with them, new psychosocial realities.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The role of the ballot should be to vote for the team that best challenges nuclear weapons in our everyday lives.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Now is the key time to challenge the nuclear complex that we encounter every day without realizing it. Your ballot re-writes the history of the nuclear age </span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Masco 6 </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Joesph, Prof of Anthropology, U of Chicago, The Nuclear Borderlands, pg 3-5</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">The “unthinkability” of the nuclear age has right ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">and an anthropology of American power in the twenty-first century.</span>
=Negative= 
==Kritik== 

===Capitalism K=== 
**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Their leftist cultural critique is a diversion from serious class analysis—they reduce class to inequality, instead of a structural antagonism between labor and capital at the point of production. Giroux turns politics into symbolic contestation over culture, ignoring how the material and class forces shape agency. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Red Critique 2006</span>**(Winter/Spring, ‘The Opportunism of the Transpatriotic Left”, [[http://www.redcritique.org/WinterSpring2006/printversions/theopportunismofthetranspatrioticleftprint.htm]])

The new post-9/11 U.S. "… legitimates the free market.

**<span style="font-size: 110%;">B. Capitalism will cause extinction through environmental destruction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Foster, Clark, and York 10</span>** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(John Bellamy, Prof of Sociology @ U of Oregon, Brett, assist. prof of sociology @ NCSU, and Richard, assoc. prof of sociology @ U of Oregon, Monthly Review Vol. 62.6 November JF)</span>

Seen in the context of a capitalist society… and sustainability are the explicit goals.

**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Regardless of alternative solvency, you have an ethical obligation to attempt to transcend capitalism-- utopian thinking is key to the value of life</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Marsh 95 </span>**(James L., Professor of Philosophy at Fordham University, Critique, Action, and Liberation p. 331-336 GAL)

However, such a conception of reason is highly ….not having the veil pierced.

**<span style="font-size: 110%;">C. Our alternative is to vote negative to refuse to participate in activities which support capitalism. We must hollow out capitalist structures by refusing to invest our energy in reforms and rescue operations</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Herod 4 </span>**(James, Getting Free, [[http://site.www.umb.edu/faculty/salzman_g/Strate/GetFre/06.htm]])

It is time to try to describe, at …. and possibly even to extinction.

===Climate Catastrophism K=== 
**__First__, the affirmative frames climate change as a __security__ issue—this shapes the policy agenda and __allocates power to military leaders__.**
**Brzoska 8** (Michael Brzoska, Director of the Institute for Peace Research and Security Policy at the University of Hamburg, 2008 (“The Securitization Of Climate Change And The Power Of Conceptions Of Security,” Paper Prepared for the International Studies Association Convention in San Francisco, March 26-29, Available Online via All Academic at http://www.allacademic.com/meta/p253887_index.html, Accessed 03-15-2009)

As the growth in attention to the … to manage its consequences.

**__Second__, securitization of climate change __militarizes environmental approaches__ – this creates a __self-fulfilling prophecy__ that results in arms races and resource wars.**
**Brzoska 8** (Michael Brzoska, Director of the Institute for Peace Research and Security Policy at the University of Hamburg, 2008 (“The Securitization Of Climate Change And The Power Of Conceptions Of Security,” Paper Prepared for the International Studies Association Convention in San Francisco, March 26-29, Available Online via All Academic at http://www.allacademic.com/meta/p253887_index.html, Accessed 03-15-2009)

In the literature on securitization … thus leading to arms races.

**__Third__, conflicts over scarce resources will __destroy humanity__: __superweapons__ make __nuclear escalation__ inevitable.**
**Heinberg 4**,
Richard, Senior Fellow at the Post-Carbon Institute, 2004 (“Book Excerpt: Powerdown: Options and Actions for a Port-Carbon World,” News Gateway, September 26th, Available Online at http://www.energybulletin.net/node/2291, Accessed 12-04-2008)

Last One Standing – The path …conventional and nuclear weapons.

**The alternative is to __reject the securitization of climate change__. Their scenarios for destruction are __not inevitable__ – only __rejecting__ their constructions of climate insecurity can foster __effective conflict resolution__.**
**Brzoska 8** (Michael Brzoska, Director of the Institute for Peace Research and Security Policy at the University of Hamburg, 2008 (“The Securitization Of Climate Change And The Power Of Conceptions Of Security,” Paper Prepared for the International Studies Association Convention in San Francisco, March 26-29, Available Online via All Academic at http://www.allacademic.com/meta/p253887_index.html, Accessed 03-15-2009)

Secondly, the acceptance of … conflict from turning violent.
==Counterplans== 
===States CP=== 
**Text: The 50 states and relevant United States territories should substantially increase their funding of port security.**
**Port security is done by the states and it’s a relevant question**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Frittelli 05</span> – Specialist in Transportation Resources, Science, and Industry Division, Congressional Research Service (John F., May 27, 2005, “Port and Maritime Security: Background and Issues for Congress,” CRS, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/homesec/RL31733.pdf]])

Port Governance and Financing In considering … break even or are minimally profitable. 32
==Disads== 
===Fiscal Cliff DA=== 
**Congress will avoid the fiscal cliff --- this includes a framework for a __broader deal__.**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Cohn 11/26</span>** staff writer at the hill, (Cohn, “GOP, Dem lawmakers see room for compromise ahead of fiscal talks”, 11/26/12, CNN, [[http://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/news/269265-dems-gop-see-room-for-compromise-ahead-of-fiscal-cliff-talks]], //CJD)//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As they return to Washington this …</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> table in order to reach a deal</span>//


//**The plan is a political nightmare**//
//**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Weisman 06</span>** (Jonathan Weisman 5/5/06 Washington Post Staff Writer, “House Passes $7.4 Billion Port Security Bill” [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2006/05/04/AR2006050401672.html]])//



//Republicans had voted several … feasibility of 100 percent screening.//

//**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Presidential leadership is key to a compromise – failure causes middle east war</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 90%;">Hutchison,</span>** U.S. Senator from the great state of Texas, **9/21/**2012//
//(Kay Bailey, “A Looming Threat to National Security,” States News Service, Lexis)//

//__Despite warnings of …__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> economic growth and punish working families.</span>//

//**Extinction**//
//**Russell 9** (James A. Russell, Senior Lecturer, National Security Affairs, Naval Postgraduate School, ‘9 (Spring)//

//“Strategic Stability Reconsidered: Prospects for Escalation and Nuclear War in the Middle East” IFRI, Proliferation Papers//, #26, __http://www.ifri.org/downloads/PP26_Russell_2009.pdf__)
__Strategic stability__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in …l risk for the </span>__entire world.__

===Electricity Price DA=== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">A. Electricity prices are declining</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Burtraw 8/21/12 </span>**(one of the nation’s foremost experts on environmental regulation in the electricity sector “Falling Emissions and Falling Prices: Expectations for the Domestic Natural Gas Boom” http://common-resources.org/2012/falling-emissions-and-falling-prices-expectations-for-the-domestic-natural-gas-boom/)

Moreover, the boom in domestic natural … in savings projected for 2020.

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">B. Plan increases prices</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Greenpeace 8</span>**("False Hope - Why carbon capture and storage won’t save the climate, "[[@http://www.greenpeace.org/international/en/publications/reports/false-hope/]])

While cost estimates for CCS …types of sustainable biomass.¶ 28

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">C. Low electricity prices spurs manufacturing "reshoring" and sparks US economic growth via consumer spending and investment </span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**Perry 7/31**/12 </span>(Mark, Prof of Economics @ Univ. of Michigan, "America's Energy Jackpot: Industrial Natural Gas Prices Fall to the Lowest Level in Recent History," http://mjperry.blogspot.com/2012/07/americas-energy-jackpot-industrial.html)

Building petrochemical plants could … win, win, win situation to me.


**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">D. Manufacturing strength is key to both the economy and military power </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ettlinger and Gordon 11 </span>**(Michael and Kate, the Vice President for Economic Policy at the Center for American Progress, former director of the Economic Analysis and Research Network of the Economic Policy Institute and Vice President for Energy Policy at the Center for American Progress. Most recently, Kate was the co-director of the national Apollo Alliance, where she still serves as senior policy advisor. Former senior associate at the Center on Wisconsin Strategy, "The Importance and Promise of American Manufacturing" [[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/04/pdf/manufacturing.pdf-)]]

Manufacturing is critically … trade embargoes to natural disasters.

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">E. Econ decline risks extinction </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Auslin 9 </span>**(Michael, Resident Scholar – American Enterprise Institute, and Desmond Lachman – Resident Fellow – American Enterprise Institute, “The Global Economy Unravels”, Forbes, 3-6, http://www.aei.org/article/100187)

What do these trends mean in the short … that coalesce into a big bang.

==Strategies== 
===Ohio Valley=== 
**Round 1 vs. Niles West AM**
Aff: Port Security (Terrorism, Economy)
1NC: Security K, States CP, T-TI, Fiscal Cliff DA, Case
2NC: Security K, T, Case
1NR: Fiscal Cliff DA
2NR: Fiscal Cliff DA, Case ( The K was used as Case Defense)

**Round 3 vs. Dexter SM**
Aff: CCS (Warming, Framing)
1NC: Electricity Price DA, Climate Catastrophism K, T-TI, Case
2NC: K, Case
1NR: Electricity Price DA
2NR: DA, Case

**Round 5 vs. BCC BG**
Aff: Race
1NC: Framework, Cap K, T- Investment, Case
2NC: Cap, Case
1NR: Framework
2NR: Cap K



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]