[[toc]]
=Round 1= 
==1AC - MARS== 
**Observation One: A Failure of Imagination**
**War is normal and inevitable – our history is one of wars – between 2 and 3 per year for all of human history. But we misrepresent and distort the significance of war as victory, instead war’s meaning lies in the battle itself.**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hillman 87 </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">(James, A Founding Fellow of the Dallas Institute of Humanities and Culture, “Wars, Arms, Rams, Mars: On the Love of War,” in Facing Apocalypse edited by Valerie Andrews, Robert Bosnak, Karen Goodwin)</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">During the 5,600 years of written </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">the war, but by the battle itself.</span>

**Our American consciousness cannot comprehend the love of battle- our hatred for war and our desire for wars for the sake of peace cause us to commit violence against even war itself**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hillman 87 </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">(James, A Founding Fellow of the Dallas Institute of Humanities and Culture, “Wars, Arms, Rams, Mars: On the Love of War,” in Facing Apocalypse edited by Valerie Andrews, Robert Bosnak, Karen Goodwin)</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Our American consciousness has extreme difficulty with Mars</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">, overkill as a way to end war.</span>

**Modern society conflates civil and military archetypal perspectives- this masking of war causes us to erupt violently in our never-ending quest against delusional enemies**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hillman 87 </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">(James, A Founding Fellow of the Dallas Institute of Humanities and Culture, “Wars, Arms, Rams, Mars: On the Love of War,” in Facing Apocalypse edited by Valerie Andrews, Robert Bosnak, Karen Goodwin)</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Our immigrant dream of escape</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> from conscription into </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">, and as paranoid defenses against delusional enemies</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">.</span>

**The imagination of war without the imagination of the spiritual and the mythical results in dangerous literalism- making war and apocalypse more likely**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hillman 87 </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">(James, A Founding Fellow of the Dallas Institute of Humanities and Culture, “Wars, Arms, Rams, Mars: On the Love of War,” in Facing Apocalypse edited by Valerie Andrews, Robert Bosnak, Karen Goodwin)</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">We do not know much nowadays about imagining </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">his warriors to separate themselves from his dominion.</span>

**War is the primary psychological task that shapes all of our notions about society. Unless we come to terms with the war in each of us, our desire for war will lash out and push us closer and closer to annihilation.**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hillman 04</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> (James, retired Director of the Jung Institute, “A Terrible Love of War”, The Penguin Press, ISBN 1-59420-011-4, pgs 1-3)</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">One sentence in one scene from one film</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">. That is the purpose of this book.</span>


**Observation Two: Dropping the Bomb**
**The current U.S. production of space is one of control- space is utilized as a way to maintain order and sanitize war**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Orr, 4</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;"> – Professor of Sociology at Syracuse University (Jackie, The Militarization of Inner Space, Critical Sociology, Sage Journals)</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">“[Every American is a soldier” now</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND </span>__**
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">of civil society for</span>__**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">the production of</span>//<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">violence.</span>//

**The movement of war up into space doesn’t engage our desire to fight- we view war as a curable affliction**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hillman 04</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13.3333px;"> (James, retired Director of the Jung Institute, “A Terrible Love of War”, The Penguin Press, ISBN 1-59420-011-4, pgs 90-92)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13.3333px;">Why dwell on this archaic god of war </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13.3333px;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13.3333px;">and maneuvers of the mind would be enough.</span>


**This rejection of war has pushed the martial into the nuclear- we cannot think of war without thinking about the bomb**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hillman 87 </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">(James, A Founding Fellow of the Dallas Institute of Humanities and Culture, “Wars, Arms, Rams, Mars: On the Love of War,” in Facing Apocalypse edited by Valerie Andrews, Robert Bosnak, Karen Goodwin)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">So far </span><span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">I have been stressing the distinction </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">trains, hedgerows, bad weather, impedimenta</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">.</span>

**This nuclear imagination results in psychic numbness and the destruction of the soul**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hillman 87 </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">(James, A Founding Fellow of the Dallas Institute of Humanities and Culture, “Wars, Arms, Rams, Mars: On the Love of War,” in Facing Apocalypse edited by Valerie Andrews, Robert Bosnak, Karen Goodwin)</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Quite different is the transcendent experience of the </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">those same, not their own, Gods?</span>

**A destroyed psyche is the root of all violence. Genocide and extinction are the end result of a soulless understanding of the world.**
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Walter A. </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Davis in 2001</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> (//Deracination: Historicity, Hiroshima, and the Tragic Imperative.// State Univesrity of New York Press, p. 95-96)</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">It is never enough</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> however. Inner discord </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">ghostly articulation in Kant’s struggle with the sublime. </span>


**Observation Three: The Role of the Ballot**
**A) Psyche first**
**The psyche exists and comes first – it shapes our understanding of the world – everything depends on it. The resolution should only be evaluated on its psychological qualities.**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Jung 06</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> (Carl G., renowned scholar of psychoanalysis and founder of the Jung Institute, __The Undiscovered Self__, New American Library, New York, 81-83)</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">For more than fifty years we have known</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">observed every day and can happen to everyone.</span>
==== ==== 
**Refusing to operate on the terrain of the psyche ensures a loss of soul. This state of dehumanization destroys any meaning to life and risks death.**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hillman 1990</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> (James, has written dozens of critically acclaimed books, received his PhD from the </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Zurich|University of Zurich]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">, and is a retired Director of the Jung Institute, “A Blue Fire”, //a blue fire//, Routledge; 1 edition p. 17-18)-mikee</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Anthropologists describe a condition among "primitive" </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">"modern man in search of a soul</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">."</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">B) Our interpretation:</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The judge should endorse the best psychological approach to the resolution.</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">This necessarily requires affirmation. It requires saying ‘yes’ to Mars, ‘yes’ to exploration, and ‘yes’ to the topic itself.</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Therefore, we psychologically and emphatically affirm the text:</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its exploration of Mars.</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">All we have in this debate space is our imagination and our relationships. The ballot is the most tangible form of relating and it signifies an endorsement of the best types of relationships. If we win our plan is psychologically beneficial, you should vote aff.</span>**</span>

**C) Solvency**
**Every ancient culture has associated the red planet with its god of war. Even our modern name for this planet invokes the Roman god who ruled over the battlefield**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Cochrane 97</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> (Ev Cochrane, the publisher of Aeon, and the author of several books, and numerous articles on comparative mythology and archaeoastronomy, associate editor of Kronos, October 1997, //Martian Metamorphoses: The Planet Mars in Ancient Myth and Religion//, Preface</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Earthlings have long been fascinated by the planet </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">with the cycle of myths associated with Heracles.</span>

**We need to look again at Mars and revaluate our relationship to war- love and war, Venus and Mars, are not alternatives but inextricably bound together**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hillman 87 </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">(James, A Founding Fellow of the Dallas Institute of Humanities and Culture, “Wars, Arms, Rams, Mars: On the Love of War,” in Facing Apocalypse edited by Valerie Andrews, Robert Bosnak, Karen Goodwin)</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Love and war have traditionally been coupled in </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Achilles on which is engraved the whole world</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">.</span>

**Only by embracing Mars, by entering into its archetypal image, can we ever prevent the worst forms of war. We cannot solve our problems by avoiding them, but we need to sympathetically imagine them.**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hillman 87 </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">(James, A Founding Fellow of the Dallas Institute of Humanities and Culture, “Wars, Arms, Rams, Mars: On the Love of War,” in Facing Apocalypse edited by Valerie Andrews, Robert Bosnak, Karen Goodwin)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> I seem to have been making a </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">AND </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">images: the magic of sacred protection</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">. 3</span>

I**nvoking Mars, the god of awakenings, is the only way to cut through the thicket in our numbed minds**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hillman 87 </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">(James, A Founding Fellow of the Dallas Institute of Humanities and Culture, “Wars, Arms, Rams, Mars: On the Love of War,” in Facing Apocalypse edited by Valerie Andrews, Robert Bosnak, Karen Goodwin) </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">My thoughts have been intended to regain </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">into plowshares, hammered, twisted, wrought.</span>

**D) Our Method**
**The negative will attempt to map out the topic and psychologically attempt to silence the soul within the topic by trying to empiricize and literalize it, looking at implementation, and attempting to get the upper hand. The entire ethos of traditional debate is one that tries to fix, control, and cure the symptoms and problems in the world instead of being open to the world as it presents itself. This is the plan of archetypal psychology: to explore our deep psychological commitments and affirm our most terrorizing images of the world**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hillman 1990</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> (James, has written dozens of critically acclaimed books, received his PhD from the </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Zurich|University of Zurich]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">, and is a retired Director of the Jung Institute, “A Blue Fire”, //a blue fire//, Routledge; 1 edition p. 10-11)-mikee</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Hillman's later essays flash with the passion he </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">of soulful work, love, and play. </span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">our commitment to allies and friends</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">, underwrites regional stability, gains us familiarity with overseas operating environments, promotes combined training among the forces of friendly countries and provides timely initial response capabilities.</span>

**To explore is to is to be open to, or to stand in wonder of. By entering into the image of Mars and discovering its archetypal qualities, we can metaphorically empower our conception of the red planet**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Hillman 1990</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> (James, has written dozens of critically acclaimed books, received his PhD from the </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Zurich|University of Zurich]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">, and is a retired Director of the Jung Institute, “A Blue Fire”, //a blue fire//, Routledge; 1 edition p. 24-26)-mikee</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Te use of allegory as a defense continues </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">in Whitehead's sense), a word that values.</span>

=Round 2= 
==1NC - vs PACS== 
===**T - Human**=== 
===**DOD Trade-Off DA**=== 
===**Piety K**=== 
**Debate is full of false idols and irrational beliefs. Piety must be interrogated.**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Clayton Crockett 2003, Assistant Professor of Religion at the University of Central Arkansas and Editor of the Journal for Cultural and Religious Theory (“PIETY, POWER, AND BARE LIFE: WHAT IN THE WORLD IS GOING ON IN THE NAME OF RELIGION?” JCRT 4.3 AUGUST 2003 1)-mikee</span>
//<span style="font-size: 90%;">Goodchild attends to experience in order … modern capital and its abstract values.</span>//

**The affirmative theory of politics makes sovereignty sacred. Worshiping the state makes extinction inevitable.**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Beres 94 (Louis Rene, Ph.D., Princeton University, 1971. Professor of International Law, Department of Political Science, Purdue University, “SELF-DETERMINATION, INTERNATIONAL LAW AND SURVIVAL ON PLANET EARTH”, Arizona Journal of International and Comparative Law, Spring)</span>
//<span style="font-size: 90%;">The State presents itself as sacred. ….we encourage not immortality but premature and predictable extinction.</span>//

**The aff is cosmic narcissism. Making themselves into their own deity.**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Dickens and Ormrod 7 (Peter Dickens, Fellow of the Faculty of Social and Political Sciences at University of Cambridge, UK and Visiting Professor of Sociology at University of Essex, UK, and James Ormrod, Teaching Fellow in the Department of Sociology at University of Essex, UK, “Outer Space and Internal Nature: Towards a Sociology of the Universe,” Sociology, Volume 41(4): 609–626, SAGE Card includes the INTRO and CONCLUSION)</span>
//<span style="font-size: 90%;">INTRO As societies interact with nature, … are now at a tipping point.</span>//

**The aff’s impact claims are securitized expressions of their fear of death. They are fascinated with it, they will become it.**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Long in 2003 (D. Stephen, assistant professor of theology at Garrett-Evangelical Theological Seminary, Divine Economy, Routledge, p.151)</span>
//<span style="font-size: 90%;">This classical account of capitalist economics …. that is secure neither in itself nor in its extinction but only in its gratuitous generation from an eternal God.</span>//

**State-based piety condemns the world to violent wars.**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Cavanaugh 1999 (William T,. Professor of Theology, Cambridge “The City: Beyond Secular Parodies” Radical Orthodoxy pgs. 192-193)</span>
//<span style="font-size: 90%;">The state has promised peace but has brought …binding us one to another.</span>//

**The Alternative: Vote negative to embrace apocalyptic piety. It solves.**
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Lars Iyer in 2004 (Lecturer in Philosophy at the University of Newcastle . Author of many articles and books in Continental Philosophy. “Capitalism and Religion” JCRT 5.2 April, 2004, pg. 115)-mikee</span>
//<span style="font-size: 90%;">Pierre Bourdieu writes of the mason who forewent the … heaven and hell. It is compassion. (243)</span>//

===**Case**=== 
**Hege Bad (War, China & Terror)**
**Coop now, China Threat Con (Pan)**
**Solvency**


=Round 3= 

=Round 4= 

=Round 5= 

=Round 6= 

=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]