[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
===Whitman=== 
===Inherency=== 



The federal government has chosen to maintain four major dams in the Snake River – __despite the recommendation__ of an impartial judge and trend towards dam removal

William <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Yardley</span></span>, writer for New York Times, 4/26/<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">2012</span></span> (April 26, 2012, “Now Off Case, Judge Weighs In on Dams”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/04/27/us/judge-says-snake-river-dams-should-go.html]])

“SEATTLE — A federal judge… and I did.”



===Advantage 1 Salmon=== 



The Snake River dams are killing sockeye salmon – it’s a keystone species

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Gray</span></span>, writer for Men’s Journal, 3/13/<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">2012</span></span> (Kevin, “Last Chance to Save the Salmon” Mens Journal, [[http://www.bluefish.org/lastsave.htm]])


“On the Lower Snake River… The culprit is these gargantuan dams.”



137 species rely on Snake River salmon for survival – including birds and land animals

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">S</span></span>ave <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">O</span></span>ur <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">W</span></span>ild <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">S</span></span>almon<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; font-weight: normal; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">, environmental advocacy group,</span> </span>3/6/<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">2009</span></span> (“Why Restore Wild Salmon?”, Save Our Wild Salmon,

[[http://www.wildsalmon.org/facts-and-information/faq/why-restore-wild-salmon.html]])


“Salmon and steelhead represent a… and again feed the people and wildlife of the Pacific Northwest.”



Loss of biodiversity causes human extinction

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Diner 1994 </span></span>

(Judge Advocate’s General’s Corps of US Army, David N., Military Law Review, Winter, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161,)


“No species has ever dominated… hu]mankind may be edging closer to the abyss.”





__Orca whales__ need the salmon – only removing the dams helps both species survive

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Hawley</span></span>, environmental journalist,<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> 2010</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Steven, journalist, author of //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">Recovering a Lost River: Removing Dams, Rewilding Salmon, Revitalizing Communities</span>//, quotes Ken Balcomb, </span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">director for the Center for Whale Research on San Juan Island in Puget Sound</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">, “The Idaho Tide,” Summer, </span>[[http://www.patagonia.com/us/patagonia.go?&assetid=53761]]<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">, LVS)</span>


“The sin lies not in the wilderness, but in the dammed… advantage of it is to tear out the dams.”





Puget Sound orcas are key to the global ocean ecosystem

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">National Wildlife Federation 06 </span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(“Orcas on the Edge,” 10/1, http://www.nwf.org/News-and-Magazines/National-Wildlife/Animals/Archives/2006/Orcas-on-the-Edge.aspx)</span>


“Saving Puget Sound orcas… two-thirds of our planet."





Marine ecosystem collapse causes extinction of all species

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Craig</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: Arial;">, Associate Professor of Law, Indiana University School of Law,</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> 2003</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: Arial;">(Robin Kundis, Associate Professor of Law, Indiana University School of Law, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155)</span>


“Biodiversity and ecosystem…- even if a few fishers go out of business as a result.”





===Advantage 2 Natives=== 

Salmon are key to the Columbia Basin Tribes’ culture.

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Barnes 01</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Erin Barnes, undergrad university of va, A History of the Grand Coulee Dam 1801-2001, http://xroads.virginia.edu/~ug02/barnes/grandcoulee/natcult.html)phol</span>


“While the Americans were purebred… the return of the salmon was a relief of a huge anxiety.”





Construction of Dams cause the cultural genocide of Native Americans through force relocation and destruction of ancestral lands

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Shields 08</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Talena Shields, Portland State University, May 5, 2008, Design & Society, Is Constructing Large Dams Ethical?, http://web.pdx.edu/~talena/Are%20Big%20Dams%20Ethical.htm)phol</span>


“To answer this question… same needs as we did then.”





Genocidal mindset makes life not worth living – destroys the sanctity of life.

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-ansi-language: DE;">Alford 90</span></span><span style="mso-ansi-language: DE;"> (C. Fred Alford, Ph. </span>D UT is a prof. of Government and Politics at the University of Maryland, March 1990, //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">Political Psychology, </span>//Vol. 11 No.1, pp 5-27, “The Organization of Evil,” JSTOR #!tylerd)


“At the end of this train of genocidal thought… wholly evil world, made so by his own badness”





Cultural Genocide is worse than death-destroys all connections and the value of life

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Card 03</span></span> (Claudia Card is professor of philosophy at University of Wisconsin, Winter 2003, Hypatia, vol. 18 issue 1, JSTOR #!tylerd)


“Specific to genocide is the harm inflicted on its victims' social vitality… meaninglessness of one's life and even of its termination.”



Survival of Native culture solves human extinction—it’s key to every other impact.

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Weatherford 94</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Jack, Anthropologist, Savages and Civilization: Who Will Survive?, pp. 287-291)phol</span>


“Today we have no local and regional civilizations… wonder why we disappeared.”





===Solvency=== 

=== === 

===Plan:The United States Federal Government should remove the Ice Harbor, Lower Monumental, Little Goose, and Lower Granite dams.=== 

==== ==== 
Removing the dams helps salmon and creates a waterway

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-ansi-language: ES; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">CNN 1999</span></span>

<span style="mso-ansi-language: ES;">(http://articles.cnn.com/1999-07-26/nature/9907_26_dam.enn_1_ice-harbor-dam-removal-dam-study?_s=PM:NATURE)</span>


“The resolution is nonbinding… conservation and public policy for the American Canoe Association]”



<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Federal government key-Only removal by the Army Corp of Engineers can restore Snake River salmon </span></span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Blumm</span></span>, professor at Lewis & Clark law school, <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">2012</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> (Faculty Scholar and Professor of Law, “The Real Story Behind the Columbia Basin Salmon Debacle: Dam Preservation Under the Endangered Species Act,” February 17, </span>[[http://elawreview.org/2012/02/the-real-story-behind-the-columbia-basin-salmon-debacle-dam-preservation-under-the-endangered-species-act/]]<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">, LVS)</span>


“This review of Steven Hawley’s provocative book, Recovering a Lost River: Removing Dams, Rewilding Salmon, Revitalizing… and regional policy for more than three decades.”



Removing the dams is the only cost-effective option

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Mace</span></span>, Inland Northwest Project Director @ Save Our Wild Salmon, advocacy organization, 4/1/<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">2009</span></span> (Sam, “Stuck in the Mud” Wild Salmon

[[http://www.wildsalmon.org/facts-and-information/the-problems/stuck-in-the-mud-growing-flood-risk-growing-costs-with-keeping-the-lower-snake-river-dams.html]])


“CORPS’ PREFERRED SOLUTIONS: COSTLY, UNREALISTIC, OR BOTH… statement in 2008-9 if sufficient funding is secured.”





Our Aff’s Commitment to biodiversity breaks down the dominant structures that cause suffering. We uniquely solve for the evils of patriarchy, violence, colonialism, militarism, and globalization. We solve all your impacts by recognizing the biological imperative

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Hawthorn 01</span></span> (Gale Group, “wild politics: feminism, globilization, and biodiviserty”)


“Beyond that, there are the many millions whose… inspiration for changing how we think and how we act.”



===No War=== 

International conflict is obsolete - the costs far outweigh any benefits

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Mandelbaum</span>**, Christian A. Herter Professor and Director of the American Foreign Policy program at Johns Hopkins University, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">1999 </span>**[Michael Mandelbaum. “Is Major War Obsolete?” Great Debate Series. February 25, 1999. [[http://www.ciaonet.org/conf/cfr10/]]]

“My argument says… our own, liberalism, tends to be pacific.”





Prefer our data – empirics disprove the vast majority of war and escalation claims

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Goldstein</span>**, professor emeritus of international relations at American University, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">and Pinker</span>**, psychology professor at Harvard, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">2011 </span>**[Joshua S. Goldstein and Steven Pinker. “War is really going out of style.” The New York Times. December 18, 2011. Lexis.] AP

“THE departure of the last American troops from Iraq… win a war at an acceptable cost.”





The media exaggerates violence – war is on the decline

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Goldstein 2011 </span>**[Joshua Goldstein, professor emeritus of international relations at American University. “Think again: war.” Foreign Policy. Sept/Oct 2011. [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/08/15/think_again_war?page=full]]] AP

“If the world feels like a more violent place… standards have risen."



No war – interstate conflicts are obsolete because of a shift in tactics

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Goldstein 11 </span>**[Joshua Goldstein, professor emeritus of international relations at American University. “Think again: war.” Foreign Policy. Sept/Oct 2011. [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/08/15/think_again_war?page=full]]] AP


“Armed conflict has declined in… fewer in 2007 than in 1990.”

=Negative= 
===**Whitman Strats**=== 
Round 1 Neg Bingham TH (NIB)
1NC
-T-in
-T-Transportation Infrastrucutre
-T-increase
-China Fund CP
-Bonds NB
-Cyber Security Da
-Elections Da
-Cap K
-Case

2NR-
China Fund CP
Cyber Security DA


Round 3 Neg Bingham HM (Icebreakers)
1NC
-T-in
-T-Transportation Infrastrucutre
-China Fund CP
-Cyber Security Da
-Elections Da
-Cap K
-Case

2NR
-T-in


Round 6 Eagle RR (Icebreakers)
1NC
-T-in
-T-Transportation Infrastrucutre
-China Fund CP
-Cyber Security Da
-Elections Da
-Cap K
-Case

2NR
-Cyber Security Da
-Case
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]



<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 124px; width: 1px;"> “Armed conflict has declined in… fewer in 2007 than in 1990.”</span>