[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==[[#Affirmative-National Infrastructure Bank]]National Infrastructure Bank== 
===[[#Affirmative-National Infrastructure Bank-1AC]]1AC=== 
====[[#Affirmative-National Infrastructure Bank-1AC-1AC Inherency]]<span class="Underline">1AC Inherency </span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Congress just passed a massive transportation bill** </span>
<span class="Underline">**AP 6/29/12** (“Congress passes highway jobs bill, halts student loan rate hike,” Associated Press, [[http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2012/06/29/house-passes-highway-jobs-bill-halts-student-loan-rate-hike/]])//JM</span>
<span class="Underline">Congress has passed a massive measure that will…Keystone XL pipeline was dropped from the measure.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Unfortunately it fails** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Freemark 7/1** – Yonah, Urbanist and journalist who has worked in architecture, planning, and transportation (Congress Passes Major Transportation Bill, Preserving the Status Quo, The Transport Politic, July 1, 2012, [[http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2012/07/01/congress-passes-major-transportation-bill-preserving-the-status-quo/]])</span>
<span class="Underline">On Friday, the U.S. House and Senate passed MAP-21*, the…that funds must be identified from elsewhere.</span>

====[[#Affirmative-National Infrastructure Bank-1AC-1AC Economy]]<span class="Underline">1AC Economy</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Three internal links –**</span>

<span class="Underline">**First is declining infrastructure --- it is undermining the foundation of the U.S. economy** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Donohue, 11** --- president and chief executive officer of the US Chamber of Commerce (9/8/2011, Thomas J., Christian Science Monitor, “The highway to jobs - via better infrastructure,” Factiva)</span>
<span class="Underline">As Obama and Congress talk jobs, here's an appeal…first place. If anyone is up to the challenge, we are.</span>

<span class="Underline">**This negatively influences the entire economy --- prevents a resilient supply chain**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Little, 11** --- Director, Keston Institute for Public Finance and Infrastructure Policy (4/5/2011, Richard, “Infrastructure Investment and U.S. Competitiveness,” [[http://www.cfr.org/united-states/infrastructure-investment-us-competitiveness/p24585]])</span>
<span class="Underline">The massive network of seaports, waterways, railroads, and…for economic decline and its consequences.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Second is stimulus ---** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Confidence is collapsing now and destroying investment --- a national infrastructure bank is the best short term stimulus that doesn’t drive up the deficit**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Skidelsky & Martin, 11** --- *Emeritus Professor of Political Economy at the University of Warwick, AND macroeconomist and bond investor (3/30/2011, Robert Skidelsky and Felix Martin, New York Review of Books, “For a National Investment Bank,” [[http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/]])</span>
<span class="Underline">But could a National Investment Bank also help with the urgent…attractive assets for pension funds and other long-term investors.</span>

**The economy won’t recover quickly or sufficiently enough on its own --- A national bank will stimulate the economy and boost jobs**
**Skidelsky & Martin, 11** --- *Emeritus Professor of Political Economy at the University of Warwick, AND macroeconomist and bond investor (3/30/2011, Robert Skidelsky and Felix Martin, New York Review of Books, “For a National Investment Bank,” [[http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/]])
<span class="Underline">President Obama is in a bind. He knows that…projects would bring to the broader economy.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Studies prove the plan is a uniquely beneficial form of stimulus** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Tyson, 11** --- Chan Chair in Global Management at UC Berkeley's Haas School of Business (Laura D., “A Better Stimulus Plan for the U.S. Economy,” [[http://hbr.org/web/extras/hbr-agenda-2011/laura-d-tyson]])</span>
<span class="Underline">Although stimulus spending is a politically contentious…jobs. The time has come to make it happen.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Third internal link is unemployment ---**</span>
<span class="Underline">**This is triggering a major economic crisis --- outweighs the deficit and is best solved by the plan**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Tyson, 11** --- professor at the Haas School of Business at Cal Berkeley and former chair of the Council of Economic Advisers and the head of the National Economic Council under President Clinton (8/18/2011, Laura D’Andrea Tyson, “What it will take for President Obama and big business to bring back American jobs,” [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/on-leadership/for-president-obama-and-american-business-fixing-the-us-jobs-deficit/2011/08/18/gIQAhW8ZNJ_story.html]])</span>
<span class="Underline">The immediate crisis confronting the U.S. economy is the…they good for the millions of Americans who need a job.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Economic decline triggers nuclear war**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Harris and Burrows 9** (Mathew, PhD European History at Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” [[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]])</span>
<span class="Underline">Increased Potential for Global Conflict Of course, the report encompasses…and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Independently, slow growth makes the US uncooperative and desperate – leads to hegemonic wars**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Goldstein 7** - Professor of Global Politics and International Relations @ University of Pennsylvania, Avery Goldstein, “Power transitions, institutions, and China's rise in East Asia: Theoretical expectations and evidence,” Journal of Strategic Studies, Volume30, Issue 4 & 5 August 2007, pages 639 – 682</span>
<span class="Underline">Two closely related, though distinct, theoretical arguments focus…concern about the period prior to the possible crossover.19 pg. 647-650</span>

<span class="Underline">**Growth eliminates the only rational incentives for war** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Gartzke 11** – associate Professor of political science at the University of California, San Diego PhD from Iowa and B.A. from UCSF Erik, "SECURITY IN AN INSECURE WORLD" www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/</span>
<span class="Underline">Almost as informative as the decline in warfare has been…prevail, that war becomes a durable anachronism.</span>

<span class="Underline">**The plan will revive confidence in demand and spur a self-sustaining private sector recovery**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Skidelsky & Martin, 11** --- *Emeritus Professor of Political Economy at the University of Warwick, AND macroeconomist and bond investor (3/30/2011, Robert Skidelsky and Felix Martin, New York Review of Books, “For a National Investment Bank,” [[http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/]])</span>
<span class="Underline">Such are the principles of our proposal, but what…basis for a self-sustaining private sector recovery.</span>

**Transportation infrastructure investment is key --- boosts jobs and attracts businesses. A federal bank spurs critical public-private partnerships.**
**Tyson, 11** --- professor at the Haas School of Business at UC Berkeley (6/3/2011, Laura D’Andrea Tyson, NYT Blogs, “The Virtues of Investing in Transportation; Economix,” Factiva)
<span class="Underline">Years of underinvesting in the nation's transportation infrastructure…larger returns on scarce investment dollars.</span>

**Will immediately boost employment and growth**
**Zakaria, 11** (6/13/2011, Fareed, “Zakaria: U.S. needs an infrastructure bank,” [[http://globalpublicsquare.blogs.cnn.com/2011/06/13/zakaria-u-s-needs-an-infrastructure-bank/]])
<span class="Underline">President Obama has proposed a number of specific…actually be the biggest payoff of all.</span>

====[[#Affirmative-National Infrastructure Bank-1AC-1AC Banking]]<span class="Underline">1AC Banking</span>==== 
**<span class="Underline">A national bank will restore confidence in the banking and financial sectors</span>**
<span class="Underline">**Skidelsky & Martin, 11** --- *Emeritus Professor of Political Economy at the University of Warwick, AND macroeconomist and bond investor (3/30/2011, Robert Skidelsky and Felix Martin, New York Review of Books, “For a National Investment Bank,” [[http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/]])</span>
<span class="Underline">The creation of a National Investment Bank would…demand, but in banks and in banking itself.</span>

**This is key to promoting a sustainable and green economy**
**Steward Redqueen, 11** --- consultancy firm that aims to magnify the positive impact of the private sector on society [April 14, [[http://www.stewardredqueen.com/nl/blog/blog_blogbericht/t/strong_financial_sector_is_condition_for_sustainability_agenda/]], “Strong financial sector is condition for sustainability agenda”, Accessed July 17,]
<span class="Underline">Without a strong financial sector, i.e. a sound number of…better, than with no financial sector at all.</span>

**A green economy spurs innovation – creates the World’s First Green Hegemon Locking-in U.S. Dominance and ensuring U.S. Global Energy Advantages**
**Klarevas, 9** (Louis, Professor, Center for Global Affairs, New York University “Securing American Primacy While Tackling Climate Change: Toward a National Strategy of Greengemony,” pg online @ [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/louis-klarevas/securing-american-primacy_b_393223.html]])
<span class="Underline">As national leaders from around the world are…is to promote a national strategy of greengemony.</span>

**That solves Nuclear Conflict**
**Gray 04**, Professor of International Politics and Strategic Studies at the University of Reading, and founded of the National Institute for Public Policy (Colin, “The Sheriff: America’s Defense of the New World Order, pg. 6-10)
<span class="Underline">World order is neither self-enforcing nor is it…conflict with weapons of mass destruction (WMD) at that.</span>

**Warming causes extinction**
**Sify, 10** – Sydney newspaper citing Ove Hoegh-Guldberg, professor at University of Queensland and Director of the Global Change Institute, and John Bruno, associate professor of Marine Science at UNC (Sify News, “Could unbridled climate changes lead to human extinction?”, [[http://www.sify.com/news/could-unbridled-climate-changes-lead-to-human-extinction-news-international-kgtrOhdaahc.html]]
<span class="Underline">The findings of the comprehensive report: 'The impact…GCI release. These findings were published in Science</span>

**Also essential for the economic recovery**
**Rodriguez 12** – Rodriguez/Makan, writers for the Globe and Mail New York. (Vivianne and Ajay, “U.S. financial sector holds key to recovery”, The Globe and Mail, Jan 2, 2012, [[http://m.theglobeandmail.com/globe-investor/investment-ideas/us-financial-sector-holds-key-to-recovery/article1357286/?service=mobile]])
<span class="Underline">Euro-zone bank contagion fears, tougher…that there is some possible upside for U.S. banks. </span>

====[[#Affirmative-National Infrastructure Bank-1AC-1AC Plan Text]]<span class="Underline">1AC Plan Text</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its merit based national infrastructure bank transportation infrastructure investment in the United States** </span>

====[[#Affirmative-National Infrastructure Bank-1AC-1AC Solvency]]<span class="Underline">1AC Solvency</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**A national bank devoted just to transportation will revitalize U.S. infrastructure --- it will be easy on the budget and politically palatable** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Lovaa, 11** --- Federal Transportation Policy Director for NRDC (6/28/2011, Deron, “An Infrastructure Bank for Transportation,” [[http://switchboard.nrdc.org/blogs/dlovaas/an_infrastructure_bank_for_tra.html]])</span>
<span class="Underline">Another creative funding idea that’s getting…our limited public funds to vastly improve the status quo.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Federal action is superior --- better evaluation, finance, and reduced borrowing costs**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Thomasson, 11** --- Director of Public Policy, Progressive Policy Institute (10/12/2011, Scott, Congressional Documents and Publications, House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Highways and Transit Hearing - "National Infrastructure Bank: More Bureaucracy and More Red Tape," Factiva) </span>
<span class="Underline">Myth #6: We don't need a national infrastructure bank, because…decision-making power of state banks is entirely misplaced.</span>

==Whiteness!== 
===1AC=== 
<span class="Underline">**We begin with a discussion by Peter Dreier about the way society remembers Rosa Parks:**</span>

<span class="Underline">THE WAY WE LEARN history shapes how we think about the present and the future. Consider what most Americans know about Rosa Parks, who died last October at age ninety-two. In the popular legend, Parks is portrayed as a tired old seamstress in Montgomery, Alabama, who, on the spur of the moment after a hard day at work, decided to resist the city's segregation law by refusing to move to the back of the bus on December 1, 1955. She is typically revered as a selfless individual who, with one spontaneous act of courage, triggered the bus boycott and became, as she is often called, "the mother of the civil rights movement." Although a number of books—including Taylor Branch's Parting the Waters, Stewart Burns's Daybreak of Freedom, and Parks's autobiography, My Story—provide a complete chronicle, most of the obituaries for Parks lacked historical context and trivialized the efforts that it took to destroy Jim Crow. What's missing from the popular legend is the reality that Parks was a veteran activist whose defiance of segregation laws was not an isolated incident but a lifelong crusade. Also downplayed is that Parks was part of an ongoing movement whose leaders had been waiting for the right moment to launch a campaign against bus segregation. In hindsight, it may appear that the boycott's success was inevitable. In fact, its effectiveness was the result of leaders' decisions about tactics and strategies and their capacity to mobilize thousands of ordinary people in a complex, year-long grassroots challenge to the city's political and economic establishment.</span>
<span class="Underline">(Peter Dreier, Professor of Politics and Director of the Urban and Environmental Policy Program @ Occidental College, 2006 “Rosa Parks: Angry, Not Tired” Dissent vol.53 #1 pgs. 88-92)</span>

<span class="Underline">**Western modes of thinking reduce history to a series of spontaneous events with a clear beginning and end. By remembering Mrs. Parks as the sole revolutionary, casting off the chains of discrimination on the US bus system, we can comfortably re-assure ourselves that racism was a fragile system that merely needed one strong person to stand up to it and it would crumble. However, understanding the reality of the long, difficult struggle to overcome the Jim Crow laws is critical to demonstrate to the debate community how politics and resistance truly operate.**</span>
<span class="Underline">Moya **Lloyd**, 3/14/**2007**, (Professor of political theory at Loughborough University, Radical Democratic Activism and the Politics of Resignification, Constellations Journal, Vol.14 Issue 1.,6/26/12, K.H.)</span>
<span class="Underline">By claiming a seat at the front of the bus, in…more pertinently, a legal challenge.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Further, understanding the legacy of access to transportation infrastructure is not merely a question of the past. To this day, white Americans experience better access to transportation than minorities do.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Dombroski, 5** (Matthew A. Dombroski M.A. Population Geography, University of Georgia 2003. J.D. Candidate 2005. Managing Editor, Columbia Law Review, Vols. 104–105. February 18, 2005 SECURING ACCESS TO TRANSPORTATION FOR THE URBAN POOR “The modern…several reasons” COLUMBIA LAW REVIEW [Vol. 105:503 accessed 6/25/12 S.U)</span>
<span class="Underline">The modern American transportation system, because…Equal Protection Clause for several reasons.</span>

<span class="Underline">**This discrimination is no coincidence – it is part of a biopolitical transportation system designed to shield whites from having to interact with minority populations. This is a modern day system of clean apartheid, cleansed of the excessive violence and reduced to its purest form of segregation.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Kuswa 02** (Kevin Kuswa, Winter 2002, “Dr. Kuswa is the Director of Debating at Cal State University Fresno and has written on issues of globalization, critical whiteness, and rhetoric. He received his PhD from the University of Texas at Austin in Communication Studies”, SUBURBIFICATION, SEGREGATION, AND THE CONSOLIDATION OF THE HIGHWAY MACHINE, The Journal of Law in Society, 6/28/12, K.H.) </span>
<span class="Underline"> How did the Census explain the increase in…benefited certain groups at the expense of others.</span>

<span class="Underline">**You have an apriori academic and ethical obligation to historically interrogate whiteness – it poisons all social relations, solidifying a permanent system of oppression and rendering problems increasingly invisible to political analysis.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Arnesen 01’** (Eric Arnesen, Fall 2001, Professor of History at George Washington University, Whiteness and the Historians’ Imagination, Published at University of Illinois at Chicago, http://webs.rps205.com/teachers/jsolberg/files/A125C20651D2406E873089EBFF386B49.pdf, 6/27/12, K.H.)</span>
<span class="Underline">Whiteness is not merely one more avenue…sufﬁciently serious as to cast doubt on its utility</span>

<span class="Underline">**The 1ac is not just an abstract rejection of whiteness in the world – it is a specific application of genealogy as a method of opening space for previously silenced perspectives on transportation policy. Only interrogating the historical legacy of racial discrimination effectively problematizes the invisible whiteness that structures transportation policy.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Kuswa 02** (Kevin Kuswa, Winter 2002, “Dr. Kuswa is the Director of Debating at the University of Richmond and has written on issues of globalization, critical whiteness, and rhetoric. He received his PhD from the University of Texas at Austin in Communication Studies”, SUBURBIFICATION, SEGREGATION, AND THE CONSOLIDATION OF THE HIGHWAY MACHINE, The Journal of Law in Society, 6/28/12, K.H.) </span>
<span class="Underline">A critique of the city helps to draw attention to…the city is conflated with "poor people of colour:"</span>

<span class="Underline">**Finally, a genealogy of whiteness is critical to rupturing the reduction of the Montgomery Bus Boycott to Mrs. Parks singular act. Only bringing the long process of resistance to Jim Crow to the front can provide an effective blueprint for future resistance.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Medina 11** (Jose Medina, October 2011, Associate Professor of Philosophy at Vanderbilt, Toward a Foucaultian Epistemology of Resistance: Counter-Memory, Epistemic Friction, and Guerrilla Pluralism, 6/26/12,K.H.)</span>
<span class="Underline">As Foucault puts it, ‚it is the coupling together of…that can now relate to old struggles in new ways.39</span>

==<span class="Underline">Taoism!</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">1AC</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">**1AC Suffering**</span>==== 

<span class="Underline">**Contention one is suffering**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Death and misfortune are inevitable: spiritual suffering arises from plans and expectations that are inevitably let down. Both fortune and misfortunate are beautiful and should be accepted as they are.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Lao Tzu, 300 B.C.** [record keeper of the Zhou dynasty, Tao Te Ching, chapter 16, as translated by Stephen Mitchell,http://academic.brooklyn.cuny.edu/core9/phalsall/texts/taote-v3.html#16]</span>
<span class="Underline">Empty your mind of all thoughts. Let your…you, and when death comes, you are ready.</span>

<span class="Underline">**The joy of life comes in accepting things as they are – action only brings about suffering and destroys the natural order of the universe**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Slabbert, 01** [Jos, Taoist teacher and philosopher, “Tao te Ching: How to Deal with Suffering” http://www.taoism.net/theway/suffer.htm]</span>
<span class="Underline">Dealing with loss Express yourself completely, then…with it, the more damage we will do.</span>

<span class="Underline">**But the status quo ignores this – current transportation policies respond to widespread issues with more and more calls for immediate action to alleviate problems facing reality – current political structures make error replication inevitable**</span>
<span class="Underline">**The Huffington Post, 6/29**/12 (Alan Fram and Joan Lowy, House, Senate Pass Transportation Bill, Extend Current Student Loan Rates,” The Huffington Post, 6/29/12, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/06/29/transportation-bill-student-loans_n_1638116.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">WASHINGTON — Congress emphatically approved legislation Friday preserving jobs on…progressives and moderates. I think this is a great day."</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**Rationalist attempt to anticipate the effects of foreign policy will fail. Emptying oneself of being is a prerequisite to true understanding.**</span>
<span class="Underline">Ralph **Pettman**, Professor in the School of History, Philosophy, Political Science and International Relations at Victoria University of Wellington, **2005** (“Taoism And The Concept Of Global Security,” International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, Volume 5, Number 1, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Oxford Journals Online, p. 72-75)</span>
<span class="Underline">How does moving onto Taoist ground, and immersing…to know if we are to understand global security. </span>

====<span class="Underline">**1AC Solvency**</span>==== 

<span class="Underline">**Contention two is Wu Wei**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Only through appreciating the natural order of life can we live according to Taoism.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Kirkland 96** – (1996, Russell Kirkland, Ph.D. in East Asian Languages and Cultures, specialist in Asian Religions, Associate Professor of Religion at UGA, "The Book of the Way," 24-29 DH)</span>
<span class="Underline">The focus of the Daode jing is something called "the…existence, and nothing can thwart its unceasing operation.</span>

<span class="Underline">**This solves everything –We don’t reject solving problems, we reject the flawed interventionism that problem solving consists of today. The process of conforming to the Tao, rejecting action, and becoming a sage has a tremendous effect on the world around us and allows it to revert back to the natural state of the universe.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Kirkland 98** - (1996, Russell Kirkland, Ph.D. in East Asian Languages and Cultures, specialist in Asian Religions, Associate Professor of Religion at UGA, "’RESPONSIBLE NON-ACTION’ IN A NATURAL WORLD : PERSPECTIVES FROM THE NEI-YEH, CHUANG-TZU, AND TAO-TE CHING" HARVARD CONFERENCE ON TAOISM AND ECOLOGY DH)</span>
<span class="Underline">The modern mind finds it easy to reject such…least ponder the shape and contents of such teachings.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Take no action to create desired ends—**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Kirkland**, professor of Asian religions and Taoism at the University of Georgia, **1996**</span>
<span class="Underline">(Russell, “The Book of the Way,” Great Literature of the Eastern World, http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/DAODE.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline"> Specifically, the Tao is humble, yielding, and…nothing can thwart its unceasing operation. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Living according to the Tao is the only moral form of being in the world. D-rule**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Kirkland 98** - (1996, Russell Kirkland, Ph.D. in East Asian Languages and Cultures, specialist in Asian Religions, Associate Professor of Religion at UGA, "’RESPONSIBLE NON-ACTION’ IN A NATURAL WORLD : PERSPECTIVES FROM THE NEI-YEH, CHUANG-TZU, AND TAO-TE CHING" HARVARD CONFERENCE ON TAOISM AND ECOLOGY DH)</span>
<span class="Underline">But doesn't such a position leave us with…his human creations to do that job for him.</span>

====<span class="Underline">**1AC Advocacy Statement**</span>==== 

<span class="Underline">**Thus our advocacy: Scott and I advocate that in face of demands for United States federal government action to substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment, we should embrace the practice of Wu Wei to appreciate the flow of the Tao**</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
====<span class="Underline">**1AC Framework**</span>==== 

<span class="Underline">**Our last contention is framework**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Political approaches inevitably fail – spiritual enlightenment is our only hope.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Slabbert, 01** [Jos, Taoist teacher and philosopher, “Tao te Ching: How to Deal with Suffering” http://www.taoism.net/theway/suffer.htm]</span>
<span class="Underline">The inescapable The inescapable forms of suffering…very people who should implement and protect it.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Modern conceptions of agency presume that human actions have the potential to be good or bad – they ignore the presence of the Tao and the fact that human agency can only disrupt the natural course of the universe and bring horrific tragedy.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Kirkland 98** - (1996, Russell Kirkland, Ph.D. in East Asian Languages and Cultures, specialist in Asian Religions, Associate Professor of Religion at UGA, "’RESPONSIBLE NON-ACTION’ IN A NATURAL WORLD : PERSPECTIVES FROM THE NEI-YEH, CHUANG-TZU, AND TAO-TE CHING" HARVARD CONFERENCE ON TAOISM AND ECOLOGY DH)</span>
<span class="Underline">In all modern thought, as indeed, in the thought of…Tao provides for their welfare throughout the entire process.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Allowing pure Taoist thought is necessary to break free from the limits rationalist thinking imposes. Any critique from the perspective of the rationalist is tainted by their own preconceptions.**</span>
<span class="Underline">Ralph **Pettman**, Professor in the School of History, Philosophy, Political Science and International Relations at Victoria University of Wellington, **2005** (“Taoism And The Concept Of Global Security,” International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, Volume 5, Number 1, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Oxford Journals Online, p. 81-82)</span>
<span class="Underline">Taoists do not ‘see’ the concept of global security…a sacral context like the Taoist one. </span>

<span class="Underline">**An evaluation of our own assumptions is necessary**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Kirkland, 98** [Russell Kirkland, Associate Professor of Religion (and Asian Studies), “"Responsible Non-Action" In a Natural World: Perspectives from the Nei-Yeh, Chuang-Tzu, and Tao-Te Ching,” 1998, University of Georgia,http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/ECO.pdf]</span>
<span class="Underline">But what of modes of human involvement with…that our actions are heroically salvific</span>

<span class="Underline">**Throw out old values – spiritual development requires embracing competitive uncertainty** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Slabbert**, Taoist teacher and philosopher, **2001**</span>
<span class="Underline">(Jos, “Tao Te Ching: How to Deal With Suffering,” http://www.taoism.net/theway/suffer.htm)</span>
<span class="Underline"> It is only when you become less ambitious…only way to eliminate unnecessary suffering. </span>

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]