(Email Romil at kingkong277@gmail.com for cites or questions)
=Affirmative= 
**Port Dredging AFF:**


=<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">Inherency</span>= 
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Contention 1 is Inherency:**</span>

<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**The Panama Canal expansion will fundamentally change seaborne commerce – US ports require __new harbor deepening__ or they won’t be able to compete for post-Panamax ships**</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Bridges 2011** **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">–</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chairman of the Board of the American Association of Port Authorities and Executive Director of Virginia Port Authority (Jerry A., “Testimony of Jerry A. Bridges Chairman of the Board of the American Association of Port Authorities and Executive Director of Virginia Port Authority before the United States House of Representatives Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee Hearing: the Economic importance of Seaports: Is the United States Prepared for 21st Century Trade Realities?” , October 26, 2011,<span style="color: #1155cc; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyWater/2011-10-26%20Darcy.pdf)/MM| http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyWater/2011-10-26%20Bridges.pdf)//MM]]</span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Since the birth of our nation, U.S. seaports and waterways that connect them have served as a vital economic lifeline by bringing goods and services to people around the world and by delivering prosperity to our nation. U.S. seaports are responsible for moving more than 99 percent of our country’s overseas cargo. Today, international trade accounts for more than a quarter of Americas Gross Domestic Product. Americas seaports support the employment of 13.3 million U.S. workers, and seaport- related jobs account for $649 billion in annual personal income. For every $1 billion in exports shipped through seaports, 15,000 U.S. jobs are created. Seaports facilitate trade and commerce, create jobs, help secure our borders, support our military and serve as stewards of valuable coastal environmental resources. Ports are dynamic, vibrant centers of trade and commerce, but what is most important to understand is that seaports rely on partnerships. Seaports invest more than $2.5 billion every year to maintain and improve their infrastructure. In recent years, however, this commitment has not been adequately matched by the federal government. Federal funding for dredging federal navigation channels has slowed and decreased, </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">especially for new construction</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Further, maintenance dredging is sorely underfunded, despite a more than $6 billion and growing surplus in the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund. Landside improvements have also been too low a priority, with little of the highway funds going to freight transportation projects. The only bright light has been the newly created TIGER grants, although not enough of this funding benefited ports. Virginia Port Authority received a TIGER grant for its heartland project. As we look to the future, we do know that there are challenges and opportunities. As we recover from this economic downturn, we must make investments today to address the trade realities of the future. Here are some the challenges and we have to ask: are we ready?</span></span>
* <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Panama Canal expansion is due to be completed in 2014 and is expected to influence trade patterns. VPA and other ports have been making investments, but federal funding has been slow to match these investments. Ship sizes continue to get larger, requiring on-'going modernization of ports and federal navigation channels, even for ports that will not require 50 feet of depth.</span>
* <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Canada and Mexico are making investments which could result in losses of maritime jobs in the U.S. as cargo enters the U.S. through these countries. We have already seen this job loss on the West Coast.</span>
* <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The U.S. seeks to double exports; however countries like Brazil and Chile, who we compete against the U.S. in terms of agricultural exports, are making investments that could make their exports more competitive.</span>
* <span style="font-size: 8pt;">New trade agreements with Korea, Panama and Colombia have been approved, with other trade agreements under negotiations which should result in increased exports and imports through ports.</span>
* <span style="font-size: 8pt;">In addition to these near-term challenges, we know that the U.S. population is forecast to grow by 100 million - a 30 percent increase - before the middle of the 2lst century. And many of the goods used by this population will flow through seaports.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">So are we ready? While ports are planning for the future, the federal government has not kept pace with the industry or our international competitors. The federal government has a unique Constitutional responsibility to maintain and improve the infrastructure that enables the flow of commerce, and much of that infrastructure in and around seaports have been neglected for too long. Many of our land and water connections are insufficient and outdated, affecting the ports' ability to move cargo efficiently into and out of the U.S. This hurts U.S. business, hurts U.S. workers and hurts our national economy. Port projects take decades to plan and build and we cannot wait. Federal investments in seaports are an essential and effective utilization of limited resources, paying dividends through increased trade and commerce, long-term job creation, secure borders, military support, environmental stewardship, and more than $200 billion in federal, state and local tax revenue. Earlier this month, the President’s Council on Jobs and Competitiveness made an urgent plea for improvements in the nation's transportation infrastructure, including landside and waterside access to seaports. We cannot wait.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Federal port infrastructure funding is increasing but not substantially for __new__ harbor deepening – the federal government’s __uncertain commitment__ prevents new projects**</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">Sza-ko-nyi 12<span style="font-size: 8pt;">— associate editor of the Journal of Commerce (Mark, “The Hill Ramping Up Dredging Efforts”, Journal of Commerce, 5/7, ProQuest) EL</span></span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">The push by U.S. ports for more federal dredging dollars is finally beginning to make waves in Congress.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Language that would require all funds collected through the Harbor Maintenance Tax to be used for navigation projects is likely to be included in the final surface transportation bill. That's a major breakthrough for maritime advocates who argue it's unfair that roughly one-third of the collected taxes are used to plug other budget gaps. The Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund collects roughly $1.5 billion annually from importers, who pay a rate of 0.125 percent of the value of their cargo. The HMTF is expected to have a surplus of nearly $7 billion by the end of fiscal 2013,according to the Association of American Port Authorities.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">The ports' argument that more money needs to be spent on dredging to create jobs and boost trade also is gaining traction on the front line of congressional funding allocations. Under the latest House energy and water appropriations bill, ports in fiscal 2013 would get $1 billion for maintenance dredging. That's the largest single annual federal award for dredging and about $170 million more than the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers received last time around.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">"This is a significant development. It wasn't so long ago that (the corps) only received $750 million," said Paul Bea, principal of PHB Public Affairs, a maritime consulting firm.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ports will actually get </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">less dredging help</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the next fiscal year than in fiscal 2012, however, said Barry Holliday, executive director of Dredging Contractors of America. Funding tied to military project dredging and disaster relief pushed total maintenance dollars to about $1.1 billion in fiscal 2012. The latest appropriation shows a congressional willingness to spend more, even if the full allocation of HMTF dollars would fall short in tackling port needs, Holliday said.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">The Realize America's Maritime Promise Act, or RAMP Act, has been the major driver in convincing Congress the HMTF needs reform and more spending is needed. The legislation was included in the House's 90-day extension, which paved the way for the chamber to begin conferencing with the Senate on the surface transportation bill. The Senate has similar but less forceful language in its two-year, $109 billion plan.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">This boosts the chances that HMTF reform language will make it in the final version of the transportation bill, but it's just the first step in blocking appropriators from shifting money out of the fund for non-dredging purposes. Even if the RAMP Act language is adopted, it's not a mandate. Supporters would have to call a point of order in appropriation committees to slap the hands of would-be siphoners, Bea said.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Despite the positive signs for ports, they are still stifled in getting authorization and funding for </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">new</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> major navigation projects. Historically, the Water Resources Development Act has been the vehicle for ports to get authorization for such projects, and funding is granted separately through the annual appropriations process. The last WRDA was in 2007, and there is no new version on the horizon. Even if there were, it's unclear how it would proceed under the House's ban on earmarks and the Senate's similar stance. Not only do the earmarks allow legislators to include language relating to their home ports, but they also provide impetus for representatives and senators to back the bill.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">federal uncertainty </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">hits the East Coast particularly hard, because only a few ports have the funding and approval necessary to deepen their channels. Ports such as Savannah, Ga., and Charleston, S.C, need deeper harbors to handle larger ships able to pass through the expanded Panama Canal in 2015. That supporters of Charleston and Savannah are preparing to take on the deepening expenses themselves reflects just how little optimism there is for federal help.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Bea said maritime advocates and legislators are attempting to figure out how they can get projects funded and authorized in new ways. One such approach is by Sen. Lindsay Graham, R-S.C., to create a national assessment of which ports should be deepened. Plans to create a program for prioritization in authorization and funding come with their own set of problems, however, Holliday said. "When you start prioritizing ports, you begin picking winners and losers," he said.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Aside from skepticism of the government's ability to discern champions from laggards, prioritization sidesteps the issue that </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">most, if not all, ports</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> need funding to maintain their infrastructure and grow. Such a prioritization process could dampen efforts to boost overall port spending. That could, unfortunately, fit too well with Congress's history of favoring easy short-term fixes over harder, more meaningful long-term decisions.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Obama has expedited approval for projects, but not allocated funds – aff is still inherent, but DA links are non-unique**</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Morgan and Rabin 7/19** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Miami Herald reporter, environment reporter (Curtis and Charles, “White House Speeds Up Permits, Offers No New Cash For PortMiami Dredge Project”, The Miami Herald, July 21 2012, </span><span style="color: #1155cc; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.miamiherald.com/2012/07/19/2902727/white-house-speeds-up-permits.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)//CB//</span></span>
//<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">The White House on Thursday put Port Miami’s long-awaited dredging project on a list of fast-tracked, nationally significant seaport improvement projects, guaranteeing it an expedited permitting process.¶ Practically speaking, the designation means little, since the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers had already pushed the plan forward after it cleared all regulatory hurdles and survived a legal challenge from environmentalists.¶ The Army Corps is already expected to put the $180 million project up for bid in August.¶ Still, in a joint statement, Miami-Dade Mayor Carlos Gimenez and Port Miami Director Bill Johnson lauded the federal recognition, with Johnson saying “over the past several years the deep dredge has been a number one priority for Port Miami.”¶ </span>////<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thursday’s announcement by the White House does not mean money is likely to flow from the federal government any time soon</span>////<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In March, pushing the much-needed dredging project along, Gov. Rick Scott visited the port and announced the state would advance the county more than $90 million.¶ Scott’s hope was that the state would be reimbursed. Miami-Dade will cover the remainder of the $180 million cost to deepen the port from 42 to 50 feet, a move the county is undertaking to accommodate the mega-ships that will glide through the newer, deeper Panama Canal.¶ Because Congress has ordered the Army Corps not to begin any new projects indefinitely, Johnson said, the White House would need to propose funding for Miami-Dade, which then would send the money back to the state.¶ Asked Johnson: “I’ve got a big question mark: Where are the dollars? Is the president putting dollars for Port Miami into his budget next year?” That wasn’t clear Thursday, with one senior administration official saying only, “</span>////<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today’s announcements focus just on expediting all remaining federal reviews</span>////<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>//

//<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**The XO only provided funds for specific large ports – this forces small ports to close which destroys the economy and exports**</span>//
//<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Frittelli, 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Specialist in Transportation Policy at the Congressional Research Service (John, “Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Expenditures,” 1/10/2011, </span><span style="color: #1155cc; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R41042.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span></span>//HK
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Because the HMTF provides a national pool of funds for channel dredging rather than a port specific one, naturally deep harbors subsidize shallower ports. Thus, the present funding system levels the playing field among ports with different dredging requirements. Some might contend that it draws traffic away from more efficient ports to less efficient ports, in terms of dredging costs, thereby raising the Nation’s overall cost of moving goods through the marine transportation system. Cross-subsidies among ports would be eliminated if funds generated at a particular port were reserved solely for that port’s local dredging needs rather than becoming part of a nationwide fund. However, a port-specific funding system would favor busy ports over ports that are underutilized. With more ship traffic, larger ports would not have to charge as much per ship or shipment to recover dredging costs as smaller ports (for example, the tremendous difference in dredging costs per ship call between Grays Harbor and SeaTac cited earlier). Some small ports would either have to close or service only small ships. Thus, a national pool of funds provides maintenance funds to smaller ports that otherwise would be economically unviable. However, smaller ports could reduce the overland transport costs for nearby importers or exporters, thereby promoting economic development in the region. There are also river systems that have significant levels of industry along them and the inability to move bulk cargoes out of smaller ports could diminish U.S. exports. Smaller ports can also provide shippers the option of moving cargo through less congested ports. For instance, Chrysler recently announced that it would begin exporting cars to Asia through Grays Harbor in Washington, in part, for this reason. 25 If not handling cargo, smaller ports can still service the maritime industry in other ways. Smaller ports can be strategically located in terms of providing a “harbor of refuge” for vessels in distress, as a base for Coast Guard search and rescue operations, or as a homeport for government research vessels. For example, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) recently announced that it would be moving its West Coast vessels from Seattle to Yaquina Bay and Harbor in Oregon.</span>



<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**The act hasn’t passed yet – they just reintroduced it to Congress last month**</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">Berry, 1/31/2013 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Deborah Barfield, writer for Gannett Washington Bureau, “Lawmakers say ports need more funding,” <span style="color: #1155cc; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.theadvertiser.com/article/20130201/NEWS01/302010309]]</span>)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Republican Sen. David Vitter of Louisiana and other lawmakers vowed Thursday to make sure more money from a federal trust fund is used to maintain the nation's ports and waterways.¶ "This is a problem we absolutely have to fix," Vitter, the top Republican on the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, said at a hearing before the panel on Thursday.¶ Committee members are drafting legislation to renew the Water Resources Development Act, which authorizes water projects, flood protection, navigation programs and other projects.¶ Democratic and Republican lawmakers said addressing concerns about the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund will be a central part of WRDA. They complain that not all of the money collected for the fund through fees is used for dredging and maintenance projects, as Congress intended when it approved the legislation in 1986.¶ "It is unfair," said Sen. Barbara Boxer, D-Calif., chairwoman of the committee. "They do not spend the funds in the trust fund the way they were meant to be spent."¶ The trust fund is administered by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, which oversees projects critical to commerce and economic development in many communities, including coastal states such as Louisiana and Mississippi.¶ Mike Lorino, president of the New Orleans-based Associated Branch Pilots, said it's important for Louisiana and the nation for Congress to ensure that all the money in the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund is used for harbor maintenance.¶ "This is a problem that can be fixed with no new taxes," said Lorino, whose group represents pilots who help guide ships through waterways. "The money is being collected. The solution: We need 100 percent."¶ Lorino said using all the funding "should take care of all of our ports no matter where they are... and that's the way it should be."¶ In the House, Rep. Charles Boustany, R-Lafayette, reintroduced legislation last week — the Realize America's Maritime Promise Act — that would require all the money in the trust fund to be used for dredging and maintenance. Some language from the act was included in a transportation bill passed last June.¶ "These funds play a pivotal role in ensuring our country remains a global leader in trade," Boustany said in a statement Thursday.¶ Jo-Ellen Darcy, assistant secretary of the Army for civil works, defended the administration, saying it has requested more funding for port projects than previous administrations.¶ "We are investing in our ports," she said.</span>
=<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">Economy</span>= 
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Contention 2 is the Economy:**</span>

<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**A federal dredging project is key to maintain seaport competitiveness – it draws in foreign investors and prevents a collapse of the fragile economic recovery**</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Calhoun 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-- President of Cargo Carriers (Cargill) and Chairman of Waterways Council, Inc (Rick, “DREDGING FOR PROSPERITY”, Marine Log, August, ProQuest, <span style="color: #1155cc; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://proxy.lib.umich.edu/login?url=http://search.proquest.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/docview/889143450?accountid=14667]]</span>”) EL</span></span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Just like the nation itself, our maritime industry is facing a multitude of challenges like flooding in the Midwest, silting of our major shipping arteries, and the need for recapitalization for our lock and dam infrastructure, to name a few.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">But these challenges and the solutions to them must be viewed as investments in the future of our nation itself because without a strong, reliable marine transportation industry, we simply cannot competitively sell our export products in the world marketplace. //<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Those countries that buy from America do so because we are a dependable supplier of products at a competitive price</span>//, thanks in no small part to the existence of our enviable transportation system. If that system becomes compromised, those //<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">foreign buyers will simply shop elsewhere</span>// and that will further impact the United States' precarious economic recovery.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Witness the dredging situation on the Lower Mississippi River. This year, we have seen unprecedented levels of high water on the Mississippi River carrying millions of tons of silt and debris to the mouth of the River. This silting has resulted in restrictions being imposed for ships and vessels that rely on this passageway to export products to the world market, as well as import goods competitively, via ports in south Louisiana. In the past the Corps of Engineers has been able to manage silting issues with funding for dredging that sometimes required the reprogramming of funds to be sure shortfalls did not occur. This year the Corps has said it can no longer reprogram funds and that a funding shortfall indeed exists on this vital part of the system.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Throughout this country's great history, the federal government's role is in part to ensure that the inland navigation system, including the Mississippi River, remains open to transport products such as grain, coal, steel, petroleum and aggregate materials. The federal government now needs to take necessary steps to provide funding for our national transportation asset and to allow the Lower Mississippi River to remain fully open for commerce. We urge the White House to immediately submit an emergency request for supplemental funds to Congress, and we ask that Congress expeditiously process that request for Emergency Supplemental Appropriations funding. All of us who are responsible for managing money have faced times when cutting costs have become necessary, yet those who are successful rarely focus on reducing costs if it results in an even greater loss in the revenue stream. Again, dredging this critical artery should be viewed as an investment, not a cost, in the future of our inland waterways transportation system.</span>

<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Insufficient dredging sends business overseas and tanks competitiveness**</span>

<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Broder Singer 11—** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Publications Consultant, School of Business at University of Miami, Freelance Editor, Splendid magazine at Miami Media LLC, Independent Editor (Rochelle, “Dredging Deeper”, Florida Trend, May, ProQuest, <span style="color: #1155cc; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://proxy.lib.umich.edu/login?url=http://search.proquest.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/docview/866057185?accountid=14667]]</span>) EL</span></span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">In 2014, two new locks will come into service at the Panama Canal, accommodating ships carrying nearly three times as much cargo as today's canal-transiting ships. A surprising announcement by Gov. Rick Scott will make the Port of Miami one of the few ports on the eastern seaboard that can accommodate those gigantic ships. The post-Panamax ships will require deeper harbors - 50 feet rather than 42 - for loading and offloading cargo. A dredging project already under way at the Port of Virginia will have that port ready to accommodate the ships in 2014. Miami is the only other port on the seaboard that Congress has approved for such a dredge and that can have it finished by 2014. If ships can't load and unload cargo at the Port of Miami, says Port Director Bill Johnson, they will likely bypass a southern U.S. stop altogether. Without the port at 50 feet, Johnson says, "millions of containers will likely go to Freeport, Bahamas, and other ports outside the U.S.," he says. The project was ready to go, waiting only for the federal government's portion of the funding to add to the $137.5 million committed by the county and state. But funding wasn't included in President Barack Obama's budget this year. Then in early March, Scott directed the state Department of Transportation to loan the port $77 million for the project. The port, in turn, will forward the money to the Army Corps of Engineers, which is in charge of the project.</span>

<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Boosting economic competitiveness is vital to preventing military retrenchment – risks great power wars**</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Khalilzad, ’11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Bush’s ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the UN and former director policy planning at the DOD (Zalmay, “The Economy and National Security”, National Review, 2-8-11, <span style="color: #1155cc; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad]]</span>)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Today, economic and fiscal trends pose the most severe long-term threat to the United States’ position as global leader. While the United States suffers from fiscal imbalances and low economic growth, the economies of rival powers are developing rapidly. The continuation of these two trends could lead to a shift from American primacy toward a multi-polar global system, leading in turn to increased geopolitical rivalry and even war among the great powers.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">The current recession is the result of a deep <span style="color: #1155cc; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad|financial crisis]]</span>, not a mere fluctuation in the business cycle. Recovery is likely to be protracted. The crisis was preceded by the buildup over two decades of enormous amounts of debt throughout the U.S. economy — ultimately totaling almost 350 percent of GDP — and the development of credit-fueled asset bubbles, particularly in the housing sector. When the bubbles burst, huge amounts of wealth were destroyed, and unemployment rose to over 10 percent. The decline of tax revenues and massive countercyclical spending put the U.S. government on an unsustainable fiscal path. Publicly held national debt rose from 38 to over 60 percent of GDP in three years.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Without faster economic growth and actions to reduce deficits, publicly held national debt is projected to reach dangerous proportions. If interest rates were to rise significantly, annual <span style="color: #1155cc; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad|interest payments]]</span> — which already are larger than the defense budget — would crowd out other spending or require substantial <span style="color: #1155cc; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad|tax increases]]</span> that would undercut economic growth. Even worse, if unanticipated events trigger what economists call a “sudden stop” in credit markets for U.S. debt, the United States would be unable to roll over its outstanding obligations, precipitating a sovereign-debt crisis that would almost certainly compel a radical retrenchment of the United States internationally.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Such scenarios would reshape the international order. It was the economic devastation of Britain and France during World War II, as well as the rise of other powers, that led both countries to relinquish their empires. In the late 1960s, British leaders concluded that they lacked the economic capacity to maintain a presence “east of Suez.” Soviet economic weakness, which crystallized under Gorbachev, contributed to their decisions to withdraw from Afghanistan, abandon Communist regimes in Eastern Europe, and allow the Soviet Union to fragment. If the U.S. <span style="color: #1155cc; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad|debt problem]]</span> goes critical, the United States would be compelled to retrench, reducing its military spending and shedding international commitments.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">We face this domestic challenge while other major powers are experiencing rapid economic growth. Even though countries such as China, India, and Brazil have profound political, social, demographic, and economic problems, their economies are growing faster than ours, and this could alter the global distribution of power. These trends could in the long term produce a multi-polar world. If U.S. policymakers fail to act and other powers continue to grow, it is not a question of whether but when a new international order will emerge. The closing of the gap between the United States and its rivals could intensify geopolitical competition among major powers, increase incentives for local powers to play major powers against one another, and undercut our will to preclude or respond to international crises because of the higher risk of escalation.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">The stakes are high. In modern history, the longest period of peace among the great powers has been the era of U.S. leadership. By contrast, multi-polar systems have been unstable, with their competitive dynamics resulting in frequent crises and major wars among the great powers. Failures of multi-polar international systems produced both world wars.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">American retrenchment could have devastating consequences. Without an American security blanket, regional powers could rearm in an attempt to balance against emerging threats. Under this scenario, there would be a heightened possibility of arms races, miscalculation, or other crises spiraling into all-out conflict. Alternatively, in seeking to accommodate the stronger powers, weaker powers may shift their geopolitical posture away from the United States. Either way, hostile states would be emboldened to make aggressive moves in their regions.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">As rival powers rise, Asia in particular is likely to emerge as a zone of great-power competition. Beijing’s economic rise has enabled a dramatic military buildup focused on acquisitions of naval, cruise, and ballistic missiles, long-range stealth aircraft, and anti-satellite capabilities. China’s strategic modernization is aimed, ultimately, at denying the United States access to the seas around China. Even as cooperative economic ties in the region have grown, China’s expansive territorial claims — and provocative statements and actions following crises in Korea and incidents at sea — have roiled its relations with South Korea, Japan, India, and Southeast Asian states. Still, the United States is the most significant barrier facing Chinese hegemony and aggression.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Given the risks, the United States must focus on restoring its economic and fiscal condition while checking and managing the rise of potential adversarial regional powers such as China. While we face significant challenges, the U.S. economy still accounts for over 20 percent of the world’s GDP. American institutions — particularly those providing enforceable rule of law — set it apart from all the rising powers. Social cohesion underwrites political stability. U.S. demographic trends are healthier than those of any other developed country. A culture of innovation, excellent institutions of higher education, and a vital sector of small and medium-sized enterprises propel the U.S. economy in ways difficult to quantify. Historically, Americans have responded pragmatically, and sometimes through trial and error, to work our way through the kind of crisis that we face today.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">The policy question is how to enhance <span style="color: #1155cc; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad?pg=2|economic growth]]</span> and employment while cutting discretionary spending in the near term and curbing the growth of entitlement spending in the out years. Republican members of Congress have outlined a plan. Several think tanks and commissions, including President Obama’s debt commission, have done so as well. Some consensus exists on measures to pare back the recent increases in domestic spending, restrain future growth in defense spending, and reform the tax code (by reducing tax expenditures while lowering individual and corporate rates). These are promising options. </span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">The key remaining question is whether the president and leaders of both parties on Capitol Hill have the will to act and the skill to fashion bipartisan solutions. Whether we take the needed actions is a choice, however difficult it might be. It is clearly within our capacity to put our economy on a better trajectory. In garnering political support for cutbacks, the president and members of Congress should point not only to the domestic consequences of inaction — but also to the geopolitical implications.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">As the United States gets its economic and fiscal house in order, it should take steps to prevent a flare-up in Asia. The United States can do so by signaling that its domestic challenges will not impede its intentions to check Chinese expansionism. This can be done in cost-efficient ways.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">While China’s economic rise enables its military modernization and international assertiveness, it also frightens rival powers. The Obama administration has wisely moved to strengthen relations with allies and potential partners in the region but more can be done.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Some Chinese policies encourage other parties to join with the United States, and the U.S. should not let these opportunities pass. China’s military assertiveness should enable security cooperation with countries on China’s periphery — particularly Japan, India, and Vietnam — in ways that complicate Beijing’s strategic calculus. China’s mercantilist policies and currency manipulation — which harm developing states both in East Asia and elsewhere — should be used to fashion a coalition in favor of a more balanced trade system. Since Beijing’s over-the-top reaction to the awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize to a Chinese democracy activist alienated European leaders, highlighting human-rights questions would not only draw supporters from nearby countries but also embolden reformers within China. </span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Since the end of the Cold War, a stable economic and financial condition at home has enabled America to have an expansive role in the world. Today we can no longer take this for granted. Unless we get our economic house in order, there is a risk that domestic stagnation in combination with the rise of rival powers will undermine our ability to deal with growing international problems. Regional hegemons in Asia could seize the moment, leading the world toward a new, dangerous era of multi-polarity.\</span>

<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Seaport competitiveness is the vital internal link to US economic growth – seaports represent a quarter of US GDP and contribute __over 3 trillion__ to the economy**</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Nagle, 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">--- president and chief executive officer of the American Association of Port Authorities (December 2011, Kurt, Industry Today, “Association: American Association of Port Authorities; Port-Related Infrastructure Investments Can Reap Dividends,” vol. 14, no. 3, <span style="color: #1155cc; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.industrytoday.com/article_view.asp?ArticleID=F370]]</span>)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">It seems the United States willingly allows infrastructure to crumble as other countries – particularly the BRICs – bolster the physical support systems that foster economic growth. The American Association of Port Authorities is concerned over the state of America’s aged transportation infrastructure so it’s urging investments in both landside and waterside connections with ports.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">The burning question on the mind of many US lawmakers, administration officials and others is how best to stimulate the economy and spur job creation. The answer lies in focusing scarce federal resources in areas that will have the greatest impact on economic growth, immediate and long-term job creation, national security, and our current and future competitiveness in the global economy. Enhancements in seaport-related infrastructure should be a high priority among the limited investment options.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">For centuries, US seaports – and the connecting waterways – have served as a vital economic lifeline, bringing goods and services to people around the world and delivering prosperity to our nation. They facilitate trade and commerce, create jobs, secure our borders, support our military and serve as stewards of valuable coastal environmental resources.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Seaports are the primary gateway for overseas trade. They’re essential to economic security. As such, federal funding for infrastructure in and around ports pays dividends. Deep-draft coastal and Great Lakes ports are the nexus of critical transportation infrastructure that connects America’s exporters with markets overseas, and they provide access for imports of raw materials, components and consumer goods that are a key part of US manufacturing and help define our standard of living.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Investments in America’s port infrastructure and the intermodal connections that serve seaports – both land and waterside – foster prosperity and provide an opportunity to bolster the country’s economic and employment recovery.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">ECONOMIC IMPACT: HUGE</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Currently, international trade accounts for more than a quarter of America’s GDP (gross domestic product). Oceangoing vessels that load and unload cargo at US seaports move 99.4 percent of the nation’s overseas trade by volume and 65.5 percent by value. Further, customs collections from seaport cargo provide tens of billions of dollars a year to the federal government, including $23.2 billion in fiscal year (FY) 2007, $24.1 billion in FY 2008, $20.3 billion in FY 2009 and $22.5 billion in FY 2010.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">The latest economic impacts analyses conducted in 2007 indicated that US seaport activities generated $3.15 trillion in annual economic output, with $3.8 billion worth of goods moving in and out of seaports every day. Impact extends far beyond seaport communities. On average, any given state uses the services of 15 different ports around the country to handle its imports and exports. Also, seaports are a proven job creator.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">In addition to handling international trade, US seaports – and the waterways that serve them – represent important transportation modes for the movement of domestic freight. Greater utilization of America’s coastal and inland water routes for freight transportation complements other surface transportation modes – providing a safe and secure alternative for cargo while offering significant energy savings and traffic congestion relief.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">VIEW FROM WATERSIDE</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">As US investment in its waterways infrastructure is trending downward, countries like India, Brazil and the United Kingdom commit the equivalent of billions of US dollars to port and channel modernization. The expansion of the Panama Canal slated for completion in 2014 – the first major expansion in more than a century – is driving ports around the world to deepen navigation channels and improve harbor facilities. Look at what’s happening:</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;"> India plans to invest $60 billion – including both public and private funds – to create seven new major ports by 2020. Expect this to have a substantial impact: It will handle the anticipated rapid expansion of merchandise exports, forecasted to triple by 2017.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;"> Brazil expects tonnage at its coastal ports to more than double (to 1.7 billion tons) by 2022. In response, the nation is committing $17 billion to port improvements (including $14 billion from the private sector).</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;"> In Great Britain, DP World (the world’s fourth-largest marine terminal operator) plans to spend $2.5 billion on London’s Deep-Water Gateway, the country’s first such development in the last 20 years.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Meanwhile, in the United States, public funding for new navigation channel improvements has all but dried up. Lawmakers focus on reducing the deficit and eliminating appropriation “earmarks” that have traditionally funded federal navigation deepening projects. At the same time, funding for projects already approved and underway is slow, incremental and insufficient.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Insufficient appropriations make it impossible to maintain most federal navigation channels at their authorized and required dimensions. The US Army Corps of Engineers has been commissioned with the responsibility of improving and maintaining the nation’s water access to ports. But while this charge comes from the US government, the federal government is less than supportive. It spends only about half of the tax that it collects specifically directed toward deep-draft channel maintenance. The rest – more than $6 billion since 1986 – has essentially been “disappeared” into the US Treasury while serious dredging needs remain neglected.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">This is unfortunate at a crucial juncture. Projects to maintain these critical waterways would create jobs immediately and would provide transportation savings to benefit US businesses. With decreases in the cost of freight transportation, these sectors can enhance their global competitiveness and create more jobs. The American Association of Port Authorities (AAPA) has continually and strongly urged Congress to take action to ensure that 100-percent of the annual amount collected from the Harbor Maintenance Tax (HMT) is utilized to maintain federal navigation channels.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**The plan results in a net exports increase – lack of dredging forces __light loading__ which destroys US shipping**</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Weakley 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Realize America’s Maritime promise, Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Fairness Coalition, testimony of James Weakley the president of the Lake Carriers’ Association (James, “Realize America’s Maritime Promise”, Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Fairness Coalition, 4/30/08,<span style="color: #1155cc; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.ramphmtf.org/speeches_043008.html]]</span>)//MM//</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Port-related jobs are critical to</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> augment </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">our economy</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Direct and indirect jobs generated by ports result in the employment of more than 8 million Americans who earned and spent $314.5 billion in 2006. Every $1 billion in exports alone creates an estimated 15, 000 new jobs. In Texas alone one in every four jobs is linked to trade.</span>//
//<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">America´s deep-draft navigation system is at a crossroads, with a future that can be bright or bleak. Our waterways´ ability to support the Nation?s continuing growth in trade and in the defense of our Nation, hinges on much-needed Federal attention to unresolved funding needs that are derailing critical channel maintenance and deep-draft construction projects of the water highways to our ports. Because most ports do not have naturally deep harbors, they must be regularly dredged to allow ships to move safely through Federal navigation channels. Also, as modern vessels increase in size, navigation channel depths must increase accordingly, if we are to continue to be a player on the international marketplace. A recent U.S. Army Corps of Engineers study reports that almost 30 percent of the 95, 550 vessel calls at U.S. ports are constrained due to inadequate channel depths. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the things that cause port directors nightmares.</span>//
//<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Without a channel dredged to its authorized depth</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, nothing else comes into play</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Attracting new customers, dealing with labor issues, environmental concerns, and the public - all go away - because without a properly-dredged channel, business goes away. Public ports are at a critical state in keeping their channels open for business. We are losing existing business and potential new business to ports outside of the United States ? and once lost, it is rarely regained.</span>//
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dredging can literally make or break our industry</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and a lack of dredging is an issue throughout the United States. In fact, it is not an overstatement to say that in many parts of the United States, we face a dredging crisis. On the Great Lakes, as Chairman James L. Oberstar of this Committee and Chairman David R. Obey of the Appropriations Committee well know, decades of inadequate funding for dredging have left a backlog of 18 million cubic yards of sediment. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers estimates removing the backlog will cost more than $230 million on the Great Lakes alone. In some cases, ports on the Great Lakes have actually shutdown due to inadequate dredging. There are similar examples of dredging problems in ports and harbors on all coasts of our Nation.</span>//
//<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">In many cases, vessels must ?</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">load light</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">? because of dredging shortfalls. The economic implications of light loading are enormous. On the Great Lakes, for example, vessels lose between 50 to 270 tons of cargo for each inch they must reduce their draft and, in some areas, the lost draft is measured in feet, not inches. Light loading because of inadequate dredging impacts everyone. A ship that is light-loaded reduces its efficiencies in the same way that a commercial airplane that is required to set aside seats with no passengers would quickly lose its efficiencies.</span>//
//<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">The Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund</span>//
//<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">The Harbor Maintenance Tax and the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund were established in the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 1986. The Trust Fund (HMTF) applies a 0.125 percent ad valorem tax on the value of commercial cargo loaded or unloaded on vessels using Federally-maintained channels. The tax is only assessed on imports and domestic cargo, as it was ruled as an unconstitutional assessment on exports in a 1998 Supreme Court ruling. This Fund - that you, members of Congress - established, was authorized to be utilized to recover 100 percent of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers eligible Operations and Maintenance (O&M) expenditures for commercial navigation, along with 100 percent of the O&M cost of the St. Lawrence Seaway, certain costs of NOAA, and the costs to Customs to collect the tax.</span>//
//<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Fixing the Problem</span>//
//<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Ladies and gentleman - would it surprise you to know that this utilization has not been honored? HMTF revenues exceed transfers for authorized activities by an increasing margin. Yet, our Federal channels are not being maintained at authorized depths. The Fund is being held hostage to paper balance the budget - interestingly, not one of its legal uses. In 2007, the HMTF began with a $3.3 billion surplus and collected an additional $1.4 billion - resulting in a $4.7 billion surplus, while only $751 million was utilized for maintenance dredging. That is incredible. I would ask that you consider this analogy offered by my colleague in a Gulf Coast port: "What would you say to a toll booth operator who took your money to use the toll road only to then tell you that the road was unusable?"?</span>//
//<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">That is what is happening to shippers who pay this tax every day. We must solve this problem. We must draft legislation that mandates that the Fund be utilized for its intended purpose - the maintenance dredging of Federal ports and harbors. There are a number of ways to address this problem. As you know, other modes of transportation - surface transportation and aviation ? have faced similar problems in the past decade. Although we are in the early stages of addressing this problem, our Coalition believes Congress should consider an approach similar to that taken with the Highway Trust Fund in 1998 and with the Airport and Airway Trust Fund in 2000. In those cases, Congress legislatively enacted "firewalls" around the Trust Funds ? essentially guaranteeing minimum levels of spending that could only be used to support eligible projects. Although there are some variations between the Highway, Aviation, and Harbor Maintenance Trust, the point of a firewall in each case is the same - ensuring that monies from a tax would be used for their intended purpose and not merely for deficit reduction.</span>//
//<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Increasing exports is a prerequisite to sustainable economic growth – prevents investment bubbles and solves the trade deficit**</span>//
//<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Istrate et al, 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">-- senior research analyst and associate fellow with the Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative (Emilia, "Export Nation: How U.S. Metros Lead National Export Growth and Boost Competitiveness", July, Brookings, <span style="color: #1155cc; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2010/7/26%20mountain%20exports%20muro/0726_exports_istrate_rothwell_katz.pdf]]</span></span></span>//
//<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">) </span>// NK
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Exports Could Contribute to the Rebalancing of the U.S. Economy and a Lower Trade Deficit</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">For the most of the last 20 years, the United States has witnessed strong economic growth and low unemployment in comparison with other developed countries.18 Yet, the U.S. economy was affected by the wide fluctuations at the end of two business cycles, the so called IT bubble of the late 1990s and the housing bubble that ended between sometime during 2006 and 2007. Meanwhile, in 2006 household income inequality reached its post-World War II peak.19 Real median income in 2008 fell below 1999 levels.20 These three conditions—a tepid rise in living standards, increasing inequality, and bubble economies—are embedded in the consumption driven American economy.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">In 1982, U.S. residents spent 86 cents of every dollar of after-tax income, but the intensity of consumption grew steadily such that by 2005, that share had reached 95 cents of every dollar.21 All this spending depleted savings, which dropped precipitously over the time period from over 10 percent in the early 1980s to just 1.7 percent in 2005.22 At the same time, an increasing share of consumption involved the purchase of imports. While the value of U.S. total imports was eight percent higher than the value of U.S. total exports in 1982, by 2005, the difference was 36 percent, the highest gap since 1960.23</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">With minimal household savings, domestic investment declined over the last two decades relative to the size of the economy. The United States invested about 7.3 percent of GDP in the 2000s, much less than the 9.4 percent rate of the 1970s.24 Moreover, from 2000 to 2007, private manufacturing investment as a share of GDP was just 0.26 percent per year compared to 0.37 percent during the 1990s. At the same time, foreign investment compensated to some extent, though more in the real estate sector. For example, Chinese holdings represented 6 percent of all federal agency debt and 29 percent of foreign-held agency debt in 2007, making China the largest foreign holder of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac debt.25</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">The externalization of risk is another major problem with trade deficits. A large portion of the dollars spent on imports end up being re-invested back into the United States and that process increases the risk of bubbles. No sector can sustain limitless growth, and as the safest and most valuable investments become saturated with funding, the excess liquidity begins to seep into riskier and riskier propositions like no-income-no-asset subprime mortgage derivatives. The economists Joshua Aizenman and Yothin Jinjarak have shown that current account deficits have coincided with and contributed to rapid housing price appreciation across OECD countries between 1990 and 2005.26</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">While the United States based its growth on private consumption over the last three decades, the other developed countries exploited foreign demand. Over the last 30 years, private consumption, as a share of GDP, increased by seven percentage points in the United States, while total exports grew by only two percentage points. The other large developed countries, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, and the United Kingdom, maintained an almost constant share of private spending, but increased their share of total exports in GDP by seven percentage points.28 In 2008, the U.S. total exports were only 12.7 of domestic production, in comparison with 29.7 percent in the other large developed countries. Moreover, as a recent Brookings report shows, this underperformance is not entirely explained by the size of the U.S. economy and its distance from trading partners.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">There are a number of potential explanations for why the United States under-exports. First, the dollar is over-valued relative to the currencies of a number of important U.S. trading partners.29 In addition, U.S. companies have been focused on catering to the large and growing U.S market. About one percent of U.S. companies exported in 2008.30 It seems that many small and medium companies lack information regarding exports and perceive exporting as a risky endeavor.31 Finally, many countries still put up significant trade barriers against U.S. companies. In the absence of free trade agreements with emerging countries, U.S. companies had additional incentives to locate production abroad in order to take advantage of these foreign markets. For example, while nominal total exports grew by 10 percent annually between 1994 and 2007, nominal sales of U.S. affiliates located in foreign countries increased by almost 18 percent a year during the same period.32</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Whatever the reasons why the United States is less export-oriented than other countries, increasing</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">exports relative to imports can be part of the solution to many long-standing difficulties.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Strong US growth is key to promoting an American economic model – the alternative is mercantilism, which destroys economic cooperation and risks protectionism**</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Posen 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Deputy director and senior fellow of the Peterson Institute for International Economics (Adam, “Economic leadership beyond the crisis,” <span style="color: #1155cc; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://clients.squareeye.com/uploads/foresight/documents/PN%20USA_FINAL_LR_1.pdf]]</span>)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">In the postwar period, US power and prestige, beyond the nation's military might, have been based largely on American relative economic size and success. These facts enabled the US to promote economic openness and buy-in to a set of economic institutions, formal and informal, that resulted in increasing international economic integration. With the exception of the immediate post-Bretton Woods oil-shock period (1974-85), this combination produced generally growing prosperity at home and abroad, and underpinned the idea that there were benefits to other countries of following the American model and playing by American rules. Initially this system was most influential and successful in those countries in tight military alliance with the US, such as Canada, West Germany, Japan, South Korea, and the United Kingdom. With the collapse of Soviet communism in 1989, and the concomitant switch of important emerging economies, notably Brazil, China, India, and Mexico, to increasingly free-market capitalism, global integration on American terms through American leadership has been increasingly dominant for the last two decades. The global financial crisis of 2008-09, however, represents a challenge to that world order. While overt financial panic has been averted, and most economic forecasts are for recovery to begin in the US and the major emerging markets well before end of 2009 (a belief I share), there remain significant risks for the US and its leadership. The global financial system, including but not limited to US-based entities, has not yet been sustainably reformed. In fact, financial stability will come under strain again when the current government financial guarantees and public ownership of financial firms and assets are unwound over the next couple of years. The growth rate of the US economy and the ability of the US government to finance responses to future crises, both military and economic, will be meaningfully curtailed for several years to come. Furthermore, the crisis will accelerate at least temporarily two related long-term trends eroding the viability of the current international economic arrangements. First, perhaps inevitably, the economic size and importance of China, India, Brazil, and other emerging markets (including oil-exporters like Russia) has been catching up with the US, and even more so with demographically and productivity challenged Europe and northeast Asia. Second, pressure has been building over the past fifteen years or so of these developing countries' economic rise to give their governments more voice and weight in international economic decision-making. Again, this implies a transfer of relative voting share from the US, but an even greater one from over-represented Western Europe. The near certainty that Brazil, China, and India, are to be less harmed in real economic terms by the current crisis than either the US or most other advanced economies will only emphasise their growing strength, and their ability to claim a role in leadership. The need for capital transfers from China and oil-exporters to fund deficits and bank recapitalisation throughout the West, not just in the US, increases these rising countries' leverage and legitimacy in international economic discussions. One aspect of this particular crisis is that American economic policymakers, both Democratic and Republican, became increasingly infatuated with financial services and innovation beginning in the mid-1990s. This reflected a number of factors, some ideological, some institutional, and some interest group driven. The key point here is that export of financial services and promotion of financial liberalisation on the US securitised model abroad came to dominate the US international economic policy agenda, and thus that of the IMF, the OECD, and the G8 as well. This came to be embodied by American multinational commercial and investment banks, in perception and in practice. That particular version of the American economic model has been widely discredited, because of the crisis' apparent origins in US lax regulation and over-consumption, as well as in excessive faith in American-style financial markets. Thus, American global economic leadership has been eroded over the long-term by the rise of major emerging market economies, disrupted in the short-term by the nature and scope of the financial crisis, and partially discredited by the excessive reliance upon and overselling of US-led financial capitalism. This crisis therefore presents the possibility of the US model for economic development being displaced, not only deservedly tarnished, and the US having limited resources in the near-term to try to respond to that challenge. Additionally, the US' traditional allies and co-capitalists in Western Europe and Northeast Asia have been at least as damaged economically by the crisis (though less damaged reputationally). Is there an alternative economic model? The preceding description would seem to confirm the rise of the Rest over the West. That would be premature. The empirical record is that economic recovery from financial crises, while painful, is doable even by the poorest countries, and in advanced countries rarely leads to significant political dislocation. Even large fiscal debt burdens can be reined in over a few years where political will and institutions allow, and the US has historically fit in that category. A few years of slower growth will be costly, but also may put the US back on a sustainable growth path in terms of savings versus consumption. Though the relative rise of the major emerging markets will be accelerated by the crisis, that acceleration will be insufficient to rapidly close the gap with the US in size, let alone in technology and well-being. None of those countries, except perhaps for China, can think in terms of rivaling the US in all the aspects of national power. These would include: a large, dynamic and open economy; favorable demographic dynamics; monetary stability and a currency with a global role; an ability to project hard power abroad; and an attractive economic model to export for wide emulation. This last point is key. In the area of alternative economic models, one cannot beat something with nothing - communism fell not just because of its internal contradictions, or the costly military build-up, but because capitalism presented a clearly superior alternative. The Chinese model is in part the American capitalist (albeit not high church financial liberalisation) model, and is in part mercantilism. There has been concern that some developing or small countries could take the lesson from China that building up lots of hard currency reserves through undervaluation and export orientation is smart. That would erode globalisation, and lead to greater conflict with and criticism of the US-led system. While in the abstract that is a concern, most emerging markets - and notably Brazil, India, Mexico, South Africa, and South Korea - are not pursuing that extreme line. The recent victory of the incumbent Congress Party in India is one indication, and the statements about openness of Brazilian President Lula is another. Mexico's continued orientation towards NAFTA while seeking other investment flows (outside petroleum sector, admittedly) to and from abroad is a particularly brave example. Germany's and Japan's obvious crisis-prompted difficulties emerging from their very high export dependence, despite their being wealthy, serve as cautionary examples on the other side. So unlike in the1970s, the last time that the US economic performance and leadership were seriously compromised, we will not see leading developing economies like Brazil and India going down the import substitution or other self-destructive and uncooperative paths. If this assessment is correct, the policy challenge is to deal with relative US economic decline, but not outright hostility to the US model or displacement of the current international economic system. That is reassuring, for it leaves us in the realm of normal economic diplomacy, perhaps to be pursued more multilaterally and less high-handedly than the US has done over the past 20 years. It also suggests that adjustment of current international economic institutions is all that is required, rather than desperately defending economic globalisation itself. For all of that reassurance, however, the need to get buy-in from the rising new players to the current system is more pressing on the economic front than it ever has been before. Due to the crisis, the ability of the US and the other advanced industrial democracies to put up money and markets for rewards and side-payments to those new players is also more limited than it has been in the past, and will remain so for at least the next few years. The need for the US to avoid excessive domestic self-absorption is a real concern as well, given the combination of foreign policy fatigue from the Bush foreign policy agenda and economic insecurity from the financial crisis. Managing the post-crisis global economy Thus, the US faces a challenging but not truly threatening global economic situation as a result of the crisis and longer-term financial trends. Failure to act affirmatively to manage the situation, however, bears two significant and related risks: first, that China and perhaps some other rising economic powers will opportunistically divert countries in US-oriented integrated relationships to their economic sphere(s); second, that a leadership vacuum will arise in international financial affairs and in multilateral trade efforts, which will over time erode support for a globally integrated economy. Both of these risks if realised would diminish US foreign policy influence, make the economic system less resilient in response to future shocks (to every country's detriment), reduce economic growth and thus the rate of reduction in global poverty, and conflict with other foreign policy goals like controlling climate change or managing migration and demographic shifts. If the US is to rise to the challenge, it should concentrate on the following priority measures.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Protectionism will cause terrorism and global wars – risks extinction**</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Panzner 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase (Michael, “Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse,” p. 136-138)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Continuing calls for curbs on the flow of finance and trade will inspire the United States and other nations to spew forth protectionist legislation like the notorious Smoot-Hawley bill. Introduced at the start of the Great Depression, it triggered a series of tit-for-tat economic responses, which many commentators believe helped turn a serious economic downturn into a prolonged and devastating global disaster. But if history is any guide, those lessons will have been long forgotten during the next collapse. Eventually, fed by a mood of desperation and growing public anger, restrictions on trade, finance, investment, and immigration will almost certainly intensify. Authorities and ordinary citizens will likely scrutinize the cross-border movement of Americans and outsiders alike, and lawmakers may even call for a general crackdown on nonessential travel. Meanwhile, many nations will make transporting or sending funds to other countries exceedingly difficult. As desperate officials try to limit the fallout from decades of ill-conceived, corrupt, and reckless policies, they will introduce controls on foreign exchange. Foreign individuals and companies seeking to acquire certain American infrastructure assets, or trying to buy property and other assets on the cheap thanks to a rapidly depreciating dollar, will be stymied by limits on investment by noncitizens. Those efforts will cause spasms to ripple across economies and markets, disrupting global payment, settlement, and clearing mechanisms. All of this will, of course, continue to undermine business confidence and consumer spending. In a world of lockouts and lockdowns, any link that transmits systemic financial pressures across markets through arbitrage or portfolio-based risk management, or that allows diseases to be easily spread from one country to the next by tourists and wildlife, or that otherwise facilitates unwelcome exchanges of any kind will be viewed with suspicion and dealt with accordingly. The rise in isolationism andprotectionism will bring about ever more heated arguments and dangerous confrontations over shared sources of oil, gas, and other key commodities as well as factors of production that must, out of necessity, be acquired from less-than-friendly nations. Whether involving raw materials used in strategic industries or basic necessities such as food, water, and energy, efforts to secure adequate supplies will take increasing precedence in a world where demand seems constantly out of kilter with supply. Disputes over the misuse, overuse, and pollution of the environment and natural resources will become more commonplace. Around the world, such tensions will give rise to </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">full-scale military encounters,</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> often with minimal provocation. In some instances, economic conditions will serve as a convenient pretext for conflicts that stem from cultural and religious differences. Alternatively, nations may look to divert attention away from domestic problems by channeling frustration and populist sentiment toward other countries and cultures. Enabled by cheap technology and the waning threat of American retribution, terrorist groups will likely boost the frequency and scale of their horrifying attacks, bringing the threat of random violence to a whole new level. Turbulent conditions will encourage aggressive saber rattling and interdictions by rogue nations running amok. Age-old clashes will also take on a new, more heated sense of urgency. China will likely assume an increasingly belligerent posture toward Taiwan, while Iran may embark on overt colonization of its neighbors in the Mideast. Israel, for its part, may look to draw a dwindling list of allies from around the world into a growing number of conflicts. Some observers, like John Mearsheimer, a political scientist at the University of Chicago, have even speculated that an “intense confrontation” between the United States and China is “inevitable” at some point. More than a few disputes will turn out to be almost wholly ideological. Growingcultural and religious differences will be transformed from wars of words to battles </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">soaked in blood</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Long-simmering resentments could also degenerate quickly, spurring the basest of human instincts and triggering genocidal acts. Terrorists employing biological or nuclear weapons will vie with conventional forces using jets, cruise missiles, and bunker-busting bombs to cause widespread destruction. Many will interpret stepped-up conflicts between Muslims and Western societies as the beginnings of a new world war.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Dredging our US ports is vital to US global economic leadership**</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Kiefer et al, 2k** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– principal investigator for Planning and Management Consultants– study authorized by Section 401 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1999, report to the US Army Corps of Engineers (Jack, Planning and Management Consultants, “The National Dredging Needs Study of Ports and Harbors Implications to Cost-Sharing of Federal Deep Draft Navigation Projects Due to Changes in the Maritime Industry”, May 2000, <span style="color: #1155cc; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.iwr.usace.army.mil/docs/iwrreports/00-R-8.pdf]]</span>) // CB</span></span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">2.2.2 Other Tangible Benefits </span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Indirect benefits of Corps projects include gains associated with international trade. Historical expenditures for harbor improvements facilitate international trade by providing ships more efficient access to the Nation's ports. International trade in turn creates and sustains jobs and generates Federal tax revenues. The exact method of computing income and employment associated with international trade is debatable, but one of the best techniques is to calculate the value added by U.S. businesses and households to imports and exports. 5 Computations reveal that nearly 20 percent of all U.S. jobs are directly associated with international trade. A slightly higher percentage of personal income would be associated with international trade because such jobs pay somewhat more than the U.S. average. In addition, about $553 million were collected for the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund in 1999. </span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Some benefits of harbor improvements are difficult or impossible to quantify. For individual projects these are given little attention. Policy decisions concerning project authorizations and appropriations should consider intangible benefits as well as tangible direct and secondary benefits. This idea is particularly applicable to international trade and specifically container trade. For example, America is such a big market, **international trade gives the U.S. considerable leverage when dealing with foreign governments**. Thus, **international trade can enhance the U**nited**S**tates’ **role as a world leader. National harbors are** also **a vital part of our military’s power projection platform.**</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Economists believe in the law of comparative advantage, which states that nations benefit when they specialize in producing certain goods and services and then trade with each other rather than producing everything themselves. For example, most people perceive that the majority of foreign trade consists of consumer goods such as clothing and televisions. However, as shown in Table 2-2, a significant portion of U.S. foreign trade consists of semi-manufactured commodities and raw materials such as iron and steel or crude petroleum. These products are used to produce other goods, or are further processed in the importing country. For example, in the United States imported car parts are often used to produce exports of finished automobiles. Machinery and electrical equipment are often used the same way. Thus, efficient flow of international commodities is important for all nations including the United States.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Global trade is very competitive and profit margins are thin. This is particularly true for maritime transportation including the container shipping industry. . Growth in U.S. foreign trade, even though it is substantial, is not as high as growth in total international trade, particularly with respect to containerships. It is quite possible for some U.S. trade to be diverted or to be serviced by less efficient ships. This may occur if American ports and the Federal government are not able to meet current challenges posed by developments in international trade. </span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">2.2.4 Lost Benefits</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">There are lost benefits associated with delays in the construction of harbor improvement projects. Costs increase with delays, not only because of inflation but because the construction process becomes distorted by available funds. Costs associated with delays can and have been estimated. Typically, a year’s delay in schedule leads to a penalty of more than 10 percent of project cost. This is sizable and should be considered when making cost-sharing policies. Cost-sharing policies should seek to insure that both public ports and the Federal government fund projects in a timely manner. There are also benefits foregone due to lost transportation cost savings with project delays.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Project delays affect the Nation in another way. Although these benefits are difficult to quantify, such effects are perhaps more important than those that can be measured. Delays create an uncertain atmosphere that can impact decisions to develop infrastructure elsewhere. Container ports are very capital intensive and require long term planning. Massive containerships are rapidly being put into service at ports throughout the world. Without a clear signal of intent to accommodate these vessels in the United States, necessary ports and facilities may be built elsewhere. Once major investments are made elsewhere, the full efficiencies of large containerships in the form of lower transportation costs for general cargo may be lost to the Nation for a long time to come.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">2.3 Geographical Incidence of International Trade</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Public ports generally have a regional or local economic development mandate along with authorizations to improve harbor facilities. This does not mean, however, that local economies near ports capture all or most of the benefits associated with international trade. For example, when a port unloads crude petroleum from a ship, it charges a fee that generates revenues for the port and the local community. But imported oil also fuels cars and homes throughout the Nation. Likewise, when a port loads grain or coal onto a ship for export, farmers in the U.S. heartland benefit as do coal miners in the hills of West Virginia, Pennsylvania and Kentucky. Container trade benefits all regions of the country as well.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">As shown in Table 2-3, fifteen U.S. ports account for about 80 percent of international maritime trade in terms of value. These ports represent only ten states, however much of the cargo they handle flows to other regions. Table 2-4 shows the origin and destination of international cargo for each U.S. state measured in terms of value. On average, any given state uses the services of 15 different ports around the country. For example, the California ports of Los Angeles, Long Beach and Oakland collectively handle about $187 billion worth of cargo, but the state of California is the origin or destination of only $106 billion. While most container trade flows in and out of ports on the East and West Coasts, it is distributed throughout the Nation as shown in Tables 2-5 and 2-6. For instance, the Port of Charleston, S.C. handled about 800 thousand TEUs in 1996, but the state of South Carolina was the origin or destination of only 160 thousand of these TEUs. Similarly, the ports of Los Angeles, Long Beach and Oakland handled five million TEUs but only 2.5 million originated or were destined to sites within California.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">[table omitted]</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">2.4 Conclusion </span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">The benefits of harbor improvements are numerous. Expenditures for harbor improvements have facilitated international trade by providing ships more efficient access to the Nation's ports. International trade in turn creates and sustains jobs and generates Federal tax revenues. Foreign commerce has become crucial to the economic well-being of the United States. In 1946, U.S. international trade represented a relatively small portion of the U.S. economy, but today foreign trade accounts for 27 percent of U.S. gross domestic product. Harbor improvements also affect prices of U.S. imports and exports. With deeper channels vessel operators can load more cargo onto a ship and sail deeper, or they can use larger more efficient vessels. Unit transportation costs decline and lower transportation costs are reflected in commodity prices. Intangible benefits are also important. Free trade promotes international relations and stability and bolsters the United States’ position as a world leader. Lastly, it is important to stress that the economic benefits of international trade are widespread and are not limited to a handful of coastal states.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Economic leadership prevents economic collapse—leadership key to resilience**</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Mandelbaum**, **5** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Professor and Director of the American Foreign Policy Program at Johns Hopkins – 2005</span></span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">[Michael, The Case for Goliath: How America Acts As the World’s Government in the Twenty-First Century, p. 192-195]</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Although the spread of nuclear weapons, with the corresponding increase in the likelihood that a nuclear shot would be fired in anger somewhere in the world, counted as the most serious potential consequence of the abandonment by the United States of its role as the world's government, it was not the only one. In the previous period of American international reticence, the 1920s and 1930s, the global economy suffered serious damage that a more active American role might have mitigated. A twenty-first-century American retreat could have similarly adverse international economic consequences. The economic collapse of the 1930s caused extensive hardship throughout the world and led indirectly to World War II by paving the way for the people who started it to gain power in Germany and Japan. In retrospect, the Great Depression is widely believed to have been caused by a series of errors in public policy that made an economic downturn far worse than it would have been had governments responded to it in appropriate fashion. Since the 1930s, acting on the lessons drawn from that experience by professional economists, governments have taken steps that have helped to prevent a recurrence of the disasters of that decade.' In the face of reduced demand, for example, governments have increased rather than cut spending. Fiscal and monetary crises have evoked rescue efforts rather than a studied indifference based on the assumption that market forces will readily reestablish a desirable economic equilibrium. In contrast to the widespread practice of the 1930s, political authorities now understand that putting up barriers to imports in an attempt to revive domestic production will in fact worsen economic conditions everywhere. Still, a serious, prolonged failure of the international economy, inflicting the kind of hardship the world experienced in the 1930s (which some Asian countries also suffered as a result of their fiscal crises in the 1990s) does not lie beyond the realm of possibility. Market economies remain subject to cyclical downturns, which public policy can limit but has not found a way to eliminate entirely. Markets also have an inherent tendency to form bubbles, excessive values for particular assets, whether seventeenth century Dutch tulips or twentieth century Japanese real estate and Thai currency, that cause economic harm when the bubble bursts and prices plunge. In responding to these events, governments can make errors. They can act too slowly, or fail to implement the proper policies, or implement improper ones. Moreover, the global economy and the national economies that comprise it, like a living organism, change constantly and sometimes rapidly: Capital flows across sovereign borders, for instance, far more rapidly and in much greater volume in the early twenty-first century than ever before. This means that measures that successfully address economic malfunctions at one time may have less effect at another, just as medical science must cope with the appearance of new strains of influenza against which existing vaccines are not effective. Most importantly, since the Great Depression, an active American international economic role has been crucial both in fortifying the conditions for global economic well-being and in coping with the problems that have occurred, especially periodic recessions and currency crises, by applying the lessons of the past. The absence of such a role could weaken those conditions and aggravate those problems. The overall American role in the world since World War II therefore has something in common with the theme of the Frank Capra film It's a Wonderful Life, in which the angel Clarence, played by Henry Travers, shows James Stewart, playing the bank clerk George Bailey, who believes his existence to have been worthless, how life in his small town of Bedford Falls would have unfolded had he never been born. George Bailey learns that people he knows and loves turn out to be far worse off without him. So it is with the United States and its role as the world's government. Without that role, the world very likely would have been in the past, and would become in the future, a less secure and less prosperous place. The abdication by the United States of some or all of the responsibilities for international security that it had come to bear in the first decade of the twenty-first century would deprive the international system of one of its principal safety features, which keeps countries from smashing into each other, as they are historically prone to do. In this sense, a world without America would be the equivalent of a freeway full of cars without brakes. Similarly, should the American government abandon some or all of the ways in which it had, at the dawn of the new century, come to support global economic activity, the world economy would function less effectively and might even suffer a severe and costly breakdown. A world without the United States would in this way resemble a fleet of cars without gasoline.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Economic and trade decline triggers global nuclear war**</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Royal 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, (Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict. Political science literature has contributed a moderate degree of attention to the impact of economic decline and the security and defence behaviour of interdependent states. Research in this vein has been considered at systemic, dyadic and national levels. Several notable contributions follow. First, on the systemic level, Pollins (2008) advances Modclski and Thompson's (1996) work on leadership cycle theory, finding that rhythms in the global economy are associated with the rise and fall of a pre-eminent power and the often bloody transition from one pre-eminent leader to the next. As such, exogenous shocks such as economic crises could usher in a redistribution of relative power (see also Gilpin, 1981) that leads to uncertainty about power balances, increasing the risk of miscalculation (Fearon. 1995). Alternatively, even a relatively certain redistribution of power could lead to a permissive environment for conflict as a rising power may seek to challenge a declining power (Werner, 1999). Separately, Pollins (1996) also shows that global economic cycles combined with parallel leadership cycles impact the likelihood of conflict among major, medium and small powers, although he suggests that the causes and connections between global economic conditions and security conditions remain unknown. Second, on a dyadic level, Copeland's (1996. 2000) theory of trade expectations suggests that 'future expectation of trade' is a significant variable in understanding economic conditions and security behaviour of states. He argues that interdependent states are likely to gain pacific benefits from trade so long as they have an optimistic view of future trade relations. However, if the expectations of future trade decline, particularly for difficult to replace items such as energy resources, the likelihood for conflict increases, as states will be inclined to use force to gain access to those resources. Crises could potentially be the trigger for decreased trade expectations either on its own or because it triggers protectionist moves by interdependent states.4 Third, others have considered the link between economic decline and external armed conflict at a national level. Blomberg and Hess (2002) find a strong correlation between internal conflict and external conflict, particularly during periods of economic downturn. They write: The linkages between internal and external conflict and prosperity are strong and mutually reinforcing. Economic conflict tends to spawn internal conflict, which in turn returns the favour. Moreover, the presence of a recession tends to amplify the extent to which international and external conflicts self-reinforce each other. (Blomberg & Hess, 2002. p. 89) Economic decline has also been linked with an increase in the likelihood of terrorism (Blomberg. Hess. & Weerapana. 2004). which has the capacity to spill across borders and lead to external tensions. Furthermore, crises generally reduce the popularity of a sitting government. 'Diversionary theory' suggests that, when facing unpopularity arising from economic decline, sitting governments have increased incentives to fabricate external military conflicts to create a 'rally around the flag' effect. Wang (1990, DeRouen (1995). and Blomberg, Hess, and Thacker (2006) find supporting evidence showing that economic decline and use of force are at least indirectly correlated. Gelpi (1997), Miller (1999), and Kisangani and Pickering (2009) suggest that the tendency towards diversionary tactics are greater for democratic states than autocratic states, due to the fact that democratic leaders are generally more susceptible to being removed from office due to lack of domestic support. DeRouen (2000) has provided evidence showing that periods of weak economic performance in the United States, and thus weak Presidential popularity, are statistically linked to an increase in the use of force. In summary, recent economic scholarship positively correlates economic integration with an increase in the frequency of economic crises, whereas political science scholarship links economic decline with external conflict at systemic, dyadic and national levels.' This implied connection between integration, crises and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention. This observation is not contradictory to other perspectives that link economic interdependence with a decrease in the likelihood of external conflict, such as those mentioned in the first paragraph of this chapter. Those studies tend to focus on dyadic interdependence instead of global interdependence and do not specifically consider the occurrence of and conditions created by economic crises. As such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.</span>
====<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">LNG</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Panama Canal expansion allows for US export of LNG to Europe**</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Eaton, reporter for the //Houston Business Journal//, 2012 (Collin, “Economists differ on Panama Canal expansion's impact,” Houston Business Journal, May 29, </span>**<span style="color: #1155cc; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.bizjournals.com/houston/blog/money-makers/2012/05/economists-differ-on-panama-canal.html]]</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Economists at a recent forum disagreed about the potential impact of the Panama Canal expansion set for 2014, arguing in turns that it could greatly boost energy trade or that it needs to improve its depth and width before it can attract new traffic.¶ Last week, I covered an economic panel and watched as three economists discussed Houston’s economic future. The canal expansion was just one piece of the discussion, and it wasn’t the only point of contention.¶ Michael Economides, a professor of chemical and biomolecular engineering at the University of Houston, told an audience of about 100 that the Panama Canal expansion would be a defining moment for the U.S.’s energy sector, especially in its competition with Russia and China.¶ “The reason for that is LNG, liquid natural gas,” Economides said. “The Panama Canal expansion will allow for super tankers to be able to traverse (the canal). We would be exporting energy from the U.S. Some of it's going to go east to Europe, primarily.”¶ Patrick Jankowski, regional economist at the Greater Houston Partnership, said the expansion will boost trade, but it won’t necessarily be a game-changer.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**But this requires port dredging**</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Ebinger, Task Force Co-Chair of Brookings Institution Natural Gas Task Force, et al., 2012 ("Evaluating the Prospects for Increased Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas from the United States", January, <span style="color: #1155cc; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf|www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">The successful export of LNG will depend upon the necessary shipping infrastructure and capacity being in place. Cheniere Energy is looking to export up to 2.2 bcf/day of gas from its Sabine Pass LNG terminal in Louisiana. 39 Depending on the size of the LNG vessel, this would require between three and five supertankers per week. In order to accommodate this volume of large ships, some domestic U.S. ports will require additional dredging. Other shipping-related concerns include security of vessels and the adequacy of Coast Guard capacity to provide that security (exporters must meet Coast Guard Waterway Suitability, Security, and Emergency standards prior to approval); and the capacity of sea lanes, particularly to Asia. Increasing shipments to Asia will depend on the capacity of the Panama Canal, which is currently too small to accommodate most LNG tankers. However, after the planned expansion of the canal is completed—expected to be in 2014—roughly 80 percent of the world’s LNG tankers will be able to pass through the isthmus, resulting in a dramatic decline in shipping costs to Asia. 40</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Increasing US LNG exports breaks European dependence on Russia**</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Ratner, specialist in energy policy, et al., 2012 (Michael, Paul Belkin, analyst in European affairs, Jim Nichol, specialist in Russian and Eurasian affairs, and Steven Woehrel, specialist in European Affairs, “Europe’s Energy Security: Options and Challenges to Natural Gas Supply Diversification,” //Congressional Research Service//, March 13, <span style="color: #1155cc; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/R42405.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">The 27 member-state European Union (EU) has been a growing natural gas consumer and importer for decades. However, as Europe’s natural gas production has declined in recent years, its dependence on imported natural gas has increased. This has left it more dependent as a whole onits primary supplier, Russia, which has shown some inclination to use its resources for political ends. Natural gas, unlike oil which is a global commodity, is a regional commodity with regional buyers and sellers exerting more influence. ¶ Over the past decade, some European officials have become increasingly concerned about the potential for cutoffs or curtailments of Russian natural gas supplies to Europe. Most Russian natural gas exports to Europe flow through Ukraine and Belarus. Fragile and sometimes hostile relations between Kyiv, Minsk, and Moscow have in the past resulted in interruptions in the flow of natural gas to parts of Europe, as happened in 2006 and 2009. Some countries in Eastern Europe, which are in some cases almost exclusively reliant on Russian gas imports, have been particularly susceptible to these fluctuations. ¶ Despite its growing dependence on Russian natural gas, Europe is well positioned geographically to benefit from recent changes in global natural gas development. Since the advent of shale gas in the United States, the world appears to be potentially awash in natural gas. A 2011 study commissioned by the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) showed that technically recoverable shale gas resources worldwide may exceed current global natural gas reserves.1Other key developments and possible alternatives to Russian natural gas are outlined below: ¶ Taken as a whole, North Africa could pose a credible alternative to Russian natural gas supplies. The change of regimes in Libya, in particular, and in Egypt as a result of the wave of regional unrest known as the “Arab Spring,” poses a potential opportunity to increase natural gas production and exports from these countries. Both Libya and Egypt have large natural gas reserves, but production and exports have been hampered by domestic policies. Algeria, the largest exporter of natural gas in North Africa and the third largest supplier to Europe behind Russia and Norway, may also hold large volumes of shale gas yet to be developed in addition to their substantial conventional reserves. ¶ Central Asia may hold the greatest potential for new natural gas supplies for Europe, but currently those supplies would have to transit Russia to arrive in the European market. The delays in developing a southern corridor natural gas pipeline route to Europe have forced Central Asian countries to look east instead of west to bypass Russia and open new markets.2¶ Liquefied natural gas (LNG) imports pose an additional alternative to Russian natural gas. In 2010, LNG comprised almost 20% of the EU’s natural gas imports and over 15% of its consumption. The EU has LNG import capacity to meet its peak winter demand for natural gas, but during most of the year the facilities are underutilized. Nevertheless, some countries are considering building additional LNG import terminals to diversify their sources of natural gas. In addition to LNG import terminals, the EU could benefit from increased natural gas storage facilities in order to manage their import capacity during non-peak periods, as well as more pipeline interconnections to move natural gas where it is needed. EU officials have identified both improvements as priorities and they are being pursued, but not without some difficulty.¶ The prospect of significant U.S. LNG exports may pose an opportunity for the United States to play a bigger role in European energy security and global natural gas markets. 3 Most of the proposed U.S. LNG export projects are located on the Gulf coast or east coast of the United States, making shipments, at least initially, more likely to go to Europe than Asia. Additionally, the U.S. natural gas market is one of the only markets in the world where natural gas is not priced against oil, giving it a cost advantage in most of Europe. Should future U.S. LNG contracts not include an oil-indexed formula, pressure would be added for other countries, including Russia, to follow suit. Russian companies, including state-controlled natural gas giant Gazprom, have adamantly defended oil-indexed natural gas prices.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**The Russian stranglehold on the European energy market prevents democratic reforms in Central Asia**</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Baran, Director and Senior Fellow at the Center for Eurasian Policy at the Hudson Institute, 2007 (Zenyo, “EU Energy Security: Time to End Russian Leverage,” //The Washington Quarterly//, Autumn, </span>**<span style="color: #1155cc; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://ao.hudson.org/files/publications/07autumn_baran.pdf]]</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">The lack of reliable and sustainable European access to energy represents a clear threat to the continent’s security. Under the leadership of Putin, the Kremlin has pursued a strategy whereby Europe’s substantial dependence on Russian energy is leveraged to obtain economic and political gains. If this situation continues, the EU will find itself in further danger, as its dependence leaves it **beholden** to Russian interests. There simply is no readily available alternative to the supplies the EU receives from Russia, particularly natural gas. Unlike oil, gas is extremely difficult and costly to ship via tankers; pipelines are the preferred method of transportation. Thus, if a supplier refuses to provide gas or charges an unreasonable price, the consumer cannot quickly or easily turn to another source. The consumer state would have no choice but to accept the supplier’s conditions or go without natural gas, an option that is all but unacceptable for most.¶ The unjust manipulation or interruption of energy supplies is as much a security threat as military action is, especially since the EU relies on Russia for more than 30 percent of its oil imports and 50 percent of its natural gas imports. 1 This dependence is not distributed evenly. As one heads eastward, Russia’s share of the energy supply grows ever larger. No fewer than seven eastern European countries receive at least 90 percent of their crude oil imports from Russia, and six EU nations are entirely dependent on Russia for their natural gas imports.¶ The Ukrainian gas crisis in January 2006 catapulted energy security to the forefront of the EU agenda. On the very day it took over the presidency of the Group of Eight (G-8)—a presidency that had announced energy security as its key theme—Russia halted natural gas deliveries to Ukraine. Because the gas pipelines crossing Ukraine carry supplies destined for EU markets, this shutdown resulted in significant supply disruptions for several member states, raising awareness that dependence onRussia has increased Europe’s geopolitical vulnerability.¶ Several EU states have experienced the misfortune of Russian supply cuts directly. Disputes between Russia and the Baltic states have led to the halt of pipeline deliveries of oil multiple times. In January 2003, Russia ceased supplying oil via pipeline to Latvia’s Ventspils Nafta export facility. This embargo, which followed Riga’s unwillingness to sell the facility to a Russian energy company, continues to this day. In July 2006, Moscow shut down a pipeline supplying Lithuania’s Mazeikiu Nafta refinery, which is the largest company in Lithuania and one of the biggest oil refineries in central and eastern Europe. As with Ventspils Nafta, this shutdown came after a Russian company failed to obtain the energy infrastructure it coveted.¶ Moscow has further sought to increase Europe’s dependence on Russian energy supplies by acquiring significant stakes in the energy distribution companies and infrastructure of EU member states, typically through its proxy, Gazprom. This massive energy company—the world’s largest—has control over the Russian gas pipeline network and consequently handles all Russian and Central Asian exports, either directly or through wholly owned subsidiaries. Such a preponderance of power would be troubling enough if the company were transparent, privately owned, and played by the rules of the free market, but Gazprom is none of those things. It is majority state owned and has deep ties to the Russian government. Many of the company’s executive management and board members also occupy or previously occupied key positions within the Kremlin.¶ For many years, Gazprom has owned significant portions of energy companies throughout the former Soviet Union. It is the largest or second-largest shareholder in the gas utilities of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. Recently, Gazprom has been expanding its influence even further into the domestic gas distribution networks of western Europe. In the past two years, Gazprom has signed deals with Eni (Italy), Gasunie (the Netherlands), BASF (Germany), E.ON Ruhrgas (Germany), and Gaz de France. Desperate for access to energy and the profits it brings, European companies are played against each other by the Kremlin in order to secure more advantageous conditions for Russia. If one company does not want to agree to Moscow’s terms, a competitor will gladly accept them, leaving the first company with nothing.¶ In addition to the economic disadvantages of such dependence, **the broader foreign policy goals of EU states** also **suffer**. Specifically, EU members limit their criticisms of Moscow, lest they be given a raw deal at the negotiating table. Russia’s increasingly tainted record on transparency, responsible governance, and human rights is thus allowed to stand unchallenged and unquestioned.Dependency also erodes EU support for key allies in Europe and Asia. Azerbaijan, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, and Ukraine—all crucial energy producers or transit countries—have each been subject to intimidation by Moscow. Instead of standing up to this harassment, Europe’s dependence compels its leaders to look the other way.¶ Most disturbing of all is that this dependence even leads the EU to turn a blind eye when Moscow utilizes these tactics against fellow EU members. The July 2006 shutdown of the Lithuanian pipeline, for example, drew little protest outside of Poland and the Baltic states. Russia claimed that this cutoff was the result of technical difficulties yet refused all offers from third parties to examine the damaged pipe or assist repairs in any way. Although this incident is suspicious enough on its own, it becomes a clear case of political manipulation given Russia’s status as a repeat offender.¶ Many times over the past decade, Moscow has utilized near-identical tactics in countries it considers to be its near abroad. It has repeatedly cut off energy supplies during a political dispute, smugly blamed technical difficulties for the problem, and eventually shifted supplies to another destination unless the victim acceded to the Kremlin’s demands. ¶ Despite this history and repeated pleas from President Valdas Adamkus, the response from most western European countries was rather muted during the Lithuanian shutdown. The countries of the West have never experienced these strong-arm tactics firsthand and fail to view it as anything more than an economic dispute. Moreover, they were too concerned that standing up for Lithuania would ruin their chances to get preferential access to Russian oil and gas resources. By design, the Russian strategy is driving a wedge between eastern and western Europe, exacerbating the challenges the EU faces in devising a common energy policy, as was seen during the dispute between Poland and Germany ahead of the June EU summit. This diplomatic row was ostensibly over Russia’s failure to remove its embargo on Polish meat products but more broadly involved the perceived reluctance of Berlin to stand up to Moscow on a whole host of issues, not the least of which was energy.¶ The EU’s inability to take Russia to task for its illiberal market actions threatens European energy security in another way. It decreases efficiency in an already inefficient Russian energy industry, raising costs for consumers. Russia’s increasingly state-owned energy industry is largely unregulated. Without competitive market forces, companies such as Gazprom have no reason to behave like commercially minded entities. The absence of market stimuli is having detrimental effects on Russian productivity. Between 1998 and 2005, output in Russia’s then-mostly privately owned oil sector rose by 50 percent. 2 During that same period, production in the gas sector (Gazprom) barely grew at all. Since 2004, when the Kremlin began its consolidation over the oil sector in earnest, Russian oil production has leveled off as well.¶ The lack of reliable and sustainable access to energy is a clear threat to European security. Due to the extremely close relationship between the energy industry and the Kremlin, Russia’s oil and gas companies can pursue strategies that make little economic sense but that serve the long-term interests of the Russian state, namely, ensuring European dependence on Russian energy supplies. For example, Russia’s undersea Nord Stream pipeline will cost at least three times more than a proposed overland route through Lithuania and Poland would have. Given the environmental sensitivity of the Baltic Sea, some industry insiders are predicting costs as high as $10 billion or even $15 billion.¶ By divorcing western Europe’s gas supply from eastern Europe’s, however, the undersea route grants Moscow the ability to manipulate the European energy market more effectively. Needless to say, the unnecessarily high cost of the pipeline’s construction will be passed on to European consumers. Many industry experts have expressed concern that corruption and inefficiency, coupled with Moscow’s refusal to allow significant foreign investment in the energy sector, will soon lead the Russian oil and gas industry to burn out.¶ Instead of developing new oil and gas fields or investing in its energy infrastructure, Russia has utilized windfall profits to pursue the aggressive policy of expansion and acquisition described above. Unless Moscow is able to secure additional gas supplies from fields in Central Asia, it may struggle to meet its commitments to Europe, which is why maintaining full control over Central Asia’s export routes is so critical for the Kremlin.¶ Engaging the Caspian Enshrined as the second of the three pillars of the EU, the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) states that the EU should seek to promote democracy, rule of law, and respect for human rights within its borders and abroad. Yet, dependence on Russian energy supplies undermines Europe’s efforts to foster the ideals of good governance, market transparency, and democracy both in Russia and in Russia’s neighbors. Although the establishment of these principles in energy suppliers is a worthy goal in its own right, doing so will also create a more stable environment for energy sector development, thereby improving European security. Diversifying oil and gas supplies by constructing pipelines directly from the Caucasus and Central Asia to Europe would not only decrease Russia’s influence on EU countries but would also loosen Moscow’s grip on Europe’s neighbors.</span>
====<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">European energy independence forces Russian rapprochement with the West, while energy dependence splinters Europe and results in conflict</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">__<span style="background-color: aqua;">Asmus</span>__, U.S. diplomat and political analysis, U.S. Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs, __200<span style="background-color: aqua;">8</span>__ (Ronald D., “Europe's Eastern Promise; Rethinking NATO and EU Enlargement,” Foreign Affairs, Jan/Feb, Proquest)</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">This accomplishment was the result of a common U.S.-European grand strategy that was controversial and fiercely debated at the time. The goal was to build a post-Cold War Europe "whole, free, and at peace"; to renew the transatlantic alliance; and to reposition the United States and Europe to address new global challenges. But as successful as the strategy of enlargement has been, the world has changed dramatically since it was forged. The United States and Europe face new risks and opportunities on Europe's periphery and need to recast their strategic thinking accordingly for a new era. Current policy toward Europe's periphery is increasingly out of date, for three reasons. First, the West has changed. The 9/11 attacks pulled U.S. attention and resources away from Europe and toward the Middle East. The reservoir of transatlantic goodwill and political capital accumulated during the 1990s has evaporated in the sands of Iraq. In Europe, enlargement fatigue has set in thanks to stumbling institutional reforms and the mounting expense of integrating new EU members. It was widely assumed that the western Balkan states (Albania and the former Yugoslav republics) would all eventually join the EU and NATO, but even that can no longer be taken for granted. Turkey's chances of gaining EU membership are fading. Indeed, the window of opportunity to expand the democratic world that opened with the end of the Cold War is now at risk of closing. Second, the East has changed. The challenge of the 1990s was to consolidate democracy in central and eastern Europe along a north-south axis from the Baltics to the Black Sea. Today's even more difficult challenge is to stabilize the countries of Eurasia, the region where Europe and Asia meet, along a new axis extending eastward from the Balkans across the Black Sea region to the southern Caucasus and including Turkey, Ukraine, Georgia, Armenia, and Azerbaijan. Sandwiched between an unstable Middle East to the south and a hostile Russia to the north, these countries are the new flank of the Euro-Atlantic community. Old policies may still work in the Balkans, but countries such as Georgia and Ukraine -- let alone Moldova and Belarus, if and when the latter opens up to the outside world -- are weaker, poorer, and more politically problematic than the central and eastern European countries NATO and the EU sought to integrate earlier. Their claim to be part of Europe is more tenuous, and the perceived Western imperative to help is less obvious. The policy tools developed for central and eastern Europe a decade ago are, accordingly, no longer as effective. Finally, Russia has changed. In the 1990s, it was a weak, quasi-democratic state that wanted to become part of the West. Now, a more powerful, nationalist, and less democraticRussia is challenging the West. Moscow sees itself as an independent Eurasian power, offering its own authoritarian capitalist model of development as an alternative to democratic liberalism. It practices a form of mercantilist geopolitical hardball that many in Europe thought was gone for good. Nowhere is this more clear than in its policies toward Europe's periphery, where it is seeking to halt or roll back democratic breakthroughs in places such as Georgia and Ukraine. Moscow's willingness to use its energy resources as a political weapon has made European countries reluctant to confront Russia over its antidemocratic behavior. Until the EU can liberalize its energy markets and diversify its supplies, Moscow will have the upper hand. In this new strategic environment, Western policy toward the nations on Europe's periphery cannot remain on cruise control as if nothing has changed. NATO and the EU need to articulate a new strategic rationale for expanding the democratic West and devise a new approach to dealing with Russia. There is another opportunity today to advance Western values and security and redraw the map of Europe and Eurasia once more. But new ideas will be necessary to seize it -- and to reinvent the transatlantic alliance in the process. OUT WITH THE OLD The grand strategy of democratic enlargement that lay behind the opening up of NATO and the EU early in the 1990s grew out of the twin imperatives of reuniting Europe following communism's collapse and reinventing the transatlantic alliance for the post-Cold War era. The goal was to consolidate democracy across the eastern half of the continent by anchoring central and eastern European countries to the West. It reflected the vision of a peaceful Europe expanding its foreign policy horizons and sharing global leadership and responsibility with the United States. At the time, Washington concluded that the EU alone was too weak to lead the enlargement process. Thus NATO took the lead in bringing central and eastern Europe into the fold. NATO's membership could more easily be expanded, and extending NATO's security umbrella to countries in those regions was critical to the consolidation of democracy. NATO also contributed to reform by raising its requirements for new members, a "tough love" policy designed to reinforce positive transformation. As NATO played a key role in taking the security issue off the table and opening its doors to the East, the EU assumed most of the burden of transforming postcommunist societies into liberal democratic ones. EU enlargement policy was an asymmetric negotiation. Candidate countries simply had to accede to the EU's existing acquis communautaire -- the full range of its laws, regulations, and institutions. The newcomers had little say in anything but the timeline under which the EU's requirements would be implemented. Nevertheless, it was this transformation that fundamentally tied these countries to the West and thus created enduring security on the continent. Great care was taken to ensure that countries not included in the initial round of enlargement would not be destabilized. The West did not want to repeat the mistake that U.S. Secretary of State Dean Acheson made in 1950, when he appeared to sketch a new Western security perimeter and thereby invited the conclusion that countries on the other side of the line were of no interest to the West. Therefore, NATO and EU policy sought to blur the lines between members, potential future members, and partners. In practice, this meant finding new ways to embrace and deepen cooperation with countries that did not seek membership or were not yet realistic candidates for it. NATO explicitly left open the possibility of further expansion down the road. The EU was more circumspect, but it, too, expanded its outreach to countries on Europe's periphery whose future stability and orientation it wanted to shape. The West's desire to mitigate any negative fallout was perhaps most visible in its handling of Russia. In different yet reinforcing ways, the Americans and the Europeans signaled their strategic desire to pull Russia toward the West in the hope that Moscow would eventually evolve into a partner and perhaps even a de facto ally. NATO and EU enlargement were accompanied by an unparalleled effort to engage Moscow and work for Russia's own democratic transformation, while still taking what were seen as its legitimate interests into account. This strategy was not a new effort to contain Russia but an attempt to integrate it -- albeit in a looser form and on a different timeline than that of its smaller western neighbors. And it was not merely rhetoric. NATO rethought its military strategy and force posture in order to underscore that it had no offensive intentions. Moreover, it offered to expand political and military cooperation and plan for future joint military operations with Russia. The EU set out its own far-reaching plans to deepen cooperation. The West took such steps despite uncertainty over where Russia was headed and despite the fear that Moscow would take advantage of these openings to paralyze Western institutions rather than cooperate with them. Looking back, Western policy achieved two of its goals -- anchoring much of central and eastern Europe and preventing instability in those countries remaining outside NATO and the EU -- and was partially successful in dealing with Russia. These successes were not inevitable, and their importance should not be underestimated. Had NATO and the EU not acted, Europe today would be a messier, less stable, and more inward-looking place. And Washington would have even fewer allies in dealing with crises beyond Europe, such as Afghanistan and Iraq. Today, it is only too easy to forget that a decade ago there were concerns that enlargement would create new and sharper divisions between those countries joining NATO and the EU and those remaining on the outside. It has done the opposite. The success of NATO and EU enlargement, and the inclusion of countries such as the Baltic states, set a positive precedent for other former Soviet republics. Following the Rose and Orange Revolutions, democratic leaders in Georgia and Ukraine became more serious about seeking to tie their countries to the West. After all, if the Baltic states could do it, why should they not dare to do the same? The results in Russia were mixed, however. On the one hand, the train wreck that was so frequently predicted by enlargement critics never happened. New arrangements for cooperation with NATO and the EU were set up, and a breakdown of relations with Moscow was avoided. But the West's broader hopes of establishing deeper relations with a more democratic Russia never materialized. Instead of becoming more democratic and cooperative, Moscow has become more authoritarian and adversarial. Hopes that the West and Russia could find common strategic ground after 9/11 have largely gone unfulfilled, and the two are even further apart now on issues such as Afghanistan, Iran, and Kosovo. The Orange and Rose Revolutions were interpreted in Moscow not as democratic breakthroughs but as threatening developments that needed to be challenged and reversed. Who or what is responsible for these trends is, of course, an issue of considerable dispute. Was it a lack of U.S. and European imagination and will that allowed Russia to drift in this anti-Western direction? Or was it the result of internal Russian dynamics over which the West had little, if any, influence? Did NATO and EU enlargement push Russia in the wrong direction, or was the West fortunate to act when it did given what has followed? Enlargement has created more democratic stability on Russia's western border than at any time since Napoleon. Yet today, the Kremlin's spin doctors are creating a new stab-in-the-back legend of how the West betrayed Moscow during the 1990s. The gap in historical narratives mirrors the increasingly tense relationship between the West and Russia. ALL QUIET ON THE EASTERN FRONT? In light of these new circumstances in Russia, enlargement needs to be rethought from the ground up, starting with its strategic rationale. After the accession of a band of countries from the Baltic states in the north to Bulgaria and Romania in the south, many in the West assumed that the enlargement project was almost complete, with the western Balkans constituting the last piece of unfinished business. They were surprised to suddenly find new countries from Eurasia, and specifically the wider Black Sea region, starting to knock on the doors of NATO and the EU -- and unsure how to respond. In dealing with these new candidate countries, the West must stick to the values and diplomatic principles it laid down in the 1990s, including the notion that countries are free to choose their alliances. But that alone is unlikely to be enough, because although these countries clearly consider themselves European, many Europeans do not feel the same historical or moral commitment to them or see a compelling strategic need to integrate them. Thus, in addition to moral and political arguments, the United States and Europe need to articulate a strong strategic rationale for anchoring them to the West. That argument is straightforward. The challenge of securing Europe's eastern border from the Baltics to the Black Sea has been replaced by the need to extend peace and stability along the southern rim of the Euro-Atlantic community -- from the Balkans across the Black Sea and further into Eurasia, a region that connects Europe, Russia, and the Middle East and involves core security interests, including a critical energy corridor. Working to consolidate democratic change and build stability in this area is as important for Western security today as consolidating democracy in central and eastern Europe was in the 1990s. It is not only critical to expanding the democratic peace in Europe but also vital to repositioning the West vis-a-vis both Central Asia and the Middle East. This strategy presents an opportunity to redraw the strategic map of Europe and Eurasia in a way that enhances the security of countries on Europe's periphery as well as that of the United States and Europe. The United States and Europe also need to rethink what anchoring means in practice. In the 1990s, it meant pursuing membership in NATO and the EU roughly in parallel. Now the West needs to be more flexible and take a long-term view. The goal is to tie these countries as closely to the West as politics and interests on both sides allow. For some countries, this may mean eventual membership in both NATO and the EU; for others, it may mean membership only in NATO; and for the rest, it may mean membership in neither but simply much closer relations. Policy will have to be much more a la carte than prix fixe. The link between NATO membership and EU membership should be relaxed, if not dropped. The EU has enough on its plate sustaining its commitments to the western Balkans and Turkey; anything beyond that is probably a nonstarter for the time being. NATO will once again have to take the lead in anchoring countries such as Georgia and others in the wider Black Sea region. The West must also rethink how it should engage and reach out to these countries. If membership is less plausible as a short-term option, then the quality of ties short of membership must be improved to compensate. Outreach must grow in importance and may increasingly become the centerpiece of U.S. and European strategy. At the moment, the fear of future enlargement is one factor actually holding allies back, with institutions afraid of taking even small steps down what some fear could be a slippery slope. Yet precisely because the countries in question are weaker and more endangered, NATO and the EU should actually be reaching out and engaging them earlier. They need the security umbrella and engagement of the West as much, if not more, than the countries of central and eastern Europe did. The way out of this dilemma is to consider membership a long-term goal and focus in the mean time on strengthening Western outreach and engagement. This means recasting policy tools to address the different needs of the countries that are less developed politically and economically. Tools such as NATO's "membership action plan" should be extended earlier and tied less closely to actual membership commitments, thus allowing these countries to benefit from guidance and engagement while downplaying the question of the end goal. At the same time, the EU needs to enhance its own tools, such as the Common Foreign and Security Policy and the European Neighborhood Policy, as well as reach out to these countries more directly by offering them political and economic support. When communism collapsed, NATO and the EU had little idea how to reach out to postcommunist countries and anchor them to the West. Bureaucrats in both institutions said it could not be done. But political will and strategic imagination prevailed, and fresh approaches were developed. Political will can do the same today. As for Russia, neither Washington nor Brussels wants a confrontation with Moscow at a time when they face daunting challenges beyond Europe. But this does not mean the West should abandon its belief that the spread of democracy along Russia's borders contributes to peace and stability just because the current authoritarian rulers in Moscow disagree. Nor should the West abandon its principles and succumb to the sphere-of-influence thinking currently emanating from Moscow. If the United States and Europe still hope that democracy will eventually take root in Russia, they must recognize that consolidating a pro-Western, democratic Ukraine would indirectly encourage democratization in Russia. Of course, antidemocratic forces in Russia will oppose such a move. After all, Moscow only acquiesced in previous rounds of NATO and EU enlargement because it concluded that the United States and Europe were determined to carry them out and that its efforts to oppose the West would be futile. Western unity on issues such as the future of Ukraine is therefore of the utmost importance. Still, holding true to NATO's and the EU's core principles and expanding these organizations' reach does not mean starting a new Cold War. The West and Moscow should look for other areas in which their interests are more aligned, such as expanding trade and investment or controlling nuclear proliferation and building a new arms control regime. The key question is whether Russia -- when faced with a unified West -- will start to look for common ground. As strong as Russia may appear at the moment, it remains a country with real long-term structural weaknesses and problems. It, too, needs friends and allies,and the United States and Europe should be among them. UNCERTAIN FUTURES Three very different scenarios for the future of Western policy toward Europe's periphery reveal just how high the stakes are in this region. In the best-case scenario, the United States and Europe would regroup under the next U.S. president and launch a new era of transatlantic cooperation by overcoming differences on Iraq, avoiding disagreements over Iran, and stabilizing Afghanistan. This renaissance would include a new and ambitious democratic-enlargement strategy, and the results would be significant. Securing independence for Kosovo without turning Serbia against the West would facilitate the successful integration of the western Balkans into NATO and the EU. In Turkey, the AKP-led government would continue democratic reforms, bringing the country closer to EU accession. Georgia and Ukraine would continue to move closer to the West as well. That prospect would help create positive pressure for democratic change in Azerbaijan and encourage Armenia's reorientation toward the West. By 2012, a reunified West would have begun to build an arc of democratic stability eastward into Eurasia and especially the wider Black Sea region. Realizing that its real adversaries lie elsewhere, Russia would eventually have no choice but to reassess its policy and seek a new rapprochement with the West. A less optimistic scenario is stagnation. In this case, the United States and Europe would regain some political momentum after 2008 but fail to achieve any significant democratic breakthroughs. A new U.S. administration would manage to stabilize and then extricate itself from Iraq, but transatlantic tensions over Iran and other Middle Eastern issues would persist. Kosovo would achieve independence, but in a manner that leaves Serbia alienated and unable to find its way back onto the path toward EU accession. In the western Balkans, only Croatia would remain on track for both EU and NATO membership. Turkey's prospects for joining the EU would fade, and reforms in Georgia and Ukraine would stall. Azerbaijan would remain an autocratic pro-Western ally increasingly vulnerable to growing radicalization from within. By 2012, the West would have patched up relations across the Atlantic but without breakthroughs in the Balkans or Turkey -- let alone in Ukraine or the wider Black Sea region. All of this would lead to a more competitive relationship with Russia, resulting in stalemate and a new chill in relations with Moscow. In the worst-case scenario, rather than the West consolidating new democratic breakthroughs, Russia would succeed in a strategy of rollback. The United States and Europe would not achieve a meaningful rapprochement, and they would fail to consolidate democracy in the western Balkans. Kosovo would become independent, but without agreement from all sides. This would launch Serbia on a new nationalist trajectory, bringing further instability to the region. U.S. failure in Iraq would lead to partition, estranging Turkey and prompting Ankara to invade northern Iraq and further loosen its ties to the West. This, in turn, would badly damage Turkey's already strained relations with both Washington and Brussels. Ukraine would drift back to autocracy, and Georgia, the one liberal democratic experiment in the Black Sea region, would lose reform momentum and teeter toward failure. Last November's declaration of a state of emergency in Tbilisi was a reminder of how fragile and vulnerable this experiment is. Using its energy supplies and influence, Russia would emerge as an authoritarian capitalist alternative to the West,attracting autocratic leaders throughout Europe and Eurasia. Rather than a renaissance of the transatlantic alliance, the result would be a retreat of democracy and a further splintering of the democratic West. As these scenarios make clear, the western Balkans, Georgia, Ukraine, and the wider Black Sea region are less stable and more at risk today than central and eastern Europe were a decade ago. And the stakes are high. A world in which Ukraine has successfully anchored itself to the West would be very different from one in which it has failed to do so. A world in which Georgia's success has sparked democratic progress in the region and helped stabilize the southern flank of the Euro-Atlantic community would be a much safer one than a </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">world</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in which Georgia has become an authoritarian state in Russia's sphere of influence. And a world in which the democratic West is ascendant would be very different from one in which an autocratic, nationalist Russia is on the rise. PERIPHERAL VISION The West needs to find the vision and the will to build on the successes of the 1990s by reproducing them under more challenging conditions. The Atlantic alliance was reinvented in the 1990s after the collapse of communism, but it sorely needs a second renaissance today. A new strategy of democratic enlargement can and must be part of this revival. The decision to open the doors of NATO and the EU to central and eastern Europe in the 1990s was a triumph of statesmanship and an example of successful crisis prevention. During a time of peace, and in spite of considerable opposition at home and from Moscow, the United States and its European allies acted to lock in democracy and put an end to the geopolitical competition that had historically bedeviled central and eastern Europe. One can only imagine how much worse off the United States and Europe would be today if NATO and the EU had not been enlarged and they now had to worry about instability in the heart of Europe. If U.S. and European leaders again succeed in linking new democracies to NATO and the EU, ten years from now they will look back at a redrawn map of Europe and Eurasia and be thankful that they acted when they did. If they fail, future generations may well pay a high price for their passivity.</span></span>
====<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">That escalates to nuclear war</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">__<span style="background-color: aqua;">McDermott</span>__, specializes in Russian and Central Asian defense and security issues and is a Senior Fellow in Eurasian Military Studies, __20<span style="background-color: aqua;">11</span>__ (Roger, “General Makarov Highlights the ‘Risk’ of Nuclear Conflict,” December 6, The Jamestown Foundation, Eurasia Daily Monitor, Vol. 8, Issue 221, <span style="color: #1155cc; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.jamestown.org/single/?no_cache=1&tx_ttnews%5Btt_news%5D=38748]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">In the current election season the Russian media has speculated that the Defense Minister Anatoliy Serdyukov may be replaced, possibly by Dmitry Rogozin, Russia’s Ambassador to NATO, which masks deeper anxiety about the future direction of the Armed Forces. The latest rumors also partly reflect uncertainty surrounding how the switch in the ruling tandem may reshuffle the pack in the various ministries, as well as concern about managing complex processes in Russian defense planning. On November 17, Russia’s Chief of the General Staff, Army-General Nikolai Makarov**,** offered widely reported comments on the potential for **nuclear conflict** erupting close to the country’s borders. His key observation was controversial, based on estimating that the potential for armed conflict along the entire Russian periphery had grown dramatically over the past twenty years (Profil, December 1; Moskovskiy Komsomolets, November 28; Interfax, November 17). During his speech to the Defense Ministry’s Public Council on the progress and challenges facing the effort to reform and modernize Russia’s conventional Armed Forces,Makarov linked the potential for local or regional conflict to escalate into large-scale warfare “possibly even with **nuclear weapons**.” Many Russian commentators were bewildered by this seemingly “alarmist” perspective. However, they appear to have misconstrued the general’s intention, since he was actually discussing conflict escalation (Interfax, ITAR-TASS, November 17; Moskovskiy Komsomolets, Krasnaya Zvezda, November 18). Makarov’s remarks, particularly in relation to the possible use of nuclear weapons in war, were quickly misinterpreted. Three specific aspects of the context in which Russia’s most senior military officer addressed the issue of a potential risk of nuclear conflict may serve to necessitate wider dialogue about the dangers of escalation. There is little in his actual assertion about the role of nuclear weapons in Russian security policy that would suggest Moscow has revised this; in fact, Makarov stated that this policy is outlined in the 2010 Military Doctrine, though he understandably made no mention of its classified addendum on nuclear issues (Kommersant, November 18). Russian media coverage was largely dismissive of Makarov’s observations, focusing on the idea that he may have represented the country as being surrounded by enemies. According to Kommersant, claiming to have seen the materials used during his presentation, armed confrontation with the West could occur partly based on the “anti-Russian policy” pursued by the Baltic States and Georgia, which may equally undermine Moscow’s future relations with NATO. **Military conflict may erupt in Central Asia,** caused by instability in Afghanistan or Pakistan; or western intervention against a nuclear Iran or North Korea; energy competition in the Arctic or foreign inspired “color revolutions” similar to the Arab Spring and the creation of a European Ballistic Missile Defense (BMD) system that could undermine Russia’s strategic nuclear deterrence also featured in this assessment of the strategic environment (Kommersant, November 18). Since the reform of Russia’s conventional Armed Forces began in late 2008, Makarov has consistently promoted adopting network-centric capabilities to facilitate the transformation of the military and develop modern approaches to warfare. Keen to displace traditional Russian approaches to warfare, and harness military assets in a fully integrated network, Makarov possibly more than any senior Russian officer appreciates that the means and methods of modern warfare have changed and are continuing to change (Zavtra, November 23; Interfax, November 17). The contours of this evolving and unpredictable strategic environment, with the distinctions between war and peace often blurred, interface precisely in the general’s expression of concern about nuclear conflict: highlighting the risk of escalation. However, such potential escalation is linked to the reduced time involved in other actors deciding to intervene in a local crisis as well as the presence of network-centric approaches among western militaries and being developed by China and Russia. From Moscow’s perspective, NATO “out of area operations” from Kosovo to Libya blur the traditional red lines in escalation; further complicated if any power wishes to pursue intervention in complex cases such as Syria. Potential escalation resulting from local conflict, following a series of unpredictable second and third order consequences, makes Makarov’s comments seem more understandable; it is not so much a portrayal of Russia surrounded by “enemies,” as a recognition that, with weak conventional Armed Forces, in certain crises**Moscow may have few options at its disposal** (Interfax, November 17). There is also the added complication of a possibly messy aftermath of the US and NATO drawdown from Afghanistan and signs that the Russian General Staff takes Central Asian security much more seriously in this regard. The General Staff cannot know whether the threat environment in the region may suddenly change. Makarov knows the rather limited conventional military power Russia currently possesses, which may compel early nuclear first use likely involving sub-strategic weapons, in an effort to “de-escalate” an escalating conflict close to Russia’s borders. Moscow no longer primarily fears a theoretical threat of facing large armies on its western or eastern strategic axes; instead the information-era reality is that smaller-scale intervention in areas vital to its strategic interests may bring the country face-to-face with a network-centric adversary capable of rapidly exploiting its conventional weaknesses. As Russia plays catch-up in this technological and revolutionary shift in modern warfare capabilities, the age-old problem confronts the General Staff: the fastest to act is the victor (See EDM, December 1).</span>



=<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">Plan</span>= 
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Thus the plan:**</span>

<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**The United States Congress should pass the Realize America’s Maritime Promise Act.**</span>
=<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">Solvency</span>= 
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Contention 4 is Solvency:**</span>

<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The federal government is key – port infrastructure is under __federal jurisdiction__ and federal action is vital to __leadership__</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**AAPA, 11** - AAPA represents 160 of the leading seaport authorities in the United States, Canada, Latin America and the Caribbean and more than 300 sustaining and associate members, firms and individuals with an interest in seaports (American Association of Port Authorities, “The U.S. Government’s Historic Role in Developing and Maintaining Landside and Waterside Connections to Seaports”, March 2011, <span style="color: #1155cc; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/Transportation%20and%20the%20Constitution1.pdf)/GP|http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/Transportation%20and%20the%20Constitution1.pdf)//GP]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Over time these constitutional responsibilities have been further defined and our Constitution has formed the basis for the U.S. government to play a significant role in our nation’s transportation and infrastructure system. As established in the timeline on page 2, over the years the leaders of our country saw that it was in the national interest to ensure that our ports, waterways, railways and highways benefited from federal oversight and support. For four centuries, beginning with the founding of the Jamestown colony, seaports have served as a vital economic lifeline for America by bringing goods and services to people, creating economic activity and enhancing the overall quality of life. Seaports continue to be the critical link for access to the global marketplace here in the United States handling more than 99 percent of cargoes. Maintaining our national infrastructure that supports foreign and interstate commerce is not only a federal responsibility but is in the national interest as established by our forefathers. In fact, improving waterways and coastal ports for navigation and national security is the most federal of infrastructure responsibilities, dating to the early missions assigned the Continental Army by then General George Washington. In Federalist Paper #42 written by James Madison, a case is made that the powers conferred by the Constitution for regulating commerce and establishing post roads are essential. He wrote: “Nothing which tends to facilitate the intercourse between the States can be deemed unworthy of the public care.” Back to Basics In these times of a tightening Federal Budget, as Congress and the Administration take on the task of prioritizing expenditures, we need to identify and prioritize core federal missions that are in the national interest and help to revitalize our economy. Modern, navigable seaports are vital to international commerce and economic prosperity. For this to be a reality, Federal government investment is needed to maintain and strengthen our nation’s infrastructure that supports foreign and interstate commerce — the underpinnings of our economic security. These are wise investments that pay dividends immediately and over time, and form the backbone of our economy and society at large. Investments in port infrastructure are multipliers, as they create infrastructure that allows long-term job creation, </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">positioning the United States as a leader</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in international trade and commerce. Waterways Pursuant to Article 1, Section 8 of the United States Constitution, Congress, by statute, has reserved jurisdiction over navigable waters for the federal government, which can determine how the waters are used, by whom, and under what conditions. As a result, the federal government takes the lead in building, maintaining, and operating the nation’s navigation channels. Authority to construct and maintain navigation projects on behalf of the United States was granted to the Corps of Engineers in the General Survey Act of 1824. In 1826, Congress passed the first Rivers and Harbors Act and provided funds to the Corps to make specific navigation improvements to the Ohio, Mississippi, and Missouri Rivers. Congress has continued to appropriate funds for specific navigation projects and the Corps has played a dual role by assessing, as well as implementing, needed projects in federal navigation channels. In 1899, Congress enacted the Rivers and Harbors Act, which makes it unlawful to undertake any modifications of navigable water channels unless authorized by the Secretary of the Army on the recommendation of the Corps of Engineers. It is well established that the Commerce Clause is the basis for </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">exclusive federal jurisdiction</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">over navigable waterways. The landmark United States Supreme Court case of Gibbons v. Ogden, 22 U.S. 1 (1824) found that navigation of vessels in and out of the ports of the nation is a form of interstate commerce and that </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">federal law takes precedence</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Federal authority over navigable waterways has been repeatedly affirmed by the U.S. Supreme Court. Highways and Intermodal Connectors With interstate commerce and connectivity as the impetus, the federal role in ensuring a contiguous system of roads spanning the states has been implicit in our federal government since the writing of the Constitution. These powers were granted to Congress in Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitution by the clauses describing the regulation of commerce with foreign nations and among the several states …” and the responsibility “to establish Post Offices and Post Roads.” As the timeline illustrates, since the founding of this great nation, our most visionary leaders have engaged in national infrastructure initiatives. The highway system as we know it today was largely borne out of the 1939 Bureau of Public Roads report commissioned by Franklin Delano Roosevelt titled Toll Roads and Free Roads, which proposed a map of a transcontinental national superhighway system. This led to President Eisenhower’s Federal-Aid Highway of 1956 and subsequent development of the Interstate System. Without the federal role in planning, coordinating and providing funding, our current system of inter-regional highways would not have been possible. Today, this federal responsibility continues through the surface transportation programs funded largely by federal gas taxes. Highways, arterials and secondary roads that are identified as being important to the nation's economy, defense, and mobility are classified as part of the National Highway System (NHS) and are eligible for federal funds through the federal-aid program. Road infrastructure that accesses major intermodal terminals, including seaports, are designated NHS connectors by the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT). While accounting for less than one percent of total NHS mileage, this important infrastructure represents a critical link in the goods movement value chain, carrying truck traffic between transportation modes and to the broader network of the interstate system. According to the Federal Highway Administration, of the 616 total defined NHS intermodal connectors, 253 are connected to ocean and river ports. Of the 1,222 total miles defined as part of the NHS intermodal connectors, 532 miles are port-related infrastructure. Unfortunately, these roads are often inadequate and in poor condition, plagued by inadequate turning radii and shoulder deficiencies and have been found to have twice the percentage of mileage with pavement deficiencies when compared to non-interstate NHS routes according to a study conducted by USDOT. States and MPOs have traditionally assigned freight-focused projects a low priority when compared with passenger-related improvements. Due to their freight-focused nature, NHS connectors generally do not fare well in project selection within the State and MPO planning processes. This critical infrastructure is more important than ever as our nation rebuilds the economy and creates jobs by expanding commerce through free trade agreements and increasing America’s exports and international competitiveness. These roads are key pieces of our connection to the world marketplace. In addition to their national economic importance, NHS Intermodal connectors are vital to defense mobilization and national security. With the military's increasing reliance on strategic ports and commercial trucking for mobility, intermodal connectors are critical to national defense planning. Given the reliance of our national economy and defense on intermodal connectors, it is important that the federal government remain engaged in identifying, prioritizing and funding improvements to this critical infrastructure which has </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">languished when dependent upon State and local planning processes. </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Summary From the earliest days of our nation, there has been a clear and consistent federal role and national interest in developing and maintaining landside and waterside connections to America’s seaports. This vital transportation infrastructure literally connects American farmers, manufacturers and consumers to the world marketplace. More than a quarter of U.S. GDP and over 13 million jobs are accounted for by international trade. Especially in challenging fiscal times like today, it is critical that basic, core federal missions such as these, that directly impact America’s economic vitality, jobs, and global competitiveness, be recognized and prioritized.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Federal leadership is vital to expediting new projects and coordinating federal agencies – it creates faster infrastructure development**</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Woodley Jr. 8**— Chairman – PIANC (Permanent International Association of Navigation Congresses) USA (John Paul, “Dredging key to keeping nation’s economy afloat”, Seaports Magazine, <span style="color: #1155cc; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.aapaseaports.com/pdf_issues/AAPASeaports_Summer2008.pdf]]</span>, Summer) EL</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Like many nations, the United States will be challenged over the next decade to be able to accommodate the projected rapid increases in trade at its harbors. The United States is moving toward an adequate channel infrastructure to handle the larger containerships now being introduced into the world fleet, but in order to handle them we need to: • Provide a reliable funding stream to complete ongoing channel construction projects on optimal schedules; • Work toward consensus between government agencies at all levels and with stakeholders on how to move forward on critical authorized or ongoing channel improvements; • Streamline the project study, design and authorization process to the extent possible; • Work with state and local port authorities to move quickly to add additional landside cargo-handling facilities and to improve intermodal connections; and • Explore opportunities for short-sea shipping to minimize the overland move and reduce highway and rail congestion. I submit that the United States needs to be working toward a national commitment to create and maintain a network of harbors equal to or better than any other nation’s. To reach this goal, we should consider establishing multiyear funding streams and project authorizations determined at least three to five years out to enable all stakeholders to plan and react accordingly. Finally, we need a visionary leadership process to balance all multiple demands on use of water.If the Army Corps of Engineers, other federal agencies, states, local governments and the nongovernment sector communicate the state of the nation’s infrastructure to the Congress, we could see a renewed emphasis. Collaboration is key to accomplish this goal – collaboration to modernize our harbors and bring them up to 21st century needs, to deliver environmentally sustainable solutions, and to work alongside other water interests, including government and nongovernment organizations. There are opportunities to change the way we do business, save valuable resources and improve our performance. Together, we can ensure our water transportation systems continue to be our trade window to the world. In so doing, we will do our part to keep America’s economy strong for generations to come.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Ports are upgrading docks and landside transportation infrastructure – solves their alt causes and supply chains– the plan is key to dredge a sufficient number of ports**</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**AP, 2012** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">by RUSS BYNUM and BRUCE SMITH (“Charleston and other Southeast, Gulf port cities need deeper waterways; Corps of Engineers,” 6/22/12, <span style="color: #1155cc; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.postandcourier.com/article/20120622/PC05/120629718/1010/charleston-and-other-southeast-gulf-port-cities-need-deeper-waterways-corps-of-engineers)//AM]]</span></span></span>

<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">The deepening projects singled out by the Army Corps represent just a fraction of the money U.S. ports are spending to upgrade their docks, ship-to-shore cranes and other infrastructure. The American Association of Port Authorities released a survey last week showing U.S. ports plan to spend at least $46 billion on improvements in the next five years. Still, the Corps’ report cautioned that “uncertainty will persist” for several years after the Panama Canal expansion is finished as to how many supersized ships will call on U.S. ports, which ones they’ll frequent and how full their cargo decks will be. Giant ships sailing through Egypt’s Suez Canal have already begun making trips to the East Coast, where high tides give them enough of a boost to reach ports such as Savannah and Charleston. The budget crisis has made federal funding for port projects extremely tight, especially since Congress and President Barack Obama for the past two years have sworn off so-called “earmark” spending that was used to fund such projects in the past. The Army Corps report said current funding levels for port improvements won’t cover all the projects that should be done. If Congress won’t increase the agency’s funding for harbor projects, the report said, then perhaps state governments and private companies such as shipping lines should be required to pay a greater share.</span>


<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Federal regulations __prevent__ other actors from solving – only federal action to streamline the process and increase funding solves**</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">**Anderson, 11** –Chief Executive Officer of the Jacksonville Port Authority (JAXPORT) (A. Paul, “testimony of A. Paul Anderson Chief Executive Officer of the Jacksonville Port Authority (JAXPORT) for the Record of the united States House of Representatives Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Subcommittee on Water Resources and the Environment Hearing: “The Economic Importance of Seaports: Is the United States Prepared for 21st Century Trade Realities?””, October 26, 2011, <span style="color: #1155cc; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyWater/2011-10-26%20Darcy.pdf)/MM| http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyWater/2011-10-26%20Anderson.pdf)//MM]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">With increasingly larger ships calling the East Coast, it is now more crucial than ever for the United States to invest in its gateway infrastructure. This call for federal investment should come as no surprise. Improving our nation’s waterways for navigation and security harkens back to the birth of our country, when General George Washington assigned such missions to the Continental Army. [7] In the U.S. Constitution, Congress is charged with the task of regulating commerce in Article I, Section 8. Yet, the full authorized depths and widths of U.S. waterway navigation channels are available only 35 percent of the time. [8] Harbor projects take an average of 12 years to complete. The Corps’ cumbersome review procedures are not consistent with the President’s initiative to reduce red tape and streamline preconstruction federal review procedures for major infrastructure “jobs creating” projects. The President’s Aug. 31 directive to five federal agencies </span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif; font-size: 8pt;">‐</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Agriculture, Commerce, Housing and Urban Development, Interior and Transportation </span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif; font-size: 8pt;">‐</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> called for identification of high priority infrastructure projects for expedited review. This expedited review initiative should be extended to the Army Corps. Additionally, Independent Peer Review – a procedure required by Sec. 2034 of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2007 – should not be applied to Corps studies begun prior to the two year period preceding enactment of the law, as expressly stated in Sec. 2034 (h).</span></span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: small; text-align: start;">//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Because of procedural delay,</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> most East Coast ports </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">are not authorized</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to dredge to deep</span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif; font-size: 8pt;">‐</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">draft requirements. Harbor project sponsors attempt to wade through the muddied and shifting approval, authorization and appropriation process, and changing requirements are making it increasingly difficult to move forward with these critical projects. In Jacksonville, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers recently added an additional level of review by requiring “Harbor Sym modeling” for our city’s deep draft navigation project. This new requirement has not been applied to previous deep draft projects, will increase costs to the federal government and the Jacksonville Port Authority, and will extend the timeline for completion of the project by one year. Any business leader assessing the current situation would quickly determine our country’s process for prioritizing, approving and funding critical infrastructure projects is </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">fundamentally broken</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Sediment Delivery AFF</span>=== 
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Plan Text</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its investment in re-engineering the Mississippi River Delta and surrounding wetlands and coastal areas for a sediment delivery system. </span>**
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Contention 1: Solvency</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Current alignment of sediment delivery in the Mississippi River causes substantial land loss in the status quo</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Winer 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(WINER, H.S., 2011.Re-Engineering the Mississippi River as a Sediment Delivery System. In: Roberts, T.M.,</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Rosati, J.D., and Wang, P. (eds.), Proceedings, Symposium to Honor Dr. Nicholas C. Kraus, Journal of Coastal</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Research, Special Issue, No. 59, pp. 229-234. West Palm Beach (Florida), ISSN 0749-0208 | Kushal)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Prior to the Civil war, … mouth of Wax Lake</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Outlet.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Sediment deposition is the root cause of coastal wetland degradation- further land loss destroys the environment </span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Winer 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(WINER, H.S., 2011.Re-Engineering the Mississippi River as a Sediment Delivery System. In: Roberts, T.M.,</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Rosati, J.D., and Wang, P. (eds.), Proceedings, Symposium to Honor Dr. Nicholas C. Kraus, Journal of Coastal</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Research, Special Issue, No. 59, pp. 229-234. West Palm Beach (Florida), ISSN 0749-0208 | Kushal)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">INTRODUCTION The</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">coastal wetlands</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">of Louisiana </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">are … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">subsided below the water surface.</span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Engineering studies provide the scientific foundation for river re-engineering- federal action is critical to implement a paradigm to reconfigure the delta </span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Winer 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(WINER, H.S., 2011.Re-Engineering the Mississippi River as a Sediment Delivery System. In: Roberts, T.M.,Rosati, J.D., and Wang, P. (eds.), Proceedings, Symposium to Honor Dr. Nicholas C. Kraus, Journal of CoastalResearch, Special Issue, No. 59, pp. 229-234. West Palm Beach (Florida), ISSN 0749-0208 | Kushal)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">If the sediment load in … the rest of southern Louisiana.</span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Scientific consensus proves technical feasibility- the plan is key to solve for environmental and economic impacts in the Mississippi River region </span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Winer 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(WINER, H.S., 2011.Re-Engineering the Mississippi River as a Sediment Delivery System. In: Roberts, T.M.,</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Rosati, J.D., and Wang, P. (eds.), Proceedings, Symposium to Honor Dr. Nicholas C. Kraus, Journal of Coastal</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Research, Special Issue, No. 59, pp. 229-234. West Palm Beach (Florida), ISSN 0749-0208 | Kushal)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Since the flow and sediment … relocation of residents and businesses.</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Management of the Mississippi River is under the direct jurisdiction of the USFG- federal action is a prerequisite to state management</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">WSI 12 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Water Security Initiative at Harvard, US Partnerships, William Niebling, Jonathan Baker, Laila Kasuri, Sarah Katz, Kim Smet, “The Mississippi River”, [[http://watersecurityinitiative.seas.harvard.edu/sites/default/files/Harvard%20Water%20Federalism%20-%20Mississippi%20River%20Background%20Paper_0.pdf]] | Kushal) </span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The story of management of … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">area bounded by their districts.</span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The timeframe is now- overarching scientific consensus prove</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Day 12 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(John Day, Mississippi River Delta Science and Engineering Special Team, “Report: Re-engineer Mississippi River Delta to Protect Nation's Economic, Ecological Assets”, 04/11/12, AD: 08/14/12, [[http://greenbucks.ulitzer.com/node/2242791]] | Kushal) </span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Scientists call for "immediate action"</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">release in the coming months.</span>
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Contention 2: Biodiversity </span>=== 

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Scenario 1 Oceans </span>==== 
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Status quo deficiencies in nitrogen removal degrades wetlands </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Lee et al. 09 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Chang-gyun Lee</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">… ) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">As a result of the water … microbial communities and emergent plants.</span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Sedimentation is the key hydrological process to remediate nitrogen </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Lee et al. 09 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Chang-gyun Lee</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">… ) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">C/N ratio, the requirement for … be applied in constructed wetlands</span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Nitrogen runoff in the Mississippi destroys marine biodiversity- overwhelms global ecosystems </span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">CFLC 02 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Center for a Livable Future, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA, What's Wrong with Industrial Agriculture</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Environmental Health Perspectives Volume 110, Number 5, May 2002, [[http://www.organicconsumers.org/organic/IndustrialAg502.cfm]] | Kushal)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Nitrogen that runs off</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">croplands </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">into … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Jersey), its largest recorded size (15).</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The timeframe is __now__ -- we … avoids total marine ecosystem collapse</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Black 11</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Richard, 6/20/11, “World's oceans in 'shocking' decline,” Environmental Correspondent at BBC News</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Some species are already fished</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">way </span><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 11pt;">… </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">certainly a globally significant </span><span class="underline0" style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">extinction event</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">**."**</span>__

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">That causes global dead zones -- oceans are the only internal link</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">ENS 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Environmental News Service, Broad Global Partnership Formed to Rescue Troubled Oceans, http://www.ens-newswire.com/ens/feb2012/2012-02-24-02.html</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">"Oceans are the lifeblood … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">the size of New Zealand</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">And, ocean degredation kills the geochemical cycle -- that’s extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Craig 3</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, Robin Kundis </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Craig</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, Associate Professor of Law at the Indiana University School of Law, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">2003</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (“Taking Steps Toward Marine Wilderness Protection? Fishing and Coral Reef Marine Reserves in Florida and Hawaii,” McGeorge Law Review (34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155), Winter, Available Online via Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments … Sea is not necessarily unique. </span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Nitrogen deposits, nutrient divergence and sediment delivery have a substantial effect on pH levels increasing ocean acidification levels</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Doney 12 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Scott Doney, Senior Scientist, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, USA; Chris Langdon, Associate Professor, University of Miami, “European Project on Ocean Acidification”, [[http://www.epoca-project.eu/index.php/what-is-ocean-acidification/faq.html]] | Kushal)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Coastal waters</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> are also </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">affected … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">are more local in nature.— </span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Creation of wetlands and a sediment delivery system solves for OA</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Mandal 12 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Dattatreya Mandal, “Will increased ocean acidification end up causing mass extinctions?”, 3/10/12, [[http://www.ecofriend.com/increased-ocean-acidification-causing-mass-extinctions.html]] | Kushal) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Other more specific resolutions can … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, along with credible water treatment</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Ocean acidification guarantees extinction- empirics and latest studies prove </span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Boswell 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Randy, 9-8-2011, Senior Reporter for Postmedia News, “Canadian study blames ocean acidity for mass extinction”, Postmedia News, [[http://www.canada.com/technology/Canadian+study+blames+ocean+acidity+mass+extinction/5372056/story.html]] | Kushal)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">A Canadian-led team of … minerals found in ocean water.</span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Scenario 2 is Species Protection</span>==== 
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The brink is __now__ to … . And, diversity’s a __prerequisite__ to everything</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Schroeder 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, Ingrid Schroeder is a frequent blogger on environmental issues, she cites the UN’s Global Biodiversity Outlook report, the Australian Museum, and Dr Aaron Bernstein who is an author and a speaker at the Lowy Institute, Will biodiversity loss spell human extinction?, [[http://www.cohabitaire.com/2010/05/will-biodiversity-loss-spell-human-extinction/]]</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Will biodiversity loss spell **human …** </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">complex molecules found in nature.</span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Isolated wetland ecosystems are the lynchpin of US biodiversity- destruction of coastal land collapses species and wildlife</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Nature Serve 05</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Wetlands, Oceans and Watershed — Wetlands Division through a Wetlands Program Development Grant, “Biodiversity Values of Geographically Isolated Wetlands in the United States”, (12.01.05) [[http://www.natureserve.org/publications/isolatedwetlands.jsp]] | Kushal) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">As a result of a 2001 Supreme Court … and plan for their conservation.</span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Loss of biodiversity causes extinction -- keystone species mean alt causes are irrelevant </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Young 10</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(PhD coastal marine ecology, 10 [Ruth, “Biodiversity: what it is and why it’s important”, February 9th, [[http://www.talkingnature.com/2010/02/biodiversity/biodiversity-what-and-why/]]] </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Different species</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> within ecosystems fill </span>__<span style="background-color: lime;">… </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">of biodiversity maintains this service</span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Species protection in the US is modeled by developed countries- solves all alt. cause arguments</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Kong ’10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Allison l. Westfahl Kong, J.D. Candidate, 2010, New York University School of Law; B.A., 2007, Claremont McKenna College. A previous version of this Note was the winner of the second annual student writing competition of the New York State Bar Association’s Committee on Animals and the Law, http://www.law.nyu.edu/ecm_dlv1/groups/public/@nyu_law_website__journals__law_review/documents/documents/ecm_pro_065478.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">One might worry that other … for the protection of habitat”)</span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Protecting the environment would solve all major impacts</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Tobin ’90</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Richard Tobin, associate professor of political science at SUNY-Buffalo, 1990, The Expendable Future: U.S. Politics and the Protection of Biological Diversity, p. 13-14)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Every time a human contributes to a … response in the United States.</span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Biodiversity loss causes human extinction</span>==== 
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Kates 04</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Professor of Philosophy @ Ithaca College, 4</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Carol A., REPRODUCTIVE LIBERTY AND OVERPOPULATION, Environmental Values 13:1 February,</span> <span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[@http://www.ithaca.edu/hs/philrel/replib.pdf]]</span>
__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Biodiversity loss may pose the … </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">and Giampietro 1994:2; Pimentel et al 1994:355).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Reject species extinctions</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Rolston 98</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, Professor, Philosophy, Colorado State University, Environmental Philosophy, 1998, p. 136.</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">“Every extinction is an … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">who cannot draw these conclusions.”</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Contention 3: Save the Trees </span>=== 

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Risk calculations err to probability and systemic impacts; not doubling a risk by shoddy internal links</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Herbeck ’92 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Dale A. HERBECK, Professor of Communication and Director of the Fulton Debating Society at Boston College, AND John P. KATSULAS, Debate Coach at Boston College, 1992 [“The Use and Abuse of Risk Analysis in Policy Debate,” Paper Presented at the 78th Annual Meeting of the Speech Communication Association (Chicago, IL), October 29th-November 1st, Available Online via ERIC Number ED354559, p. 10-12]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">First, and foremost, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">we need … risk claimed </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">by the negative.</span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Otherwise, we never address the environment</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Downes and Clark ’96</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (David, Senior Attorney with the Center for International Environmental Law (CIEL); Adjunct Professor, American University, AND** Dana, Staff Attorney with the Center for International Environmental Law (CIEL); Adjunct Professor, American University, Washington College of Law, What Price Biodiversity? 11 J. Envtl. L. & Litig. 9, lexis)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">It is impossible to analyze … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">use of which impacts biodiversity</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">. [*17]</span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Biodiversity is key to value to life – without out it we lose our well being </span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">GreenFacts 08</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, (GreenFacts Foundation international </span><span style="color: #002ebb; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Non-profit|non-profit]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> organization that produces short scientific summaries. [[http://www.greenfacts.org/en/biodiversity/l-2/2-biodiversity-synthesis-report.htm#1|http://www.greenfacts.org/en/biodiversity/l-2/2-biodiversity-synthesis-report.htm#1]] ) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.greenfacts.org/en/biodiversity/l-2/2-biodiversity-synthesis-report.htm#1|http://www.greenfacts.org/en/biodiversity/l-2/2-biodiversity-synthesis-report.htm#1]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Freedom of choice and action … </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">very different from today’s aspirations.</span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Impossible to predict war</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Keith B. **Payne 2010** ([[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/228975/precision-prediction/keith-b-payne]], 1/18/2010) </span><span class="bioline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Payneis head of the Graduate Department of Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University and president of National Institute for Public Policy. He is a former deputy assistant secretary of defense.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The journal boasts that the … __surprises to careful Western observers.__</span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Interdependence prevents war</span>==== 
Fettweis, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">National Security Decision Making Department, US Naval War College</span>, 2006
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Christopher, “A Revolution in International Relation Theory: Or, What If Mueller Is Right?” International Studies Review (2006) 8, 677–697)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Almost as significant, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">all these … unlikely to allow its return.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Nuclear war won’t cause extinction:</span>**
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">A.Ozone, nuclear winter, and environmental impacts are wrong</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Martin ‘84 {</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Brian, Scientists Against Nuclear Arms Newsletter, “Extinction Politics”, May 16th, pp.5-6}</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">By the 1950s, a large number … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">greatly extending reserves of food.</span>__

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">B. No escalation</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Quinlan 97</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> [Michael Quinlan, 1997. Under-Secretary of State for Defense. Thinking about Nuclear Weapons; p. 31.]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">There are good reasons for … required is plain and basic.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Major war is obsolete – multiple factors prevent escalation and conflict</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">.</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Mandelbaum</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, American foreign policy professor at the Nitze School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University, **1999** (Michael, “Is Major War Obsolete?”, http://www.ciaonet.org/conf/cfr10/)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">My argument says, tacitly, that … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, haltingly but increasingly, like that.</span>__
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Cooperative management strategy over the environment is necessary to stave off international conflicts.</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Pugwash Online ‘88</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, Dagomys Declaration of the Pugwash Council, “Ensuring the Survival of Civilisation” September 1988</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">We live in an interdependent … </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">stronger measures are required now.</span>


====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Habitat destruction and resulting ecological crisis causes extinction-climate change, world hunger, diseases,</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Takacs 96, </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(David Takacs, Philosophies of Paradise-The Johns Hopkins University, “Genesis of Eden”, 1996. AD: 9/8/12. http://www.dhushara.com/book/diversit/restor/takacs.htm|Ashwin)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Habitat destruction</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and conversion </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">are … those expected from a nuclear winter. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Biodiversity is key to world stability-keeps human civilixation running-its value is more important than any impact the negative can present</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Takacs 96, </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(David Takacs, Philosophies of Paradise-The Johns Hopkins University, “Genesis of Eden”, 1996. AD: 9/8/12. http://www.dhushara.com/book/diversit/restor/takacs.htm|Ashwin)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Stephen jay Gould presents an … </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">,</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> virtually unknown, but incalculably important. </span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Biodiversity preserves and provides goods that keep the global economy alive</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Takacs 96, </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(David Takacs, Philosophies of Paradise-The Johns Hopkins University, “Genesis of Eden”, 1996. AD: 9/8/12. http://www.dhushara.com/book/diversit/restor/takacs.htm|Ashwin)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Although many are unaware of it, … </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">mimics with his chicken feed).21</span>


====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Humanities’ ties with the environment make biodiversity key to VTL</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Takacs 96, </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(David Takacs, Philosophies of Paradise-The Johns Hopkins University, “Genesis of Eden”, 1996. AD: 9/8/12. http://www.dhushara.com/book/diversit/restor/takacs.htm|Ashwin)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Biodiversity has social amenity value. … </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">mutualism, we endanger our psyches.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">:</span>

=Affirmative-Port Security= 
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 13.5pt;">Plan Text:</span>**

<span style="background-color: white;">**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Plan: The Department of Homeland Security should invest in the Port Security Grant Program to implement a Multi-Mode Passive Detection System in ports within the United States.</span>**</span>

**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 13.5pt;">Advantage 1: Drug Trade</span>**
<span style="background-color: white;">**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Maritime commerce is the root cause of the international drug trade- port security systematically eliminates the conduits for drugs</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: white;">**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">UNODC 09</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(World Customs Organization/United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, “CONTAINER CONTROL PROGRAMME”, 2009, AD: 10/13/12, </span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.unodc.org/documents/organized-crime/containerprogramme/Container_Programme_Progress_Report_June_2009.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> | Kushal)</span></span>
<span style="background-color: white;">__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">The sheer volume of international … </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">teamwork</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">necessary for effective interdiction.</span></span>
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">GAO reports that only 3% of containers are actually scanned for harmful or illicit cargo; current security programs have proven unsuccessful</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">McLeary ‘10</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Paul McLeary, April 2010, “U.S. Port Security is a Global Issue” <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_channel.jsp?channel=defense&id=news/dti/2010/04/01/DT_04_01_2010_p23-212822.xml|http://www.aviationweek.com/ aw/generic/story_channel.jsp?channel=defense&id=news/dti/2010/04/01/DT_04_01_2010_p23-212822.xml]]</span>)</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">SFI is operational at five … handle much more U.S.-bound cargo.</span>
<span style="background-color: white;">**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Implementing a system of port security integrates tracking efforts- provides the capability to combat all facets of the drug trade</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: white;">**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Thomas 03 </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Guy Thomas, Naval War College Review, “A MARITIME TRAFFIC-TRACKING SYSTEM CORNERSTONE OF MARITIME</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">HOMELAND DEFENSE”, 2003, AD: 10/13/12,</span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA525702]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> | Kushal)</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
<span style="background-color: white;"><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Monitoring the contents and tracking … </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">protection, and support¶ antipollution operations.</span>__</span>
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Unilateral action from the US is key – decentralizes dealers, eliminates insurgencies, and fuels multilateral efforts</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Messing and Hazelwood 12 </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(F. Andy Messing, Jr. and Bruce A. Hazelwood, “US Drug Control Policy and International Operations”, 2012, AD: 11/5/12, </span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">http://ndcf.dyndns.org/ndcf/Publications/US_Drug_Control_Policy_and_Int_Ops.htm#_Toc449503505</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> | Kushal)</span>

<span style="background-color: white;"><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Whatever the risks inherent in … </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">against the international drug scourge.</span>__</span>

**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Scenario 1: Deforestation</span>**
<span style="background-color: white;">**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Cultivation of poppy, coca, and methleads to rampant destruction of the environment</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: white;">**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">ALR 08 </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(San Joaquin Agricultural Law Review, “METHAMPHETAMINE AND</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">COCAINE MANUFACTURING</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">EFFECTS ON THE ENVIRONMENT</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">AND AGRICULTURE”, Vol. 17, pgs 354-358, 2008| Kushal)</span></span>
<span style="background-color: white;">__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">The process of turning coca … </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">, losing excessive amounts of land.</span></span>
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Newest scientific studies show drugs increase deforestation</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Science Daily 11</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(“Cocaine Production Increases Destruction of Colombia’s Rainforests”, 01/29/11, AD: 11/1/12, </span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2011/01/110128144723.htm]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> | Kushal)</span>

<span style="background-color: white;">__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Scientists</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> from Stony Brook University </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">… </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">preserve biodiversity, the report suggests.</span></span>
<span style="background-color: white;">**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The negative’s generic defense is scientifically debunked - without further action, extinction debts are escalated that decreases the threshold for extinction</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: white;">**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Butler 12 </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Rhett Butler, researcher for CNN, National Geographic, the US State Departments, BBC, etc. and guest speaker at Stanford, UCB, UCSC, the Smithsonian, and more, “DEFORESTATION AND EXTINCTION”, 7/22/12, AD: 10/13/12, </span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://rainforests.mongabay.com/0908.htm]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> | Kushal)</span></span>
<span style="background-color: white;">__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">The greatest loss with the … </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">complex dynamics within a given ecosystem.</span></span>
<span style="background-color: white;">**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Biodiversity loss is genocide to the extreme- it destroys the foundation of life</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: white;">**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Watson 06 </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;">(Captain Paul, Founder and President of Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, has a show on Animal Planet, Last Mod 9-17,</span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.eco-action.org/dt/beerswil.html]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;">)</span></span>
<span style="background-color: white;"><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;">The facts are clear. </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">More … </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">specter of massive human destruction</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;">.</span></span>
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Scenario 2: Instability</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Instability is financed by narcotics – the drug trade is what isolates the US as the enemy and destabilizes Latin America</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Messing and Hazelwood 12 </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(F. Andy Messing, Jr. and Bruce A. Hazelwood, “US Drug Control Policy and International Operations”, 2012, AD: 11/5/12, </span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">http://ndcf.dyndns.org/ndcf/Publications/US_Drug_Control_Policy_and_Int_Ops.htm#_Toc449503505</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> | Kushal)</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Three Phases of Narco-Guerrilla … </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">. The first to quit loses</span>__
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Drug distribution finances FARC resistance- destabilizes Latin America</span>**
<span style="background-color: white;">**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Chalk 11 </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Peter, Senior Political Scientist at RAND, “The Latin American Drug Trade: Scope, Dimensions, Impact and Response”, RAND, 2011, AD: 10/29/12, </span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/monographs/2011/RAND_MG1076.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> | Kushal)</span></span>
<span style="background-color: white;">__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">The drug trade has had … the police and</span>____<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">¶ </span>____<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">administrative bureaucracy.</span>____<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">¶</span>__</span>
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">FARC establishes a nexus for narco-terrorism – fuels Latin instability and provides a launching pad for terrorism</span>**
<span style="background-color: white;">**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Chalk 11 </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Peter, Senior Political Scientist at RAND, “The Latin American Drug Trade: Scope, Dimensions, Impact and Response”, RAND, 2011, AD: 10/29/12, </span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/monographs/2011/RAND_MG1076.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> | Kushal)</span></span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">U.S. law enforcement has confirmed … </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">narcotics through Africa to Europe.</span>__
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Collapse of Latin American states triggers multiple scenarios for war</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Manwaring 05 </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Max G., Retired U.S. Army colonel and an Adjunct Professor of International Politics at Dickinson College, VENEZUELA’S HUGO CHÁVEZ, BOLIVARIAN SOCIALISM, AND ASYMMETRIC WARFARE, October 2005, pg. PUB628.pdf | Kushal)</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">At the same time, President … </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">global security, peace, and prosperity.65</span>__
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Central American war goes global</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Rochlin 94 </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(James Francis Rochlin, political scientist, Okanagan University College, 1994, Discovering the Americas: the evolution of Canadian foreign policy towards Latin America, p. 130-131 | Kushal)</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Canada possessed an interest in … discussed in the next chapter.</span>

<span style="background-color: white;">**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Scenario 3: Human Trafficking</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: white;">**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Status quo enforcement of human trafficking is non-existent and promotes slavery</span>**</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Seaport 10</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">, (</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Sovereign Market. Seaport Security News, "U.S. Port Security Is A Global Issue." //Seaport Security News,// Sovereign Market, 23 Nov. 2010, AD: 10/29/12, </span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.seaportsecuritynews.com/?p=212]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> | Kushal)</span>

__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia;">Millions of people every year … </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">made to combat the crisis.</span>
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">We have an ethical obligation to stop systems of slavery</span>**
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Kevin **Bales**</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> 19</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">99 </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Disposable People New Slavery in the Global Economy p. 262 Emeritus Professor of Sociology at </span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roehampton_University|Roehampton University]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> in </span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/London|London]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">; this book was nominated for the Pulitzer prize and has been translated into 10 languages.)</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">We have to answer the … </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">say that we are free?</span>__
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia;">Fully funding port security is critical to stopping human trafficking</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">AAPA 10</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(AAPA. "10 Years After 9/11, Security Still a Top Priority of U.S. Ports." American Association of Port Authorities, 1 Sept. 2011. AD: 10/29/12, </span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/10-years-after-911-security-still-a-top-priority-of-us-ports-128888213.html]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> | Kushal)</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Among the materials Navy SEALS … , regional and national economic growth.</span>
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 13.5pt;">Advantage 2: Terrorism</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Scenario 1: Bioterror</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Bio-attack is coming now—… motive—it will __get worse__</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Garrett 12</span>** <span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">[January 5, 2012, Laurie Garrett is senior fellow for global health at the Council on Foreign Relations and recipient of the 1996 Pulitzer Prize for her coverage of the Ebola outbreak, “Flu Season” </span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/01/05/flu_season?print=yes&hidecomments=yes&page=full]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">]</span>

__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">When flu scientist Ron Fouchier … </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">build it on their own</span>
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">MSNBC 11</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;"> (“Clinton warns of bioweapon threat from gene tech,” pg online @ </span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/45584359/ns/technology_and_science-security/#.TuaTq7JomzZ|http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/45584359/ns/technology_and_science-security/#.TuaTq7JomzZ]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;"> )</span>
<span style="background-color: white;"><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 5pt;">GENEVA — </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">New gene assembly technology</span>____<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;"> … </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 5pt;">to monitor every lab's activities.</span></span>
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Flawed maritime security makes ports extremely vulnerable</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Anthony ' 6</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Lieutenant Colonel Hodges, United States Army - U.S. Army War College CARLISLE BARRACKS, PENNSYLVANIA 17013 15 MAR 2006 "AMERICA’S INTERNATIONAL PORTS AND INTERMODAL TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM: ILL-PREPARED FOR BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION" <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a449367.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Little doubt exists that port … </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">our national ports are prepared.</span>__
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Likelihood of terrorist strike to port exponentially increases every year- current inefficient maritime security only enhances probability</span>**
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Hodges 6</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Anthony, U.S. Army War College, America’s International Ports and Intermodal Transportation System¶ Ill-Prepared for Biological Weapons of Mass Destruction, 3/15/6/ 10/22/12 /</span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a449367.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">|Michael)</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Little doubt exists that </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">port … //our national ports are prepared.¶//</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> 3</span>

**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Bioterrorism through commercial cargo containers is probable-security experts prove</span>**
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Hodges 6</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Anthony, U.S. Army War College, America’s International Ports and Intermodal Transportation System¶ Ill-Prepared for Biological Weapons of Mass Destruction, 3/15/6/ 10/22/12/</span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a449367.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">|Michael)</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Many security experts are concerned … of Homeland Security faces; prop</span>
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Bioterrorism is the only existential risk-spreads before any alarms are sounded-outweighs and other impact</span>**
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Hodges 6(</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Anthony, U.S. Army War College, America’s International Ports and Intermodal Transportation System¶ Ill-Prepared for Biological Weapons of Mass Destruction, 3/15/6/ 10/22/12/</span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a449367.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">|Michael)</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Managing and overcoming these unique … </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">population presented to¶ public health facilities</span>
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">And bio-attack is the biggest existential risk</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Matheny 7</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">- research associate at Oxford University (Jason G., “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction”. November 5, 2007; < <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[http://www.physics.harvard.edu/~wilson/pmpmta/Mahoney_extinction.pdf]]</span>>//AB)//</span>
//__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Of current extinction risks, the **most severe** may be bioterrorism. The knowledge needed to engineer a virus is modest compared to that needed to build a nuclear weapon; the necessary equipment and materials are increasingly accessible and because biological agents are self-replicating, a weapon can have an **exponential effect** on a population</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">(Warrick, 2006; Williams, 2006).5Current U.S. biodefense efforts are funded at $5 billion per year to develop and stockpile new drugs and vaccines, monitor biological agents and emerging diseases, and strengthen the capacities of local health systems to respond to pandemics (Lam, Franco, & Shuler, 2006).</span>//
//**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">And it’s worse than nuclear war</span>**//
//**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Alexander 7</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;">(Timothy, Former Scottish Editor of Burke’s Peerage, B.Sc. in Pol. Sc. & History; M.A. in European Studies, October 22nd, “War On Iran = You Die from Biowar”, Op Ed News,<span style="color: #1155cc;">[[http://www.opednews.com/articles/genera_lord_sti_071020_war_on_iran__3d_you_di.htm]]</span>)</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;">We have been conditioned, by … risk to their own lives.</span>//
//<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Conventional methods of terrorism are outdated- the timeframe is now</span>//
//<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Hodges 6</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Anthony, U.S. Army War College, America’s International Ports and Intermodal Transportation System¶ Ill-Prepared for Biological Weapons of Mass Destruction, 3/15/6/ 10/22/12/</span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a449367.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">|Michael)</span>//

//<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">In respect to terrorism, Mapping </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">… </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">“certainties” and include among othe</span>//
//**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Scenario 2: LNG Tankers</span>**//
//**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">LNG tankers are vulnerable to terrorist strikes – no solution exists within the status quo</span>**//
//**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">IAGS 04 </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Institute for the Analysis of Global Security, “Study: LNG - Not in my backyard”, 01/24/04, AD: 11/1/12, </span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.iags.org/n0121041.htm]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> | Kushal)</span>//

//<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">In recent years America's gas … : public safety or economic need. </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>//
//**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Investment in port security is key to prevent small boat terrorism</span>**//
//**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Carafano 07 </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(James Jay Carafano, Ph.D.</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Deputy Director, The Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies and Director, Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, “Small Boats, Big Worries: Thwarting Terrorist Attacks from the Sea”, 06/11/07, AD: 11/1/12 </span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2007/06/small-boats-big-worries-thwarting-terrorist-attacks-from-the-sea]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> | Kushal)</span>//
//<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Globally, </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">terrorists have shown an … </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">, or pipeline); or public events.</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>//
//**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Terrorists have the method and motive to attack LNG tankers</span>**//
//**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Parfomak and Fritelli 07 </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Paul W. Parfomak and John Frittelli</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Resources, Science, and Industry Division, “Maritime Security:</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Potential Terrorist Attacks</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">and Protection Priorities”, 01/09/07, AD: 11/1/12, </span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/crs/rl33787.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> | Kushal)</span>//

//<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Potential terrorist attacks on … of harming the general population.</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">101</span>//
//**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Ports are the most likely target – attacks are feasible and probable</span>**//
//**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Konkel 04</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Todd Konkel</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University, “Container Security: Preventing a Nuclear Catastrophe”, 2004, AD: 11/1/12,</span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://irps.ucsd.edu/assets/004/5372.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> | Kushal)</span>//

//<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">A</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">fundamental factor contributing to … </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">improve security at all 361 U.S. seaports.</span>//
//**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The impact of a single tanker is 55 times Hiroshima – outweighs all others</span>**//
//**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Lovins 01 </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> (mory, Co-founder of the Rocky Mountain Institute, Holder of Six Honorary Doctorates, Hunter, former CEO of the Rocky Mountain Institute, J.D. from Loyola University School of Law, Brittle Power, p. 87-88)</span>//

//<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">About nine percent of such a … </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">about fifty-five Hiroshima bombs.</span>__//
//**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 13.5pt;">Advantage 3: Solvency</span>**//
//**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">New funding allows ports to meet all security needs Haveman & Shatz 6</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Jon D. Haveman research fellow @ Public Policy Institute of California. Ph.D in Economics-University of Michigan. Howard J. Shatz, senior economist at RAND corporation. 2006 “Protecting the Nation’s Seaports: Balancing Security and Cost.”[<span style="color: #1155cc;">[[http://www.ppic.org/...t/r_606jhr.pdf%7C|http://www.ppic.org/...t/r_606jhr.pdf|]]</span> Romil)</span>//

//<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Finally, </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">the U.S. government should reconsider … </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">of the new security measures.</span>//
//**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">PSGP is key to solve drug trafficking - it must be a top priority</span>**//
//**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">AAPA 11</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> SOURCE American Association of Port Authorities “10 Years After 9/11, Security Still a Top Priority of U.S. Ports” <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/10-years-after-911-security-still-a-top-priority-of-us-ports-128888213.html]]</span></span>//

//<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Since 9/11, </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">the Port Security Grant … </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">partners in our national defense."</span>//
//**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Multi-mode passive detection system detection solves for drug and container scanning - Bahamas proves effectiveness PortStrategy '12 </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Port Strategy, 02 Sep 2012, "Passive system promises speedier handling" <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[http://www.portstrategy.com/features101/safety-and-security/scanning/bahamas-trial]]</span> | Romil)</span>//

//<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">US-based Decision Sciences has … the Swiss Cotecna Destination Inspection.</span>//
//**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The new Multi-Mode Passive Detection System technology exists - prevents nuclear or radiological threat Censer' 12 </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Marjorie, staff writer for Washington Post, August 26, 2012,<span style="color: #1155cc;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/capitalbusiness/sloane-former-sra-chief-unveils-first-decision-sciences-equipped-port/2012/08/24/fc12244e-e88a-11e1-a3d2-2a05679928ef_story.html]]</span> | Romil)</span>//

//<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">More than a year after leaving … detect a problem takes about 30 seconds.</span>//
//**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Technological MMPDS help initiate 100% scanning - solves smuggling</span>**//
//**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">World Cargo News '10</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(World Cargo News, 10 August 2012, "Nuclear detection system deployed at Freeport," <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[http://www.worldcargonews.com/htm/w20120810.270373.htm%7C|http://www.worldcargonews.com/htm/w20120810.270373.htm|]]</span> Romil)</span>//

//<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">US-based Decision Sciences International … , CEO at Freeport Container Port</span>//
//<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Effective port security solves</span>//
//<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia;">Bam 12.</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Creative, Bam. "Border Security and Anti-Human Trafficking."</span>//-//Â Global Justice SolutionsÂ - Specialists in International Justice and Security Consultancy Based in Perth, Sydney and London. N.p., 2012. AD: 10/29/12, <span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.global-justice.com/services/border-security-anti-human-trafficking/]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> | Kushal)</span>

__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia;">Effective border security that can … that drive this criminal activity.</span>__




(Email Sina at syna.ghodsi@gmail.com for Negative cites or questions)
=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]