[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==TFA State: Art Aff (Broken rd 3 against Berkner)== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 14pt;">Contention 1: The status quo</span></span>
**2012 Transportation bill guts funding for transportation enhancement programs, specifically removing public art as an eligible activity for federal funding**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">American’s for the Arts No Date Given</span>
(American’s for the Arts, Policy and Advocacy, “Transportation Enhancement Program & Public Art”,[[http://www.americansforthearts.org/get_involved/advocacy/advocacy_013.asp#transportation|http://www.americansforthearts.org/get_involved/advocacy/advocacy_013.asp#transportation]], Accessed JK 2/26/13)

After nine extensions, in June 2012 Congress finally agreed to a two-year reauthorization of federal transportation programs … The only remaining arts-related TE eligibility is for historic preservation and rehabilitation of historic transportation facilities.

**Art in transportation infrastructure can be funded through increasing the “percent for art” ordinances.**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">DOT, </span>Department of Transportation<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, 2012 </span>
(Department of Transportation, Tracy Loh and Andrea Smith, “Public Roads” Vol. 75 No. 6, Publication Number: FHWA-HRT-12-004, June 2012, Making the Journey a Destination, [[http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/publications/publicroads/12mayjune/01.cfm]], accessed JK 2/15/13).

How would a transportation agency go about incorporating art into a transportation project?... In fact, more than 60 communities in the United States have "percent for art" ordinances.

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 14pt;">Contention 2: The Rainbow Road</span></span>
**Art in TI is the key bridge to increase active civic and community engagement.**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Loh and Smith, director for the National Transportation Enhancements Clearinghouse and director of the center for historic preservation, 2012 </span>
(Department of Transportation, Tracy Loh and Andrea Smith, “Public Roads” Vol. 75 No. 6, Publication Number: FHWA-HRT-12-004, June 2012, Making the Journey a Destination, [[http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/publications/publicroads/12mayjune/01.cfm]], accessed JK 2/15/13).

Art has proven to be a highly effective medium for encouraging public participation in transportation projects… National Transportation Enhancements Clearinghouse.

**Lack of civic engagement on infrastructure projects hinders success of those projects**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Loh and Smith, director for the National Transportation Enhancements Clearinghouse and director of the center for historic preservation, 2012 </span>
(Department of Transportation, Tracy Loh and Andrea Smith, “Public Roads” Vol. 75 No. 6, Publication Number: FHWA-HRT-12-004, June 2012, Making the Journey a Destination, [[http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/publications/publicroads/12mayjune/01.cfm]], accessed JK 2/15/13).

Many aspects of transportation planning and capital construction are best left to professionals with technical expertise... Incorporating public art into the project enabled neighbors to participate through community-based forums with the artist.

**Revisioning civic engagement along the lines of the aff prevents the withdrawal from politics that leads to extinction**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Boggs, 2000</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Carl, professor of Social Sciences and Film Studies at National University, Los Angeles, __The End of Politics,__ p. 244-245)</span>

The disintegration of political life in late-twentieth-century America poses a series of novel dilemmas and challenges that I have tried to illumi­nate in this volume.…The unyielding truth is that, even as the mood of antipolitics encapsulates more and more of American culture, it is still the vagaries of political power that will deci­sively shape the future of human societies<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Debates about the topic are crucial to give students __a foot in the transportation policy door__—topic immersion provides the ability to assess and include all agent debates and process arguments especially __the ability to assess cost, benefits, environmental impact__**.
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Thomas 2K8</span> — Ren Thomas, Doctoral Student in Community and Regional Planning at the University of British Columbia, 2008 (“Engaged or Disinterested? Youth Political and Civic Participation in Canadian Transportation Planning,” //Critical Planning//, Volume 15, Issue 1, Summer, Available Online at http://renthomas.ca/wp-content/uploads/2008/02/thomas-article.pdf, Accessed 07-30-2012, p. 9-11)
Although young people do not typically show high rates of participation in formal political processes… past decade as this conflict combines with air quality, climate change, and peak oil concerns.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Only a renewed commitment to civic engagement can regain control of the public sphere to face the global challenges or the alternative is to risk extinction</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Small 2006 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">(Jonathan, former Americorps VISTA for the Human Services Coalition, “Moving Forward,” //The Journal for Civic Commitment//, Spring, http://www.mc.maricopa.edu/other/engagement/Journal/Issue7/Small.jsp)</span>
What will be the challenges of the new millennium?... Civic engagement consequently takes on a more specific and political meaning in this context.
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 14pt;">Contention Three—Finding our Place</span></span>
**Contemporary TI projects are driven by an ends-oriented thinking that reduces users and the resources that propel them to standing reserve – we should shift our future development of infrastructure to facilitate means-oriented thinking that is capable of disclosing the world to us**

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Nadal, 2010</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">(Paul, Ph.D. candidate and Graduate Student Instructor in the Department of Rhetoric at UC Berkeley, “Heidegger’s Critique of Modern Technology: On “The Question Concerning Technology,” Jul 12, Online: </span>[[http://belate.wordpress.com/2010/07/12/heidegger-modern-technology/]]<span style="font-size: 11pt;">) </span>

“Technology” in practices of development…. Hence, Philippines and Filipinos become “developed” only insofar as they function this “modern” technological role in contemporary globalization.

**The loss of Being that defines our historical epoch shapes the dominant social imaginary through instrumental reasoning – this denies intrinsic value to other beings and the natural world which legitimates the practices and institutionalization of war, structural violence, and environmental destruction**

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Chwastiak and Lehmanb, 2008</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">(Michele, University of New Mexico – Anderson School of Management and Glen, University of South Australia – School of Accounting, “Accounting for War,” //Accounting Forum//, 32:4, December, p. 313-326)</span>

Many peace researchers argue that the sources for physical violence can be found in passive…which have made cruelty a way of life by denying the intrinsic value of others starting with expansionistic logic of capitalism.

**That outweighs extinction – it’s better to die than to live as slaves to technological thought**
<span class="Heading4Char">Rojcewicz, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor of Philosophy at Point Park University</span><span class="Heading4Char">, 06</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Executive Director of the Simon Silverman Phenomenology Center at Duquesne University, cotranslator of Heidegger’s work. Richard, The Gods and Technology: A Reading of Heidegger, page 140-141)</span>

Heidegger now launches an extended discussion of the danger inherent in modern technology. It needs to be underlined that for Heidegger the threat is not simply to human existence…Humans would then pose as "masters of the earth," and yet their self-blindness would make them slaves.

**TI beautification creates a sense of space, recuperating a respect of community and agency that defies the reduction of transportation to a mere ends to movement from place to place**

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">DOT, </span>Department of Transportation<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, 2012 </span>
(Department of Transportation, Tracy Loh and Andrea Smith, “Public Roads” Vol. 75 No. 6, Publication Number: FHWA-HRT-12-004, June 2012, Making the Journey a Destination, [[http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/publications/publicroads/12mayjune/01.cfm]], accessed JK 2/15/13).

Transportation agencies traditionally are focused on delivering service…a tool for encouraging public participation, and an economic development strategy.


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 14pt;">Contention</span> 4: “Two roads diverged in a wood, and I took the one less traveled by.”</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The role of the ballot is to endorse an increase in art through an investment transportation infrastructure. The focus of the topic has been on the economic benefits and the means of transportation. Transportation infrastructure is a public event and in a public space. We argue that Transportation infrastructure should not be just about where it gets you but also how it gets your there, what you see along the way, and what type of human you are in your journey. Art is the key access point for this.</span>**

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hull Daily Mail, </span>Newspaper in the UK,<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 2012</span>
(“Art is good for the soul and mind. It helps us see things differently: The People's VoiceFirst Person Nigel Walker, owner and curator of Creation Fine Arts in Beverley”, December 8, 2012, [[http://search.proquest.com/docview/1223600473/13C91679171321A9B25/13?accountid=36295]], accessed 3/2/13)
I WAS probably the only schoolboy in Liverpool who skipped classes to visit art galleries…Well, yes and no.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">To be clear: art is not a Band-Aid. However, incorporating art into transportation infrastructure increases community involvement and mitigates negative impacts that commonly result from infrastructure projects. </span>**

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Loh and Smith, </span>director for the National Transportation Enhancements Clearinghouse and director of the center for historic preservation<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, 2012 </span>
(Department of Transportation, Tracy Loh and Andrea Smith, “Public Roads” Vol. 75 No. 6, Publication Number: FHWA-HRT-12-004, June 2012, Making the Journey a Destination, [[http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/publications/publicroads/12mayjune/01.cfm]], accessed JK 2/15/13).

Engaging the public, supporting economic development, and localizing design are all positive aspects… aesthetic for the community around it, ultimately leading the community to pursue A Greener Welcome.

**The endorsement of the affirmative is __key to transportation policy activism__—our affirmative framework is a __prerequisite__ to understanding effective activism within and outside the state .**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Thomas 2K8</span> — Ren Thomas, Doctoral Student in Community and Regional Planning at the University of British Columbia, 2008 (“Engaged or Disinterested? Youth Political and Civic Participation in Canadian Transportation Planning,” //Critical Planning//, Volume 15, Issue 1, Summer, Available Online at http://renthomas.ca/wp-content/uploads/2008/02/thomas-article.pdf, Accessed 07-30-2012, p. 19)

Canadian youth already participate in civic groups and insurgent political activities around sustainable transportation. Planners need to build on these strengths... With more education on political processes, an introduction to a network of transportation professionals, and their own civic initiatives, young people could be part of a more active citizenry.



**Next is the defense of our advocacy in the context of art—the endorsement of beautification efforts in TI through the use of fiat and technocratic policy roleplay is key to re-invent TI policy and facilitate civic engagement**

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">D’Hooghe, 2011</span>
(Alexander, associate professor with tenure at MIT and founding partner of the ‘Organization for Permanent Modernity’, a professional firm and think tank for urbanism and architecture, he also directs the MIT Center for Advanced Urbanism at MIT, focused on large-scale contemporary design problems, he obtained his Ph.D. at the Berlage Institute, after achieving a Masters in Urban Design at the Harvard GSD in 2001, and a master in Architecture and Civil Engineering from the University of Leuven in 1996, “The Objectification of Infrastructure: Elements of a Different Space and Aesthetic for Suburban America,” //Projections// 10, Online: http://cityform.mit.edu/files/Projections10_dhooghe.pdf )

Infrastructure, instead of articulating a smooth ﬂow, would instead take advantage of the moments of friction and begin to articulate those into delineated public spaces… the technocratic formalism as a quintessentially theatrical stage upon which the big dramas of America’s suburban life could unfold.

**We conclude with the simple statement that Art is good—Art is a means and an end**

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Wagner, Drawing on Earth, 2011 </span>(“Top Ten Reasons why Art is Good for Kids,” [[http://www.drawingonearth.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/04/10reasons_why.pdf]])

1) Art Generates a Love of Learning and Creativity… Our earliest creative expressions were recorded in petroglyphs, cave paintings, and ancient sculptures. One of the first things kids do is draw, paint, and use their imaginations to play.

==IWW Plan Text== 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The United States federal government should increase investment for modernization and maintenance of inland waterway system in the United States. Requisite funding provided.</span>
==TFA State: Inland Waterways== 
**Contention 1- Inherency**
**Failure to understand importance of inland waterway system means inadequate funding and collapsing lock system—failure to act now risks a system that is functionally obsolete by 2020**
American Society of Civil Engineers 2008 *
(Infrastructure Report Card, “Inland Waterways”, 2008, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.infrastructurereportcard.org/fact-sheet/inland-waterways]]</span>, accessed 9/4/12, Bill)

Because of their ability … lock projects each year.

**Additionally, current “fix when fail” policy towards system ensures delays and collapse of inland waterways**
Boselovic, award winner for business and investigative reporting, 2012
(Len “THE NATION'S LOCKS AND DAMS, INCLUDING 23 IN REGION, ARE ON THE BRINK OF FAILURE, ACCORDING TO U.S. ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS” , Pittsburgh Post 3/18/2012 http://old.post-gazette.com/pg/12078/1217742-113.stm)
Faced with flat … they are headed.

**Our advocacy endorses federal action—coodination and intergovernmental cooperation are necessary—all actors must work together**
**Jackson ‘2007**
USAWC STRATEGY RESEARCH PROJECT LEVERAGING THE STRATEGIC VALUE OF THE U.S. INLAND WATERWAY SYSTEM by Colonel Donald E. Jackson, Jr. United States Army accessed at <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA469583]]</span>
Transportation infrastructure requires … and intragovernmental approach.
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">.</span>

**Contention 2—Food insecurity**
**Failure to invest sufficiently in inland waterways system collapsing ability of US farmers to get their food to market—domestic and international**
**Attavanich et. al 11**
(Witsanu, “The Effect of Climate Change on Transportation Flows and Inland Waterways Due to Climate-Induced Shifts in Crop Production Patterns”, July 24-26 2011 <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://ageconsearch.umn.edu/bitstream/109241/2/AAEASelectedPaper_The%20Effect%20of%20Climate%20Change%20on%20Transportation%20Flows_13247.pdf]]</span>, Accessed 9/6/12, JA)
Grain production plays … (U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 2010).

**Delays caused by lack of investment have direct impact on domestic and global food prices**
**United Nations Economic and Social Council 8**
(United Nations Economic and Social Council, “ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COMMISSION FOR ASIA AND THE PACIFIC,” TRANSPORT AND POVERTY: FROM FARM TO MARKET—EXTENDING THE REACH OF LOGISTICS, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.unescap.org/ttdw/ct2008/ctr_2e.pdf]]</span>, Accessed 9/6/12, JA)
SUMMARY Recent increases … or international levels.

**Lagging domestic waterway infrastructure from federal funding gap increases transportation costs that increase food prices 15% - not just based on waterway collapse**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Doms, 12 </span>(Dominique,International Trade Examiner and a regular contributor to several international websites and is the head writer for both GPP and SiRuDo, “Food Prices Rise While Transportation Funding Declines,” 10/14/12, [[http://www.examiner.com/article/food-prices-rise-while-transportation-funding-declines]], accessed on 3/6/13, AW)
The lack of transportation and infrastructure funding in the U.S. will have a major impact on international trade and food prices... The increased transportation cost will exacerbate the 2013 projected rise in [[http://www.examiner.com/article/food-prices-may-rise-15-2013|food prices]] which many analysts and economists estimate to be 15% across all agricultural commodities.

**International food system on brink of collapse—scarcity is the new norm, US provided global food supply cushion necessary to stave off violence and conflict through the world**
**Brown, president of the Earth Policy Institute, 11**
(Lester R.“The New Geopolitics of Food,” <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/04/25/the_new_geopolitics_of_food]]</span>, Accessed 9/6/12, JA)
In the United States, … started to unravel.

**Increased food prices will cause mass starvation killing 95% of the world**

**Adams 8** – staff writer for naturalnews.com (April 23, “The Biofuels Scam, Food Shortages and the Coming Collapse of the Human Population”, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.naturalnews.com/023091.html]]</span>)

So, to repeat, … from mass starvation.


**The US is obligated to ensure access to food even in the face of human extinction**
**Watson, 1977** (Richard, Professor of Philosophy at Washington University, World Hunger and Moral Obligation, p. 118-119)

These arguments are morally… of individual behavior.

**High food prices lead to poverty**
**Inman 11** – Economic Correspondent for The Guardian (Phillips, April 2011, “Food price rises pushing millions into extreme poverty, World Bank warns,” <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/business/2011/apr/14/food-price-inflation-world-bank-warning)JCP]]</span>

Food producing countries … the poverty line.

**Poverty and structural violence outweighs all other impacts**
**Abu-Jamal, 98**. Mumia (activist, radio journalist and former president of the Philadelphia Association of Black Journalists//jh) “A Quiet and Deadly Violence” September 19th, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.angelfire.com/az/catchphraze/mumiaswords.html]]</span>
It has often.. away with them.

**Expanding access to food is a necessary part of food democracy – key to fundamentally changing democratic nature of the society**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hassanein 03</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Neva Hassanein ‘3 Environmental Studies Program, The University of Montana Journal of Rural Studies 19 (2003) 77–86)</span>

If solutions to problems in the agro-food system depend in a very fundamental way on participation… commodification of food and transforms people from passive consumers into active, educated citizens.
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Failure to move towards democracy sacrifices billions of lives to genocide, lack of human rights, and mass murder</span>**
**Rummel 09**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Rudy Rummel, Professor Emeritus of Political Science, “Why Foster Global Freedom,” 2009, January 10. http://democraticpeace.wordpress.com/2009/01/10/page/2/_</span>
Today<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, billions of human beings are still subject to impoverishment, exposure, starvation, disease, torture… The more power the thugs have, the more likely they are to murder their people Could there be a greater moral good than to end or minimize such mass murder?</span>

**<span style="font-size: 1.066em; line-height: 1.5;">Contention 3- Nuclear Power</span>**
**Current Inland Waterway systems are vulnerable to natural disasters that cause massive flooding of nuclear power plants.**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;">UPI 12</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Linyi Zhang, “US nuclear energy safety questioned”, November 1, United Press International, </span>[[http://www.upi.com/Business_News/Energy-Resources/2012/11/01/US-nuclear-energy-safety-questioned/UPI-95521351786427/|**http://www.upi.com/Business_News/Energy-Resources/2012/11/01/US-nuclear-energy-safety-questioned/UPI-95521351786427/**]]<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> accessed on 1/18 RT)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The United States is headed toward a major nuclear disaster</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> … </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Fukushima demonstrated that you can't be without power for a long time</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">," said Gunter, who is also director of Beyond Nuclear, a non-profit in Takoma Park, Md. "But when these [backup] diesel generators are damaged, or the fuels are contaminated, there is **very short time before the core damage occurs. It relies on a robust containment, which Mark I doesn't have."** </span>

**An Inland Waterway collapse will devastate crucial back-up systems and cause nuclear meltdowns**.
**Union of Concerned Scientists 12**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(“</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dam Failures and Flooding at U.S. Nuclear Plants”, October, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.ucsusa.org/assets/documents/nuclear_power/floods-from-dam-failure-10-19-12.pdf%20accessed%20on%201/18|http://www.ucsusa.org/assets/documents/nuclear_power/floods-from-dam-failure-10-19-12.pdf accessed on 1/18]] RT)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nuclear reactors are built next to rivers, lakes, and oceans </span><span style="font-family: 'ＭＳ ゴシック'; font-size: 6pt;">ｶ</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> because they require vast quantities of cooling water. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Many U.S. nuclear plants along a river have one or more dams located upstream.… dam failure </span><span style="font-family: 'ＭＳ ゴシック'; font-size: 6pt;">ｶ</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> incidents are common,” and that over 700 have occurred </span><span style="font-family: 'ＭＳ ゴシック'; font-size: 6pt;">ｶ</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in the United States since 1975. Of these, 148 failures were </span><span style="font-family: 'ＭＳ ゴシック'; font-size: 6pt;">ｶ</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of large dams, with heights of 40 feet or more</span>

**Second, Nuclear meltdowns collapses the overall US nuclear industry**
**USA Today 11**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(“Editorial: Japan's nuke meltdown shouldn't close U.S. plants”, December 12, [[http://usatoday30.usatoday.com/news/opinion/editorials/story/2011-12-12/Japan-Nuclear-Regulatory-Commission/51850082/1%20accessed%20on%201/18|http://usatoday30.usatoday.com/news/opinion/editorials/story/2011-12-12/Japan-Nuclear-Regulatory-Commission/51850082/1 accessed on 1/18]] RT)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There's never a shortage of things for Americans to worry about </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Another serious accident could take the U.S. nuclear industry down with it. The Fukushima disaster serves as a reminder that, in nuclear power, there's zero margin for major error.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">And, even a perception nuclear power industry collapse causes a shift to fossil fuels, spiking greenhouse gas emissions</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Loudermilk 11 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Micah J., Research Associate for the Energy & Environmental Security Policy program with the Institute for National Strategic Studies at National Defense University, Contracted through ASE Inc, Small Nuclear Reactors and US Energy Security: Concepts, Capabilities, and Costs, May 31st, [[http://www.ensec.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=314:small-nuclear-reactors-and-us-energy-security-concepts-capabilities-and-costs&catid=116:content0411&Itemid=375]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When discussing the energy security contributions offered by small nuclear reactors, it is not enough to simply compare them with existing nuclear technology… SMRs can be quickly constructed and deployed widely. While this is not to say that small reactors should supplant large ones, the US would benefit from diversification and expansion of the nation’s nuclear energy portfolio.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">And, increased greenhouse gas emissions worsens global warming, causing our inevitable extinction.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Prothero, Professor of Geology at Occidental College in Los Angeles, and Lecturer in Geobiology at the California Institute of Technology, 2012. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Donald “How We Know </span><span style="color: red; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Global Warming</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> is Real and Human Caused” __Skeptic__ VOl 17 iss 2) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"><<</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">How do we know that global warming is real and primarily human caused… </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. Youcouldtieyourboatstothesepinnacles,buttherestofthesedrownedcitieswouldliedeepunderwater</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">.>></span>

**Contention 4- Solvency:**
**Congress must act to increase funding—only increasing funding for modernization of inland waterways addresses problems of SQ infrastructure**

**Pittsburgh Post-Gazette 2012**

(Editorial Board Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, “Water torture: Congress needs to act on decaying locks and dams,” March 25, 2012, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://old.post-gazette.com/pg/12085/1219052-192.stm]]</span> accessed tm 9/8)



Congress bears the… "We told you so."



**Federal action is key to ensure increased use of inland waterways for freight transportation --- private action will fail**

**DOT 2011** (United States Department of Transportation, April 2011, “America’s Marine Highway Report to Congress”, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/MARAD_AMH_Report_to_Congress.pdf]]</span>”)



Despite significant progress… significant manner.


==1AC outline Newman Smith== 
The River Flows by Kailey Jennings
The river flows…like a vine.

Contention One—Our inherent framework
Debating about transportation policy equips students with the knowledge and skills for effective civic engagement.

Thomas 8 — Ren Thomas, Doctoral Student in Community and Regional Planning at the University of British Columbia, 2008 (“Engaged or Disinterested? Youth Political and Civic Participation in Canadian Transportation Planning,” Critical Planning, Volume 15, Issue 1, Summer, Available Online at http://renthomas.ca/wp-content/uploads/2008/02/thomas-article.pdf, Accessed 07-30-2012, p. 16-17)
Education and Participatory Action Projects
Education is essential … action-oriented civic participation.

Engagement and student involvement is key to transportation policy activism—our framework is a prerequisite to effective civic engagement and incorporating multiple viewpoints into the discussion.
Thomas 8 — Ren Thomas, Doctoral Student in Community and Regional Planning at the University of British Columbia, 2008 (“Engaged or Disinterested? Youth Political and Civic Participation in Canadian Transportation Planning,” Critical Planning, Volume 15, Issue 1, Summer, Available Online at http://renthomas.ca/wp-content/uploads/2008/02/thomas-article.pdf, Accessed 07-30-2012, p. 19)
Canadian youth already … more active citizenry.

Failure to understand importance of inland waterway system means inadequate funding and collapsing lock system—failure to act now risks a system that is functionally obsolete by 2020
American Society of Civil Engineers 2008 *
(Infrastructure Report Card, “Inland Waterways”, 2008, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.infrastructurereportcard.org/fact-sheet/inland-waterways]]</span>, accessed 9/4/12, Bill)

Because of their ability … lock projects each year.
Additionally, current “fix when fail” policy towards system ensures delays and collapse of inland waterways
Boselovic, award winner for business and investigative reporting, 2012
(Len “THE NATION'S LOCKS AND DAMS, INCLUDING 23 IN REGION, ARE ON THE BRINK OF FAILURE, ACCORDING TO U.S. ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS” , Pittsburgh Post 3/18/2012 http://old.post-gazette.com/pg/12078/1217742-113.stm)
Faced with flat … they are headed.

Our advocacy endorses federal action—coodination and intergovernmental cooperation are necessary—all actors must work together
Jackson ‘2007
USAWC STRATEGY RESEARCH PROJECT LEVERAGING THE STRATEGIC VALUE OF THE U.S. INLAND WATERWAY SYSTEM by Colonel Donald E. Jackson, Jr. United States Army accessed at <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA469583]]</span>
Transportation infrastructure requires … and intragovernmental approach.

Contention 2- Climate Change
Increased inland waterway system improvements more environmentally friendly—decrease highway congestion and greenhouse gas emissions
Stern, Analyst in Natural Resources Policy Congressional Research Service, et al 2012
(Charles V. “Inland Waterways: Recent Proposals and Issues For Congress” Congressional Research Service
April 12, 2012 <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R41430.pdf%20accessed%20tm%208-17|http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R41430.pdf accessed tm 8-17]]</span>)
Shipping interests also… and noise reduction.

And, Runaway warming collapse civilization – controlling the rate of warming prevents irreversible tipping points in the form of sea level rise and global starvation
Brown, Masters in AE from Maryland & Masters in Econ from Harvard, Director and Founder of the global institute of Environment in the U.S 2008 [Lester E. Brown, “Plan B 3.0: Mobilizing to Save Civilization”] SM

In 2004, Stephen Pacala… under these extreme stresses.

Contention 3—Food insecurity
Failure to invest sufficiently in inland waterways system collapsing ability of US farmers to get their food to market—domestic and international
Attavanich et. al 11
(Witsanu, “The Effect of Climate Change on Transportation Flows and Inland Waterways Due to Climate-Induced Shifts in Crop Production Patterns”, July 24-26 2011 <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://ageconsearch.umn.edu/bitstream/109241/2/AAEASelectedPaper_The%20Effect%20of%20Climate%20Change%20on%20Transportation%20Flows_13247.pdf]]</span>, Accessed 9/6/12, JA)
Grain production plays … (U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 2010).

Delays caused by lack of investment have direct impact on domestic and global food prices
United Nations Economic and Social Council 8
(United Nations Economic and Social Council, “ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COMMISSION FOR ASIA AND THE PACIFIC,” TRANSPORT AND POVERTY: FROM FARM TO MARKET—EXTENDING THE REACH OF LOGISTICS, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.unescap.org/ttdw/ct2008/ctr_2e.pdf]]</span>, Accessed 9/6/12, JA)
SUMMARY Recent increases … or international levels.

International food system on brink of collapse—scarcity is the new norm, US provided global food supply cushion necessary to stave off violence and conflict through the world
Brown, president of the Earth Policy Institute, 11
(Lester R.“The New Geopolitics of Food,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/04/25/the_new_geopolitics_of_food]]</span>, Accessed 9/6/12, JA)
In the United States, … started to unravel.

Increased food prices will cause mass starvation killing 95% of the world

Adams 8 – staff writer for naturalnews.com (April 23, “The Biofuels Scam, Food Shortages and the Coming Collapse of the Human Population”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.naturalnews.com/023091.html]]</span>)

So, to repeat, … from mass starvation.


The US is obligated to ensure access to food even in the face of human extinction
Watson, 1977 (Richard, Professor of Philosophy at Washington University, World Hunger and Moral Obligation, p. 118-119)

These arguments are morally… of individual behavior.
High food prices lead to poverty
Inman 11 – Economic Correspondent for The Guardian (Phillips, April 2011, “Food price rises pushing millions into extreme poverty, World Bank warns,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/business/2011/apr/14/food-price-inflation-world-bank-warning)JCP]]</span>

Food producing countries … the poverty line.

Poverty and structural violence outweighs all other impacts
Abu-Jamal, 98. Mumia (activist, radio journalist and former president of the Philadelphia Association of Black Journalists//jh) “A Quiet and Deadly Violence” September 19th, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.angelfire.com/az/catchphraze/mumiaswords.html]]</span>
It has often.. away with them.

Contention 4- Solvency:
Congress must act to increase funding—only increasing funding for modernization of inland waterways addresses problems of SQ infrastructure to improve economy and jobs.
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette 2012
(Editorial Board Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, “Water torture: Congress needs to act on decaying locks and dams,” March 25, 2012, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://old.post-gazette.com/pg/12085/1219052-192.stm]]</span> accessed tm 9/8)

Congress bears the… "We told you so."

Federal action is key to ensure increased use of inland waterways for freight transportation --- private action will fail
DOT 2011 (United States Department of Transportation, April 2011, “America’s Marine Highway Report to Congress”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/MARAD_AMH_Report_to_Congress.pdf]]</span>”)

Despite significant progress… significant manner.




=Negative= 
**TFA State**
**Rd 1 vs. Barbers Hill**
1NC:
T-Energy not Topical
Immigration Reform Ptx
Interstate Compacts CP
Cap K
Case- Russia Econ Turn
2NR:
Ptx
Cap Links


**Greenhill**
**Rd 1 vs St. Marks BM**
1NC:
Elections
Cap
Case- Heg Bad
2NR:
Heg Bad
**Rd 4 vs Colleyville CL**
1NC:
Elections
Buy America
Topicality
Case Def
2NR
Topicality

**Newman Smith**
**Rd 1 vs. Caddo CV**
1NC:
Elections- EPA (Obama Good)
50 States CP
Topicality
Case- Heg Bad, Defense on Terror
2NR:
Elections- EPA (Obama Good)

**Rd 3 vs. Coppell DE**
1NC:
ISPEC
Consult the Natives CP
Cap K
Case: Race Card K Turns, Case Def
2NR:
Cap K
Case Def

**St. Marks**
**Rd. 3 vs. Sage Ridge**
1NC:
T- Military
Cap K
Case: Security Links, Heg Bad, Case Def
2NR:
Cap K
Security Links,


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]