=emails= 
dillonhawl@gmail.com or basco.colin.96@gmail.com


[[toc]]
=aff= 
==1ac highways - wake== 
===inherency=== 

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CONTENTION 1 IS INHERENCY—</span>__**

**Highways are deteriorating now—a private sector approach leads to outsourcing**
**O’Neill 7/21** – The Marietta Times (Fred, July 21, 2012, “Infrastructure in U.S. ailing,” http://www.mariettatimes.com/page/content.detail/id/545529/Infrastructure-in-U-S--ailing.html)//DR. H

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mid-Ohio Valley residents</span>
AND
__current governor from trying!__

===plan=== 

**PLAN—**
**The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in the national highway system by increasing the federal gasoline tax.**

===economy=== 

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CONTENTION 2 IS THE ECONOMY</span>__**

**The economy is recovering slowly—unemployment and deficit put a drag on the economy**
**Morici 9/6 –** UPI Outside View Commentator (Peter, September 6, 2012, “Jobs outlook grim,” http://www.upi.com/Top_News/Analysis/Outside-View/2012/09/06/Outside-View-Jobs-outlook-grim/UPI-78241346926923/)//DR. H//

//COLLEGE PARK, Md., Sept. 6 (UPI) -- Forecasters expect the//
//AND//
//banking, healthcare, energy and trade policies little progress may be expected.//

//**__Four internal links__ –**//

//**First, federal investment in highways is key to the economy — local efforts misallocate the funds**//
//**Cohen 11 –** President and CEO, American Highway Users Alliance (Greg, May 4, 2011, “Mayors' Priorities or Natl. Priorities?” http://transportation.nationaljournal.com/2011/05/do-we-need-more-highways.php#1975133)//DR. H

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The mayors’ report may </span>
AND
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">achieve tough, new performance standards.</span>

**Second, highway infrastructure is critical to competitiveness which is key to the economy**
**Halsey 11 –** (Ashley Halsey III, Washington Post Staff Writer, “Decaying infrastructure costs U.S. billions each year, report says”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/local/decaying-infrastructure-costing-us-billions-report-says/2011/07/27/gIQAAI0zcI_story.html, July 27, 2011)

As Congress debates how to meet the nation’s long-term transportation needs, decaying
AND
money that would otherwise be invested in innovation and expansion,” Landau said.

**Third, traffic congestion underlies a multibillion dollar drag on the economy**
**Needham 11 (Vicki, "**Report: Traffic congestion costs billions, weighs on the economic recovery," The Hill, http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/801-economy/184105-report-traffic-congestion-costs-billions-weighs-on-the-economic-recovery)

Traffic congestion is costing billions every year, further threatening the nation’s economic recovery and
AND
we want a strong economy, doing nothing is not a productive option.”

**Fourth, t****he plan massively reduces the deficit—sets a precedent for future budget debates**
**Washington Post 3/7 –** (The Washington Post March 7, 2012, “A fiscal test for Congress,” lexis)
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">*Note: Quoting a senator</span>
Over the past year, many Republicans and Democrats in the Senate have indicated support
AND
avoid what Erskine Bowles called "the most predictable economic crisis in history"?

**T****he deficit collapses the economy**
**Hunt 12** –<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Master of Business Administration from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, and a doctorate in economics from Temple University, is executive vice president of Hoisington Investment Management Company (HIMCO), a Texas-based registered investment adviser specializing in the management of fixed-income portfolios for large institutional clients. The firm has more than $4.5 billion under management, with a client base of corporate and public funds, foundations, endowments, Taft-Hartley funds and insurance companies. An internationally known economist, Hunt joined HIMCO in 1996. His background includes roles as chief U.S. economist for the HSBC Group, one of the world's largest banks, executive vice president and chief economist for Fidelity Bank, vice president for monetary economics at Chase Econometrics Associates, Inc. and senior economist for the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas (Lacy H., 2012, “Economic Recovery Via Shared Sacrifice, Cutting Government Spending, Deficit and Debts,” http://www.marketoracle.co.uk/Article34706.html)</span>

LH: It may occur sooner than we think. If interest rates in the
AND
away with debasing its currency, but a major player cannot do that.

**Economic decline leads to great power war**
**Royal 10** – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, (Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)

Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict
AND
such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.

===warming=== 

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CONTENTION 3 IS WARMING</span>__**

**Global warming is real, caused by human CO2 emissions, and will cause flooding and feedback loops that causes population migrations fueling political instability, economic collapse, and failed states, escalating to nuclear war in a vicious cycle to extinction**
**Kaku 11 –** Michio Kaku, co-creator of string field theory, a branch of string theory. He received a B.S. (summa cum laude) from Harvard University in 1968 where he came first in his physics class. He went on to the Berkeley Radiation Laboratory at the University of California, Berkeley and received a Ph.D. in 1972. In 1973, he held a lectureship at Princeton University. Michio continues Einstein’s search for a “Theory of Everything,” seeking to unify the four fundamental forces of the universe—the strong force, the weak force, gravity and electromagnetism. He is the author of several scholarly, Ph.D. level textbooks and has had more than 70 articles published in physics journals, covering topics such as superstring theory, supergravity, supersymmetry, and hadronic physics. Professor of Physics — He holds the Henry Semat Chair and Professorship in theoretical physics at the City College of New York, where he has taught for over 25 years. He has also been a visiting professor at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton, as well as New York University (NYU). “Physics of the Future” http://213.55.83.52/ebooks/physics/Physics%20of%20the%20Future.pdf Accessed 6/26/12

By midcentury, the full impact of a fossil fuel economy should be in full
AND
methane gas to be released, causing a runaway cycle of global warming.

**Gas tax will reduce emissions – studies prove people will get on board – solves health problems**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">MIT </span>**12 –** (“Fuel for thought” MIT News, http://web.mit.edu/newsoffice/2012/profile-knittel-0305.html)
*Knittel is the William Barton Rogers Professor of Energy Economics at the MIT Sloan School of Management

Cars and light trucks produce about 15 percent of U.S. greenhouse gases
AND
— could make it a net winner for people in economic terms alone.
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Highway infrastructure is key to successfully reducing greenhouse gases</span>**</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Biello 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Environment & Energy editor(David, December 1, 2011, “10 Solutions for Climate Change,” http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=10-solutions-for-climate-change&page=2)//DR. H//</span></span></span>

//Infrastructure Upgrade—Buildings worldwide contribute around one third of all greenhouse gas emissions//
//AND//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(burning a single gallon of gasoline produces 20 pounds of CO2). But it doesn't have to be that way.</span>//

//**Reducing emissions solves warming—NASA Scientists and Computer Models prove**//
//**Hansen et al 11** Head of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies, Group of 15 NASA Scientists (James, May 5, 2011, “The Case for Young People and Nature: A Path to a Healthy, Natural, Prosperous Future,” http://www.columbia.edu/~jeh1/mailings/2011/20110505_CaseForYoungPeople.pdf)//DR. H

__The 'carbon cycle' that defines the fate__
AND
__atmospheric CO2 can decrease.__

**Only increasing the federal gas tax are we able to implement other warming solutions—any other solution fails due to addiction and no incentive**
**Rossi 2/3** Author for NextGen Journal, Political Science Major at UPenn (AJ, February 3, 2012, “Why Gasoline Should Cost $10 per Gallon,” NextGen Journal, http://www.nextgenjournal.com/2012/02/why-gasoline-should-cost-10-per-gallon/)//DR. H//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Well, maybe not $10 per gallon. But domestic gasoline prices should </span>//
//AND//
//reflecting the true social cost of oil consumption, can work to ameliorate.//

//**Federal action allows international modeling—other countries won’t act until after the US does**//
//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Apt et al 07</span>**– PhD in Physics @ MIT, Professor of Technology, Tepper School of Business and Engineering and Public Policy (Jay, “Incentives for Near-Term Carbon Dioxide Geological Sequestration,” Carnegie Mellon, http://wpweb2.tepper.cmu.edu/ceic/pdfs_other/Incentives_for_Near-Term_Carbon_Dioxide_Geological_Sequestration.pdf)//

//__The__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (</span>__IPCC__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span>//
//AND//
//__an efficient and affordable__ __way.__//

//**CO2 prolongs the life of space debris in the atmosphere**//

//**Reuters 06** (Adam. Staff writer. Reproduced from Reuters. “Global warming affects stuff in space, too.” http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/16160632/)//

//Human-caused increases in carbon dioxide emissions are thinning Earth’s outer atmosphere, making//
//AND//
//such debris; a chance hit with a spacewalking astronaut could prove fatal.//

//**Space debris will destroy early warning satellites, resulting in an accidental global nuclear war**//
//**Lewis, 4** – postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Metods of Cooperative Study Program; worked in the office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy (Jeffrey, Center for Defense Information, “What if Space were Weaponized?” July 2004, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]]</span>)//

//This is the second of two scenarios that consider how U.S. space//
//AND//
//is corrosive to the conﬁdence that allows national nuclear forces to operate safely.//

//**Unmitigated carbon emissions independently cause ocean acidification and extinction**//
//**Romm 3/2 –** Joe Romm is a Fellow at American Progress and is the editor of Climate Progress, “Science: Ocean Acidifying So Fast It Threatens Humanity’s Ability to Feed Itself,” 3/2/2012, http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2012/03/02/436193/science-ocean-acidifying-so-fast-it-threatens-humanity-ability-to-feed-itself/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+climateprogress//

//The world’s oceans may be turning acidic faster today from human carbon emissions than they//
//AND//
//corals, mollusks and some plankton need for reef and shell-building.//

//**Global warming causes extinction—short and long term effects—the plan is key and action now is critical**//
//**Hansen 5/9 –** Head of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies since 1981, an adjunct professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences at Columbia University, Ph.D. in Physics from the University of Iowa, best known for his research in the field of climatology, his testimony on climate change to congressional committees in 1988 that helped raise broad awareness of global warming, the author of “Storms of My Grandchildren.”(James, May 9, 2012, “Game Over for the Climate,” The New York Times, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/05/10/opinion/game-over-for-the-climate.html)//DR. H

If we were to fully exploit this new oil source, and continue to burn
AND
any longer to avoid the worst and be judged immoral by coming generations.

**The harms of CO2 outweigh the benefits – independently it causes 5.5 billion people to starve**
**Strom 07 –** University of Arizona planetary science emeritus professor, studied climate change for 15 years, the former Director of the Spac e Imagery Center at NASA Regional Planetary Image Facility (Robert, , “Hot House”, SpringerLink, p.<211-216>)

The future consequences of global warming are the least known aspect of the problem.
AND
Russia, and to the coast of South Africa along the Indian Ocean.
===manufacturing=== 
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CONTENTION 4 IS MANUFACTURING—</span>__**

**The manufacturing industry is declining—recent statistics prove**
**AP 9/5** (Associated Press, September 5, 2012, “Weak US manufacturing drags down world stocks,” http://www.thehimalayantimes.com/fullNews.php?headline=Weak+US+manufacturing+drags+down+world+stocks&NewsID=346116)//DR. H//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">BANGKOK: </span>__Weaker-than-expected__//
//AND//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">said in a market commentary.</span>//

//**The plan is vital to U.S. manufacturing**//
//**Hermann 11** – President American Society of Civil Engineers, P.E. SECB, F.ASCE (Andrew, 2011, “Impact Of Infrastructure Investment On The Manufacturing Sector,” lexis)//

//ASCE commends the Joint Economic Committee for holding a hearing today on how surface//
//AND//
//to maintain and improve the nation's infrastructure: Increase federal leadership in infrastructure;//

//**The Highway Trust Fund is running out of money—the plan ensures long-term growth of the Manufacturing Base**//
//**AISI 12 –** (American Iron and Steel Institute, 2012, “AISI Public Policy Priorities – Promoting a Pro-Manufacturing Agenda,” http://www.steel.org/en/Public%20Policy/~/media/Files/AISI/Public%20Policy/Agenda/AISI2012PublicPolicyAgenda%20_%20Final%20020212.ashx)//

//Transportation and Water Infrastructure Background. A globally competitive economy depends on an effective and//
//AND//
//continuously reinforced concrete pavement (CRCP) and research on improved gas mileage;//

//**All levels of manufacturing and R&D are interconnected – a sustainable manufacturing base in the U.S. is critical to Advanced Manufacturing and R&D**//
//**Freedman and Lind 12 –** Lind: Policy director of New America’s Economic Growth Program and a co-founder of the New America Foundation, Freedman: Program associate in New America’s Economic Growth Program (Michael, Joshua, 2012, “Value Added: America’s Manufacturing Future,”)//

//Manufacturing, R&D and the U.S. Innovation Ecosystem Perhaps the//
//AND//
//turn shrinks the pool of scientists and engineers in the national innovation ecosystem.//

//**Manufacturing prevents bioterror**//
//**Morgan et al 03** – (Sarah Morgan East Texas Baptist University, Silverio Colon, Arizona State University Department of Bioengineering College of Engineering and Applied Sciences, Judith A. Ruffner and John A. Emerson Organic Materials Department, Ramona L. Myers Nuclear Safety Assessment Department, “Biomanufacturing: A State of the Technology Review “September 2003, http://www.che.ncsu.edu/academics/concentrations/documents/Biomanufacturing-AStateofTechRev.pdf)//

//Perhaps the most unique and advantageous aspect of biomanufacturing is the excellent control that may//
//AND//
//National Laboratories has the expertise to contribute to any one of these fields.//

//**Do****mestic Manufacturing solves synthetic biology**//
//**Shipp et al 12 –** The Director of the Economic Assessment Office in the Advanced Technology Program at the National Institute for Standards and Technology, IDA is a nonprofit corporation that operates three federally funded research and development centers to provide objective analyses of national security issues (Stephanie, Nayanee Gupta, Bhavya Lal, Justin A. Scott, Christopher L. Weber, Michael S. Finnin, Meredith Blake, Sherrica Newsome, Samuel Thomas, March 2012, “Emerging Global Trends in Advanced Manufacturing,” Institute for Defense Analyses, https://www.ida.org/upload/stpi/pdfs/p-4603_final2a.pdf)//DR. H

The Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) released a National Health Security
AND
that synthetic biology systems could be engineered to be pathogens and hence bioweapons.

**Bioweapons spread rapidly, are easy to produce, and cause extinction—9 hour timeframe**
**Discovery 09 –** Award-winning source of credible, unbiased, and easy-to-understand explanations of how the world actually works (How Stuff Works, February 19, 2009, “10 Ways the World Might End: A Monster Plague,” http://videos.howstuffworks.com/science/10-ways-the-world-will-end-videos-playlist.htm)//DR. H//
//*Note: This card was transcribed by Dillon Hall//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Narrator:] Conventional science holds the deadly viruses that typically originate in other species, and then jump to humans. Some scientists believe the biggest threat from plague could come from outer space. </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Dr. Chandra Wickramisinghe:] Looking at the…the pattern of diseases and the how they extract the earth, I would say that every new strain of virus, new subtype of virus, it has a space connotation to it.</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Narrator:] If Chandra is right, it is possible an asteroid could one day deliver a deadly new strain of plague. </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Dr. Chandra Wickramisinghe:] There is the possibility that sometime in the future, there will be a strain of virus or bacteria that we have not encountered throughout evolution history that could cause absolute devastation.</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Narrator:] A killer plague from outer space isn’t the only concern. Deadly </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">out of the lab, this grotesque killer would quickly begin to spread. </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Guest] Anywhere in the world, infection is on our doorstep, or moving around the world, within nine hours, that virus could arrive here in London, or anywhere else. </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Narrator:] No one will be safe, as the deadly invisible assassin will swiftly bring entire cities to a standstill. </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Guest] There’s two features, of actually meeting your cad. And what </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">incubation period is short, then you’ve got a problem on your hands. </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Narrator:] This monster plague, will bring death on an unprecedented scale, economies will collapse, the medical system will be unable to cope, no one will be spared a terrible, ugly death.</span>//

//**Experts conclude bioterrorism is a major threat and will kill hundreds of thousands of people within the next year—we’re vulnerable now**//
//**Glassman 4/4** – Former undersecretary of state for public affairs and public diplomacy, He is executive director of the George W. Bush Institute, (James K, April 4, 2012, “We're Letting Our Bioterrorism Defenses Down,” http://www.forbes.com/sites/jamesglassman/2012/04/04/were-letting-our-bioterrorism-defenses-down/)//DR. H

__A little over three years ago__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, a commission of experts, </span>
AND
__of suicide bombers.__

==1ac ports - georgetown== 

===<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**trade**</span>=== 

**__CONTENTION 1 IS TRADE__--**
**Panama Canal expansion will change seaborne commerce – US ports require __new harbor deepening__ or they won’t compete for post-Panamax ships crushing trade and trade leadership – newest ASCE report proves**
**JOC 9/13** – cites newest ASCE report on economic analysis on port and channel deepening (The Journal of Commerce Online, September 13, 2012, “ASCE Releases New Economic Analysis Revealing Far-Reaching Impacts of Under-Investing in our Nation’s Ports and Inland Waterways,” http://www.joc.com/press-release/asce-releases-new-economic-analysis-revealing-far-reaching-impacts-under-investing-our)//DR. H//

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">“</span>Congestion and delays lead to goods waiting on docks and<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in </span>warehouses<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> for shipment</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">American family if we fail to recognize the importance of our nation’s ports.”</span>

<span class="Cite">__Three internal links__—</span>

**First is __foreign exporting__—**
**Federal port deepening is critical to prevent rapid decline of exports which would otherwise collapse the economy – trade compensates for over a quarter of America’s GDP**
**Bridges 9/20 –** Chairman of the Board of the American Association of Port Authorities and Executive Director, Virginia Port Authority, cites newest ASCE report (Jerry, September 20, 2012, “Written Testimony of Jerry A. Bridges,” http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/Senate%20EPW%20WRDA%202012%20Hearing%20Bridges%20Testimony%20on%2020SEP2012.pdf)DR. H
*ASCE: American Society of Civil Engineers

Seaports<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and their allied partners </span>provide over 13 million<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> high-paying, family-</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**U.S. can eliminate this drag on economic growth** and protect.</span>

<span class="Cite">Only exports solve the trade deficit which is key to sustainable growth</span>
**Istrate et al 10** – senior research analyst and associate fellow with the Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative (Emilia, "Export Nation: How U.S. Metros Lead National Export Growth and Boost Competitiveness", July, Brookings, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2010/7/26%20mountain%20exports%20muro/0726_exports_istrate_rothwell_katz.pdf)

Exports<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> Could </span>Contribute to the Rebalancing of the U.S. Economy and a
AND
imports can be part of the solution to many long-standing difficulties<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**The trade deficit kills growth and causes protectionism**
**Shakur 12** – College of Business, Massey University, not Tupac (Shamim, January 2012, “Impact of Global Trade Liberalization on Regional Trade Balances”, International Journal of Economics and Finance Vol. 4, No. 1)

__A trade deficit with resultant current account deficit is made up by foreign borrowing.__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__be inconsistent with long-run equilibrium in many of these poor nations.__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Against the backdrop of such popular rhetoric, volume of cross-border trade is slowing at an alarming rate. Volume of world merchandise exports plunged 12 percent in 2009, the biggest drop since World War II. </span>__Trade volumes typically decline in recessionary environment, but the current disparity is too big by historical standards__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (see Figure 1). </span>__On-going stalemate at WTO’s__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(World Trade Organization) Doha Round that was originally scheduled to conclude in 2005 </span>__may__ __thus be explained in terms of re-emergence of //protectionism// amid fear of growing trade imbalances.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">This study aims to identify the sources of trade imbalances in global regions and recommend trade reforms that can minimize stalemate at WTO over this contentious issue. </span>

**Second is __light loading__ –**
**Lack of port deepening forces ships to carry less – this will __break__ the US shipping industry**
**Weakley 08** – Realize America’s Maritime promise, Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Fairness Coalition, testimony of James Weakley the president of the Lake Carriers’ Association (James, “Realize America’s Maritime Promise”, Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Fairness Coalition, 4/30/08, [[http://www.ramphmtf.org/speeches_043008.html]])

//Port-related jobs are critical to//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> augment </span>//our economy//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Direct and indirect jobs </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">would be used for their intended purpose and not merely for deficit reduction.</span>

**Third is __trade leadership__—**
**Expanding port infrastructure is vital to US global trade leadership**
**Kiefer et al 2k** – principal investigator for Planning and Management Consultants– study authorized by Section 401 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1999, report to the US Army Corps of Engineers (Jack, Planning and Management Consultants, “The National Dredging Needs Study of Ports and Harbors Implications to Cost-Sharing of Federal Deep Draft Navigation Projects Due to Changes in the Maritime Industry”, May 2000, [[http://www.iwr.usace.army.mil/docs/iwrreports/00-R-8.pdf]]) //CB//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2.2.2 Other Tangible Benefits Indirect </span>__benefits of Corps projects include gains__//
//__AND__//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">trade are widespread and are not limited to a handful of coastal states. </span>//

//**The impact is reverse casual – failure to deepen collapse trade leadership**//
//**Kiefer et al 2k –** principal investigator for Planning and Management Consultants– study authorized by Section 401 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1999, report to the US Army Corps of Engineers (Jack, Planning and Management Consultants, “The National Dredging Needs Study of Ports and Harbors Implications to Cost-Sharing of Federal Deep Draft Navigation Projects Due to Changes in the Maritime Industry”, May 2000, [[http://www.iwr.usace.army.mil/docs/iwrreports/00-R-8.pdf]])// CB

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">5.6 Direct Costs of Not Deepening Harbors to Accommodate Larger Ships </span>__The direct__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">deep draft navigation channels should be expanded as a matter of national policy. </span>

**__Four impacts__****—**

**First, economic decline leads to great power wars**

**Royal 10** – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, (Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how </span>__periods of **economic decline** may **increase the likelihood of** external **conflict**__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.</span>

**Second, protectionism will cause global wars – risks extinction**
**Panzner 08** – faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase (Michael, “Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse,” p. 136-138)

__Continuing calls for curbs on the flow of__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> finance and </span>__trade will inspire the U__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">between Muslims and Western societies as the beginnings of a new world war.</span>

**Third, collapse of US trade leadership causes trade blocs creating multiple scenarios for global conflict**
**Bergsten 97** – Peterson Institute for International Economics (Fred C., “Global Trade and American Politics”, September 27, 1997, The Economist, [[http://www.iie.com/publications/papers/print.cfm?doc=pub&ResearchID=291]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Second, the </span>__trade policy credibility of the United States will totally evaporate if it__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">his predecessors, without jolting confidence in its staying power in other respects. </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Fourth,** </span><span class="Cite">free trade integrates economies preventing escalation of all wars – serves as a backstop to all disads</span>
<span class="Cite">Griswold 11 </span>– Daniel Griswold is director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the Cato Institute and author of Mad about Trade: Why Main Street America Should Embrace Globalization. “Free Trade and the Global Middle Class,” Hayek Society Journal Vol. 9 http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf Accessed 6/30/12

Our<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> more </span>globalized world<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> has</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also </span>yieldeda “peace dividend<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.” It may not </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
and less likely those gains will be destroyed by civil conflict and war.
===hegemony=== 

**__CONTENTION 2 IS HEGEMONY__**

**__Two internal links__—**

**First is the __steel industry__—**
**Increased national port deepening and a harbor maintenance tax reform is key to handle a future increase in steel imports**
**Ngai 9/24 –** Trade Reporter at American Metal Market (Catherine, September 24, 2012, “Steel traders, shippers urge ports spending,” http://www.amm.com/Article/3093504/Steel/Steel-importers-shippers-tell-Congress-to-prioritize-ports.html?ArticleId=3093504)//DR. H//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">NEW YORK — </span>__Steel importers are urging Congress__//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">but has routinely used unappropriated (Harbor Maintenance Tax) funds for unrelated purposes.”</span>//

**The steel industry is key to hegemony—it’s the backbone of the military**
**Buyer 07** Member of the House of Representatives, 7-31-7 Before the International Trade Commission, Regarding the five-year sunset review on Certain Hot-Rolled Carbon Steel Flat Products from Argentina, China, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Netherlands, Romania, South Africa, Taiwan, Thailand, and Ukraine (Steve, Inv. Nos. 701-TA-404-408 and 731-TA-898-908)

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">__A robust steel industry is fundamental to the security and economic viability of this nation__</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: left;">AND</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">__is fundamental to our ability to protect our very existence as a nation.__</span></span>
**Second is __forward deployment__—**
**Port deepening is critical to enabling more effective forward deployment of military forces which is key to primacy**
**Juda and Burroughs 04** – Juda: professor, Department of Marine Affairs, University of Rhode Island, Ph.D., Columbia University
(1973), Burroughs: professor, Department of Marine Affairs, University of Rhode Island, Ph.D., Massachusetts
Institute of Technology and Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution (1975) (Lawrence Juda and Richard Burroughs, “Dredging Navigational Channels in a Changing Scientific and Regulatory Environment” 34 Journal of Maritime Law & Commerce 174-179) //CB//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**port facilities**</span> __<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and maritime transportation are</span> also <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">important from another perspective, that of </span>__//
//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and to create new port facilities where they have not existed before.</span>//

//**Hegemony solves all great power conflict**//
//**Kagan 12**– (Robert Kagan is a senior fellow in foreign policy at the Brookings Institution. Adapted from "The World America Made," A version of this article appeared February 11, 2012, on page C1 in some U.S. editions of The WallStreet Journal, with the headline: “Why the World Needs America.” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970203646004577213262856669448.html//

//<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">History shows that </span>__<span style="color: #222222;">world orders</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">, including our own, are transient. They </span>__<span style="color: #222222;">rise </span>__//
//__<span style="color: #222222;">AND</span>__//
//<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">what the world looked like right before the American order came into being. </span>//

//**Even anti-hegemonic authors agree that the US will never accept anything less than total domination**//
//**Mearsheimer 11** – John J. Mearsheimer, the “R. Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago” Jan/Feb 2011 “Imperial By Design” http://mearsheimer.uchicago.edu/pdfs/A0059.pdf//

//__The downward spiral the United States has taken was anything but inevitable. Washington has__//
//__AND__//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">would see the United States as a benign hegemon serving their own interests.</span>//

//**__Social science__** **proves that the alternative to hegemony is great power war – no peaceful transition**//
//**Wohlforth 09** – professor of government at Dartmouth (William, “Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War,” World Affairs, January, project muse)//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The upshot is a near scholarly consensus that unpolarity’s consequences for great power conflict are </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">do so. </span>__High status is thus inherently scarce, and competitions for status__//
//__tend to be zero sum__.9//

//**No risk of an impact turn – __empirics__ prove that hegemonic decline causes great power wars which force __re-intervention__**//
//**Gottlieb 9/19 –** Ph.D. in international relations from Columbia, an Adjunct Professor of International Affairs and Public Policy at Columbia University's School of International and Public Affairs, teaches graduate foreign policy courses at NYU, Former professor in international affairs at Yale (Stuart, September 19, 2012, “What if U.S. stops policing the world?,” http://www.cnn.com/2012/09/18/opinion/gottlieb-us-retrenchment/index.html)//DR. H

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But the question is not whether promises to bring home troops and reduce military spending </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__. History shows that doing otherwise only raises the stakes down the line.__


===**plan**=== 

**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in port deepening projects in the United States.**

===solvency=== 

**__CONTENTION 3 IS SOLVENCY__**

**Federal government is key – constitution prevents other actors from acting**
**AAPA 11** – AAPA represents 160 of the leading seaport authorities in the United States, Canada, Latin America and the Caribbean and more than 300 sustaining and associate members, firms and individuals with an interest in seaports (American Association of Port Authorities, “The U.S. Government’s Historic Role in Developing and Maintaining Landside and Waterside Connections to Seaports”, March 2011, http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/Transportation%20and%20the%20Constitution1.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Over time these constitutional responsibilities have been further defined and</span> __our Constitution has formed the__
__AND__
__economic vitality, jobs, and global competitiveness, be recognized and prioritized__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Federal regulations mean any new projects will take __decades__ unless the federal government expedites construct.**
**Nagle 12** – President and CEO of the American Association of Port Authorities (Kurt J., “Testimony of Kurt J. Nagle President and CEO of the American Association of Port Authorities Before the United States House of Representatives Appropriations Committee Energy and Water Development, and Related Agencies Subommittee”, Budget Hearing- U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Assistant Secretary, Chief of Engineers, March 7, 2012, http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/EWTestimony%20Mar2012%20Final.pdf)

__First, the funding level of the Corps of Engineers’ new construction budget has decreased__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">port infrastructure so that we can meet the challenges of today and tomorrow.</span>

**No risk of environment turns—the plan enables technologies which prevents any potential environmental damage**
**Terra et Aqua 09** – technical journal published for professionals and informative article for government agencies (Terra et Aqua, “How dredging can boost the economy,” June 2009, [[http://www.iadc-dredging.com/cenuploads/Press_Release_Terra_et_Aqua_115.pdf]])//CB//

//__Dredging is acknowledged as an integral part of all these projects__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. But the importance </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>//
//__and, literally__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and figuratively</span>__, contributing to **keeping the global economy afloat.**__//

//**New initiatives solve environmental concerns**//
//**Abbott 08** — Editor of AAPA Seaports Magazine (Paul Scott, “Environmental initiatives grow as passion for ports”, Seaports Magazine, [[http://www.aapaseaports.com/pdf_issues/AAPASeaports_Fall2008.pdf]], Fall)//

//__Port authorities and their partners have established sustainability as a dynamic priority__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, transcending the </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">bayou areas • Water usage conservation, including through low-flow plumbing fixtures</span>//

//**Federal funding is key – other mechanisms are overruled by the courts and destroy the private sector**//
//**AAPA 09** – American Association of Port Authorities (“Questions and Answers about America's Ports and the Harbor Maintenance Tax”, 2009, http://www.aapa-ports.org/Issues/content.cfm?ItemNumber=1004)//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Q. </span>__Why should the Federal Government pay__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for maintenance dredging? A. </span>__Investment__//
//__AND__//
//__unable to handle the tremendous influx of cargo if shippers’ options are limited.__//

//**Federal action is key — otherwise costs rapidly rise**//
//**Boustany 4/18 –** Congressional Record of the 112th Congress, the U.S. Representative for Louisiana's 7th congressional district, serving since 2005, Charles, April 18, 2012, “Providing for Consideration of H.R. 4348, Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2012, Part II,” Congressional Record volume 158, number 56, pages H1925-H1932, http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CREC-2012-04-18/html/CREC-2012-04-18-pt1-PgH1925-2.htm)////DR. H

__Our country depends on its maritime commerce.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Without the use of our maritime transportation </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">rule and, certainly, of my amendment and of the underlying bill.</span>

=neg= 
==da== 
===elections da (obama good)=== 
====<span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">**1nc space mil da**</span>==== 

**Obama will win but it will be close**
**Silver 9/5 –** NATE SILVER is an American statistician, sabermetrician, psephologist, and writer September 5, 2012, Sept. 4: The Simple Case for Why Obama Is the Favorite Sept. 4: The Simple Case for Why Obama Is the Favorite

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I've been tiptoeing around this point, because I don't think that our forecast model ought to represent the totality of our analysis about the election.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But you'll notice that </span>__our forecast has moved toward__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Barack </span>__Obama__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> over the past several</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__give__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Mr. </span>__Obama the benefit of the doubt may change their minds.__

**Obama is winning swing-states and they are key to the election**
**Easley 6/27** – 2012, *Jonathan Easley writes for The Hill, “Polls: Obama expands lead over Romney in key battleground states,” http://thehill.com/blogs/ballot-box/polls/234993-polls-obama-expands-lead-over-romney-in-key-battleground-states, AJ

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President </span>**__Obama is expanding his lead over Mitt Romney in swing states that will be__**
**__AND__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">from June 19-25 and has a 3 percent margin of error.</span>

**New government spending causes swing states to shift their vote – makes Obama lose**
**Galston 5/10** – (Walliam A., Ezra Zilkha Chair in the Brookings Institution’s Governance Studies Program, where he serves as a senior fellow. A former policy advisor to President Clinton “Six Months To Go: Where the Presidential Contest Stands as the General Election Begins” 5/10/12 http://www.brookings.edu/research/papers/2012/05/~/media/Research/Files/Papers/2012/5/10%20obama%20campaign%20galston/Where%20the%20Presidential%20Contest%20Stands.pdf)KY

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to the 2008 exit polls, Obama carried Independents by eight points—52</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">or the suggestion that the wealthy don’t pay their fair share of taxes.</span>

**Romney destroys China relations – China is already speaking out**
<span class="Author-Date">ASCF 12 – </span>American Security Council Foundation ASCF August 30, 2012 Republican Platform Outlines Tough China Stance http://www.ascfusa.org/news_posts/view/6002

The Republican platform, approved Tuesday at the party's national convention in Tampa, promises
AND
will “poison” U.S.-China relations, if implemented.

**Relations check hostile spacemil arms races.**
**Murray and Antonellis 03 –** (William, Analyst at Science Applications International Corporation specializing in East Asia, and Robert, Analyst with the U.S. Government, Orbis, “China’s Space Program” Autumn, 2003)

The realities of international politics push for Sino-American cooperation rather than confrontation.
AND
The Dragon is eyeing the moon because the Dragon is also eyeing us.

**Space militarization causes miscalculation and extinction**
**Mitchell et al 01** – Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh
(Dr. Gordon, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, “Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads”, No. 6 July, http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6.html)

A buildup of space weapons might begin with noble intentions of 'peace through strength' deterrence
AND
space could plunge the world into the most destructive military conflict ever seen.

====<span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">**1nc russia relations da**</span>==== 

**Obama will win but it will be close**
**Silver 9/5 –** NATE SILVER is an American statistician, sabermetrician, psephologist, and writer September 5, 2012, Sept. 4: The Simple Case for Why Obama Is the Favorite Sept. 4: The Simple Case for Why Obama Is the Favorite

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I've been tiptoeing around this point, because I don't think that our forecast model ought to represent the totality of our analysis about the election.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But you'll notice that </span>__our forecast has moved toward__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Barack </span>__Obama__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> over the past several </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__give__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Mr. </span>__Obama the benefit of the doubt may change their minds.__

**Obama is winning swing-states and they are key to the election**
**Easley 6/27** – 2012, *Jonathan Easley writes for The Hill, “Polls: Obama expands lead over Romney in key battleground states,” http://thehill.com/blogs/ballot-box/polls/234993-polls-obama-expands-lead-over-romney-in-key-battleground-states, AJ

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President </span>**__Obama is expanding his lead over Mitt Romney in swing states that will be__**
**__AND__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">from June 19-25 and has a 3 percent margin of error. </span>

**New government spending causes swing states to shift their vote – makes Obama lose**
**Galston 5/10** – (Walliam A., Ezra Zilkha Chair in the Brookings Institution’s Governance Studies Program, where he serves as a senior fellow. A former policy advisor to President Clinton “Six Months To Go: Where the Presidential Contest Stands as the General Election Begins” 5/10/12 http://www.brookings.edu/research/papers/2012/05/~/media/Research/Files/Papers/2012/5/10%20obama%20campaign%20galston/Where%20the%20Presidential%20Contest%20Stands.pdf)KY

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to the 2008 exit polls, Obama carried Independents by eight points—52 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">or the suggestion that the wealthy don’t pay their fair share of taxes.</span>

**Romney election will destroy Russian relations within the first year of his election**
**Richter 12 –** Paul Richter July 2, 2012 Russian official: Romney's hard line could bring 'full-scale crisis' [[http://www.latimes.com/news/politics/la-pn-russian-official-romneys-hard-line-could-bring-fullscale-crisis-20120702,0,3241680,print.story]]

Mitt __Romney’s comment that Russia is America’s “No. 1 geopolitical foe,”__ a
AND
__presidency, we may have a full-scale crisis__,” he said.

**US-Russian relations are critical to maintaining the safety of Russia’s arsenal and preventing accidental launch.**
**Carnegie 2000 –** (Carnegie Endowment for International Peace Working Group, “US-Russian Relations at the Turn of the Century”, p. 16)

__With thousands of nuclear warheads and delivery systems, Russia remains the world's second nuclear__
__AND__
__reliability 6__, <span style="font-size: 6pt;">the fragmentation of state power, and tough financial constraints. </span>

**US/Russia war would lead to extinction**
**Helfand and Pastore 09 –** [Ira Helfand, M.D., and John O. Pastore, M.D., are past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility.
March 31, 2009, “U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat”, http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President Obama and Russian President Dimitri Medvedev are scheduled to Wednesday in London during the </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">alert status of nuclear weapons that existed in 1995 remains in place today.</span>

====**2nc impact ov**==== 

**US-Russia war is the only scenario for extinction**
<span class="Cite">**Bostrom 02** –</span> (Nick, PhD Philosophy – Oxford University, “Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios”, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, March, [[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The unique challenge of </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">existential risks</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Risks in this sixth category </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">are a recent phenomenon</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">preludes to the existential risks that we will encounter in the 21st century.</span>

**Obama provides federal support for infrastructure, Romney will cut it**
<span class="Author-Date">**Sledge 12** – </span>Matt Sledge is a reporter for the Huffington Post based in New York. A graduate of Brown University, he was previously the Rhode Island director for FairVote 01/ 4/2012 GOP Candidates' Transportation Infrastructure Talk Praises Tolls But Ignores Jobs [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/01/04/gop-candidates-transportation-infrastructure-jobs_n_1184314.html]]?

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President Barack </span>__Obama made improving transportation infrastructure a centerpiece of__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> both </span>__his__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 2009 </span>__stimulus bill__
__AND__
__has__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> proudly </span>__touted his support for Amtrak -- and high-speed rail__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Romney’s austerity will crush short and long term growth – economists agree**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Boushey & Ayres 12</span>**
Heather Boushey is Senior Economist at the Center for American Progress Action Fund. Sarah Ayres is a Research Assistant on the Economic Policy team at CAP Action. July 2, 2012 Economists Agree Romney’s Plan Would Spark a New Recession www.americanprogressaction.org/issues/economy/news/2012/07/02/11951/economists-agree-romneys-plan-would-spark-a-new-recession/#
__The private sector of the U.S. economy has added jobs for the__
__AND__
kick-start it needs today. Romney’s plan is the wrong prescription.

<span class="Cite">**Collapsing US-Russian cooperation will increase global missile sales and the risk of conflict—it will destroy U.S. leadership**</span>
**<span class="Cite">Simes 07 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dimitri, President of the Nixon Center and Publisher of The National Interest, Foreign Affairs, “Losing Russia; The Costs of Renewed Confrontation,” Nov/Dec – lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span>if<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the current </span>U.S.-Russian relations<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">hip </span>deteriorate<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">s </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">further, </span>it will
AND
incentives and cover for others to confront Washington, with potentially catastrophic results<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

====**2nc uniqueness**==== 
**b) prefer nate silver – he’s a statistical mastermind.**
**Leigh Bureau** **10** – the world’s preeminent lecture bureau, “Nate Silver,” 2010, http://www.leighbureau.com/speaker.asp?id=498

__Nate Silver has been called a "**spreadsheet psychic**" and "**number-crunching**__
**__AND__**
__correctly predicted the presidential winner in **49 states and** **the District of Columbia**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**c) reject their evidence – it doesn’t assume the convention bump which skew results, Obama is winning now**
**Silver 9-3** – NATE SILVER is an American statistician, sabermetrician, psephologist, and writer September 3, 2012, Sept. 2: Split Verdict in Polls on Romney Convention Bounce [[http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/03/sept-2-split-verdict-in-polls-on-romney-convention-bounce/?pagewanted=print]]

**__Our forecast model builds in an adjustment for the party conventions__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">; it treats anything </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__him given that **candidates typically have**__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">modestly </span>**__inflated numbers after their party conventions__**.

**Obama’s winning the economy**
**Silver 8/31** – NATE SILVER is an American statistician, sabermetrician, psephologist, and writer. August 31, 2012, “Aug. 30: Remember the Economy?” [[http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/08/31/aug-30-remember-the-economy/?pagewanted=print]]

But from the standpoint of our forecast model, the most important points on Thursday
AND
, **__to 71.6 percent__** from 70.4 percent on Wednesday.
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
====**2nc link wall**==== 
**Triggers election backlash – public opposition growing and GOP base hates it**
<span class="Cite">Reinhardt 12 </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">William, Founder Public Works Financing, Engineering News Record, 2/27, lexis</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Peter Ruane, CEO of the American Road and Transportation Builders Association, calls Washington </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">industry from</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">political operatives</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> who promise subsidy but deliver mainly invoices. ? </span>

**That spurs massive fiscal backlash - it’s a hot button election issue**
<span class="Cite">Moore 10</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Robert, Columnist @ Gannett News, Gannett News, 7/14)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Hundreds of millions</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of dollars </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">in unspent transportation earmarks would be returned to the federal </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
and everybody wants to be seen as a fiscal conservative,"<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> he said.</span>

**It swings the election – no perception of economic benefit and fiscal discipline is top issue for key independent voters**
<span class="Cite">Schoen 10</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Douglas, Schoen, who served as a pollster for President Bill Clinton, is author of "Declaring Independence: The Beginning of the End of the Two-Party System.", NY Daily News, 7/11, http://articles.nydailynews.com/2010-07-11/news/29438716_1_fiscal-discipline-swing-voters-president-obama</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What Bam can learn from Bill: President Clinton's ex pollster tells Obama </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">how to </span>__
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, regardless of the impact on the deficits, </span>are prescribing electoral suicide.

====**at: ohio key**==== 
**Ohio Not key**
**Sabato 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Larry, UVA Center For Politics, 4/26, [[http://www.centerforpolitics.org/crystalball/articles/plan-of-attack-obama-romney-and-the-electoral-college/]])</span>

__Would winning Ohio guarantee the presidency for Romney? Not necessarily__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Richard Nixon won </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">a considerably larger share of its 2008 votes than did Florida or Ohio.</span>

====**2nc i/l: romney kill relations**==== 
Romney’s Russia policy will become a self-fulfilling prophecy of aggression that destroys relations
<span class="Author-Date">Bandow 12 – </span>Doug Bandow is a senior fellow at the Cato Institute in Washington, D.C., is a nationally syndicated columnist with Copley News Service, and is the former editor of Inquiry magazine. Before that, he served as a special assistant to President Reagan and as a senior policy analyst in the office of the president-elect and the Reagan for President campaign. April 23, 2012 “Romney and Russia: Complicating American Relationships” [[http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/romney-and-russia-complicating-american-relationships/print/]]

Mitt Romney has become the inevitable Republican presidential candidate. He’s hoping to paint Barack
AND
However, __Washington should not give Moscow additional reasons to indulge its paranoia__.

The election is critical for US-Russian co-operation – Romney destroys relations, Obama improves them
<span class="Author-Date">Larison 12 – </span>Daniel Larison is a Ph.D. graduate from the University of Chicago,He is contributing editor at The American Conservative and writes a column for The Week online. June 20, 2012 “The Presidential Election’s Effects on U.S.-Russian Relations” [[http://www.theamericanconservative.com/larison/the-presidential-elections-effects-on-u-s-russian-relations/?print=1]]

Andrew Weiss considers [1] the reasons for U.S.-Russian tensions
AND
__with Russia would make it extremely easy for Putin to do just that.__

===coercion da=== 
====**1nc coercion da**==== 
**Government transportation infrastructure is coercive and seeks to control the movements of the people, undermine moral autonomy and precludes the development of infrastructure.**
**Worden** **10 –** Darian (left-libertarian writer and activist. He hosts an internet radio show, Thinking Liberty, “Who Would Maintain Roads Worse Than the State?”, June 22, 2010, http://c4ss.org/content/2961)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The question of transportation infrastructure is often posed to those who reveal themselves to be</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__domination. Without state control and state privilege, roads would be better.__

**Cause-and-effect claims require a coherent theory of human behavior – their advantages are epistemologically unacceptable**
**Rockwell 08 –** Jr., president of the Ludwig von Mises Institute, 5/19
(Llewellyn, “Everything You Love You Owe to Capitalism,” http://mises.org/story/2982)

__Not even__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> an event as spectacular as </span>__the spontaneous meltdown of a superpower__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and all</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">They found that unionized companies tend to be larger with more overall output than</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nonunionized companies. Well, let's think about this. Is it likely that if</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__Otherwise__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__the state can continue to spread its malicious and destructive policies__.

**Sovereign mismanagement exists in all levels of transportation infrastructure and results in mass butchery**
**Block 79** – (Walter, Professor of Economic at Rutgers, “Free Market Transportation Denationalizing the Roads”, [[http://mises.org/journals/jls/3_2/3_2_7.pdf]])

__Were a government to demand the sacrifice of 46,700 citizens' each year,__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">good and service at our disposal, is the objective of this article.</span>

**Individual liberty is paramount – every intrusion must be resisted**
**Petro** **74 –** (Sylvester, Professor of Law at Wake Forest University, University of Toledo Law Review, p.480)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, one may still insist, echoing Ernest Hemingway – “I believe in only one thing: liberty.” And it is always well to bear in mind David Hume’s observation: “</span>__It is seldom that liberty of any kind is lost all at once.”__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Thus, </span>__it is unacceptable to say that the invasion of one aspect of freedom is of no import because there have been invasions of so many other aspects. That road leads to chaos, tyranny, despotism, and the end of all human aspiration.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Ask Solzhenitsyn. Ask Milovan Djilas. In sum, </span>__if one believes in freedom as a supreme value and the proper ordering principle for__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> any </span>__society__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> aiming to maximize spiritual and material welfare, </span>__then **every invasion** of freedom must be emphatically identified and resisted with undying spirit.__

====2nc overview==== 
**turns case – the plan will be co-opted for political purposes, guaranteeing failure.**
**Browne 2k –** (Harry, Former Libertarian Party candidate for President and Director of Public Policy for the DownsizeDC.org, “The Great Libertarian Offer”, p. 24-25)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span>__if you want the …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> while the guilty continue to slip through the net.</span> __Whatever the objective, the program will cost you far more in taxes and freedom than the actual benefits are worth.__


===buy america da=== 
====**1nc buy america nb**==== 
**Federal law requires compliance with Buy American provisions, but the states are exempt – that causes worldwide protectionism – turns the economy**
**Oppenheimer** **09 –** 2/5/09 (Andres – Latin America correspondent for the Miami Herald, Reject ‘Buy American’ clause or risk a trade war, The Salt Lake Tribune, p. Lexis)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Forget about Iraq, the Middle East or searching for a new White House puppy</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">law, but </span>__the__ **__signal__** __it sends to the rest of the world__.

**Protectionism will cause terrorism and global wars – risks extinction**
**Panzner 08** – faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase (Michael, “Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse,” p. 136-138)

__Continuing calls for curbs on the flow of__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> finance and </span>__trade will inspire the U__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">between Muslims and Western societies as the beginnings of a new world war.</span>

====**2nc overview**==== 
**Trade interdependence means this is the only scenario for war**
**Hillebrand 10 –** (Evan E., Professor of Diplomacy at University of Kentucky and a Senior Economist for the Central Intelligence Agency, 2010, “Deglobalization Scenarios: Who Wins? Who Loses?” Global Economy Journal, Volume 10, Issue 2 2010)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A long line of writers from Cruce (1623) to Kant (1797) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__for__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> more </span>**__fractious relations__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> among states </span>__and__ __the probability for__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> interstate </span>__war rises__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**turns solvency – creates paperwork nightmare that causes delays and inefficiencies**
**Collins 10 –** (Ron Collins, President & CEO of JCM Industries,2/17/10, “The Cost of Buy American Mandates on American Jobs”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/reports/100217_buyamerican.pdf)/EM|http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/reports/100217_buyamerican.pdf)//EM]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Update: The </span>__result of__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>__Buy American provisions has been a paperwork nightmare__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">is </span>**__discouraging__** __both companies from pursuing projects and **contractors from bidding on projects**.__


====**2nc race impact**==== 
**Buy America provisions are racist and creates internal “us” vs. “them” mindsets in American culture**
**Lin 09 –** (Lynda Lin, Assistant Editor of the Pacific Citizen an award-winning newspaper for the Asian American Pacific community, 3/6/9, “With 'Buy American' Back, is Anti-Asian Sentiment Around the Corner?”, [[http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:iyzuztD4rEUJ:www.pacificcitizen.org/node/213%3Fpage%3Dshow+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us&client=firefox-a)//EM]]

__Berns__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 60, hopes a renewed commitment to buy American-made products will </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">first wave of Asian immigrants were perceived to "sneak" things in.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white;">This is a decision rule, reject racism in every instance</span>**
**Memmi 2000** – Albert, Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ U of Paris, Naiteire, Racism, Translated by Steve Martinot, p. 163-165/

__The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, without intermission, without remission__
AND
__In that sense, we cannot fail to rise to the racist challenge.__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, it remains true that one's moral conduct only emerges from a choice: </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__. True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

====**at: non-unique**==== 
**There will be no new “Buy American” transportation spending bills because of the election – any new “Buy American” provision will undermine the US/Canada procurement agreement.**
**Rayner** **5/8** - 2012 (Martin – independent consultant working in the customs brokerage and international trade logistics field, held executive-level positions in the trade logistic industry, “Buy America” Exceptionalism, International Trade Compliance Strategies, p. [[http://tradecompliance.ghy.com/2012/05/buy-america-exceptionalism/]])

Pressured by Canadian exporters complaining that the latest “Buy America” measures violated market
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">irrespective of (or oblivious to) government procurement agreements already in place</span>.

===stimulus bad=== 
====**1nc econ recovery inev**==== 
**Economic recovery is inevitable**
**Zandi 7/16** – Chief Economist of Moody's Analytics, where he directs the company's research and consulting activities (Mark, “U.S. Macro Outlook: Policymakers Must Get It Right”, Moody’s Analytics: The Dismal Scientist, http://www.economy.com/dismal/article_free.asp?cid=232471&tid=F0851CC1-F571-48DE-A136-B2F622EF6FA4&src=economy_homepage) EL

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The U.S. economy is growing but uncomfortably slowly. Europe's leaders know </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
//employment//__–a sub-6% jobless rate–**by** late **2015**.__


====**2nc econ recovery inev**==== 
**Inflation remains __low__**
**HLN 8/9 –** cites analysis from Clark Howard, nationally syndicated consumer expert, Master’s in business management from Central Michigan (Alexandra Thomas, “Low inflation pushing U.S. toward recovery,” August 09, 2012, [[http://www.hlntv.com/article/2012/08/09/low-inflation-pushing-us-toward-recovery]]) // CB

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Clark has some good news about the economy!</span>
__Recent data revealed **very low inflation** here **in the U.S**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">., and that </span>
**__AND__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">very much like a recession, particularly if you're looking for a job.</span>

**Purchasing power shields the US from global slowdown**
**Chandra and Wellisz 8/10** – *Reporter for Bloomberg, **Editor at Bloomberg LP (Shobhana and Christopher, “Growing Paychecks Boost Americans’ Purchasing Power: Economy”, Bloomberg, 8/10/12, [[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/growing-paychecks-boost-americans-purchasing-power-economy.html]], Bwang)**

**__Americans’ paychecks in the first half of 2012 grew at the fastest pace in five__**
**__AND__**
__. from any global slowdown__** __as Europe’s debt crisis lingers and Asia cools.__


====**1nc de rugy + mitchell**==== 

**Infrastructure multipliers are negative – delay and lack of targeting**
**de Rugy and Mitchell, 11 –** both are senior research fellows at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University (Veronique and Matthew, “Would More Infrastructure Spending Stimulate the Economy?” September, [[http://mercatus.org/sites/default/files/publication/infrastructure_deRugy_WP_9-12-11.pdf)/DH|http://mercatus.org/sites/default/files/publication/infrastructure_deRugy_WP_9-12-11.pdf)//DH]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Notwithstanding the confidence of stimulus advocates, there is no academic consensus regarding the size </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
United States deeper in debt at time when we can ill afford it.

====**2nc extension cards**==== 
**Ricardian equivalence __nullifies__ the effect of a stimulus – if a government borrows to finance a debt, taxpayers will anticipate taxes have gone up and save their money**
<span class="Cite">Corden 11 </span>– is an Australian economist. He is mostly known for his work on the theory of trade protection, including the development of the dutch disease model of international trade. (W. Max “Ambulance Economics: the pros and cons of fiscal stimuli” Center for economic policy research feb 12 2011 [[http://www.springerlink.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/content/n88181r14055k5h2/fulltext.pdf)/BM|http://www.springerlink.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/content/n88181r14055k5h2/fulltext.pdf)//BM]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2. </span>If a government borrows to finance a deficit, the wise<span style="font-size: 8pt;">far-</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">former was offset by the prudence of the latter. (p 197)</span>

**Empirical mismanagement**
[[http://reason.com/people/jim-epstein/all|**Epstein**]] **11** – Ph.D. and MA in Economics from the University of Paris Reason.tv journalist quotes Veronique de Rugy, [[http://reason.com/people/veronique-de-rugy/all|Reason columnist]] and [[http://mercatus.org/veronique-de-rugy|senior research fellow at the Mercatus Center]] (Jim, "[[http://reason.com/blog/2011/12/08/why-obamas-stimulus-failed-a-case-study|Why Obama's Stimulus Failed: A Case Study of Silver Spring, Maryland]], Reason.com, 12/8/11, [[http://reason.com/blog/2011/12/08/why-obamas-stimulus-failed-a-case-study)/AP|http://reason.com/blog/2011/12/08/why-obamas-stimulus-failed-a-case-study)//AP]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">High, persistent unemployment and a sluggish economy underscore what all but the most-</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
by a top down institution that<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> pretty much </span>fails<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> at everything it does</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">."</span>

**60 years of economic data prove you’re wrong**
**Davies et al 12 –** Antony Davies et. al 12 is an associate professor of economics at Duquesne University, Bruce Yandle isdistinguished adjunct professor of economics at George Mason, Derek Thieme is a Mercatus Center MA Fellow, and Robert Sarvis is a Mercatus Center MA Fellow, Working Paper, No. 12-12, April, “THE U.S. EXPERIENCE WITH FISCAL STIMULUS: A Historical and Statistical Analysis of U.S. Fiscal Stimulus Activity, 1953- 2011,” http://mercatus.org/sites/default/files/publication/US-Experience-Fiscal-Stimulus.pdf

**__Historical data call into question__** __the efficacy of **stimulus spending**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Although factors other than </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__spending continues to increase and pressures the economy to move beyond full employment__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**AFF arguments are based on Keynesian __models__ – not actually empirical data or studies which prove the opposite**
**Blanchard and Perotti 01** – chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, he earned his [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bachelor|Bachelor]] at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paris_Dauphine_University|Paris Dauphine University]], and [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ph.D.|Ph.D.]] in Economics at MIT AND** a Full Professor of Economics at Università Bocconi. He received his PhD in Economics from MIT (Olivier and Roberto, “An empirical characterization of the dynamic eﬀects of changes in government spending and taxes on output”, November, [[http://econ.ucdenver.edu/beckman/Econ%206053/blanchard-taxes.pdf]])//EL

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The predominant, Keynesian, view of the eﬀects of ﬁscal policy that was embedded </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">increases on private investment. This does not appear to be the case. </span>

====**1nc data cooking**==== 
**__Data cooking turn:__**
**a) public investors lie about project – that causes cost overruns while undermining benenfits**
**Flyvbjerg 10** – Professor of Major Programme Management at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oxford_University|Oxford University]]'s [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sa%C3%AFd_Business_School|Saïd Business School]] and is Founding Director of the University's BT Centre for Major Programme Management. He was previously Professor of Planning at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aalborg_University|Aalborg University]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Denmark|Denmark]] and Chair of Infrastructure Policy and Planning at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Delft_University_of_Technology|Delft University of Technology]], The Netherlands (Bent, “Survival of the unﬁttest: why the worst infrastructure gets built—and what we can do about it,” Oxford Review of Economic Policy, Volume 25, Number 3, 2009, pp.344–367, Oxford Journals Online)//DH//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This situation may need some explication, because it may sound to many like an </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">signiﬁcant social and environmental impacts, as is common with major infrastructure projects</span>.//

//**b) the impact is failure – bad projects kills the economy and turns the case**//
//**Flyvbjerg 10** – Professor of Major Programme Management at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oxford_University|Oxford University]]'s [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sa%C3%AFd_Business_School|Saïd Business School]] and is Founding Director of the University's BT Centre for Major Programme Management. He was previously Professor of Planning at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aalborg_University|Aalborg University]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Denmark|Denmark]] and Chair of Infrastructure Policy and Planning at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Delft_University_of_Technology|Delft University of Technology]], The Netherlands (Bent, “Survival of the unﬁttest: why the worst infrastructure gets built—and what we can do about it,” Oxford Review of Economic Policy, Volume 25, Number 3, 2009, pp.344–367, Oxford Journals Online)//DH

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In sum, the UK study shows that</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> strong interests and </span>strong incentives exist at
AND
. They have been designed<span style="font-size: 8pt;">like that,</span>as //disasters waiting to happen//.


====**2nc data cooking**==== 
**Absent accountability, expanding infrastructure risks economic collapse because of cost overruns and investment bubble collapse, results in plan rollback**
**Flyvbjerg, 10** - Professor of Major Programme Management at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oxford_University|Oxford University]]'s [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sa%C3%AFd_Business_School|Saïd Business School]] and is Founding Director of the University's BT Centre for Major Programme Management. He was previously Professor of Planning at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aalborg_University|Aalborg University]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Denmark|Denmark]] and Chair of Infrastructure Policy and Planning at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Delft_University_of_Technology|Delft University of Technology]], The Netherlands (Bent, “Survival of the unﬁttest: why the worst infrastructure gets built—and what we can do about it,” Oxford Review of Economic Policy, Volume 25, Number 3, 2009, pp.344–367, Oxford Journals Online)//DH

In the introduction to this article, I mentioned that current spending on infrastructure constitutes
AND
—began reducing its infrastructure portfolio in 2009, moving into energy instead.

====**1nc debt turn**==== 
**Debt causes investor sell out which causes radical retrenchment**
**Khalilzad 11** – Bush’s ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the UN and former director policy planning at the DOD (Zalmay, “The Economy and National Security”, National Review, 2-8-11, [[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The current recession is the result of a deep </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad|financial crisis]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, not a mere </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">preclude or respond to international crises because of the higher risk of escalation. </span>

====**2nc debt turn**==== 
**We control uniqueness –the economy will recover on its own but new stimulus actions will crush it**
**Foster 11** – PhD, Norman B. Ture Senior Fellow in the Economics of Fiscal Policy in the Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation (J.D., “Promoting Job Creation and Reducing Unemployment in the U.S.,” Congressional Testimony, 9/21,
[[http://www.heritage.org/research/testimony/2011/09/promoting-job-creation-in-the-us]])//DH//

//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The federal government should adopt a very simple guiding principle</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for deciding what to do </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>//
//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">procedure or a new nostrum. </span>Let it heal. Do less harm.//

//**Turns the case – spiraling debt will eliminate infrastructure investment across the board, and crushes US leadership, increases the risk of nuclear use**//
//**Lieberthal and O’Hanlon, 12** - *Director of the John L. Thornton China Center at Brookings AND **Director of Research and Senior Fellow Foreign Policy (Kenneth and Michael, “The Real National Security Threat: America's Debt”, The Brookings Institute, 7/10, [[http://www.brookings.edu/research/opinions/2012/07/10-economy-foreign-policy-lieberthal-ohanlon]]) EL**//

//**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Why is this situation so serious? First, </span>we are headed for<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> a level </span>**//
//**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">regions will likely become less stable. </span>**//**Major war will become more likely//.**

Renewed growth will move the US back from a deficit crisis – but this will only happen if Congress __refrains from new spending__
DeLong 11** – professor of economics at U.C. Berkeley (Brad, “There is no fundamental deficit crisis”, The Economist, 2/16, [[http://www.economist.com/economics/by-invitation/guest-contributions/there_no_fundamental_deficit_crisis)/DH|http://www.economist.com/economics/by-invitation/guest-contributions/there_no_fundamental_deficit_crisis)//DH]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This tells us that </span>America has a large short-term deficit now<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">: we </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
might pass a big unfunded spending increase<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> just for the hell of it</span>.

===ai da=== 
====1nc ai da==== 
**Manufacturing causes massive AI spinoffs that aren’t occurring in the status quo**
**Paone 09 –** 66th Air Base Wing Public Affairs for the US Air Force (Chuck, August 10, 2009, “Technology convergence could prevent war, futurist says,” http://www.af.mil/news/story.asp?id=123162500)

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The convergence of …..</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> applications will transform business, warfare and life in general. Many of these are already embedded in systems or products, he says, even if people don't know it.</span></span></span>

**Extinction**
**Prieur, 05** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ran, B.A. in English Lit and Philosophy, “Don’t Fear the Singularity”, 12/3, http://www.ranprieur.com/essays/singularity.html)</span>

__What if the first ….__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in vacuum tubes, it moved to transistors. Then it moved to silicon chips, and next it might move to three dimensional arrays of carbon nanotubes, and so on. </span>



==cp== 
===states cp=== 
====**1nc states cp - generic**==== 
**The 50 state governments, and relevant territories, through a performance payment regime public private partnership program, should substantially increase its investment in the deployment of Intelligent Transportation Infrastructure, including but not limited to smart antennas, in the United States coordinate to create uniform implementation**, **and eliminate duplication and waste.**

**States are better at transportation infrastructure – the federal government is plagued with pork-barrel politics and bureaucratic bungling**
**Edwards 11 –** (Chris Edwards. The Cato Institute. "Infrastructure Projects to Fix the Economy? Don't Bank on It. | Downsizing the Federal Government." Infrastructure Projects to Fix the Economy? Don't Bank on It. | Downsizing the Federal Government. N.p., october 21, 2011. Web. 20 June 2012. <http://www.downsizinggovernment.org/infrastructure-projects-fix-economy-dont-bank-it>.)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In a recent television ad for her network, MSNBC host Rachel Maddow stands below </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
providing more innovative and less costly infrastructure to the public.<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> They're ready.</span>

===other cp=== 
====1nc ccs cp==== 
Text: **The 50 states and all relevant territories should form an interstate compact that facilitates regulated pipeline transportation of captured carbon in the United States.**

**Counterplan establishes an efficient CCS system**
**Amann 10 –** Scholarly Group of Environmental and Energy Experts (Rachel Amann, December 31, 2010, “A Policy, Legal, and Regulatory Evaluation of the Feasibility of a National Pipeline Infrastructure for the Transport and Storage of Carbon Dioxide: Interstate Oil and Gas Compact Commission,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.sseb.org/downloads/pipeline.pdf)/DR|http://www.sseb.org/downloads/pipeline.pdf)//DR]]</span>. H

An interstate advisory compact may be the most likely model for developing an interstate CO2
AND
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">regulatory response because of the proximity between the regulated community and the regulators</span>**.**

**That solves warming**
**Cohen et al 09** – Co-Founder and Executive Director of the Clean Air Task Force (Armond, former head of the Conservation Law Foundation's Energy Project, member of the Environmental Protection Agency’s Clean Air Act Advisory Committee; Mike Fowler, Technology Coordinator for the Coal Transition Project at the Clean Air Task Force, former New Source Review Supervisor and Enforcement Manager in the Air Quality Bureau of the New Mexico Environment Department, former Project Scientist in the Division of Applied Sciences at Harvard University; and Kurt Waltzer, Carbon Storage Development Coordinator for the Clean Air Task Force’s Coal Transition Project; May 2009, “‘NowGen’: Getting Real about Coal Carbon Capture and Sequestration,” The Electricity Journal, Volume 22, Issue 4, pp. 25-42, p. ScienceDirect)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">II. </span>__CCS is Critical to a Zero-Carbon World__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">¶ The title of </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">to be organized and governed as a regulated system in its own right.</span>

==topicality== 
===climate adaptation=== 
====1nc t shell==== 
**A. Transportation infrastructure is highways, roads, bridges, intermodal transit, inland waterways, ports, aviation, and rail systems.** 
**Congress 11** – [The US House of Representatives – the 112th Congress of the United States. “HR 402 – National Infrastructure Development Bank Act of 2011” 1/24/11 [[http://www.govtrack.us/congress/bills/112/hr402/text//Cal-JV]]] 

(25) TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT… **__airports, high speed rail and freight rail systems__**.

**B. “Investment” requires __capital expenditure__** 
**Anderson 06** – (Edward, Lecturer in Development Studies – University of East Anglia, et al., “The Role of Public Investment in Poverty Reduction: Theories, Evidence and Methods”, Overseas Development Institute Working Paper 263, March, [[http://www.odi.org.uk/resources/docs/1786.pdf]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1.3 Definitions </span>**__We define__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (net) public </span>**__…__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> health and education have been well covered elsewhere in recent years (see for example, van de Walle and Nead, 1995; Sahn and Younger, 2000; and World Bank, 2002).</span>

**C. That means you have to be __new__ infrastructure – repair and maintenance AFF aren’t topical** 
**Law Depot 08** – (“Capital Expenditure”, 2-6, [[http://wiki.lawdepot.com/wiki/Capital_Expenditure]])

Definition of "Capital Expenditure" **__…__****__to merely repair__** **__such assets__**.

**Interpretation – infrastructure investment requires the building or maintenance of physical assets**
**Chan, et al 09** – Productivity Commission Staff Working Paper [March 2009, Chris Chan, Danny, Forwood, Heather Roper, Chris Sayers, “Public Infrastructure Financing: An International Perspective”, [[http://www.pc.gov.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0008/86930/public-infrastructure-financing.pdf]]]

Investment can be regarded <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">….</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (or which might not otherwise have occurred).</span>

**Violation – the affirmative is financing not investment—they raise capital for the purpose of investment but don’t invest –** 
**Chan, et al 09** – Productivity Commission Staff Working Paper [March 2009, Chris Chan, Danny, Forwood, Heather Roper, Chris Sayers, “Public Infrastructure Financing: An International Perspective”, [[http://www.pc.gov.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0008/86930/public-infrastructure-financing.pdf]]]

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The study is concerned with </span>//….////relevant to the efficient provision of public infrastructure//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Brennan 1996). An efficiently financed project in no way guarantees that the project itself satisfies the criteria of allocative efficiency.</span>


==<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">kritik</span>== 
===process metaphysics k=== 
====**1nc process metaphysics k**==== 

**The affirmative misunderstands the source of value in the cosmos – value is not something that can be isolated and preserved for future generations, rather value is only a function of difference.**
**A 1ac without value is by definition meaningless – presume negative until they can present a value system that does not collapse upon itself or evacuate meaning.**
**Henning 09 –** (Brian; Associate Professor of Philosophy at Gonzaga University; “Trusting in the 'Efficacy of Beauty: A Kalocentric Approach to Moral Philosophy”; Ethics & the Environment- Volume 14, Number 1)RSW

**__Final truths__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(whether in religion, morality, or science) </span>**__are unattainable__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">not </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
**__world, how we relate to and interact with every form of existence.__**

**We are cosmic dust whirling in the wind — the distinction between “living and non-living” is meaningless and our extinction is inevitable. Only accepting these truths allows us to transcend consciousness.**
**Seed 88 –** (John; Australian environmentalist and director of the Rainforest Information Centre; THINKING LIKE A MOUNTAIN - TOWARDS A COUNCIL OF ALL BEINGS; http://www.rainforestinfo.org.au/deep-eco/Anthropo.htm)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"But the time is not a strong prison either. A little scraping of </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">beneficial for all life on the planet as a whole." (9)</span>

**Our alternative is to vote negative to affirm a non-anthropocentric value system for action and deliberation.**
**Break with the familiar. Do not imagine plan implementation, but instead embrace the energetic cosmology of the kritik. Open yourself up to the strange and non-familiar.**
**Sandilands 2000 –** Catriona Sandilands, Environmental Studies at York University, 2000 [Ethics and the Environment// 4.2]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But it strikes me that the call for a rethinking of moral standing to include </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and topics </span>__of conversation__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">so that they can he shown to he common. </span>


==case defense== 
===1nc economy d=== 
**No impact to economic collapse**
**Barnett 09** – senior managing director of Enterra Solutions LLC and a contributing editor/online columnist for Esquire magazine, columnist for World Politics Review (8/25, Thomas P.M. “The New Rules: Security Remains Stable Amid Financial Crisis,” World Politics Review, http://www.aprodex.com/the-new-rules--security-remains-stable-amid-financial-crisis-398-bl.aspx)

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">When the global financial crisis struck roughly a year ago, the blogosphere was ablaze </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
__worldwide recession has__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">had virtually </span>__no____impact__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> whatsoever on the international security landscape.</span>
__None of the__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> more than </span>__three-dozen ongoing conflicts__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> listed by GlobalSecurity.org </span>
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">almost two-decade long struggle between Georgia and its two breakaway regions.</span>
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">At the end of the day, the economic crisis did not prove to be sufficiently frightening to provoke major economies into establishing global regulatory schemes, even as it has sparked a spirited -- and much needed, as I argued last week -- discussion of the continuing viability of the U.S. dollar as the world's primary reserve currency. Naturally, plenty of experts and pundits have attached great significance to this debate, seeing in it the beginning of "economic warfare" and the like between "fading" America and "rising" China. And yet, in a world of globally integrated production chains and interconnected financial markets, such "diverging interests" hardly constitute signposts for wars up ahead. Frankly, I don't welcome a world in which America's fiscal profligacy goes undisciplined, so bring it on -- please!</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Add it all up and it's fair to say that </span>this global financial crisis has proven the great resilience of America's post-World War II international liberal trade order<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1nc heg d</span>=== 
**Heg doesn’t solve stability**
**Cambanis 12** – [Thanassis, fellow at The Century Foundation, is the author of “A Privilege to Die: Inside Hezbollah’s Legions and Their Endless War Against Israel”, “The lonely superpower,” [[http://bostonglobe.com/ideas/2012/01/22/the-lonely-superpower/FRkSf1s5n9lXku4VqvEtqJ/story.html]]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Now, however, with a few decades of experience to study, a young </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__be much safer for a unipolar superpower, **not more costly and hazardous**__.

**No impact to the transition**
**Ikenberry 08** – professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University (John, “The Rise of China and the Future of the West Can the Liberal System Survive?” Jan/Feb 2008, Foreign Affairs,)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Some </span>__observers believe that the American era is coming to an end,__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as the</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, but the Western order -- if managed properly -- will live on.</span>

**Even if the US declines, liberal international norms survive – solves the impact**
**Ikenberry 11** – (May/June issue of Foreign Affairs, G. John, PhD, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University in the Department of Politics and the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, “The Future of the Liberal World Order,” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/
articles/67730/g-john-ikenberry/the-future-of-the-liberal-world-order?page=show)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For all these reasons, </span>__many observers have concluded that world politics is experiencing not__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and prosperity that it has provided since the middle of the twentieth century.</span>

=neg strat= 
==**wake forest**== 
**Round 1 vs Riverhill DB [ITS: economy, competitiveness]**
1nc: Process Metaphysics K, States CP, Buy American DA, Coercion DA, Obama Good Elections DA, Case
Block: Process Metaphysics K, States CP, Buy American DA, Coercion DA, Obama Good, Elections DA, Case
2nr: States CP, Buy American DA, Coercion DA, Case

**Round 4 vs BCC BB [New Orleans: race, no plan text, otherization]**
1nc: Process Metaphysics K, Cede the Political, T-Investment, Framework, Case
Block: Process Metaphysics K, Cede the Political, T-Investment, Framework
2nr: Process Metaphysics K, Framework

**Round 5 vs Pace LS [Title XI: economy, hegemony]**
1nc: States CP, Buy American DA, Obama Good Elections DA, T-Investment, Hegemony Bad, Stimulus Bad, Case
Block: Buy American DA, T-Investment, Hegemony Bad, Stimulus Bad, Case
2nr: Buy American DA, T-Investment

**Octos vs New Trier SK [CCS: warming, clean tech]**
1nc: <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Obama Good DA, Coercion DA, Buy America DA, States CP, T-Investment, CO2 Ag Good, Offshore Balancing Good, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Block: </span>Elections Good DA, Coercion DA, T-Investment/Infrastructure, CO2 Ag Good, Case
2nr: Co2 Ag Good, Case

**Quarters vs New Trier CM [CCS: warming, clean tech]**
1nc: Obama Good DA, Coercion DA, States CP, Buy America DA, T-Pipelines, Co2 Ag Good, Offshore Balancing Good, Case
Block: Elections Good, DA, States CP, T-Pipelines, Buy America
2nr: T-Pipelines

**Semis vs Woodward DS [Surface Transportation: stimulus, hegemony]**
1nc: Obama Good DA, Privatization CP, Coercion DA, Buy America DA, Stimulus bad, Case
Block: Stimulus bad, Case, Obama Good DA
2nr: Stimulus bad, Case

**Finals vs CK McClatchy SH [Icebreakers: Arctic, Antarctic]**
1nc: Obama Good DA, Process Metaphysics K, Spending DA, T-Vehicles, Case
Block: Process Metaphysics K, T-Vehicles
2nr: T-vehicles

==georgetown== 
**Round 2 vs Pinecrest G [HSR: Oil Dependence, Economy]**
1nc: States CP, Buy American DA, Obama Good Elections DA, Stimulus Bad, Case
Block: States CP, Buy American DA, Stimulus Bad, Oil DA, Case
2nr: Buy American DA, Stimulus Bad, Oil DA, Case

**Round 4 vs McDonogh HS [Climate Adaptation: Economy, Highways, Ports]**
1nc: Artificial Intelligence DA, Obama Good DA, States CP, Buy American DA, T-Financing/Maintenance, Case
Block: Obama Good DA, T-Financing, Case
2nr: Obama Good DA, Case

**Round 6 vs Carrollton DS [Icebreakers: Arctic, Antarctic, Winter]**
1nc: Obama Good Elections DA, Security K, EIS CP, Environmental Justice DA, T-Maintenance/Vehicles, Case
Block: Security K, T-Maintenance/Vehicles
2nr: Security K

**Doubles vs Bronx MT [Climate Adaptation: Economy, Manufacturing]**
1nc: Obama Good Elections DA, Cap Bad K, States CCS CP, Buy America DA, Case (Heg bad)
Block: States CCS CP, Heg Bad, Buy America DA, Obama Good Elections DA
2nr: States CCS CP, Buy America DA