Nov/Dec


=Aff= 

=Econ AC= 

<span class="Underline">**Contention 1: Util**</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**The resolution asks a question about what "the United States" ought do, therefore we are here to discuss state policy. State policy must be guided by unique moral considerations that necessitate utilitarianism - 5 reasons**</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**1. Policy makers act under conditions of uncertainty-this demands an aggregate decision making model**</span>
**Gooden, 1995 (**<span style="font-size: 3pt;">Robert, philsopher at the Research School of the Social Sciences, </span>__Utilitarianism as Public Philosophy__<span style="font-size: 3pt;">. P. 62-63)</span>
<span style="font-size: 3pt;">Consider, first, the argument from necessity. </span>__Public officials are obliged to make their choices under uncertainty,__ <span style="font-size: 3pt;">and uncertainty of a very special sort at that. </span>__All choices—public and private alike—are made under some degree of uncertainty,__<span style="font-size: 3pt;"> of course. </span>__But in the nature of things, private individuals will usually have more complete information____on the peculiarities of their own circumstances__<span style="font-size: 3pt;"> and on the ramifications that alternative possible choices might have on them. </span>__Public officials, in contrast, are relatively poorly informed as to the effects that their choices will have on individuals, one by one. What they typically do know are generalities: averages and aggregates. They know what will happen most often to most people as a result of their various possible choices__<span style="font-size: 3pt;">. But that is all. </span>__That is enough to allow public policy-makers to use the utilitarian calculus__<span style="font-size: 3pt;">—if they want to use it at all—</span>__to choose general rules of conduct. Knowing aggregates and averages, they can proceed to calculate the utility payoffs from adopting each alternative possible general rules.__

**2. In the context of state policy making "ought" relates to protecting national security- 3 reasons**
**A. Social contract- the creation of a sovereign nation is explicitly designed to protect the material well being of its citizens, this obligation is the defining feature of statehood**
**B. Agency- states are not individual moral agents, they are a collective decision making process- unique features of individual moral agency are not present and thus states are not bound by them**
**C. Wrong forum- states interact in an anarchic international arena- individual moral theories govern the behavior of rational individual agents with one another- this sort of reasoning doesn't exist in agreed upon form in IR**
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">George </span>**Kennan 85**<span style="font-size: 4pt;">. [He is Professor Emeritus at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton.]“Morality and Foreign Policy” Foreign Affairs, Vol. 64, No. 2 1985. pp. 205-218 </span>
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Certain distinctions should be made before one wanders farther into this thicket of problems. First of all, the conduct of diplomacy is the responsibility of governments. For purely practical reasons, this is unavoidable and inalterable. This responsibility is not diminished by the fact that government, in formulating foreign policy, may choose to be influenced by private opinion. </span>__What we are talking about,__<span style="font-size: 4pt;"> therefore, </span>__when we attempt to relate moral considerations to foreign policy, is the behavior of governments, not__<span style="font-size: 4pt;"> of </span>__individuals__<span style="font-size: 4pt;"> or entire peoples. Second, let us recognize that </span>__the__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">functions, commitments and </span>__moral obligations of governments are not the same as those of the individual__<span style="font-size: 4pt;">. </span>__Government is an agent, not a principal__<span style="font-size: 4pt;">. </span>__Its primary obligation is to the interests of__ __the national society it represents, not to the moral impulses that individual elements of that society may experience.__ <span style="font-size: 4pt;">No more than the attorney visàvis the client, nor the doctor vis-à-vis the </span><span style="font-size: 1pt;">patient, can government attempt to insert itself into the consciences of those whose interests it represents. Let me explain. </span>__The interests of the national society for which government has to concern itself are basically those of its military security__<span style="font-size: 1pt;">, the integrity of its political life and the well-being of its people. </span>__These needs__<span style="font-size: 1pt;"> have no moral quality. They </span>__arise from the very existence of the national state in question and from the status of national sovereignty__<span style="font-size: 1pt;"> it enjoys. They are the unavoidable necessities of a national existence and therefore not subject to classification as either "good" or "bad." </span>__They may be questioned from a detached philosophic point of view. But the government of the sovereign state cannot make such judgments.____When it accepts the responsibilities of governing, implicit in that acceptance is the assumption that it is right that the state should be sovereign, that the integrity of its political life should be assured,__ __that its people should enjoy the blessings of military security__<span style="font-size: 1pt;">, material prosperity and a reasonable opportunity for, as the Declaration of Independence put it, the pursuit of happiness. </span>__For these assumptions the government needs no moral justification____,__<span style="font-size: 1pt;"> nor need it accept any moral reproach for acting on the basis of them. This assertion assumes, however, that the concept of national security taken as the basis for governmental concern is one reasonably, not extravagantly, conceived. In an age of nuclear striking power, national security can never be more than relative; and to the extent that it can be assured at all, it must find its sanction in the intentions of rival powers as well as in their capabilities. A concept of national security that ignores this reality and, above all, one that fails to concede the same legitimacy to the security needs of others that it claims for its own, lays itself open to the same moral reproach from which, in normal circumstances, it would be immune. Whoever looks thoughtfully at the present situation of the United States in particular will have to agree that to assure these blessings to the American people is a task of such dimensions that the government attempting to meet it successfully will have very little, if any, energy and attention left to devote to other undertakings, including those suggested by the moral impulses of these or those of its citizens. Finally, let us note that </span>__there are no internationally accepted standards of morality to which the U.S. government could appeal if it wished to act in the name of moral principles.__<span style="font-size: 4pt;"> It is true that there are certain words and phrases sufficiently highsounding the world over so that most governments, when asked to declare themselves for or against, will cheerfully subscribe to them, considering that such is their vagueness that the mere act of subscribing to them carries with it no danger of having one's freedom of action significantly impaired. To this category of pronouncements belong such documents as the KelloggBriand Pact, the Atlantic Charter, the Yalta Declaration on Liberated Europe, and the prologues of innumerable other international agreements. </span>

**3. The act/omission distinction doesn't exist for governments** 
**Sunstein and Vermuele 05**<span style="font-size: 4pt;">, Cass Sunstein [Felix Frankfurter Professor of Law at Harvard Law School] and Adrian Vermuele [Harvard professor of law], “Is Capital Punishment Morally Required? The Relevance of Life-Life Tradeoffs,” Chicago Public Law & Legal Theory Working Paper No. 85 (March 2005), p. 17. </span>
<span style="font-size: 4pt;"> In our view, </span>__any effort to distinguish between acts and omissions__ __goes wrong by overlooking the distinctive features of government__<span style="font-size: 4pt;"> as a moral agent. If correct, </span>__this point has broad implications__<span style="font-size: 4pt;"> for criminal and civil law. Whatever the general status of the act/omission distinction as a matter of moral philosophy, 59 the distinction is least impressive when applied to government, because the most plausible underlying considerations do not apply to official actors. 60 The most fundamental point is that, </span>__unlike individuals, governments__ __always and necessarily face a choice between or among possible policies for regulating third parties.____The distinction__ __between acts and omissions may not be intelligible in this context__<span style="font-size: 4pt;">, </span>__and__<span style="font-size: 4pt;"> even if it is, the distinction </span>__does not make a morally relevant difference.__<span style="font-size: 4pt;"> Most generally, government is in the business of creating permissions and prohibitions. When it explicitly or implicitly authorizes private action, it is not omitting to do anything or refusing to act. 61 Moreover, the distinction between authorized and unauthorized private action—for example, private killing— becomes obscure when the government formally forbids private action but chooses a set of policy instruments that do not adequately or fully discourage it. </span>

<span class="Underline">**4. Intent based moral theories fail the test of political responsibility- only consequential reasoning allows decision makers to fulfill their obligations**</span>
**Issac, professor of political science at Indiana University, 2002 (Jeffrey, Dissent, Spring, ebsco)**
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">As writers such as Niccolo Machiavelli, Max Weber, Reinhold Niebuhr, and Hannah Arendt have taught, </span>__an unyielding concern with moral goodness undercuts political responsibility__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. The concern may be morally laudable, reflecting a kind of personal integrity, but </span>__it suffers from three fatal flaws: (1) It fails to see that the purity of one’s intention does not ensure the achievement of what one intends__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Abjuring violence or refusing to make common cause with morally compromised parties may seem like the right thing; but </span>__if such tactics entail impotence, then it is hard to view them as serving any moral good beyond the clean conscience of their supporters; (2) it fails to see that in a world of real violence and injustice, moral purity is not simply a form of powerlessness; it is often a form of complicity in injustice__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. This is why, from the standpoint of politics—as opposed to religion—pacifism is always a potentially immoral stand. In categorically repudiating violence, it refuses in principle to oppose certain violent injustices with any effect; </span>__and (3) it fails to see that politics is as much about unintended consequences as it is about intentions; it is the effects of action, rather than the motives of action, that is most significant.__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Just as the alignment with “good” may engender impotence, </span>__it is often the pursuit of “good” that generates evil__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. This is the lesson of communism in the twentieth century: it is not enough that one’s goals be sincere or idealistic; it is equally important, always, to ask about the effects of pursuing these goals and to judge these effects in pragmatic and historically contextualized ways.</span> __Moral absolutism__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">inhibits this judgment. It alienates those who are not true believers. It promotes arrogance. And it </span>__undermines political effectiveness__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span>

<span class="Underline">**5. Only utility can navigate between conflicting non consequential moral systems** </span>
**Ratner, 1984** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Leonard, professor of law at USC, Hofstra Law Journal, Spring, lexis)</span>
__A monstrous policy can be categorically rejected by an a priori morality, but proponents of the policy can defend it with a contrary a priori morality__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span>__Only a utilitarian evaluation can resolve the a priori impasse__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Such an evaluation may, in part, underlie the objection of nonutilitarians to monstrous behavior, because </span>**__all human choice__** __reflects the needs and wants of the chooser and those needs and wants reflect the chooser's perceptions of the needs and wants of others.__

**And, alternative moral frameworks are irrelevant**- **Universal health care is an a priori moral obligation in any non utilitarian moral theory**
**Sullivan,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> PhD Harvard, 10-26-</span>**12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://andrewsullivan.thedailybeast.com/2012/10/the-moral-case-for-obama.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We've talked a lot of policy on the Dish this election cycle - airing legitimate differences on how to handle foreign policy, or taxes, or how best to run a healthcare system. And that's absolutely part of an election, and I fully accept the validity of the views of those who legitimately disagree with me on what are essentially prudential judgments. I've supported Democrats and Republicans in my adult life, for different prudential reasons at different moments in time. In politics, I'm a conservative; not an ideologue. But </span>__there is another dimension to politics__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and it's about </span>__morality__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**__Some issues are not subject to prudential or utilitarian reasoning, but are fundamental a priori moral questions__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Let me cite three areas where I think the difference between Obama and Romney is a deep and moral one and requires the exercize of conscience as well as judgment. The first is </span>__universal access to healthcare__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. I've long been a fan of the great parts of America's private healthcare system: its treatment of patients as customers they want to keep, as opposed to human beings they are simply mandated to treat; the innovation of the pharmaceutical companies in a free market; private hospitals and doctors. But </span>__the fact that tens of millions of human beings cannot afford access to__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> this often excellent private </span>__healthcare,__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> even in a basic form, </span>__remains__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, to my mind, </span>__a scandal__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. That there are two nations in this country - one with the security of healthcare and one with no security at all - remains, to my mind, </span>__a moral disgrace__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. That view comes ultimately from my Catholic faith. But it also comes from my surviving a plague and seeing so many die in often unbelievable neglect. It comes from realizing that </span>__if I encounter a sick person, every particle of my being wants to see that person get care, and it's only by looking away that I can ignore this core truth.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> It comes from understanding that as someone with a pre-existing condition, I would be bankrupted if I ever lost insurance through an employer. And I am so much more privileged than so many. I don't believe in the kind of socialized medicine they have in my home country, where the government really does run the industry. But </span>__I__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> do </span>__believe as a core moral principle in universal access to basic healthcare in wealthy countries__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. This election is really asking you: do you believe everyone should be able to have access to private health insurance or not? When I examine my conscience, my answer has to be yes. </span>__I believe in equal human dignity, and denying someone medicine to live healthily denies that dignity.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> To run a campaign in favor of removing that kind of security for tens of millions of Americans and replacing it with nothing remotely comparable is simply, deeply, morally wrong. </span>


**Contention 2: Universal Health Care is key to economic growth**

**1. Growing health care costs is undermining U.S. competitiveness and encouraging jobs to shift offshore**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Editor at the Council on Foreign Relations</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Lee Hudson Teslik and Toni Johnson, “Healthcare Costs and U.S. Competitiveness,” 3/18/2008, http://www.cfr.org/publication/13325/,)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Factoring in costs borne by government, the private sector, and individuals, </span>__the____U__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates</span>__spends over $1.9 trillion annually on healthcare expenses__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, more than any other industrialized country. Researchers at Johns Hopkins Medical School estimate the United States spends 44 percent more per capita than Switzerland, the country with the second highest expenditures, and 134 percent more than the median for member states of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). </span>__These costs prompt fears that an increasing number of U.S. businesses will outsource jobs overseas or offshore business operations completely.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. Representative John P. Sarbanes (D-MD), a member of the House Education and Labor Committee, told CFR.org that in light of these concerns a “consensus is emerging” on Capitol Hill to do something to ease pressures on U.S. employers. Many experts recommend some form of increased public-private partnership, though the specifics of competing plans vary wildly. With the 2008 presidential campaign in full swing, Democratic and Republican candidates disagree sharply on which way reform should go. Democrats embrace expanding public-private partnerships while Republicans generally favor less government control. Competitive Disadvantage </span>__Employer-funded coverage is the structural mainstay of the U.S. health insurance system.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> According to 2005 data from the U.S. Census Bureau, the most recent official data available, employer-provided health benefits cover 175 million Americans, or about 60 percent of the population. Those numbers have fallen since 2001, when 65 percent of the country had some form of employer coverage, based on data from the Kaiser Family Foundation, a nonprofit focused on healthcare issues. Premiums have skyrocketed, rising 87 percent since 2000. In 2004, health coverage became the most expensive benefit paid by U.S. employers, according to a report by the Employment Policy Foundation. </span>__These ballooning dollar figures place a heavy burden on companies doing business in the____U__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates</span>__and can put them at a substantial competitive disadvantage in the international marketplace.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> For large multinational corporations like General Motors, which covers more than 1.1 million employees and former employees, footing healthcare costs presents an enormous expense—the company says it spent roughly $5.6 billion on healthcare expenses in 2006. GM says healthcare costs alone add $1,500 to the sticker price of every automobile it makes, and estimates that by 2008 that number could reach $2,000. It is difficult to quantify the precise effect high healthcare costs have had so far on the U.S. job market. Healthcare is one of several factors—entrenched union contracts are another—that make doing business in the United States expensive and it’s difficult to parse the effects of each factor. Moreover, economists disagree on the number of U.S. jobs that have been lost to offshoring—the transfer of business operations across national boundaries to friendlier operating environments. The Princeton economist Alan S. Blinder, in a 2006 Foreign Affairs article, says that judging by data compiled from “fragmentary studies,” it is apparent that “under a million service-sector jobs in the United States have been lost to offshoring to date.” Blinder goes on to predict that somewhere between 28 million and 42 million U.S. jobs are “susceptible” to offshoring in a future where technology allows the more efficient transfer of jobs. Many other economists, however, have shied away from making such estimates, and some have criticized Blinder’s approach. It is clear, however, that </span>__healthcare expenses affect every level of U.S. industry. For large corporations they mean the massive “legacy costs” associated with insuring retired employees. For small business owners they can be even more devastating.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “In many places, you have small businesses that simply cannot afford to offer coverage,” Sarbanes says. Often, he says, healthcare expenses make it impossible for small business owners to hire candidates they would otherwise desire. </span>**Teslik continues…** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Political Viability It remains to be seen what sort of political tidal wave it would take to force an overhaul of the system, but increased pressure from the business community has made the prospect of change increasingly likely. “Now you’re hearing it from the marquee CEO crowd in private industry that we have to come up with some comprehensive solution or they simply won’t be able to compete,” says John Sarbanes, the U.S. representative from Maryland. GM’s G. Richard Wagoner, Jr., for instance, chastised legislators on the need to find some “serious medicine” for the healthcare system. Testifying before the House Foreign Affairs Committee in January, CFR’s Gene B. Sperling argued </span>__the____U__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates</span>__needs a universal healthcare plan to help its businesses keep up with competitors globally.__

**2. Health care is the single most important factor in sustained economic growth- it trumps all alternate causalities** 
**Cutler, DeLong & Marciarille, 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – *professor of economics at Harvard, **professor of economics at Berkeley, AND ** adjunct law professor at McGeorge School of Law (David M. Cutler, J. Bradford Delong and Ann Marie Marciarille, “Why Obama's Health Plan Is Better,” 9/16/2008, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122152292213639569.html, )</span>
__The big threat to growth__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the next decade </span>__is not oil or food prices__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__but__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the</span> __rising cost of health care__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The </span>__doubling of health insurance premiums__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> since 2000 </span>__makes employers choose between cutting benefits and hiring fewer workers.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Rising </span>__health costs push total employment costs up and wages and benefits down__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__The result is lost profits and lost wages__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, in addition to pointless risk, insecurity and a flood of personal bankruptcies. </span>__Sustained growth__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> thus </span>__requires successful health-care reform__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Barack Obama and John McCain propose to lead us in opposite directions -- and the Obama direction is far superior. Sen. Obama's proposal will modernize our current system of employer- and government-provided health care, keeping what works well, and making the investments now that will lead to a more efficient medical system. He does this in five ways: - Learning. One-third of medical costs go for services at best ineffective and at worst harmful. Fifty billion dollars will jump-start the long-overdue information revolution in health care to identify the best providers, treatments and patient management strategies. - Rewarding</span>__. Doctors and hospitals today are paid for performing procedures, not for helping patients. Insurers make money by dumping sick patients, not by keeping people healthy.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Mr. Obama proposes to base Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements to hospitals and doctors on patient outcomes (lower cholesterol readings, made and kept follow-up appointments) in a coordinated effort to focus the entire payment system around better health, not just more care. - Pooling. The Obama plan would give individuals and small firms the option of joining large insurance pools. With large patient pools, a few people incurring high medical costs will not topple the entire system, so insurers would no longer need to waste time, money and resources weeding out the healthy from the sick, and businesses and individuals would no longer have to subject themselves to that costly and stressful process. - Preventing. In today's health-care market, </span>__less than one dollar in 25 goes for prevention, even though preventive services__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- regular screenings and healthy lifestyle information -- </span>__are among the most cost-effective medical services around__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Guaranteeing access to preventive services will improve health and in many cases save money. - Covering. </span>__Controlling long-run health-care costs requires removing the hidden expenses of the uninsured__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The reforms described above will lower premiums by $2,500 for the typical family, allowing millions previously priced out of the market to afford insurance. In addition, tax credits for those still unable to afford private coverage, and the option to buy in to the federal government's benefits system, will ensure that all individuals have access to an affordable, portable alternative at a price they can afford. Given the current inefficiencies in our system, the impact of the Obama plan will be profound. Besides the $2,500 savings in medical costs for the typical family, according to our research annual business-sector costs will fall by about $140 billion. Our figures suggest that decreasing employer costs by this amount will result in the expansion of employer-provided health insurance to 10 million previously uninsured people. We know these savings are attainable: other countries have them today. We spend 40% more than other countries such as Canada and Switzeraland on health care -- nearly $1 trillion -- but our health outcomes are no better. The lower cost of benefits will allow employers to hire some 90,000 low-wage workers currently without jobs because they are currently priced out of the market</span>__. It also would pull one and a half million more workers out of low-wage low-benefit and into high-wage high-benefit jobs. Workers currently locked into jobs because they fear losing their health benefits would be able to move to entrepreneurial jobs, or simply work part time.__

**3. Economic growth is key to reduce ware and conflict**
**Auslin, former prof of history, 9—**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">FormerAssociate Professor of History and Senior Research Fellow at the MacMillan Center for International and Area Studies at Yale University. Scholar at AEI. PhD, MA and BSFS (Michael, “The Global Economy Unravels,” 6 March 2009, http://jobs.aei.org/publications/pubID.29502,filter.economic/pub_detail.asp, AMiles)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">What do these trends mean in the short and medium term? </span>__The Great Depression showed how__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> social and global </span>__chaos____followed__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> hard on </span>__economic collapse__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The mere fact that parliaments across the globe, from America to Japan, are unable to make responsible, economically sound recovery plans suggests that they do not know what to do and are simply hoping for the least disruption. Equally worrisome is the adoption of more statist economic programs around the globe, and the concurrent decline of trust in free-market systems. </span>__The threat of instability is a pressing concern__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. China, until last year the world's fastest growing economy, just reported that 20 million migrant laborers lost their jobs. Even in the flush times of recent years, China faced upward of 70,000 labor uprisings a year. </span>__A sustained downturn poses grave__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and possibly immediate </span>__threats to Chinese__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">internal</span> __stability__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The regime in </span>__Beijing may be faced with__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> a choice of </span>__repressing its__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> own </span>__people or diverting____their energies outward, leading to conflict__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> with China's neighbors. Russia, an oil state completely dependent on energy sales, has had to put down riots in its Far East as well as in downtown Moscow. Vladimir </span>__Putin's rule has been predicated on____squeezing__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> civil </span>__liberties while providing economic largesse__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>__If that devil's bargain falls apart__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, </span>__then__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> wide-scale </span>__repression inside____Russia__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, </span>__along with a continuing threatening posture toward Russia's neighbors, is likely__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>__Even__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> apparently </span>__stable societies____face__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> increasing risk and </span>__the threat of__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">internal or possibly </span>__external conflict__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. As Japan's exports have plummeted by nearly 50%, one-third of the country's prefectures have passed emergency economic stabilization plans. Hundreds of thousands of temporary employees hired during the first part of this decade are being laid off. Spain's unemployment rate is expected to climb to nearly 20% by the end of 2010; Spanish unions are already protesting the lack of jobs, and the specter of violence, as occurred in the 1980s, is haunting the country. Meanwhile, in Greece, workers have already taken to the streets. Europe as a whole will face dangerously increasing tensions between native citizens and immigrants, largely from poorer Muslim nations, who have increased the labor pool in the past several decades. Spain has absorbed five million immigrants since 1999, while nearly 9% of Germany's residents have foreign citizenship, including almost 2 million Turks. The xenophobic labor strikes in the U.K. do not bode well for the rest of Europe. </span>__A prolonged global downturn__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, let alone a collapse, </span>__would dramatically raise tensions__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> inside these countries. </span>__Couple that with__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> possible protectionist legislation in the United States, unresolved </span>__ethnic and territorial disputes in all regions of the globe__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and a loss of confidence that world leaders actually know what they are doing. </span>__The result may be a series of small explosions that coalesce into a big bang.__

**Contention 3: Solvency**

<span class="Underline">**1. UHC would stimulate the economy and reduce costs for 3 reasons- eliminate red tape, prevent unnecessary treatments, and reduce fraud** </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">James B. </span><span class="Underline">**Roche,**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> J.D Associate with Liggio, Benrubi & Williams. LL.M., Insurance Law, Univer. Of Conn. Sch. Of Law, 20</span><span class="Underline">**00,** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">J.D. St. Thomas Univ. School of Law, 1999 St. Thomas Law Review Summer, 2001</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Even if one disagrees with the two previous arguments (that health care is a fundamental right and that we have a moral obligation to provide health care to everyone,) one thing is for certain, we cannot continue on our present path. </span><span class="Underline">The main "problem</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and the one which </span><span class="Underline">... driving</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the health care </span><span class="Underline">reform</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> debate, </span><span class="Underline">is health care costs</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">... . </span><span class="Underline">[In 1995, T]he United States spent one out of every ... [six] dollars in its economy on health care</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ... , spending about $ 4,000 on health care for every man, woman, and child in the United States." n38 These costs are by no way leveling off either. In 1997, it was estimated that "total health care spending is projected to increase 50% (from 1 trillion to 1.5 trillion) in the next five years." n39 Yet, early as 1995, health care costs escalated yearly "at an average rate of twelve to thirteen percent." n40 Considering inflation has hovered steadily around the three percent mark the past seven years and considering mortality rates have leveled off, many policy makers are left wondering why are costs skyrocketing and what are we getting in return? It was once thought that our health care woes would be cured by a healthy economy. n41 However, proponents of this myth are unable to explain why </span><span class="Underline">the number of uninsured continues to skyrocket "</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">in an era of unprecedented economic growth coupled with low inflation and low unemployment." n42 Compared to the twenty-three countries that belong to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), </span><span class="Underline">the United States has the highest level of payments directly from patients in the form of co-pays and deductibles</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. n43 Yet </span><span class="Underline">even with these supposed cost controlling measures, health insurance rates have continued to rise</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in America along with the number of uninsured. n44 The United States is paying twice as much on each person's health care than the OECD countries, n45 yet she lags behind those nations in across the board health results. [*1020] The question begs to be asked, if the United States is spending so much more per capita on health care than other nations, while having less across the board success, </span><span class="Underline">where is all the money going? The answer to this is threefold, inefficient and unnecessary administrative costs, excessive and unnecessary treatment, and fraud</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. n46 Firstly, "</span><span class="Underline">the United States ... spends more on [wasteful and] unnecessary administrative costs than any other industrialized country</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">." n47 Each of the estimated 1,500 health insurance companies have their own complex administrative guidelines. n48 In 1992, approximately 6.7% of health care costs went to administrative needs in the United States and approximately 34.5% of private health insurance premiums were for administrative purposes. n49 Other costs not accounted for are "opportunity costs for consumers," administrative "costs to employers," "administrative costs of ... hospitals and [doctors]," administrative "costs of research" and "development" just to name a few. n50 "As a result, ... [</span><span class="Underline">it was] estimate[d in 1993] that reform in health care ... [to a single-payer universal health care delivery system] could save the United States as much as $ 95 billion per year."</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> n51 Secondly, </span><span class="Underline">health care costs include excessive and unnecessary medical treatment</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Much of the health care provided in this country is simply not necessary. n52 If these unnecessary treatments could be prevented, we could decrease costs. n53 The question is often raised, why is there so much wasteful administration of health care? </span><span class="Underline">The litigious nature of American society encourages physicians to order excessive treatment or tests due to fear of malpractice liability</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. n54 This excessive treatment in order to avoid liability has been termed "defensive medicine" and accounts for a [*1021] great deal of unnecessary medical costs. n55 "Physicians have traditionally been accused of ..." over consumption of health care resources in an attempt to reduce the potential for litigation and provide a defense should there in fact be litigation. n56 Little effort has been made to address this issue. Finally, it was estimated in 1991 that fraud costs the United States an additional $ 75 billion dollars to health care costs each year. n57 "The Clinton Administration has named health care [fraud and abuse] crimes its number two priority, second only to violent crimes." n58 From 1992 to 1994, the number of health care fraud cases being investigated more than doubled. n59 "Despite ... [the increase of awareness], fraud and abuse are thriving in the American health care system." n60 Over forty percent of treated patients complain that their physicians had deceived insurance companies out of more money than they were entitled to. n61 </span><span class="Underline">Fraud in health care takes on two forms, over-utilization of health care resources and under utilization of health care resources</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. n62 "Under the traditional fee-for-service health care ..." delivery system, physicians "had [a strong] incentive" to provide patients with as much health care as possible in order to generate income. n63 Under managed care over-utilization becomes less of a problem. n64 However, even as managed care providers become the number one health care providers in the United States, over-utilization is still inherent in the system n65 Even in today's prevalent managed care environment, incentives for fraud and over-utilization of services continue to exist. n66 Managed care providers "may over-enroll patients, ... retain deceased patients on their capitation lists [in order to receive more from the [*1022] government], ... [obtain] kickbacks from providers to whom they refer patients for services covered independently[,] and list patients of other managed care providers as their own." n67 </span><span class="Underline">Whether one agrees that health care is a fundamental right, or whether one believes that we have a moral obligation to provide health care to everyone, one thing is for certain, our current outdated and inefficient health care system must be reformed in order to avoid dire economic consequences.</span>






=<span class="Underline">Neg</span>= 

=Malthus NC (FW)= 


**The framework for the debate should be lifeboat ethics- all moral systems, consequence based or not, must be filtered through the realities of population. Lifeboat ethics recognize that practical constraints of a given situation affect our moral reasoning.** 


**This is superior for 4 reasons**

**1. Anthropocentrism- limitless ethics ignores practical environmental constraints, infinite obligation requires destruction of ecosystems to fulfill. This makes them normatively undesirable and descriptively illogical- an obligation that can never be fulfilled is a meaningless platitude**

**2. Future generations- their obligation fails because it only accounts for existing duties- it ignores our obligations to future generations. An immediate obligation to assist mortgages the future where more people, and thus greater obligations, will exist. All ethical systems must account for the long run or they are inadequate**

**3. Opportunity cost- real world constraints mean there are tradeoffs that need to be considered. The disad links not only to their topical action, but to their framework for the round. Adopting their ethic trades off with ecologically sustainable moral systems.**

**4. Defectors-universal ethical systems are normative not descriptive, and thus are subject to the tragedy of the commons. People gain materially by deciding to opt out of the obligation, which causes the system to collapse.**
<span class="CiteChar">Elliott and Lamm, 2</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - *Emeritus Associate Professor of Philosophy at the University of Florida and **former Governor of Colorado, Professor at the University of Denver, Executive Director of the University of Denver’s Center for Public Policy and Contemporary Issues</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Herschel and Richard D, “A Moral Code for a Finite World,” The Chronicle Review, Volume 49, Issue 12, Page B0, The Chronicle of Higher Education, November 15, 2002, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://chronicle.com/free/v49/i12/12b00701.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What if global warming is a reality, and expanding human activity is causing irreparable harm to the ecosystem? What if the demands of a growing human population and an expanding global economy are causing our oceans to warm up, our ice caps to melt, our supply of edible fish to decrease, our rain forests to disappear, our coral reefs to die, our soils to be eroded, our air and water to be polluted, and our weather to include a growing number of floods and droughts? What if it is sheer hubris to believe that our species can grow without limits? What if the finite nature of the earth's resources imposes limits on what human beings can morally do? </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__What if our present moral code is ecologically unsustainable?__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> A widely cited article from the journal Science gives us one answer. Garrett Hardin's "The Tragedy of the Commons" (1968) demonstrated that </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__when natural resources are held in common__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- freely available to everyone for the taking -- </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__the incentives that normally direct human activity lead people to steadily increase their exploitation of the resources__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> until they are inadequate to meet human needs. The exploiters generally do not intend to cause any harm; they are merely taking care of their own needs, or those of others in want. Nevertheless, the entire system moves inexorably to disaster. Everyone in the world shares in the resulting tragedy of the commons. Today, our standard of living, our economic system, and the political stability of our planet all require the increasing use of energy and natural resources. In addition, much of our political, economic, and social thinking assumes a continuous expansion of economic activity, with little or no restraint on our use of resources. We all feel entitled to grow richer every year. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Social justice requires an expanding pie to share with those who are less fortunate.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Progress is growth; the economies of developed nations require steady increases in consumption. What if such a scenario is unsustainable? What if we need an ethics for a finite world, an ethics of the commons? It is not important that you agree with the premise. What is important is that you help debate the alternatives. An ethics of the commons would require a change in the criteria by which moral claims are justified. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__You may believe that current rates of population growth and economic expansion can go on forever -- but debate with us what alternative ethical theories would arise if they cannot.__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Our thesis is that </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__any ethical system is mistaken and immoral if its practice would cause an environmental collapse__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Many people assume that moral laws and principles are absolutely certain, that we can know the final moral truth. If moral knowledge is certain, then factual evidence is irrelevant, for it cannot limit or refute what is morally certain. Our ethics and concepts of human rights have been formulated for a world of a priori reasoning and unchanging conclusions. Kant spoke for that absolutist ethical tradition when he argued that only knowledge that is absolutely certain can justify the slavish obedience that moral law demands. He thought he had found rational grounds to justify the universal and unchanging character of moral law. Moral knowledge, he concluded, is a priori and certain. It tells us, for example, that murder, lying, and stealing are wrong. The fact that those acts may sometimes seem to benefit someone cannot diminish the absolute certainty that they are wrong. Thus, for example, it is a contradiction to state that murder can sometimes be right, for, by its very nature, murder is wrong. Many human rights are positive rights that involve the exploitation of resources. (Negative rights restrain governments and don't require resources. For example, governments shouldn't restrict our freedom of speech or tell us how to pray.) </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__Wherever in the world a child is born, that child has all the inherent human rights -- including the right to have food, housing, and medical care, which others must provide. When positive rights are accorded equally to everyone, they first allow and then support constant growth, of both population and the exploitation of natural resources__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. That leads to a pragmatic refutation of the belief that moral knowledge is certain and infallible. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__If a growing population faces a scarcity of resources, then an ethics of universal human rights with equality and justice for all will fail. Those who survive will inevitably live by a different ethics__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Once the resources necessary to satisfy all human needs become insufficient, our options will be bracketed by two extremes. One is to ration resources so that everyone may share the inadequate supplies equally and justly. The other is to have people act like players in a game of musical chairs. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__In conditions of scarcity, there will be more people than chairs, so some people will be left standing when the music stops__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Some -- the self-sacrificing altruists -- will refuse to take the food that others need, and so will perish. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__Others, however, will not play by the rules. Rejecting the ethics of a universal and unconditional moral law, they will fight to get the resources they and their children need to live.__ </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Under neither extreme, nor all the options in between, does it make sense to analyze the problem through the lens of human rights.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The flaw in an ethical system of universal human rights, unqualified moral obligations, and equal justice for all can be stated in its logically simplest form: </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__If to try to live by those principles under conditions of scarcity causes it to be impossible to live at all, then **the practice of that ethics will cease.** Scarcity renders such formulations useless and ultimately causes such an ethics to become extinct__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. We have described not a world that we want to see, but one that we fear might come to be. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__Humans cannot have a moral duty to deliver the impossible, or to supply something if the act of supplying it harms the ecosystem to the point where life on earth becomes unsustainable. Moral codes__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, no matter how logical and well reasoned, and human rights, no matter how compassionate, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__must make sense within the limitations of the ecosystem; we cannot disregard the factual consequences of our ethics__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. If acting morally compromises the ecosystem, then moral behavior must be rethought. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__Ethics cannot demand a level of resource use that the ecosystem cannot tolerate__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The consequences of human behavior change as the population grows. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__Most human activities have a point of moral reversal, before which they may cause great benefit and little harm, but after which they may cause so much harm as to overwhelm their benefits__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Here are a few representative examples, the first of which is often cited when considering Garrett Hardin's work: In a nearly empty lifeboat, rescuing a drowning shipwreck victim causes benefit: It saves the life of the victim, and it adds another person to help manage the boat. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__But in a lifeboat loaded to the gunwales, rescuing another victim makes the boat sink and causes only harm: Everyone drowns__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. When the number of cars on a road is small, traveling by private car is a great convenience to all. But as the cars multiply, a point of reversal occurs: The road now contains so many cars that such travel is inconvenient. The number of private cars may increase to the point where everyone comes to a halt. Thus, in some conditions, car travel benefits all. In other conditions, car travel makes it impossible for anyone to move. It can also pump so much carbon dioxide into the atmosphere that it alters the world's climate. Economic growth can be beneficial when land, fuel, water, and other needed resources are abundant. But it becomes harmful when those resources become scarce, or when exploitation causes ecological collapse. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__Every finite environment has a turning point, at which further economic growth would produce so much trash and pollution that it would change from producing benefit to causing harm. After that point is reached, additional growth only increases scarcity and decreases overall productivity__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In conditions of scarcity, economic growth has a negative impact. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__Every environment is finite. Technology can extend but not eliminate limits__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. An acre of land can support only a few mature sugar maples; only so many radishes can grow in a five-foot row of dirt. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__Similar constraints operate in human affairs__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. When the population in any environment is small and natural resources plentiful, every additional person increases the welfare of all. As more and more people are added, they need increasingly to exploit the finite resources of the environment. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__At a certain point, the members of an increasing population become so crowded that they stop benefiting each other; by damaging the environment that supports everyone, by limiting the space available to each person, and by increasing the amount of waste and pollution, their activity begins to cause harm__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. That is, population growth changes from good to bad. And if the population continues to expand, its material demands may so severely damage the environment as to cause a tragedy of the commons -- the collapse of both environment and society. Those cases illustrate the fact that many activities are right -- morally justified -- when only a limited number of people do them. The same activities become wrong -- immoral -- when populations increase, and more and more resources are exploited. Few people seem to understand the nature of steady growth. Any rate of growth has a doubling time: the period of time it takes for a given quantity to double. It is a logical inevitability -- not a matter subject to debate -- that it takes only a relatively few doublings for even a small number to equal or exceed any finite quantity, even a large one. One way to look at the impact of growth is to think of a resource that would last 100 years if people consumed it at a constant rate. If the rate of consumption increased 5 percent each year, the resource would last only 36 years. A supply adequate for 1,000 years at a constant rate would last 79 years at a 5-percent rate of growth; a 10,000-year supply would last only 125 years at the same rate. Just as no trees grow to the sky, no growth rate is ultimately sustainable. Because the natural resources available for human use are finite, exponential growth will use them up in a relatively small number of doublings. The only possible questions are those of timing: When will the resources be too depleted to support the population? When will human society, which is now built on perpetual growth, fail? The mathematics makes it clear: Any human activity that uses matter or energy must reach a steady state (or a periodic cycle of boom and bust, which over the long run is the same thing). If not, it inevitably will cease to exist. The moral of the story is obvious: Any system of economics or ethics that requires or even allows steady growth in the exploitation of resources is designed to collapse. It is a recipe for disaster. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__It is self-deception for anyone to believe that historical evidence contradicts mathematical necessity__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The fact that the food supply since the time of Malthus has increased faster than the human population does not refute Malthus's general thesis: that an increasing population must, at some time, need more food, water, and other vital resources than the finite earth or creative technology can supply in perpetuity. In other words, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__the finitude of the earth makes it inevitable that any behavior causing growth in population or in the use of resources -- including human moral, political, and economic behavior -- will sooner or later be constrained by scarcity__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Unlike current ethics, the ethics of the commons builds on the assumption of impending scarcity. Scarcity requires double-entry bookkeeping: Whenever someone gains goods or services that use matter or energy, someone else must lose matter or energy. If the starving people of a distant nation get food aid from the United States, then the United States loses that amount of food; it also loses the fertility of the soil that produced the food. To a point, that arrangement is appropriate and workable. Soon, however, helping one group of starving people may well mean that we cannot help others. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__Everything that a government does prevents it from doing something else__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. When you have to balance a budget, you can say yes to some important services only by saying no to others. Similarly, the ethics of the commons must rely on trade-offs, not rights. It must specify who or what gains, and who or what loses. Indeed, in a finite world full of mutually dependent beings, you never can do just one thing. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__Every human activity that uses matter or energy pulls with it a tangled skein of unexpected consequences. Conditions of crowding and scarcity can cause moral acts to change from beneficial to harmful, or even disastrous; acts that once were moral can become immoral__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. We must constantly assess the complex of consequences, intended or not, to see if the overall benefit of seemingly moral acts outweighs their overall harm. As Hardin suggested, the collapse of any common resource can be avoided only by limiting its use. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__The ethics of the commons builds on his idea that the best and most humane way of avoiding the tragedy of the commons is mutual constraint, mutually agreed on and mutually enforced__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Most important, the ethics of the commons must prevent a downward spiral to scarcity. One of its first principles is that the human population must reach and maintain a stable state -- a state in which population growth does not slowly but inexorably diminish the quality of, and even the prospect for, human life. Another principle is that human exploitation of natural resources must remain safely below the maximum levels that a healthy and resilient ecosystem can sustain. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__A third is the provision of a margin of safety that prevents natural disasters like storms, floods, droughts, earthquakes, and volcanic eruptions from causing unsupportable scarcity. Not to limit human behavior in accordance with those principles would be not only myopic, but also ultimately a moral failure__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. To let excess human fertility or excess demand for material goods and services cause a shortage of natural resources is as immoral as theft and murder, and for the same reasons: They deprive others of their property, the fruits of their labors, their quality of life, or even their lives. The ethics of the commons is a pragmatic ethics. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__It denies the illusion that human moral behavior occurs in a never-never land, where human rights and duties remain unchanging, and scarcity can never cancel moral duties__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. It does not allow a priori moral arguments to dictate behavior that must inevitably become extinct. It accepts the necessity of constraints on both production and reproduction. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__As we learn how best to protect the current and future health of the earth's ecosystems, the ethics of the commons can steadily make human life more worth living. As populations increase and environments deteriorate, the moral laws that humans have relied on for so long can no longer solve the most pressing problems of the modern world. Human rights are an inadequate and inappropriate basis on which to distribute scarce resources, and we must propose and debate new ethical principles__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



**Arguments that refute lifeboat ethics fail for 4 reasons**

**1. Autonomy - They assume moral acts are autonomous-overpopulation creates limits for autonomous moral behavior.**

**2. Empirics- their reasoning assumes moral systems can be justified non-empirically, which the tragedy of the commons disproves**

**3. Biology- non empirical moral systems fail to understand the order of biological processes**

**4. Dynamic equilibrium- the existence of all living organisms is dependent upon their natural environment- making decisions that ignore this constraint is illogical** 

<span class="CiteChar">Elliott, 97</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor Emeritus of Philosophy @ University of Florida</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Herschel, “A General Statement of the Tragedy of the Commons,”</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://dieoff.org/page121.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">**__Correct ethical behavior can no longer be deduced from a set of principles, rights, and obligations which are invariant in time and universal in application.__**__Instead, ethical behavior must be relative to its most important goal -- to protect and sustain the Earth's__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> diverse yet mutually supporting system of </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__living things.____Thereafter the secondary goal of ethics may be addressed__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, namely, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__to maximize__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__quality of__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> human </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__life.__ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The system-dependent nature of moral behavior entails decisive changes in ethical theory or in the decisions that affect the do's and don't's of daily life. Five are worthy of emphasizing. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__First, people can no longer assume that moral acts are autonomous__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, that they are simple consequences of a good will. People can no longer make believe that moral behavior takes place in an infinite domain of thought in which the members of the moral community have duties and obligations which are timeless, necessary, and never constrained by material shortage. Instead moral behavior is complex. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__Under__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the present almost universal </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__conditions of crowding, most human acts pull with them__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a tangled skein of </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__benefit and harm. Simple human acts__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, acts that are benign or even morally necessary when practiced on a small or limited scale, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__become__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> tragic, even </span><span class="UnderlineChar">**__disastrous__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__when those__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> same types of act </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__are practiced on a large scale or by everyone.__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In many cases </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">the morality of as act is a function of the number of people doing that kind of act. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Indeed an individual's behavior can no longer be judged to be moral merely because its motive conforms to unchanging ideals and principles. This traditional subjective criterion for assessing moral behavior must be discarded because it is often irrelevant and even counterproductive. The second is a corollary of the first. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__Most people in the Western world hold a serious moral misconception which **must be discarded.** Having been brought up__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> or educated </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__under__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the formative influence of a </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__monotheistic religion, they commonly believe__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, without question, examination, or discussion, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__that__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the ideals and principles of </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__moral behavior can be justified non-empirically__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, that is by reason or //a priori// thought. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__As a result, moral claims are__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> treated as if they were like the conclusion of geometric proof whose truth is </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__a matter of a logical necessity that empirical data cannot refute.__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> However, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">the tragedy of the commons shows the absurdity of this claim.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Because most </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__human rights, laws, and freedoms are contingent on the ability of the Earth's ecosystems to support them, most cannot be universal__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, necessary, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__and unconditional. And no__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a priori arguments -- no appeals to reason, to conscience, to God's Word, or to the logic of </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__moral language__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__can make them so.__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Indeed </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__none of the__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> human-centered obligations of //a priori// </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__ethical theories__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> can curb the inbuilt, positive feedback mechanisms which are now causing the ever greater impoverishment of the world's ecosystems. And none </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__can be adjusted to meet the holistic needs of the Earth's evolving biosystem.__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> These are the inherent defects which prove the belief must be abandoned that a priori reasoning can determine, for all time, the ideals and principles of ethics as well as the nature of justice itself. Third, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__all systems of ethical beliefs__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> are hypotheses about how human beings can live on Earth. As such, they make factual claims. And like all factual claims, their truth or falsity </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__depend__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">s </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__on empirical evidence. For this reason, the sequence of biological events__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> which the general statement of the tragedy of the commons describes </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__is of **decisive importance** for ethical theory. It shows__</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(1) that moral behavior must be grounded in a knowledge of biology and ecology, (2) </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__that moral obligations must be empirically tested to attain necessary__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> biological </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__goals__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, (3) that any system of moral practices is self-inconsistent when the behavior, which it either allows or makes morally obligatory, actually subverts the goal it seeks. Thus </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__empirical criteria give a necessary__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (though not a sufficient) </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__condition for acceptable moral behavior.__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Regardless of the human proclivity to rationalize, any system of ethical beliefs is mistaken if its practice would cause the breakdown of the ecosystem which sustains the people who live by it. Indeed, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__biological necessity has a veto over moral behavior. Facts can refute moral beliefs.__ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fourth, ecosystems are in dynamic equilibrium. In addition, technology and human institutions are constantly evolving in novel and unpredictable ways. Furthermore, living things must compete with each other for space and resources; yet </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__each organism__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__depends__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> symbiotically </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__on the well-being of the whole for its own survival and well-being.__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Indeed </span><span class="UnderlineChar">**__the welfare of all organisms__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- including human beings -- </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__is__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> causally </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__dependent on the health and stability of__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__ecosystems__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> which sustain them. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__As a consequence, the stability__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and well-being </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__of the Earth's biosystem has **moral priority** over the welfare of any of its parts__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- including the needs and interests of human societies and individuals. Fifth, human beings are in a biologically unique situation: empirical knowledge can guide their behavior. Indeed, intelligent behavior can free people from the rigors of physical and biological determinism. It should be noted, however, that this freedom is not absolute, for human behavior is still determined. But, instead of being determined solely by genes, habit, and cultural conditioning, it can be modified by the memory of individuals' useful past experience augmented by the recorded successes of the human race. Thus </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__although biological necessity has a veto over what people may want and hope, empirical knowledge can guide human behavior. And that knowledge clearly indicates that holistic planning and societally enforced constraint are the means necessary to prevent the tragic breakdown of the Earth's biosystem.__</span>

**Finally, suffering is inevitable- only lifeboat ethics can effectively minimize it. All disads to our ethical framing are non unique- the crunch will cause all their indicts to be true of their framework. The affirmative can't articulate unique offense against our framework** 
<span class="CiteChar">Elliott, 97</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor Emeritus of Philosophy @ University of Florida</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Herschel, “A General Statement of the Tragedy of the Commons,”</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://dieoff.org/page121.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Human beings are in a unique and fortunate position among all living things in that they have language, memory, and intelligence. These abilities allow them to accumulate factual knowledge. And this knowledge, in turn, makes it possible for them to break out the patterns of behavior normally determined by habit, culture, religion, and genetic endowment. When knowledge of the structure and limits of the Earth's biosystem is gained and acted on, it can lead people to live as sustaining members of the Earth's biotic community. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__People can maintain a limited, stable population; they can minimize their use of physical and biological resources. There is, however, no assurance that people will allow ecological knowledge to direct their **moral behavior**__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> rather than let it be controlled by a priori assumptions or appeals to habit and tradition. Nevertheless the challenging possibility exists: </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__moral behavior can avoid the tragedy of the commons even while it is directed__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, secondarily, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__to the task of steadily improving__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__quality of human life.__ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">As in Hardin's original essay, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__the__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> general statement of the </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__tragedy of the commons__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__demonstrates that ethical behavior requires holistic or societal control.__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In the case of many nations, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">**__the most effective means__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for them to learn the need for societal constraint </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__may be__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for others </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__to do nothing but stand back and watch. Just as a good parent may let a child fall down and get up and fall again as it learns to walk__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, so, too, many </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__nations may only discover the need to reduce their populations__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and to limit their use of natural resources </span><span class="UnderlineChar">**__by allowing their people to suffer through the task of learning to live__** __within the carrying capacity__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of their nation's boundaries. The means which Hardin recommends, for protecting the commons is deliberate, societal coercion. Preferably it is mutual restraint, mutually agreed on, and mutually enforced. Furthermore, knowledge of the most effective and humane means of societal coercion is empirical knowledge. And like all empirical knowledge, it requires constant experimentation, revision, and correction. As such, it can never be certain; it can never be final. And </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__since final truth concerning__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> matters of </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__morality is impossible, the moral choice__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, as Hardin has so aptly emphasized, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__can never be between__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> perfectly </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__just coercion and none at all__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for then people will be free to cause the collapse of the environmental commons and the end of nature's experiment with human kind. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">**__Clearly imperfect forms of coercion are preferable to none at all.__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> They are like mistaken theories in science -- at some future time they can be refuted and corrected or discarded. Imperfectly just coercive measures can be improved indefinitely. Thus it is important to note that the need for control does not make any claim about the type of coercion that different societies must practice. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__The moral challenge is to make the coercion as painless__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, as </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__humane, and__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__unobtrusive as possible as long as it accomplishes the necessary holistic goal: it must prevent the tragedy of the commons__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and preserve the dynamic stability of the Earth's system of living things. And </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">after this primary goal is secure, the secondary moral goal can be addressed -- that of improving</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">quality of life</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as people learn to unfold the evolving potential of being human. There is, however, no assurance that people have the will and the intelligence to live within the necessary limits of nature. To do so is the difficult but challenging task of ethics.</span>


=Malthus NC(disad)= 

**A. Uniqueness and impact- we are approaching limits to growth, resources are running out. Continued population growth causes extinction**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">William </span>**Ryerson**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> founder and President of Population Media Center, Chairman of Population Institute (Washington DC), fellow at the Post Carbon Institute and recipient of the 2006 Nafis Sadik Prize for Courage. </span>**10-31**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-11 http://www.undispatch.com/seven-billion-what-does-it-mean</span>
__Population__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> was a huge issue in the 60s and 70s. </span>__I have been working on__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> this </span>__for 40 years__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The first earth day was largely about population growth, then it became taboo. Part of why </span>__it become taboo__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> was human rights violations committed by India and China, and partly was because of Ronald </span>__Reagan,__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> who </span>__said__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that </span>__population growth was a good thing__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. He was influenced by Julian </span>__Simon,__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> who </span>__said there was no limit__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to how many people the planet could support. We saw a negative response to publications like The Limits to Growth, which predicted that in the early part of the current century, we’d run into resource limits. </span>__What is clear__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> now is that </span>__oil production has gone flat__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, no matter how much we spend on trying to find more. And our whole </span>__agriculture__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> system </span>__is based on__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> cheap </span>__oil__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The oil component of the price of food is a major component. People were suddenly finding they were unable to buy food. The spike in oil and then food prices led the media to realize there really was a problem. There was also a major effort by our organization and other organizations to start talking to the media. The </span>__Limits to Growth was__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> basically </span>__on track in terms of__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">their </span>__forecast.____We are running into limits on all kinds of resources__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Not just oil – </span>__water, minerals__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and </span>__metals__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, too. By ignoring the issue of population we have really failed to take the somewhat simple steps to address this component of what is clearly a demand and supply problem. For example, at the Cairo population conference – which occurred at a time the US was becoming more conservative – there were great promises of investment into family planning. These promises were not kept. In fact, funding for family planning has been reduced by 50% since the conference. People have not had access to the information and services needed to control their family size. As a result, the UN population division has had to keep raising their population growth estimates because the fertility rates have not come down as fast as was projected a decade ago. That combined with high oil and food prices and growing shortages of fresh water has led to the current situation. Many </span>__optimistic forecasts__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> were made in 1999 based on a lot of progress that had been made, and these forecasts </span>__have not come true__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The International Energy Agency didn’t expect oil to go past $28 a barrel by 2020, for example. </span>__Even with__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> progress in providing </span>__family planning__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and supporting women’s rights, </span>__it’s hard to slow__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the momentum of </span>__population__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> growth. This is an aircraft carrier. It’s hard to turn it around. It’s clear right now we are running into all kinds of limits. UND: What does the worst case scenario look like? It’s a subject I see debated by experts every day. </span>__I hate to paint a__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> very </span>__bleak picture__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, but if oil prices go to double the peak of 2008 – say they go to $280 barrel and we have no alternate energy infrastructure, or the cost of alternative energy is much higher than the traditional price of oil, </span>__it could drive the price of food out of the reach of__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>__1.2 billion__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> people who live on less than $1 a day. Right now WFP responds to famines in Sahel or East Africa but they have never dealt with a billion people starving all at once. The worst case scenario would be </span>__a billion people starving in a few weeks’ time__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__There would simply be **no ability of the donor countries** to respond____to a situation of this magnitude__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__It could happen between 2012 and 2015__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, according to an estimate by the U.S. military. </span>__There could be political chaos__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> all over the world </span>__as a billion people rampage__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for food. Even if the wealthy countries have lots of food, you can’t ignore what’s underneath. Part of what we saw in Tunisia was triggered by rising food prices. A billion people unable to get food all at once would lead to </span>__political and military chaos__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> all </span>__around the planet__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Combine this with climate change making too much or too little water available, the loss of glaciers, and the overpumping of underground aquifers all of which is leading to loss of farmland. In India the water table is sinking deeper and deeper. Some farmers are giving up on their farms as their farms turn to desert, since they can no longer reach water. All three countries that are </span>__our biggest food producers__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – India, China, and the US </span>__– are overpumping__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. It is keeping people alive but </span>__when the water runs out there is going to be disaster__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. India has over a 100 million being kept alive by overpumping. The combination of </span>__rising oil prices and declining water could lead to a perfect storm__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">where suddenly all these things lead to </span>__human catastrophe around the planet__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. A report that came out in the last couple of months by two biologists looking at global biodiversity has shown that </span>__biodiversity is declining globally__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and the 100,000 </span>__preserves__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">that have been set up </span>__are doing nothing__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to protect biodiversity. Spreading </span>__human habitation is systematically reducing the life support system of our planet__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Cutting down large rainforests is a major aggravator of climate change. It took 3 billion years of evolution to make our planet habitable for humans. Setting up large zoos – which is what reserves are – isn’t going to protect us. </span>__We are risking the__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> long term </span>__habitability of the planet__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Some </span>__scientists think__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">that </span>__humans could be extinct__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by the end of the century. We do have options and the population part of this problem is probably the easiest to solve. Elevating the status of woman, delaying girls’ marriage, providing reproductive health and family planning information, and providing family planning services is a formula that has led to stopping population growth in many countries. This has great potential to reverse the damage and bring about a solution. UND: Can you speak to the argument that it is a resource issue, not a population number issue? What if we all become vegetarians? If we double human efficiency of food consumption, go from meat to grain, that kind of thing, it does help. But if you have 5 children and each is 10% more efficient, we are not better off. </span>__Population is the multiplier of everything else. Unless we address population issues, it will eat up the progress we make in everything else__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Both are important. There is little public demand to consume less or change lifestyles, but there is huge unmet demand for family planning. It is in many ways the easiest thing to address. Some biologists feel that after oil and fossil fuels are gone, the planet could sustain 2 billion people in a Western European lifestyle. At the Ethiopian lifestyle, we could maybe sustain 10 billion people. The question is which kind if life we want. UND: Why do you think population is such an emotional issue? It happens for a whole host of reasons. Some religions, like the Catholic Church, forbid contraception. It leads the church to make the argument that population is not an issue. There are corporations that profit from population growth. A great example is Australia. Australia is a continent with very little water, and the Australian government pays $5000 for every baby born; Australia is growing faster than Indonesia. At the same time they’re asking people to ration water because there’s not enough water to grow crops or fight fires. From the outside it makes no sense, but there are moneyed interests funding politicians to pursue pro-population growth policies that are contrary to long term stability. </span>__There are economists that believe__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that </span>__endless population growth is necessary for economic growth. This is a Ponzi scheme__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> form of economics. </span>__It will not last__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. We must persuade governments to celebrate low fertility rates and declining populations. UND: Are mainstream economists really arguing that we have to keep growing our populations forever? They are, and that leaves us eventually occupying every square inch of the planet. </span>__This is clearly impossible__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In the long term future, </span>__the future of economics is sustainable economics. We cannot have endless__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> economic </span>__growth.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The true measure of human welfare is per capita income, not GDP. If we find a system where we have a declining number of people with more resources per capita as a result, if real estate prices are going down and people have better homes, why upset that to help companies that make their profits from population growth? Most people do not benefit from population growth. We need to find a way to have sustainable welfare for the people that nations already have, not push population growth to maintain the current system. </span>

**B. Links** 

**1. Resource scarcity means providing universal health care is suicidal- obligations must be filtered through the lens of practicality** 
<span class="CiteChar">Elliott, 97</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor Emeritus of Philosophy @ University of Florida(Herschel, “A General Statement of the Tragedy of the Commons,”</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://dieoff.org/page121.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span> 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Almost everyone recognizes that we must preserve our national heritage -- our parks and wildlife, our farms, our wetlands and forests. And </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__few dare to doubt that equal justice and__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> universal </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__human rights are essential axioms of morality.__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Simultaneously </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__people__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> accept the necessity of protecting the environment and they </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__also assume the moral obligation that every human being has an equal right **to**__ </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">health, education, and employment</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, regardless of where a person is born or from where that person is fleeing hardship or persecution. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__To satisfy these demands it becomes a moral necessity to__ </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">create more jobs</span><span class="UnderlineChar">__, to__ </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">build more housing</span><span class="UnderlineChar">__, to expand__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__infrastructure, to__ </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">produce more food</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and water, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__and to provide__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> more </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">sanitation, </span><span style="font-size: 14pt;">health care</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, and education</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">al facilities. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__The__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> only </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__problem is that success in attaining these worthy goals is **possible only in an infinite world**__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> where no conflict need ever arise between individual, societal, and environmental needs. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__Only **stubborn and muddled thinkers**__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, however, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__can make believe that the world is infinite.__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The delusion of its infinity blinds them to the fact that </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__all human activity must take place within the__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> narrow </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__range of resource use that the Earth can sustain.__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The ethical implications of the Earth's finitude are made clear in one of the world's great essays. The author conducts a simple-seeming thought experiment in which he proves that </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__any ethics is mistaken if it allows a growing population steadily to increase its exploitation of the ecosystem__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> which supports it. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__Such an ethics is **incoherent**____because it leads to the destruction of the biological resources__ </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">on which survival depends</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">; </span><span class="UnderlineChar">__it lets people act in ways that make all further ethical behavior impossible.__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The essay in which this fundamental flaw in modern Western moral thinking is demonstrated is Garrett Hardin's "The Tragedy of the Commons" (1968).</span>

**2. The affirmative must defend the logical implementation of their obligation- the result would be massive suffering and death. Only recognition of limits can avoid catastrophe** 
**__ELWELL__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, November 2nd 20</span>**__01__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Frank W., Rogers State University, Reclaiming Malthus, http://www.faculty.rsu.edu/~felwell/Theorists/Malthus/reclaim.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The first big idea is this: “</span>__Our ability to produce children will always exceed our ability to secure food for__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> their </span>__survival__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.” </span>__Because of this__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> fact of human existence, </span>__population growth must always be checked__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__Not in the distant future, but always__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In the past, in the present, and in the future. Always. There is simply no getting around this basic biological fact. Now, Malthus goes on to write there are only two ways to check population growth. One is through preventive checks— abstinence and delayed marriage, non- procreative sex, and birth control. The other Malthus calls “positive checks.” Here Malthus is writing of premature death in some form. Such checks will include infanticide, abortion, pestilence, and disease leading to lower levels of reproduction and death. For Malthus this basic imbalance between nature and nurture is expressed in individual lives through self-interested cost/benefit decisions regarding sexual behavior, children, work, and standard of living. </span>__While all classes of men and women are subject to__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> these </span>__checks__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__those that have more resources are more likely to practice preventive checks__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The reason for this is that those with resources are more likely to have the foresight, opportunity, knowledge, and discipline to prevent childbirth. Also, they are more likely to benefit from preventive decisions. </span>__For the poor__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, in pre-industrial and industrial societies, </span>__children are often assets__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="underline0">The positive checks of premature death are much more likely to be paid by the poor. Because of unchecked population’s tendency to outstrip available food supplies at any given moment, the mass of people must be subjected to physical distress in order to limit population increase</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (either through preventive checks, or failing those, positive checks). </span>__In a system of perfect equality, all would suffer. But self-interest and differential access to resources prevent such a system of equality from becoming established or maintained. Social inequality__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Malthus argues, </span>__is__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> therefore </span>__based on our physical nature__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—our sexuality and our dependence on food. The second big idea in the Essay is this: “</span>__Increase the food supply and you have temporarily removed a check, population will rise until it meets the new level that the environment can support, and then have to be checked again__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.” </span>__The poor represent that portion of the population that is not adequately supported through existing technology and distribution systems__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__Improve these systems__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—</span>__provide more food and sustaining resources to greater numbers of people__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—</span>__and remove one of the primary motives for individuals to decrease their fertility__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__And population will again rise until it comes up to the new limit__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__This means that mere increases in productivity will never address basic problems in distribution__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__Structural reform__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Malthus maintains, while it can address some of the worse abuses of mal-distribution </span>__cannot create a truly just and egalitarian society__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> either. The type of utopia anticipated by his contemporaries through industrial progress, the spread of democracy, or socialism, is neither attainable nor sustainable. Our own post-industrial dreams are based on the same utopian fantasies. While we can do better, progress does not naturally lead to a better world. </span>__The necessity of population checks combined with the self-interest of individuals makes social inequality inescapable.__

**3. The trade off is quantifiable- every person the aff obligates you to assist kills 10 in the future** 
**__EHRLICH__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Bing Professor of Population Studies @ Stanford, </span>**__AND__****__EHRLICH__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, associate director and policy coordinator of the Center for Conservation Biology @ Stanford, 19</span>**__74__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Paul R. and Anne H., “Misconceptions, Proquest New York Times Historical, June 16, pg. 241</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Furthermore, there are other pernicious fallacies in the “what we as Americans can do about the world population problem” game. Let’s start with a fallacy that the authors helped to create—the idea that we might suc-cessfully pressure govern-ments into launching effective population control programs. In the first edition of our book “The Population Bomb,” it was suggested that the United States try to use its food aid as a lever to get recalcitrant governments moving on population control programs. The logic then (as today) was impeccable. If you deluded people into thinking that either the U.S. could (or would) supply food in perpetuity for an number of people, you were doing evil. Sooner or later, population growth would completely outstrip the capacity of the United States or any other nation to supply food. </span>**__For every__**__1,000__**__people saved today__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, perhaps </span>**__10__**__,000__**__would die when the crunch came__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**__Simply sending food to hungry nations with population explo-sions is analogous to a physician prescribing aspirin as the treatment for a patient with operable cancer__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—</span>**__in deferring something unpleasant__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**__disaster entrained__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Yes, send the food—but insist that population control measures be instituted. But despite the logic, no on in the U.S. Government paid the slightest heed to that suggestion (or tolerated proposals by Wil-liam and Paul Paddock in their 1968 book, “Famine—1975!”), and the point is now moot, since we have no more sur-plus food.</span>