[[toc]]
=Info= 
For aff cites, email Ryan at sreckhaus@mcdonogh.org
For neg cites, email Alyssa at amresar@mcdonogh.org

=Affirmative= 

[[@Mcdonogh RE- Affirmative]]
=Negative= 
===Immigration=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Immigration reform UQ now—top of the agenda and Obama push will </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">force</span>__</span> <span style="font-size: 12pt;">a compromise</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Estes, ‘1/2</span> [01/02/13, Adam Clark Estes, “Obama's Push for Immigration Reform Starts Now”, http://www.theatlanticwire.com/politics/2013/01/obamas-push-immigration-reform-starts-now/60525/]
Everybody knew that <span style="line-height: 20px;">...</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> and singing 'Kumbaya.'"</span>//

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"><Link> </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Political capital key</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dallas Morning News, ‘1/2</span> [01/02/2013, Dallas Morning News, “Editorial: Actions must match Obama’s immigration pledge,” [[http://www.dallasnews.com/opinion/editorials/20130102-editorial-actions-must-match-obamas-immigration-pledge.ece]]]
President Barack <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Obama</span> ... the Press Sunday.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Key to US competitiveness</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bush, et al, ’09</span> [7/21/09, Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush and former White House Chief of Staff Thomas F. McLarty and Edward Alden, “Nation needs comprehensive, flexible immigration reform,” http://www.ajc.com/opinion/nation-needs-comprehensive-flexible-97393.html]
Our immigration system ... <span style="font-size: 10pt;">residency and citizenship.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Great power war</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Baru, ‘9</span> [March 2009, Sanjaya Barus is visiting Professor at the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy in Singapore Geopolitical Implications of the Current Global Financial Crisis, Strategic Analysis, Volume 33, Issue 2 March 2009, pages 163 – 168]
Hence, <span style="font-size: 10pt;">economic policies ... to be seen.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US tech leadership key to collective diplomacy—that solves warming, resource shortages, environmental degradation, food insecurity, terrorism, and proliferation </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Federoff, USAID Administrator, ‘8</span> (Dr. Nina, April 2, “International Science And Technology Cooperation,” Statement before the Committee on House Science and Technology Subcommittee on Research and Science Education, CQ Congressional Testimony)
Chairman Baird, Ranking ... on this issue.

====<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">--2NC Uniqueness</span>==== 

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Immigration reform will get passed obstructionism—likely to pass</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Foley and Stein, ‘1/2</span> [01/02/2013, Elise Foley and Sam Stein, “Obama's Immigration Reform Push To Begin This Month”, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/01/02/obama-immigration-reform_n_2398507.html]

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Lofgren expressed </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">hope ...</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;">'Kumbaya</span>//,'" Sharry said.



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">There’s growing GOP support</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Henderson, ‘1/2</span> [01/02/13, Wade Henderson, “GOP, time to rebrand in the image of the 'Great Emancipator'”, http://www.cnn.com/2013/01/01/opinion/henderson-civil-rights-gop/index.html]

Looking forward to ...//<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> long-term, law-abiding residents</span>//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Public pressure and Latino voters are pushing Republicans</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shah, ‘1/2</span> [01/02/13, Allie Shah, “Cultures & immigration beat: 'Dreamers' may be the next hot topic”, http://www.startribune.com/local/185485582.html?refer=y]

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Expect a big ...</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> on immigration reform.</span>//

====--2NC Generic Link==== 


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan guarantess GOP backlash</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tomasky ’11 </span>“America Needs Its Edge Back”, September 12, [[http://www.thedailybeast.com/newsweek/2011/09/11/america-needs-to-get-its-edge-back.html]], Michael, staff writer
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The problem—of ... this is working?</span>


===Fiscal Cliff=== 
1NC
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Fiscal cliff compromise now—Obama’s political capital is key</span>**</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Goldfarb and Nakamura, ‘11/30</span>**</span>[11/30/12, Zachary Goldfarb and David Nakamura, Washington Post Writers, In Pa., Obama pushes for his debt-reduction approach, The Washington Post, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/in-pa-obama-pushes-for-his-debt-reduction-approach/2012/11/30/66bfadde-3b0b-11e2-8a97-363b0f9a0ab3_print.html]]]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">HATFIELD, Pa. — President </span>Obama ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> it should be.”</span>

**Transportation policies destroy his political capital**
**Freemark, ’12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Yonah, Master of Science in Transportation from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Bachelor of Arts in Architecture, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Yale University with Distinction. Also a freelance journalist who has been published in Planning Magazine; Next American City Magazine; Dissent; The Atlantic Cities; Next American City Online; and The Infrastructurist – He created and continues to write for the website The Transport Politic – The Transport Politic – “On Infrastructure, Hopes for Progress This Year Look Glum” – January 25th, 2012 – http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2012/01/25/on-infrastructure-hopes-for-progress-this-year-look-glum/]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">» President Obama barely...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> bureaucratic reforms.</span>

**Delayed or failed fiscal cliff collapses the global economy**
**Zakaria, ’12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[10/12/12, Fareed Zakaria, “Breaking the Deadlock,” http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,2128309,00.html?xid=rss-mostpopular]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Whether Barack </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Obama ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the outcome.</span>

**Extinction**
**Harris and Burrows, ‘09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Mathew, PhD European History at Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]</span>
Increased Potential for ...<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> dog-eat-dog world.</span>

===CBC=== 
====1NC==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Obama has __failed__ to appease the CBC on black economic issues and they are __pressuring him__to fix the social safety net</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">TEWN, ‘1/14</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [01/14/13, TriceEdneyWire News, The goal of Trice Edney News Wire is to provide nationally focused and Black-oriented news stories, investigative reports, and opinion columns to more than 1,000 newspapers, radio stations and websites around the nation, all of which are either Black-owned, serve vast Black audiences or are specifically interested in Black-oriented content. “CBC reluctantly supports Obama ‘cliff’ deal”, http://www.philasun.com/news/3796/26/CBC-reluctantly-supports-Obama-cliff-deal.html]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In a stunning climax, President ...</span> __'conscience of the Congress' and protecting vulnerable communities."__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Link—the Affirmative resolves Black Caucus pressure over Obama’s economic policy—transportation is supported as a job creation measure and reverses their austerity concerns</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">BOYLES </span>****<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Congressional Reporter for Dow Jones and WALL STREET JOURNAL </span>****<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">2k11</span>**
<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Corey-; “Black Caucus Warns Obama on Jobs;’ WALL STREET JOURNAL, August 31;</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424053111904716604576542272751288958.html]]</span>
__Leaders of the Congressional Black Caucus warned...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> But those people who are getting jobs are having a life-changing experience," Mr. Cleaver said. "We have raised the level of awareness in the country."</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pressure is key—CBC pressure __forces__ Obama action—gay rights community proves—the plan gives them an opportunity to __hesitate__over criticizing Obama</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">BUTLER </span>****<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Professor of Law @ Georgetown University </span>****<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">2k12</span>**
<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Paul-; “Why Don’t Black Leaders Demand More of the President?;” THE DAILY BEAST, September 24,;</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2012/09/24/why-don-t-black-leaders-demand-more-of-the-president.html]]</span>
__The 43 members of the Black Caucus call ...____those leaders are not to be found in the Congressional Black Caucus.__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This outweighs the aff—A black agenda on the __social safety net and economic issues specifically__ prevents the equivalent of an ongoing extinction of people of color</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">OMOLADE ‘84</span>** [Summer 1984, Barbara- City College Center for Worker Education in New York City a historian of black women for the past twenty years and an organizer in both the women’s and civil rights/black power movements; Women of Color and the Nuclear Holocaust; WOMEN’S STUDIES QUARTERLY, Vol. 12., No. 2, Teaching about Peace, War, and Women in the Military, p. 12; http://www.jstor.org/stable/4004305]
__In April, 1979, the U.S. Arms Control ...__ __Who will stand up?__

====2NC UQ==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Economic issues are the __biggest__ pressure point on Obama—the second term creates opportunities for him to respond to Black constituents</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Epstein, ’12</span>** [09/06/2012, Jennifer Epstein, “Gripes aside, blacks still back Obama”, http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=88D01FEF-E2C9-4987-9456-8AE34757B8AF]
__Left-leaning activists like West and Waters ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the host of “Reading Rainbow” and “Roots” and “Star Trek” actor.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Congressional Black Caucus unhappy with Obama immigration</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Douglas and Ordonez 2/11/13</span>** (William Douglas and Franco Ordonez, Writers for the Tribune and McClathy Newspapers, “Many African-Americans concerned about Obama’s focus on immigration rights, http://www.sanluisobispo.com/2013/02/11/2389896/many-african-americans-concerned.html)
WASHINGTON— <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">No sooner did President Barack... help us address ours.”</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Obama taking criticism over Medicaid and other Social Security Programs</span>**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dinan 2/12/13</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 2pt;">(Stephen Dinan is an author, marketing strategist, speaker, and entrepreneur, who is currently </span>
<span style="font-size: 2pt;">developing a new company called </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 2pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.theshiftnetwork.com/|The Shift Network]]</span><span style="font-size: 2pt;">. He most recently created the </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 2pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.shiftinaction.com/|Shift in Action]]</span><span style="font-size: 2pt;"> media membership program, which serves more than 10,000 globally. He is the co-founder of the </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 2pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.summerofpeace.net/|Summer of Peace ]]</span><span style="font-size: 2pt;">, as well as a major contributor behind the launch of more than a dozen for-profit, non-profit and political groups. Stephen is also the author of Radical Spirit: Spiritual Writings from the Voices of Tomorrow. He graduated from Stanford University with a </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 2pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/stephen-h-dinan/|degree in human]]</span><span style="font-size: 2pt;"> biology and holds a master's in East-West Psychology from the California Institute of Integral Studies. He has studied many systems of personal growth and facilitated workshops for over twelve years. Stephen directed and helped to create the Esalen Institute's </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 2pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.esalenctr.org/|Center for Theory & Research]]</span><span style="font-size: 2pt;">, a think tank for leading scholars, researchers, and teachers to explore human potential frontiers. Stephen recently </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 2pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/stephen-h-dinan/|completed]]</span><span style="font-size: 2pt;"> a new book bridging spirituality and politics entitled Sacred America: The Next Evolution of Our Country. His published articles can be viewed at </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 2pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.stephendinan.com/|www.stephendinan.com]]</span><span style="font-size: 2pt;">. He is available for speaking engagements and </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 2pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/stephen-h-dinan/|marketing consulting]]</span><span style="font-size: 2pt;">, “President Ignores the Need to Shore up Social Security and Medicaid”, http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2013/feb/12/obama-ignores-need-shore-social-security-and-medic/?page=1)</span>
Left out of<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> President </span>Obama’s State of the Union<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> address...</span> him to do it.”


===Elections=== 
1NC

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Obama win highly likely now—key swing states and a consensus of polls</span>**</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Silver, ‘9/27</span>**</span> [9/27/12, Nate Silver, “Sept. 26: Could 2012 Be Like 2008?”, http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/27/sept-26-could-2012-be-like-2008/]
There’s no point in putting... 79.7 percent on Tuesday.

New government spending causes swing states to shift their vote – makes Obama lose
Galston '12 – <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Walliam A., Ezra Zilkha Chair in the Brookings Institution’s Governance Studies Program, where he serves as a senior fellow. A former policy advisor to President Clinton “Six Months To Go: Where the Presidential Contest Stands as the General Election Begins” 5/10/12 http://www.brookings.edu/research/papers/2012/05/~/media/Research/Files/Papers/2012/5/10%20obama%20campaign%20galston/Where%20the%20Presidential%20Contest%20Stands.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">According to the 2008.. don’t pay their fair share of taxes.</span>

Romney election will destroy Russian relations within the first year of his election
Richter 12 – <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Paul Richter July 2, 2012 Russian official: Romney's hard line could bring 'full-scale crisis' http://www.latimes.com/news/politics/la-pn-russian-official-romneys-hard-line-could-bring-fullscale-crisis-20120702,0,3241680,print.story</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">MOSCOW -- Mitt </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Romney’s comment that Russia ...cause for the world's worst actors</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>


<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Solves war and a laundry list of impacts</span>**</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Allison 10/31</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Graham, Director – Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard’s Kennedy School, and Former Assistant Secretary of Defense, and Robert D. Blackwill, Senior Fellow – Council on Foreign Relations, “10 Reasons Why Russia Still Matters”, Politico, 2011, http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=161EF282-72F9-4D48-8B9C-C5B3396CA0E6]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">That central point is that </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Russia ... preventing U.N.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Security Council</span>

==== ==== 



===<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Stim Bad</span>=== 

====<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">--Bond Market DA </span>==== 


<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The plan collapses the perception of fiscal discipline—transportation funding is a unique test for fiscal questions</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Corker, ’12</span> [3/8/12, Bob Corker is a Senator from Tennessee, “Senate Must Face Fiscal Reality in Pending Highway Bill”, http://www.corker.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?p=News&ContentRecord_id=606a2acd-0ca7-408f-9694-f07ed8220576&ContentType_id=b94acc28-404a-4fc6-b143-a9e15bf92da4&Group_id=650e2033-9317-4405-a8df-47cdd1c9d515&MonthDisplay=3&YearDisplay=2012]
Over the past year, <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">many//...//</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;"> crisis in history”?</span>//

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Another round of stimulus spending causes bond market freak out and collapses the economy—err negative there’s an invisible threshold</span>**</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Samuelson, ’11</span>**</span> [December 19, 2011, Robert Samuelson has a bachelor's degree from Harvard University and is currently a political analyst for the Washington Times, “The Eclipse of Keynesianism Proceeds”, http://www.realclearmarkets.com/articles/2011/12/19/the_eclipse_of_keynesianism_proceeds_99429.html]
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The eclipse of Keynesian economics ...no panacea today.</span>

====<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">--Productivity/Negative Multiplier </span>==== 

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">TURN—Deficit spending can’t create growth—every mechanism of financing uses resources that would already be used</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Riedl, ’10</span> [8/31/10, Brian M. Riedl, Grover M. Hermann Fellow in Federal Budgetary Affairs at The Heritage Foundation, holds a B.A. in Economics and Political Science from the University of Wisconsin and an M.A. in Public Affairs from Princeton University, The Fatal Flaw of Keynesian Stimulus,” [[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Commentary/2010/08/The-Fatal-Flaw-of-Keynesian-Stimulus]]]

But there is one problem... unemployment rate remains high.

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Two impacts—</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">First—Productivity—government spending decreases it which is the only way to create growth</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Riedl, ’10</span> [1/09/10, Brian M. Riedl, Grover M. Hermann Fellow in Federal Budgetary Affairs at The Heritage Foundation, holds a B.A. in Economics and Political Science from the University of Wisconsin and an M.A. in Public Affairs from Princeton University, “Why Government Spending Does Not Stimulate Economic Growth: Answering the Critics,” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703481004574646551469288292.html?mod=WSJ_latestheadlines]

Government spending can affect ...<span style="font-size: 16px;"> future generations.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Second—Negative Multiplier—the way they finance the spending creates a negative multiplier which outweighs</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">De Rugy and Debnam, ’10</span> [July 2010, Veronique de Rugy is a senior research fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University and Jakina Debnam is a research analyst at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University, “Does Government Spending stimulate economies?” http://mercatus.org/sites/default/files/publication/MOP77_SBI_Spending%20Multiplier_web%20(2).pdf]
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Barro and Redlick’s research... initial effect of the government spending</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. 15 </span>



===Race=== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Their choice of transportation investment is not neutral – they are conscious attempts at increasing racial subordination</span>**</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Bullard, Johnson, Torres ‘4</span>**</span>[2004, Robert, Glenn, Angel, , Ph.D., (Environmental Sociology) Highway Robbery Transportation Racism & New Routes to Equity, Cambridge]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Transportation systems</span> ...<span style="font-size: 10pt;">apartheid has been created.</span>

Racism must be rejected in EVERY INSTANCE without surcease. It justifies atrocities, creates another and is truly the CAPITAL SIN.
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Black',sans-serif; font-size: 16pt;">MEMMI </span>Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris <span style="font-family: 'Arial Black',sans-serif; font-size: 16pt;">2000</span>
<span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif;">Albert-; //RACISM//, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165</span>
<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The struggle against racism ...</span><span style="font-family: Verdana,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">the stakes are irresistible.</span>


==Counterplans== 
===Carbon Tax=== 
CP
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Text: The United States Federal Government should institute a phased carbon tax</span>**</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Only way </span>****<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">to solve global warming – alternative energy alone increases carbon emissions</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Hsu 11</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Shi-Ling, law professor at the University of British Columbia Faculty of Law, Ph.D in Agricultural and Resource Economics and an M.S. in Ecology, both from the University of California at Davis, and a J.D. from Columbia Law School, “Technological innovation that will increase greenhouse gases?”, The Dismal Environmentalist, 5/24/11, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">[[http://dismalenvironmentalist.blogspot.com/2011/05/technological-innovation-that-will.html]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Ralph Winter has a new draft paper ... a very low discount rate). </span>

===Cuba Embargo=== 
1NC

<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">Text: The United States Federal Government should repeal its trade embargo on the Republic of Cuba. </span>

<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">The embargo on Cuba is a cold war relic that is only hurting the economy--repeal solves global trade</span>
<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">Johson et. Al 10</span>(Andy, director of the national security program, Kyle Spector, policy advisor for the National Security Program, Kristina Lilac, works for the national security program, Third Way Publications, September 16, 2010, http://content.thirdway.org/publications/326/Third_Way_Memo_-_End_the_Embargo_of_Cuba.pdf, )
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">The US has had ... new jobs in the U</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">S.10 </span>
===<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">States</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">1NC</span>

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Text: The fifty states and all relevant territories including Washington D.C. should </span>_ in the United States.**



<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">States should are coordinated and efficient at investing in transportation infrastructure – they have the funding </span>**</span>

Puentes 2k11

<span style="font-size: 12px;">(senior fellow with the Brookings Institution’s Metropolitan Policy Program where he also directs the Program's Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative, “State Transportation Reform: Cut to Invest in Transportation to Deliver the Next Economy,” pg online @ </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2011/2/22%20infrastructure%20puentes/0222_infrastructure_puentes.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">III. </span>__A New State ...__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> development programs and commissions.</span>


===FDI CP=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The United States federal government should request foreign direct investment in <> and introduce necessary pro-investment policies including necessary fiscal adjustments, tax reductions, and discounted ranks on bank loans in order to encourage foreign direct investment in <>.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Foreign investors will say yes</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Goldstein, et al, ‘11</span> [03/11/11, Gordon M. Goldstein, Senior Vice President; Rick Kimball, Managing Director, Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Trustee, The Brookings Institution; Joel H. Moser, Partner, Bingham McCutchen LL; Raffiq Nathoo, Senior Managing Director, Blackstone Group; Vijaya Ramachandran, Senior Fellow, Center for Global Development; Darrell M. West, Vice President and Director, Governance Studies, Center for Technology Innovation; Daniel Zwirn, Managing Member, Zwirn Family Interests, Trustee, the Brookings Institution, “Rebuilding America: The Role of Foreign Capital and Global Public Investors,” Brookings Institution, http://www.brookings.edu/research/papers/2011/03/11-sovereign-wealth-funds]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Promoting Investment in ... U.S. infrastructure development. </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chinese investors specifically</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jiewei, ’11</span> [10/27/11, Lou Jiewei is a chairman of China Investment Corporation, “China can help west build economic growth” http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/e3c5aacc-18ed-11e1-92d8-00144feabdc0.html#ixzz26DpNCj3o]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Central to international...</span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">solution for all</span>//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 10pt;">State budgets CP</span>=== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">1NC</span>



<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Text – The United State Federal Government should legalize and allow states to tax the sale of marijuana.</span>



<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Legalizing and Taxing Marijuana solves the state budget crisis</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Singer-Vine, 09 </span>– Intern at Slate (Jeffrey, “If governments legalize marijuana, how much revenue can they raise from it?” Slate.com, 6/10/09, http://www.slate.com/id/2220221/)



<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The worse the ...</span> most effective one.

===H1B CP=== 

<span style="font-size: 17px;">The United State Federal Government should increase the cap on H-1B Visas to 195,000.</span>



<span style="font-size: 13pt;">H1-B - Solves the economy - increases innovation, talent, and job creation </span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">David Bier 6/17/12, </span>- immigration policy analyst at the Competitive Enterprise Institute- “H1-B Visa Quotas Greatly Restrain Small Business Expansion”; Forbes Magazine; http://www.forbes.com/sites/realspin/2012/06/17/h1-b-visa-quotas-greatly-restrain-small-business-expansion/

U.S. Citizenship and ...<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> benefiting all Americans.</span>¶

=Intel= 
**Wake**
Round 1 vs Niles North OT (?)
1nc - privatization cp, politics, states cp, stim bad
2nr - privatization, politics

Round 3 vs New Trier WW
1nc - politics, regulations cp, adaptation cp, race k
2nr - politics, case

Round 5 vs Woodward DS
1nc - deficit cp, politics, stim bad, economic rationality k
2nr - deficit cp, stim bad

**Georgetown**
Round 2 vs Lexington KK
1nc - advantage cp, senkaku da, race k, t-military, elections
2nr - race k

Round 3 vs Stuyvesant CL
1nc - framework, "we" pic, fem k
2nr - framework

Round 5 vs Bronx Science TM
1nc - carbon tax cp, clean tech cp, elections, t-maintenance, race k
2nr - carbon tax cp, space col bad (impact turned addon)

Doubles vs National Cathedral HS
1nc - carbon tax cp, albedo cp, elections, t-maintenance, race k
2nr - abedo cp, elections

**Bronx**
Round 1 vs River Hill KS
1nc - framework, elections, states cp, mann k
2nr - framework

Round 3 vs Lexington MR
1nc - advantage cp, senkaku da, race k, elections, t-military, deterrence turns on case
2nr - advantage cp, deterrence turns

Round 5 vs Stuyvesant SS
1nc - cuban tax cp, elections, t-military, race k, heg bad on case
2nr - elections, case defense

Doubles vs Lakeland PS
1nc - mda cp, elections, t-transportation infrastructure, race k
2nr - race k

Quarters vs Centennial MK
1nc - albedo cp, elections, t-maintenance, clean tech da, race k
2nr - clean tech da

Semis vs National Cathedral SH
1nc - nepa cp, elections, framework, Mann K, State bad and ontological blackness on case
2nr - nepa cp

**Capitol**
Round 2 vs Lakeland PS
1nc - mda cp, elections, t-transportation infrastructure, race k
2nr - mda cp, elections

Round 3 vs Bronx Science MG
1nc - albedo cp, chimneys cp, race k, elections, t-maintenance
2nr - albedo cp, elections, condo good

Round 5 vs Woodrow Wilson KK (?)
1nc - states cp, elections, t, mann k
2nr - states cp, elections

Octos vs BCC GI
1nc - asian counteradvocacy, ontological blackness k, framework
2nr - framework, ontological blackness k

**Scranton**
Round 2 vs Brooklyn Tech LT
1nc - framework, politics, race k
2nr - framework

Round 3 vs River Hill HD
1nc - privatization cp, t-transportation infrastructure, buy america cp/da, politics
2nr - buy america cp/da

Round 5 vs River Hill SS
1nc - states cp, politics, framework, kettles k
2nr - states cp, federalism da

Doubles vs Brooklyn Tech HC
1nc - politics, framework
2nr - framework

Octos vs Pace CK
1nc - states cp, politics, race k, framework, buy america on case
2nr - states cp, politics

**MBA**
Round 1 vs Meadows
1nc - state budgets + H1B cp, fdi cp, politics, t-capital spending
2nr - advantage cp, politics

Round 3 vs Bronx Science BK
1nc - microbubbles cp, fdi cp, politics, t-maintenance
2nr - microbubbles cp, politics

Round 5 vs GBS
1nc - eis cp, race k, politics
2nr - eis cp

**Lexington**
Round 1 vs UC Lab GF
1nc - un cp + multilateralism net benefit, t-space, politics, race k, space unilateralism bad
2nr - un cp + multilateralism net benefit

Round 3 vs Stuyvesant DD
1nc - osp cp, politics, race k, t-military, heg bad
2nr - politics

Round 5 vs Bronx Science BK
1nc - microbubbles cp, politics, t-maintenance, stim bad, clean tech da
2nr - politics

**Harvard**
Round 1 vs Classical LS
1nc - states cp, politics, t-maintenance, race k, stim bad
2nr - state cp, politics, stim bad, buy america da (read in 2nc)

Round 4 vs EL Meyers
1nc - states cp, politics, t-maintenance, race k, economic decentralization da, stim bad
2nr - politics

Round 5 vs Lexington HZ
1nc - t-military, advantage cp, politics, senkaku da, deterrence turns
2nr - advantage cp, deterrence turns




[[include page="space.template.Footer"]] '