[[toc]]
=<span style="text-align: left;">Notes</span>= 

**Joseph Paik also debates for Santa Margarita Catholic (CA). Refer to the other wiki for more cites.**

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**For Questions/Cites: paikjoseph[at]gmail[dot]com**</span>
=<span style="text-align: left;">**Affirmative**</span>= 

==**1AC Damien (Broke at Quarters)**== 

__**Contention 1 is Inherency:**__

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">In the status quo, teleportation is impossible because our data storage capacity is too low. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">SR 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial;">[http://scienceray.com/physics/teleportation-is-it-really-possible/] </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Thus the Plan: The United States federal government through the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency should substantially increase its investment in nanotechnology for the purpose of teleportation infrastructure. </span>**

__**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Contention 1 is AI</span>**__

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">We are all made of mindless robots and nothing else; nothing is unique or magical</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Dennett 05</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial;"> [Sweet Dreams - Philosophical Obstacles to a Science of Consciousness, p2-3]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Most of the cells... </span><span style="font-family: Arial;">robotic ingredient at all.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">People will deny and reject any scientific explanation of consciousness. We have the desire to be fooled and awestruck by its magic.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Dennett 05</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial;"> [Sweet Dreams - Philosophical Obstacles to a Science of Consciousness, p57]</span>
__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">It seems to many people...</span>____<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">to diminish it.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Nanotech is key to teleportation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Pelletier 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial;">[Dick Pelletier, Institute of Ethics and Emerging Technologies, staff writer for the Positive Futurist, April, 2010 [KL] http://www.ilookforwardto .com/2010/04/ ateleportation.html</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Most people were... the answer is yes.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Nanotech development is key to increasing the data storage that is key to teleportation</span>**
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial;">Min **Gu 2009**, Professor of Engineering & Industrial Sciences @ Swinburne University of Technology, September 16, 2009 </span><span style="font-family: Arial;">http://www.azonano.com/article.aspx?ArticleID=2393</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial;"> [Accessed 8/8/12 KL]</span>
__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Information storage is... </span>____<span style="font-family: Arial;">focused spot size.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Human rights for the robots is a viable option since 2011</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">**McGrath 11** (</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial;">McGrath, James F., "Robots, Rights and Religion" (2011). //Scholarship and Professional Work - LAS.// Paper 197.)</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">If there is... </span><span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Arial;">contemporary ones.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">AIs will become moral agents</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">**Whitby 12** (Parthemore, Centre for Cognitive Semiotics, University of Lund, Sweden; 2 Centre for Research in Cognitive Sciences, University of Sussex, UK;)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">This paper follows...autonomous military robots.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">All of the negs philosophical evidence is invalid because it works from a biological standpoint.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Preston 12 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial;">(Beth, Professor at Athens University with a PhD in Philosophy)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">My current research... and action theory. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Although robots today are being constructed as dead, it is inevitable in the future that they will be considered 'alive'.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">McNalley et al 07 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial;">[Phil McNalley and Sohail Inaqatullah, planners with the Hawaii Juducuary, active with the World Futures Studies Federation, 1/14/07 http:// www. Meta future .org /Articles /The Rights of Robots .htm</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">In the last five years... will have "rights."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">AIs and nanotech are going to be developed along with teleportation by the year 2015</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">EUSC 10</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">We are probably...in the spacecraft.</span>

__**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Contention 2 is Religion</span>**__

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Religion causes world war, famine, and collapse into totalitarianism and genocide</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Bagnell 99 [</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial;">DONOR SERVICES REPRESENTATIVE 1999 – LINDA, “POPULATION, ENVIRONMENT, ABORTION, RELIGION AND FATHERHOOD” http://rivervision.com/pearf/index.html]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Population Miracles: **__The religiousright...__** </span>**__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Hitler and Stalin!.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Morality and ethics will prevent teleportation, which requires the destruction of one's soul and the reformulation of one at the other side</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">TMR No Date (http://themerelyreal.wordpress.com/2012/06/12/teleportation-or-death/)</span>**
__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">But we’re **atheists...** </span>__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">know what we’d do.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Teleportation is impossible with religion. In religion, one cannot make individual choices of ethics or morality regarding the death that is associated with teleportation</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">**Packham 2k** (http://packham.n4m.org/morality.htm)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">One of the things...visit, etc.!)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Rejecting religion and embracing teleportation is the only way to escape the totalitarianism of religion. Totalitarianism must be rejected in all instances - a new Hitler and Stalin would be the result</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Kohn 2k </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial;">[Jerome, International Quarterly of Social Sciences, Volume 69, Number 2, Summer 2002</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">The beginning called ... </span>**__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">all human beings.</span>__**

__**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Contention 3 is Death</span>**__

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Our society is held in the grip of intense thanatophobia. Our fear of dying is so prevalent in every aspect of our lives that it is constantly repressed into the subconscious.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Friedland 96 </span>**[<span style="font-family: Arial;">Steven I. Friedland, Professor of Law at Nova Souteastern University, Shepard Broad Law Center, Cleveland State University Journal of Law and Health, 10 J.L. & Health 95, 1995/1996]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">The demise of ... its avoidance.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Teleportation would completely eliminate death because people could be repeatedly recreated from the information stored in the teleporter. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Cornwall 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial;">[Gordon Cornwall, Ph.D. in Philosophy from the University of Calgary in 1975, President of Industrial Metrics Inc. Nov. 5 2010 http://phantomself.org/ human-r eplication- technology –update -2010- bioprinting/]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Some implications of ... </span>**__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">video game.</span>__**

__**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Contention 4 is Nanotechnology</span>**__

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Aerospace will push to expand nanotechnology </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Nanovic 09 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial;">[Aug 24, 2009; new venture between three the Victorian universities Monash University, Swinburne University of Technology and RMIT University. Nanotechnology - Opportunities for Nanotechnology in the Aerospace and Automotive Industry; http://www.azonano.com/article.aspx?ArticleId=2357]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Nanotechnology is ... important role. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">The risks of nanotech development are numerous, interacting, and existentisial </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">CRN 08</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial;"> (2008, “Dangers of Molecular Manufacturing”, Center for Responsible Nanotechnology, http://www.crnano.org/dangers.htm#environmental)(jimmy)) The Center for Responsible Nanotechnology (CRN) is a non-profit research and advocacy think tank concerned with the major societal and environmental implications of advanced nanotechnology. </span>
**__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">The first step... </span>__****__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">on other risks.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Nanotech development is inevitable, early development is key to protective technologies, delays mean millions of deaths PER YEAR</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">CRN 08</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial;"> (2008, “Dangers of Molecular Manufacturing”, Center for Responsible Nanotechnology, http://www.crnano.org/dangers.htm#environmental)(jimmy)) The Center for Responsible Nanotechnology (CRN) is a non-profit research and advocacy think tank concerned with the major societal and environmental implications of advanced nanotechnology.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Early development of... </span>**__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">of development.</span>__**

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">1AC Fullerton</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**__Contention 1 is New Orleans:__**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**The Racial Contract is the un-named political system that governs status-quo politics. We pass policies to satisfy a “social contract” that is inherently racist. The omission of any mention of this system is not accidental but a coordinated condition of the system.**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Mills 97** [Charles, Associate Professor of Philosophy at the University of Chicago, Illinois, ‘The Racial Contract,’]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 90%; text-align: left;">Nationally, within... exploitation.</span>

<span style="background-color: white; display: block; text-align: left;">**Racism can be expressed with a violent Fist or a Velvet glove. Contemporary Racism has slipped on the velvet glove, invoking a devastating power of illusion by focusing merely on individual bigotry leaving untouched society’s racist systems and institutions.**</span>
**Bardnt 91** [Joseph, ordained Minister & Director of Crossroads, a non profit organization, 'Dismantling Racism: The Continuing Challenge to White America; p.31-33]
<span style="display: block; font-size: 90%; text-align: left;">Racism can... power work.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**The scenario for Institutional Racism is New Orleans:**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**The disaster in New Orleans wasn’t neutral – the intersection of race, poverty and car-lessness make the aftermath of Katrina a display of institutional RACISM. Evacuation transportation is critical to breaking down racial barriers that made disaster possible in the first place**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Wailoo et al. 10** [Keith Wailoo- B.A, 1984, Yale University; M.A., 1989, and Ph.D. (History and Sociology of Science), 1992, University of Pennsylvania; joint appointment: Associate Professor of History, Karen M. O’Neill- Karen M. O’Neill studies how land and water policies change the standing of program beneficiaries and experts and change government's claims to authority and power., Jeffrey Dowd- graduate student, Roland Anglin- Associate Research Professor; Director, Joseph C. Cornwall Center for Metropolitan Studies School of Public Affairs and Administration (SPAA) Rutgers University-Newark ; Katrina’s Imprint: Race and Vulnerability in America; 11/2010; pages 23-27]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 90%; text-align: left;">A landmark decision most known today for its... ever more expensive and difficult in many inner-city neighborhoods.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">This type of racial discrimination was no coincidence – it was part of a transportation system of clean apartheid, cleansed of excessive violence and reduced to its purest form of segregation.</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Kuswa 02** [Kevin Kuswa, Winter 2002, “Dr. Kuswa is the Director of Debating at Cal State University Fresno and has written on issues of globalization, critical whiteness, and rhetoric. He received his PhD from the University of Texas at Austin in Communication Studies”, SUBURBIFICATION, SEGREGATION, AND THE CONSOLIDATION OF THE HIGHWAY MACHINE, The Journal of Law in Society, 6/28/12]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 90%; text-align: left;">How did the Census explain the increase... groups at the expense of others.</span>

**But it’s not just about New Orleans—Katrina highlighted the pervasive suffering caused by RACISM everywhere.**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Luft 09** [Associate Professor, Ph.D. University of California, Santa Barbara (Rachel, “Beyond Disaster Exceptionalism: Social Movement Developments in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina” American Quarterly, Volume 61, Number 3, September 2009]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 90%; text-align: left;">Traditionally, scholars have distinguished... given an opportunity for a fresh start.</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt; text-align: left;">Racism must be rejected in EVERY INSTANCE without surcease. It justifies atrocities, creates another and is truly the CAPITAL SIN.</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Mendieta 02** [Eduardo Mendieta, PhD and Associate professor of Stonybrook School of Philosophy, “‘To make live and to let die’ –Foucault on Racism Meeting of the Foucault Circle, APA Central Division Meeting”]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 90%; text-align: left;">This is where racism intervenes... foes are biological in nature.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Thus the Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in evacuation transportation infrastructure in New Orleans.</span>**

__**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Contention 2 is Ethics:</span>**__

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">We must begin with New Orleans as a critical ethical exercise – recognizing our responsibility is key to rectifying centuries of discrimination</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">**Jorgenson 11** [Hurricane Katrina: Humanitarian Obligations and Lessons Learned Ellen Jorgenson Case-Specific Briefing Paper Humanitarian Assistance in Complex Emergencies University of Denver 2011 </span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">According to Fred Cuny... interpreted through policy and practice. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Our fight against racism is key to our ethical engagement with the world</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">**Memmi 2k** [Professor Emeritus of Sociology at the University of Paris (Albert, “RACISM”, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165]</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">The struggle against racism... but the stakes are irresistible</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">This ethic outweighs consequentialism</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">**Burns 08** [Lawrence, Professor in History of Medicine at the King’s University College at the University of Western Ontario, “Identifying concrete ethical demands in the face of the abstract other: Emmanuel Levinas’ pragmatic ethics”, Philosophy Social Criticism March 2008 vol. 34 no. 3]</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">The link between... assumption of responsibility for the other.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Welcoming the Other makes war impossible</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">**Fasching 93** [Darrell, professor of religious studies at the University of South Florida, The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima: Apocalypse or Utopia]</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">The apocalyptic threat... the coming of the third millennium.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">The state is inevitable - Integrating ethical obligations into politics is the only way to prevent totalitarianism</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">**Simmons 99** [William Paul, current Associate Professor of Political Science at ASU, formerly at Bethany College in the Department of History and Political Science, “The Third: Levinas' theoretical move from an-archical ethics to the realm of justice and politics,” Philosophy & Social Criticism November 1, 1999 vol. 25 no. 6] </span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Levinas argues for... Levinas calls for the liberal state.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Sacrificing agency in the political sphere causes bad policymaking and ends in extinction </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">**Boggs 2k** [BOGGS, PF POLITICAL SCIENCE – SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA, 2K CAROL, THE END OF POLITICS, 250-1] </span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">But it is a very deceptive and... muddling-through modus operandi.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">It’s not a question of solvency, but one of exposition – we must constantly discursively challenge the dominant paradigms of institutional racism </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">**Rodriguez 09** [PhD in ethnic studies from UC Berkeley, prof at UC Riverside (Dylan, “The Terms of Engagement: Warfare, White Locality, and Abolition,” Critical Sociology, vol. 36 no. 1 p. 151-173]</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Our historical moment... politics of the progressive US left.</span>

__<span style="font-family: Arial;">**Contention 3 is the Discussion of Race:** </span>__

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">The systemic harms of structural violence must come before linear impact calculations - the structural violence of the poorest of the poor have caused thermonuclear wars every year of every decade</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">**Abu-Jamal 98** (Mumia, award-winning PA journalist, 9/19)</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">We live, equally immersed... violence passes away with them.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Your extinction scenarios are meaningless – western ideology emphasizes war because it specifically affects them</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">**Martin 82** [Brian Martin, “Critique of nuclear extinction”, Journal of Peace Research, Vol. 19, No. 4, 1982, pp. 287-300]</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">(g) White, western orientation... exploitation in poor countries.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Impacts of nuclear war only seek to mask the oppression and exploitation of white supremacy and institutionally racist practices</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">**Omolade 84** (City College Center for Worker Education in New York City 1984</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Barbara-a historian of black women for the past twenty years and an organizer in both the women’s and civil rights/black power movements; Women of Color and the Nuclear Holocaust; WOMEN’S STUDIES QUARTERLY, Vol. 12., No. 2, Teaching about Peace, War, and Women in the Military, Summer, p. 12)</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">In April, 1979, the... Who will stand up?</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Existing evacuation transportation systems non unique’s your DA’s</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">**GAO 06** [United States Government Accountability Office GAO Report to Congressional Committees TRANSPORTATIONDISADVANTAGED POPULATIONS Actions Needed to Clarify Responsibilities and Increase Preparedness for Evacuations] </span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">While DHS and DOT... supporting evacuation assistance.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">The carless still have no means of escape – evacuation transportation is key</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial;">**Jarzab et al 10** [James T. Jarzab Vice-President Emtrac Systems Harvey Alexander Manager, ITS Systems Support Branch Transportation Operations Administration James R. Jarzab Assistant Planner Emtrac Systems) “Potential Use of Technology: Mitigating Disaster Evacuation” Presented at the 5th International Social Science Research Conference September 23-25, 2010]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">Two glaring problems... evacuated until days later.</span>

=<span style="text-align: left;">Negative</span>= 

==Disadvantages== 

===LOST DA (Agenda Politics)=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">LOST treaty will be ratified now</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Kelly 10-4</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial;"> [Michael, Professor of Law and Associate Dean for Faculty Research & International Programs at Creighton University School of Law. He is co-author with Professor Sean Watts of a geo-strategic legal analysis of the collective security issues in Northeast Asia, October 4th 2012] </span>
__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">It is manifestly...</span>____<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">to great power.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">(Insert Specific Link) </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Political capital key to LOST ratification</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Goldberg 4/8</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial;"> [Mark Leon,“Feel the Treaty-mentum!”, UN Dispatch, http://www.undispatch.com/node/8036]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">A pair of </span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">developments... </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">these treaties.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Law of the Sea prevents arctic conflicts</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Eachus 07</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial;"> [Ron Eachus of Salem is a former legislator and a former chairman of the Oregon Public Utility Commission oregon statesman 9-10-07]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">In 1982, the ... and conflict.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Huebert 98</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial;"> [Prof. Rob Huebert, Department of Political Science/Strategic Studies Program, University of Calgary 1998 <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.carc.org/calgary/a4.htm]]</span>] </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Likewise</span><span class="underline" style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">, ... </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">as ever. </span>

===Fiscal Cliff DA (Agenda Politics)=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Fiscal cliff agreements will pass now</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Jackson 11-9 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial;">[David, USA Today News, [[http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2012/11/09/obama-boehner-white-house-fiscal-cliff/1694733/]]]</span>
__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">President Obama... </span>__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">cuts extended.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">(Insert Specific Link)</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Political capital is key</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Connor 12 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">(Cathy Connor, manager of government affairs, PB Transportation Update, “August 6, 2012 Update,” PB Washington Update, 8-6-2012, [[http://www.pbtransportationupdate.com/pdfs/wash_update/wu%208612.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Congress has ... </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">House Budget Committee.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Causes Middle East war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Hutchison 9/21</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial;">, U.S. Senator from the great state of Texas, 9/21/2012 (Kay Bailey, “A Looming Threat to National Security,” States News Service, Lexis)</span>
__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Despite warnings ... </span>__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">working families.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial;">The impact is extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Russell 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial;">, James A. Russell, Senior Lecturer, National Security Affairs, Naval Postgraduate School, ‘9 (Spring) “Strategic Stability Reconsidered: Prospects for Escalation and Nuclear War in the Middle East” IFRI, Proliferation Papers, #26, http://www.ifri.org/downloads/PP26_Russell_2009.pdf </span>
__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Strategic stability... </span>____<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">the entire world</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">. </span>

==<span style="text-align: left;">Counterplans</span>== 

===Commissions CP=== 

**The Counterplan results in policy - expert neutrality makes issues credible**
**Newton and Atkins 10** <span style="font-size: 5pt;">(Elizabeth, Director for Space Policy- U Alabama-Huntsville, and Chuck, former Chief of Staff-House Science Committee, Take the Chaos Out of U.S. Space Policy, 10 May, 2010, [[http://spacenews.com/commentaries/100510-take-chaos-out-space-policy.html]])</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Policy stability </span>__

**Will pass and doesn’t drain capital**
**Mayer 07** <span style="font-size: 5pt;">(Kenneth,- professor of political science at the University of Wisconsin, Madison “THE BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE PROCESS: IS IT POSSIBLE TO MAKE RATIONAL POLICY?”)</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The conventional wisdom ... </span>__//__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">close</span>__//__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> to passing</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">. </span>

==<span style="text-align: left;">Kritiks</span>== 

===Race K=== 

**Their choice of transportation investment is not neutral – they are conscious attempts at increasing racial subordination**
**Bullard et al. 4** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Johnson, Torres, Robert, Glenn, Angel, , Ph.D., (Environmental Sociology) Highway Robbery Transportation Racism & New Routes to Equity, Cambridge, MA]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Transportation systems ... </span>has been created.

**Reject racism in every instance**
**Memmi** **2k** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Professor Emeritus of Sociology at the University of Paris (Albert, “RACISM”, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165]</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The struggle against ... </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;">stakes are irresistible.</span>

==<span style="text-align: left;">Specific Strategies</span>== 

===<span style="text-align: left;">Fullerton</span>=== 

====**Round 1 vs. University High SS (Vehicle Miles Tax)**==== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">2NR: Race K</span>
====<span style="text-align: left;">**Round 3 vs. San Dieguito GS (Rail Transportation Security)**</span>==== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">2NR: Commissions CP + Agenda Politics (LOST)</span>
====<span style="text-align: left;">**Round 6 vs. Damien LR (Aircraft Carriers)**</span>==== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">2NR: There was no 2NR...</span>
====<span style="text-align: left;">**Octos vs. Leland KL (Inland Waterways)**</span>==== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**2NR: Commissions CP + Agenda Politics (LOST)**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
===<span style="text-align: left;">**Damien Debates**</span>=== 

====**Round 2 vs. Notre Dame BG (High Speed Rail)**==== 
2NR: Agenda Politics (Fiscal Cliff) + Stimulus Bad Case Turns

====**Round 4 vs. Oxford KS (High Speed Rail)**==== 
2NR: Commissions CP + Agenda Politics (Fiscal Cliff)

====**Round 5 vs. Loyola DW (Port Dredging)**==== 
2NR: Commissions CP + Agenda Politics (Fiscal Cliff)

====**Semis vs. La Costa Canyon AG (Critical UAV's)**==== 
2NR: Stimulus Bad DA, Biopower Impact Turns + Util

===Golden Desert=== 

====**Round 2 vs. Desert Vista MG (National Infrastructure Bank)**==== 
2NR: Commissions CP + Agenda Politics (Immigration) 

====**Round 3 vs. Chandler PM (Climate Adaptation)**==== 
2NR: DARPA CP + Nanotech NB, Oil Drilling DA

====**Round 5 vs. Juan Diego WC (Mexican Borders)**==== 
2NR: Poetry K

===Berkeley=== 

====**Round 1 vs. Kent Denver BL (Animal Crossings)**==== 
2NR: Poetry K

====**Round 3 vs. Downtown Magnets GW (Bus Fuel Cells)**==== 
2NR: Orientalism K

====**Round 6 vs. Wayzata BM (HSR)**==== 
2NR: Heteronormativity K