===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Greenhill Survey</span>=== 


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">GREENHILL 2012 DEBATERS: MAKE SURE YOU LOOK AT THIS SURVEY. </span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://tinyurl.com/ldseqghill]]</span>



===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">FOUCAULT ME MAYBE AC</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">We cannot use rationality to justify all of our beliefs. Asking us to do so is an impossible demand and asks the wrong question. **Keller**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The Reason For God. Timothy Keller. 2008. BG.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Is there anything […] to bow to.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Therefore,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> because the nature of justification ultimately relies on belief, we must reflect upon what shapes those beliefs. **Foucault**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Michel Foucault. Power And Knowledge. 1980. BG.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri;">It seems to […] importance of Nietzsche.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Thus the **burden** of the affirmative is to demonstrate that by giving terrorists due process rights, that the AFF detaches truth from current hegemonic powers that construct truth.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Further,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> in order to stop specific instances violence, we must examine the structures and hidden violence within society that cause these visceral explosions of violence. **Zizek**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Violence: Big Ideas/Small Books. Slavoj Zizek.2008. BG.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">If there is […] </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">of subjective violence.</span>__</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Advantage 1 is the State of Exception </span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The war on terrorism takes place outside of the framework of law placing terrorists in a state of exception. **Munster**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">THE WAR ON TERRORISM: WHEN THE EXCEPTION BECOMES THE RULE. International Journal for the Semiotics of Law Revue Internationale de SeÅLmiotique Juridique 17: 141–153, 2004. 2004 Kluwer Academic Publishers. Printed in the Netherlands.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Building upon the […] is actually effective.’’</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">We strip terrorists of all rights and reduce them to bare life when refuse to incorporate them in existing legal structures. Rens Van **Munster** 2 - THE WAR ON TERRORISM: WHEN THE EXCEPTION BECOMES THE RULE. International Journal for the Semiotics of Law Revue Internationale de SeÅLmiotique Juridique 17: 141–153, 2004. 2004 Kluwer Academic Publishers. Printed in the Netherlands.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">As noted earlier […]</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> exercised over them.</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">28</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Advantage 2 is Discourse About Terrorists</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">A) is the Status Quo</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #1a1718; font-family: Calibri;">Current discourse on terrorism stigmatizes terrorists as an unrelatable Other whose motives we can never comprehend. **de Benoist ’07**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #1a1718; font-family: Calibri;">Alain [editor of the two French academic journals //Krisis// and //Nouvelle Ecole//, and the author of more than fifty books about political philo- sophy, sociology and the history of ideas]. “Global terrorism and the state of permanent exception: the significance of Carl Schmitt’s thought today.” //The International Political Thought of Carl Schmitt: Terror, liberal war and the crisis of global order.// JE.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #1a1718; font-family: Calibri;">From the point […] the best society.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">This terrorist rhetoric reinforces a binary that puts the good in an endless war against so-called “evil” terrorists.Kellner</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Douglas Kellner - Chair of Philosophy @ UCLA, Presidential Studies Quarterly. Vol. 37 (4), 2007, pg. 622+)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">On the day […]be a military response.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Indeed, this perception has profound impacts by justifying unsubstantiated claims of the impending threat. **Mueller** and **Stewart**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">John Mueller, Mark G. Stewart- 2011[Professor and Woody Hayes Chair of National Security Studies Mershon Center for International Security Studies and Department of Political Science Ohio State University, Professor of Civil Engineering Director, Centre for Infrastructure Performance and Reliability The University of Newcastle] “Terror, Security, and Money: Balancing the Risks, Benefits, and Costs of Homeland Security”. AS</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">In the same […] **__helping to stoke]__**."75</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">B) is the Impact</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Terrorist rhetoric shuts off solutions to terrorism, necessitates eradication of those who its applied to, and incites racist violence.Kapitan and Schulte</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Tomis Kapitan and Erich Schulte – Prof of Philosophy @ N Illionois U, and Erich – Journal of Political and Military Sociology Vol. 30 Iss. 1, 2002, pp. 172+, Questia)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Given that a […] violence" (Said 1988)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Indeed, the insecurity fostered by the rhetoric of these policiesleads to endless wars and unbelievable amounts of collateral damage. **Aradau**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Claudia Aradau-2001[Research Associate in the Centre of International Relations, Department of War Studies, King’s College London] “Beyond good and evil: Ethics and securitization/desecuritization techniques” AS</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Survival</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> refers not […] **__and eventually violence__**.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">C) is the Solvency</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Giving due process to terrorists makes trials more transparent and allows us to hear the voices of terrorists. **Nickel**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">James W. Nickel- 2007[University of Miami] “Due Process Rights and Terrorist Emergencies” AS.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">DPRs protect</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> us […] **__DPRs more stable.__** </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">By hearing the voices of terrorists we are able to understand them as actual people instead of as impending threats. **Zulaika** and **Douglas**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Zulaika, 1996. Joseba. Professor and Co-Director Center for Basque Studies at University of Nevada Reno. Douglas 1996. William. Professor John Hopkins University. Terror and Taboo: the follies, fables, and faces of terrorism. Routelage. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Confronted with </span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">the […] **__agency and subjectivation.__** </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Zulaika</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> and **Douglas** continue</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Zulaika, 1996. Joseba. Professor and Co-Director Center for Basque Studies at University of Nevada Reno. Douglas 1996. William. Professor John Hopkins University. Terror and Taboo: the follies, fables, and faces of terrorism. Routelage. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">This chapter presents […] </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">proximity and sympathy. </span>__</span>**
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Sept/Oct:-NEG:]][[#Sept/Oct:-NEG:]]NEG:</span>== 
==== ==== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Sept/Oct:-NEG:--CLS K:]][[#Sept/Oct:-NEG:--CLS K:]]CLS K:</span>==== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 14pt;">A) is the Framework.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The K Works Both Pre and Post Fiat</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 14pt;">B) is the Link.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The Affirmative says due process protections through the Constitution provide a methodological, objective approach for deciding what people are due. These claims of systemic objectivity prevent criticism of traditional legal discourse.**Gordon**</span><span class="FootnoteReference1" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> ’97 writes;</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Now a central tenet … </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">and rational choices.</span>__</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Due process is the ultimate utopian fantasy. **Peller**</span><span class="FootnoteReference1" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn2|**[2]**]]</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> ’85 explains:</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">In law, before … part, performs politically.</span>__</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Hutchinson</span>**<span class="FootnoteReference1" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn3|**[3]**]]</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> ‘84 concurs </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">that there is no rhyme or reason to court adjudication**;**</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Traditional jurisprudence … </span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">For Unger, there is a 'permanent disequilibrium of doctrine.'</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 14pt;">C) is the IMPACT</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The courts and the law create hierarchical systems of domination to reinforce the myth of legal objectivity. **Hutchinson**</span><span class="FootnoteReference1" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn4|**[4]**]]</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> ’84 writes;</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Liberalism and contemporary legal ….</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> a world of rights.</span>__</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The law is a jurispathic killer. Violence is the norm under a commitment to the law. **Henderson**</span><span class="FootnoteReference1" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn5|**[5]**]]</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> ‘91 writes;</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">The lack of scholarly …</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">alternative legal meanings. </span>__</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 14pt;">D) is the ALTERNATIVE</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Vote negative to reject the myth of legal objectivity that prevents any real progress or change in the way we deal in society. **Singer**</span><span class="FootnoteReference1" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn6|**[6]**]]</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> ’84 writes;</span>**

<span class="CardText-Underlined" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Legal scholars can </span>****<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">… </span>****<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">that question ourselves</span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">This criticism cannot happen absent the ballot – by endorsing the traditional legal theory advocated by the Affirmative you as an individual help to crush criticism of the system. **Gabel[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn7|**[7]**]] ’84 writes;**</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">We therefore can … of mutual distance.</span>__</span>**


----
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref1|[1]]] [R.W., Professor of Law, Stanford University Unfreezing Legal Reality: Critical Approaches to Law, 15 Fla. St. U.L. Rev. 195, pg. L/N]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref2|[2]]] [Gary, assi. prof law UVA – 73 Calif. L. Rev. 1151]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref3|[3]]] [Allan and Patrick Monahan, The ‘rights’ stuff: Roberto Unger and Beyond, Texas Law Review, May 1984, page 1503]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref4|[4]]] CRITICAL LEGAL STUDIES SYMPOSIUM: Law, Politics, and the Critical Legal Scholars: The Unfolding Drama of American Legal Thought, 36 Stan. L. Rev. 199, Stanford Law Review</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref5|[5]]] [Lynne – prof law Indiana – 66 Ind. L.J. 379]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref6|[6]]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Lucida Grande'; font-size: 6pt;">Joseph William __Singer__, Associate Professor of Law at Boston University, __1984__</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Lucida Grande'; font-size: 6pt;">[“The Player and the Cards: Nihilism and Legal Theory,” Yale Law Journal (94 Yale L.J. 1), November, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Lucida Grande'; font-size: 12pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref7|[7]]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> [Peter – law prof New College of San Fran. – 62 Tex. L. Rev. 1563]</span>




**KATO K**

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Nuclear test explosions don’t even qualify for recognition. All that matters is the possibility of massive nuclear exchange between nations. **Kato[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]** ’93:</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Nuclear war has...</span>__**
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">as a historical fact.</span>__**

----
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]] Masahide Kato—1993. [Professor of Political Science, University of Hawaii]. Alternatives. 339. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">B)</span>** <span style="font-family: Calibri;">Impacting all nuclear issues to nuclear apocalypse and extinction only ignores the “real” catastrophe of nuclear destruction in the Fourth World that harms only indigenous peoples. **Kato** furthers:</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Herein, the perception of...</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">First World community.</span>__**


**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">C)</span>** <span style="font-family: Calibri;">Impacting all nuclear issues to nuclear apocalypse and extinction only ignores the “real” catastrophe of nuclear destruction in the Fourth World that harms only indigenous peoples. **Kato** furthers:</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Herein, the perception of the ultimate...</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">the First World community.</span>__**



**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">D)</span>** <span style="font-family: Calibri;">How we speak about nuclear war shapes how we act about it. **Kato** continues:</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">By representing the possible...</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">unlocatable, “global” catastrophe.</span>__**


<span style="font-family: Calibri;">This destruction causes genocidal violence. **Kato** concludes:</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">And yet how can one deny...</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">World and Indigenous Nations.</span>


=== === 

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">CONSERVATIVISM NC</span>==== 


<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Forward-looking theories based upon creating a better future have empirically failed and ended in bloodshed and violence. **Scruton** </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">–**– Arguments for Conservatism: A Political Philosophy. 2006. Continuum International Publishing Group.**</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Those</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> **__modernist narratives__** </span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">wounds of social conflict. </span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Further,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> constantly looking to new ideas that could some how better the future make it impossible to escape problems that are occurring currently. **Chesterton[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">We may say broadly </span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">change his mind.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Chesterton[[home#_ftn2|[2]]] </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">explains how the solution is to adhere to fixed values and not simply try to always achieve something new.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">This, therefore, is</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">sitter out of window?</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Kirk </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">concludes the framework, on how statesmen must thus be wary of change, and instead mostly adhere to conservative values. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">– Russel Kirk. The Conservative Mind: From Burke To Eliot. Regnery Publishing, Inc. 1953.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Any informed conservative is</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">canons of conservative thought. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> Giving terrorists due process rights destroys the traditional definition of a state and nationalism by applying law to those outside of the political community of the US. **Scruton** </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">–**– Arguments for Conservatism: A Political Philosophy. 2006. Continuum International Publishing Group.**</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Much learned ink has been </span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">already belong together.</span>__**


----
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]] G.K. Chesterton. Orthodoxy. 1908. Gutenberg Project. </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[2]]] G.K. Chesterton. Orthodoxy. 1908. Gutenberg Project. </span>


=<span style="font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">Jan-Feb</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">Neg</span>== 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Negative</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Negative-OUR OWN IMAGE NC]]OUR OWN IMAGE NC</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The value is **morality.**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">To evaluate ethical judgements we must //first// untangle our ontological commitments about who is and is not included in the “us” and the “them.” This requires analyzing how policies frame our capacity to apprehend lives. **Butler 1** </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Butler, Judith. //Frames of War// (2009), 138</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">We ask such … who will not. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus, </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">the standard is **preventing exclusion from our frames of reference** and preventing control of life by power because</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">First,</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> Debate and academica do not take seriously the voices of victims or the complexity of social struggles. **Prosise, et al 1** </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8.5pt;">(Prosise, Theodore O [Masters Candidate, School of Communications, University of San Diego]; Miller, Greg R [Assistant Professor, School of Communications, San Diego State University]; Mills, Jordan P. [Masters Candidate, School of Communications, University of San Diego] “Argument fields as arenas of discursive struggle” Argumentation and Advocacy; Winter 1996)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">While this emphasis … of logical types.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Second, </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">once a person is excluded from the frame of consideration, they can be perpetually destroyed allowing us to commit the worst possible violence to them. **Butler 2**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Butler, Judith. “Violence, Mourning, Politics” //Studies in Gender & Sexuality// 4.1 (2003), 20 – 23</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Lives are supported … qualifies for recognition.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; text-align: left;">I contend that retribution better accounts for the importance of individuals’ lives and choices than rehabilitation.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Rehabilitation puts peoples lives directly in the government’s hands. It attempts to change an individual based on the need of society. It directly destroys the individual, forcing them to be “cured” in order to best serve society. **Polizzi and Brown**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">David Polizzi [ Indiana State University] and Michelle Brown [ University of Tenessee]. //In Search of the Ethical in Criminal Justice Practice.// 2012. CC</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">If this statement by the government.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Negative-Chuck Hagel NC]]<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Chuck Hagel NC</span></span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Human subjectivity cannot be conceptualized outside of our basic connections to others and the social conditions that enable autonomy. Human identity is dependent on recognition by the other. **Honneth**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Axel Honneth [University of Frankfurt], “Integrity and Disrespect: Principles of a Conception of Morality Based on the Theory of Recognition,” //Political Theory//, Vol. 20, No. 2 (May, 1992), pp. 187-201. Sage Publications, inc. [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/192001]]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">According to this… </span><span style="background-color: white;">**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">person to collapse.</span>__**</span>





<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Humans live in societies and thus need acknowledgement about our worth within our society. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Farnham 1</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Farnham, Daniel. //A Hegelian Theory of Retribution//, Journal of Social Philosophy, Vol. 39, No. 4, Winter 2008, pp 606-624. MO.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__We are engaged…__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">acknowledged by others.</span>





<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Our ability to pursue our own ends creates a unique identity and situates the individual within social context. **Farnham 2**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Farnham, Daniel. //A Hegelian Theory of Retribution//, Journal of Social Philosophy, Vol. 39, No. 4, Winter 2008, pp 606-624. MO.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Failures to acknowledge… as an equal</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__.__</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">hus,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> the standard is </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">maintaining social recognition.</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">When an individual commits a crime against another, he or she creates an asymmetrical relationship between him or herself and the victim, thereby devaluing the victim’s place in society. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Farnham 3</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Farnham, Daniel. //A Hegelian Theory of Retribution//, Journal of Social Philosophy, Vol. 39, No. 4, Winter 2008, pp 606-624. MO.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__Wrongful action__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">has realization and acknowledgement.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">A proportional response from an impartial moral authority is necessary to restore the victim’s position as a valued contributing member of society.**Farnham 4**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Farnham, Daniel. //A Hegelian Theory of Retribution//, Journal of Social Philosophy, Vol. 39, No. 4, Winter 2008, pp 606-624. MO.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Where no public… </span>__</span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">has been established.</span>__</span>**



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Rehabilitation creates a barriers for the public to criticize injustices that are happening within the criminal justice system that typically exist in a retributive system because of the shroud of rehabilitation **Lewis ’87**</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">-</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">C.S. “The Humanitarian Theory of Punishment” AS.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">The distinction will… What is your trouble? “ </span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This allows the government to take away control of the offender’s standing in society from the offender by subjecting their lives and modes of thought to unassailable outside forces,</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Retributivism takes the offender’s search for his or her place in society into account by acknowledging the role of his or her actions in that search. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Farnham 5</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Farnham, Daniel. //A Hegelian Theory of Retribution//, Journal of Social Philosophy, Vol. 39, No. 4, Winter 2008, pp 606-624. MO.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">Now</span> **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__suppose__</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">our … </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__and objectionable way.__</span>**









===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Negative-Libertarian NC]]**__Libertarian NC__**</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Humans must be free from the interference of others in the determination of their life choices. **Boaz** </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">DavidBoaz [Executive vice president, the Cato institute] //Libertarianism: A Primer.// Simon & Schuster, 1997, New York</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Pg 61-62</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Any theory of … rights are self-evident.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">And, </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">the wrongness of moral atrocities can only be explained through the concept of self-ownership. **Feser**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">EdwardFeser[Visiting Assistant Professor of Philosophy, LMU] //Self Ownership, Abortion, and The Rights of Children: Toward a More Conservative Libertarianism//, Journal of Libertarian Studies, Vol 18, No 3, Summer 2004, 91-114</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">The thesis of… </span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">for any reason</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Thus, </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">the standard is **consistency with self-ownership.** Government action cannot force an individual to sacrifice his or her own projects and goals for the good of others in society.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; text-align: left;">I contend that retribution better accounts for the importance of individuals’ lives and choices than rehabilitation.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Rehabilitation attempts to change an individual based on the need of society. **Polizzi and Brown**</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">David Polizzi [ Indiana State University] and Michelle Brown [ University of Tenessee]. //In Search of the Ethical in Criminal Justice Practice.// 2012. CC</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">If this statement… by the government.</span>




===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#January-February-Negative-Truth NC]]<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Truth NC</span></span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Rationality can never justify all of our beliefs. Requiring us to do so is an impossible demand that short-circuits ethical decision-making. **Keller**explains why such strong rationalism fails for //two// reasons.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">The Reason For God. Timothy Keller. 2008. BG.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Is there anything… have to bow to.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Foucault </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">explains how what we think of as “truth” is actually determined by power structures that erect a regime of “truth” to legitimate the existence of such structures. It is the structures, which we must overturn in order to make ethical decisions.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Michel Foucault. Power And Knowledge. 1980. BG.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">It seems to… importance of Nietzsche.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">And, </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Foucault takes out all other warrants for what states ought to do because such warrants //ultimately// rely on regimes of truth to validate their assumptions. </span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; text-align: left;">I contend that retribution better accounts for the importance of individuals’ lives and choices than rehabilitation.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Rehabilitation attempts to change an individual based on the need of society. **Polizzi and Brown**</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">David Polizzi [ Indiana State University] and Michelle Brown [ University of Tenessee]. //In Search of the Ethical in Criminal Justice Practice.// 2012. CC</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">If this statement i… by the government.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; text-align: left;">Retribution acknowledges their choices while expressing moral condemnation. **Robson**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: left;">Robson, Regina A. [Assistant Professor of Business, St. Joseph’s University] //Crime and Punishment: Rehabilitating Retribution as a Justification for Organizational Criminal Liability//. 47 Am. Bus. L.J. 109, Spring 2010. MO.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; font-size: 6pt; text-align: left;">A second predicate… to specific conduct.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; text-align: left;">[[debatecoaches/home#co_footnote_F118352049668_2|118]]</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Rationality can never justify all of our beliefs. Requiring us to do so is an impossible demand that short-circuits ethical decision-making. **Keller**explains why such strong rationalism fails for //two// reasons.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">The Reason For God. Timothy Keller. 2008. BG.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Is there anything… have to bow to.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Foucault </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">explains how what we think of as “truth” is actually determined by power structures that erect a regime of “truth” to legitimate the existence of such structures. It is the structures, which we must overturn in order to make ethical decisions.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Michel Foucault. Power And Knowledge. 1980. BG.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">It seems to… importance of Nietzsche.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">And, </span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Foucault takes out all other warrants for what states ought to do because such warrants //ultimately// rely on regimes of truth to validate their assumptions. </span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Moreover</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">, we can //never// understand the nature of morality unless we //first// know who we have obligations //to//. This means that interrogating power structures //must// come first because it is the power structures that frame whose lives count. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Butler</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> explains: </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: left;">Butler, Judith. //Frames of War// (2009), 138</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; text-align: left;">**__We ask__**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; font-size: 6pt; text-align: left;">such… </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; text-align: left;">**__those who will not__**.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">And</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">, it is impossible to determine //who// we have obligations to without interrogating the norms created by power structures. There is no other way; epistemology demands that we look first at power. </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Butler 2[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn2|**[2]**]]</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> continues:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Butler, Judith. //Frames of War// (2009), 3-4</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; text-align: left;">**__The__**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; font-size: 6pt; text-align: left;">epistemological</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; text-align: left;">**__capacity… facilitate that recognition__**.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Debate and academica do not take seriously the voices of victims or the complexity of social struggles. **Prosise, et al 1**:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">(Prosise, Theodore O [Masters Candidate, School of Communications, University of San Diego]; Miller, Greg R [Assistant Professor, School of Communications, San Diego State University]; Mills, Jordan P. [Masters Candidate, School of Communications, University of San Diego] “Argument fields as arenas of discursive struggle” Argumentation and Advocacy; Winter 1996)</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">While this emphasis… </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">of logical types.</span>__</span>**



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">This means that A) philosophical frameworks fail if they fail to take into account these relationsal historical and contextual aspects **and** B) the most important thing for debate to accomplish is to teach debaters 1 how best to open up that space for victims to speak since they are excluded from academia and 2 to understand the ways in which power constructs our moral theories</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Second,</span></span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">The study of social power in argumentation and justification is key to the benefits gained from debate. **Prosise 2**:</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">(Prosise, Theodore O [Masters Candidate, School of Communications, University of San Diego]; Miller, Greg R [Assistant Professor, School of Communications, San Diego State University]; Mills, Jordan P. [Masters Candidate, School of Communications, University of San Diego] “Argument fields as arenas of discursive struggle” Argumentation and Advocacy; Winter 1996)</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Argument is </span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">most</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> public decision making.</span>__</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">So we must focus on how our arguments are justifying power structure and how either side can mitigate such existing structures, because argument itself is a form of social power. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">I contend that rehabilitation hides the tyrannical system of power that controls truth</span>





**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">First</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">, rehabilitation creates a barriers for the public to criticize injustices that are happening within the criminal justice system that typically exist in a retributive system because of the shroud of rehabilitation **Lewis ’87**</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">-</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">C.S. “The Humanitarian Theory of Punishment” AS.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">The distinction will… is your trouble? “</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Second, rehabilitation disguises any possible malicious action as a cure for criminals without drawing any criticism meaning there is no limit to government action **Lewis ’87**</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">-</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">C.S. “The Humanitarian Theory of Punishment” AS.</span>





<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">The practical problem… </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">grounds of justice.</span>__</span>**



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Therefore, this leaves the criminal justice system at the total whim of a tyrannical form of power as unique features in a rehabilitative criminal justice system allow it to justify anything to the public. </span>




----
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref2|[2]]] Butler, Judith. //Frames of War// (2009), 3-4</span>

=== ===