=Aff= 
[[toc]]
===1AC Econ Adv.=== 
America's infrastructure is crumbling now-- bureaucracy and wasteful spending are preventing effective change
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Rohatyn and Ehrlich 08</span> (Felix G., Everett, "A New Bank to Save Our Infrastructure," 9/10/08, http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2008/oct/09/a-new-bank-to-save-our-infrastructure/?pagination=false)
These are rare times of ferment in one of the most neglected fields of public
AND
), compared to five hundred of them in 1991 and ten in 1982.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Only federal action solves-- state banks will fail alone</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Halleman 11 </span>- Business graduate with analytical and program management experience across a range of transportation and infrastructure issues; Head of Communications & Media Relations at International Road Federation (Brendan, “Establishing a National Infrastructure Bank - examining precedents and potential,” October 2011, [[http://issuu.com/transportgooru/docs/ibank_memo_-_brenden_halleman]])
Rationale As a percentage of GDP, the United States currently invests 25% less
AND
tap into a pool of private infrastructure funds worth over USD 200 billion.



Economy is stagnant-- all other numbers are only temporary effects
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Rasmus 12 </span>(Jack, U. S. GDP—Why U.S. Slowdown Will Continue," 7/31, http://www.unions.org/home/union-blog/2012/07/31/u-s-gdp-why-u-s-slowdown-will-continue/)
On Friday, July 27, 2012 the US Department of Commerce released its report
AND
three Obama ‘recovery programs’ introduced in 2009, 2010, and 2011.



Only NIB solves long term economic stagnation
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Puentes 11</span> --Senior Fellow, Brookings Institution (Robert, "Infrastructure Investment and U.S. Competitiveness," Council on Foreign Relations, April 5, http://www.cfr.org/united-states/infrastructure-investment-us-competitiveness/p24585)
Infrastructure is central to U.S. prosperity and global competitiveness. It matters
AND
the private and nonprofit sectors. Infrastructure is a big piece of that.



<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">NIB stimulus is key to recovery from the recession-- no turns</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Tyson 10</span> --professor at the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley, was chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers and the National Economic Council in the Clinton administration. She is a member of President Obama’s Economic Recovery Advisory Board (Laura, "Why We Need a Second Stimulus," New York Times, August 28, http://www.nytimes.com/2010/08/29/opinion/29tyson.html?pagewanted=all)
Federal aid to the states is especially important because they finance education. Although the
AND
But for now the priorities of fiscal policy should be jobs and investment.



<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The bank is key to restructuring the public sector and increasing efficiency of each dollar spent</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Anderson 11 - </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">President and CEO of CG/LA Infrastructure</span>(Norman, "The Case For The Kerry-Hutchison Infrastructure Bank," Progressive Policy Institute, 3/25/11, http://www.progressivepolicy.org/2011/03/the-case-for-the-kerry-hutchison-infrastructure-bank/)
We’re all aware of the need: A national infrastructure bank that uses federal borrowing
AND
communicating: from project approvals, to performance reporting to championing new technology.



<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Only NIB can restore confidence in the economy and revitalize it-- the private sector will fail on its own</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Skidelsky and Martin 11</span>__</span> (Robert--professor of political economy at Warwick University. He is the co-author, with Edward Skidelsky, of How Much Is Enough: The Love of Money and the Case for the Good Life, AND Felix-- worked at the World Bank, was executive board member of and analyst for the European Stability Initiative, macroeconomist and strategist for the London-based investment manager, Thames River Capital, doctorate in economics from Oxford, "For a National Investment Bank," New York Review of Books, March 30, 2011, http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/)
But infrastructure is a prime example of a sector in which the benefits of a
AND
and so provide the basis for a self-sustaining private sector recovery.



<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">US economy key to world economy</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Rahman 11</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Arial;"> - former Ambassador and Chairman of the Centre for Foreign Affairs Studies (Ashfaqur, “Another global recession?” August 21, http://www.thedailystar.net/newDesign/news-details.php?nid=199461)</span>
Last week, murmurs were heard in high places around the world that the global
AND
we may be in a new double dip or W-shaped recession.
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Economic decline leads to war—strong statistical support. </span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: Arial;">Royal 10</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Arial;"> — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” //Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives//, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)</span>
Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict
AND
such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.



Growth is the only macro tendency that will prevent wars
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Gartzke 11</span> --associate professor of political science at the University of California, San Diego. He studies institutional correlates to war and peace, with an emphasis on bargaining and rational choice theory. He has contributed notably in the Journal of Conflict Resolution, the American Journal of Political Science, and International Studies Quarterly, among many others (Erik, "Security In An Insecure World," February 9, 2011, Cato Institute, http://www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/)
Almost as informative as the decline in warfare has been where this decline is occurring
AND
the consolidating forces of prosperity prevail, that war becomes a durable anachronism.


===Plan=== 
The United States federal government should establish a National Infrastructure Bank for the purposes of transportation infrastructure
===1AC PPP Adv.=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 9.5pt;">One time investment solves public-private partnerships-- empirics prove</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Likosky 11</span> – senior fellow at the Institute for Public Knowledge, New York University (Michael B., July 12, “Banking on the Future”, http://www.nytimes.com/2011/07/13/opinion/13likosky.html)
FOR decades, we have neglected the foundation of our economy while other countries have
AND
and to advance its values is possible only if we possess modern infrastructure.



Partnerships are vital to prevent a devastating cyber attack
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Farrell 11</span> - deputy chief of staff for the US Air Force Program for Senior Executives in National and International Security, Harvard University (Lawrence P. Jr., “To Improve Cyber-Security, U.S. Needs Cohesive Public-Private Partnership,” February, http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/archive/2011/February/Pages/ToImproveCyber-Security,USNeedsCohesivePublic-PrivatePartnership.aspx)
It has become one of the perils of everyday life on the information highway —
AND
and more than 80 percent of our logistics are transported by private companies.”



<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 9.5pt;">A cyberattack is coming now-- we're vulnerable and it's fast</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Fritz 09 </span>__</span><span style="font-family: Arial;">--cybersecurity analyst(Jason, "Hacking Nuclear Command and Control," International Commission on Nuclear Non-Proliferation and Disarmament, http://icnnd.org/Documents/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.pdf)</span>
Terrorists have a history of using asymmetric warfare to compete against their more powerful enemies
AND
and when used in combination with traditional tactics, it can create synergy.
Cyber terrorism leads to nuclear war
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Fritz 09</span>--cybersecurity analyst(Jason, "Hacking Nuclear Command and Control," International Commission on Nuclear Non-Proliferation and Disarmament, http://icnnd.org/Documents/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.pdf)
This paper will analyse the threat of cyber terrorism in regard to nuclear weapons.
AND
its own, without the need for compromising command and control centres directly.

===1AC Solvency=== 
NIB uses funds more efficiently and attracts private investors-- federal funding is key
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Rohatyn and Ehrlich 08</span> (Felix G., Everett, "A New Bank to Save Our Infrastructure," 9/10/08, http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2008/oct/09/a-new-bank-to-save-our-infrastructure/?pagination=false)
In view of the waste and inadequacies of existing federal and state policies, how
AND
bank we propose offers one alternative to such a dangerous set of policies.

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Expanded loans are key-- discourages funding highly speculative projects and has multiplier effect</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Poole 09</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- director of transportation at Reason Foundation. (Robert, "A National Infrastructure Bank?" 2/3/09, http://reason.org/news/show/1003274.html</span>
Rather than simply dismissing the NIB proposal as the wrong direction for expanded and smarter
AND
should seek to refocus current national infrastructure bank proposals into this sustainable form.



<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Bank will be politically independent </span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Skidelsky and Martin 11</span>__</span> (Robert--professor of political economy at Warwick University. He is the co-author, with Edward Skidelsky, of How Much Is Enough: The Love of Money and the Case for the Good Life, AND Felix-- worked at the World Bank, was executive board member of and analyst for the European Stability Initiative, macroeconomist and strategist for the London-based investment manager, Thames River Capital, doctorate in economics from Oxford, "For a National Investment Bank," New York Review of Books, March 30, 2011, http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/)
As for the details of the bank’s operations and governance, there is a wealth
AND
complex, and new regulatory regimes in particular take time to become established.



NIB key to spur benefit-cost analysis, maintenance, and accountability
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Istrate and Puentes 10</span> (Emilia Istrate and Robert Puentes, "Investing for success," US Infrastructure, Issue 3, January 2010,
http://www.americainfra.com/article/Investing-for-success/
From time to time, collapsed bridges, failed dams and ruptured water pipes remind
AND
provide little improvement for the federal decision-making process of infrastructure financing.



Their defense doesn't account for benefit-cost analysis-- is comparatively better than existing analysis
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Peters et al 07</span> (Mary Peters, Chair of the Commission, former Secretary of the Department of Transportation, et al., National Surface Transportation Policy and Revenue Study Commission, Final Report, Volume III: Section 1,Technical Issues Papers, Analysis of Future Issues and Changing Demands on the System, Part K. Planning and Implementation of Transportation Infrastructure Projects, Commission Briefing Paper 4K-05, “Benefit-Cost Analysis in Public Sector Infrastructure Investment Decisions,” prepared by: Section 1909 Commission Staff, 1/10, http://transportationfortomorrow.com/final_report/volume_3_html/technical_issues_papers/paper8fcc.htm?name=4k_05)
Background and Key Findings Benefit-cost analysis (BCA) is an economic analysis
AND
decision making" (GAO-05-172, p. 6).



=Neg= 

===Sunshades Counterplan=== 

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The United States federal government should develop and deploy sunshades beyond the Earth’s mesosphere.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Solves warming </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Victor et al 2009 – a Professor at Stanford Law School, Director of Stanford's Program on Energy and Sustainable Development, and an Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. M. Granger Morgan is Head of Carnegie Mellon University's Department of Engineering and Public Policy and Director of the Climate Decision Making Center. Jay Apt is Professor of Engineering and Public Policy at Carnegie Mellon University. John Steinbruner is Professor of Public Policy and Director of the Center for International and Security Studies at the University of Maryland. Katharine Ricke is a doctoral student at Carnegie Mellon University (David G., March/April 2009 “The geoengineering option” http://iis-db.stanford.edu/pubs/22456/The_Geoengineering_Option.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">"Each year, the effects of climate change are coming into sharper </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">tweaks is much more straightforward than causing rain or fog at a particular location in the ways that the weather makers of the late 1940s and 1950s dreamed of doing."</span>


===<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Oil Dependence Turns</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Energy independence collapses U.S. security guarantees–causes international realignment</span>

Hulbert 12

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">(Matthew, senior fellow at the Clingendael International Energy Programme, The Hague, Senior Fellow at the Center for Security Studies, ETH Zurich, focusing on international energy security and political risk, “America Will Deeply Regret Its Fixation On Energy Independence,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.forbes.com/sites/matthewhulbert/2012/08/19/why-america-will-deeply-regret-us-energy-independence/2/]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">No one should blame, or bemoan the U.S. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">AND </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">about that part of the debate, or spend an eternity regretting their global fall from grace. </span>



<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Oil dependence is key to dollar reserve status – that’s key to military supremacy</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Daniel __Drezner__, November 200__8__; professor of political science at Tufts, “Oil dependence as virtue”; The National Interest. .98 (November-December 2008): p8.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">As the strategic and economic value </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">people aren't thinking about the possible long-term implications of energy independence, only the short-term gains. </span>



<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Oil dependency breeds interdependence – independence leads to global war</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">MILLER 2010 (Gregory D. Miller, assistant professor of political science at the University of Oklahoma, “The Security Costs of Energy Independence,” Center for Strategic International Studies, The Washington Quarterly, Vol. 33, No. 2, pp. 107-119, April 2010, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">http://www.asiaresearch.ir/files/10apr_Miller.pdf</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">, Sawyer) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">“A drop in demand for oil </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">whether it be in the form of conventional military force or state sponsorship of terrorism.”</span>


===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Neg Strats</span>=== 

===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Valley</span>=== 
Round 3
Aff: NIB
1NC: Elections DA (Iran Impact), Auto Trade Off DA, Privatization CP, Foucault, T-Investment, Case Defense, Stim Turns
2NR: Stim Turns and Privatization CP


Round 5
Aff: NIB
1NC: Elections DA (Iran Impact), Auto Trade Off DA, Privatization CP, Foucault, T-Investment, Case Defense, Stim Turns
2NR: Stim Turns and Privatization CP


Octos:
Aff: EVs
1NC: Elections DA (Iran Impact), Auto Trade Off DA, States CP, Sunshades CP, Warming Good, Oil Dependency Turns
2NR: Sunshades CP and Oil Turns