[[toc]]
For aff cite requests, please email sjleiter@gmail.com
For neg, thenegship@icloud.com
=Affirmative= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Spaceports</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1AC - Cal + Lex + Westside</span>=== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Spaceports-1AC ISS Version-Plan]]Plan</span>==== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in domestic space launch sites.</span>**
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Spaceports-1AC ISS Version-ISS]]ISS</span>==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">First, Shuttle cancellation makes continued support for the ISS physically impossible</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Abbey 11)</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">George W.S. Abbey (Baker Botts Senior Fellow in Space Policy), James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy at Rice University, July 20, 2011, “Restore the Vision”, accessed August 22, 2011, [[http://www.bakerinstitute.org/publications/SPACE-pub-AbbeySpaceShuttleVision-072011.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">The director general of the European Space Agency (ESA), Jean-Jacques Dordain, has stated that the International Space Station is facing lean times as a result of the U.S. shuttle phaseout and has said project planning for transport to the ISS had been “anarchy.” The shuttle has been the key means to take humans and freight toa and from the ISS, and Dordain stated that NASA made a unilateral 2004 decision to stop the shuttle. The space shuttle’s retirement after the mission launched on July 8, 2011, means that the station will depend entirely on the Russian Soyuz system for transporting astronauts. The European automated transfer vehicle (ATV) and the Japanese H-Il transfer vehicle (HTV) are unmanned supply ships, as is Russia's Progress freighter. These three cargo systems are all designed to be one-way systems, which mean they burn up in the atmosphere after leaving the station. The Sovuz, which does return for a landing, cannot take large nonhuman payloads, such as large experiments or equipment that needs to be returned to be repaired on Earth. Dordain has said the scheduled phaseout of the space shuttle meant “we are not in a very comfortable situation, and that’s just a euphemism. The International Space Station was designed to be not only built and assembled with the space shuttle, but it was designed to be logistically supported by the shuttle. The uncomfortable situation cited by Dordain is an understatement. On June 12, 2011, the New York Daily News printed an opinion article by Christopher Krait, former director of NASA’s Manned Spaceflight Center in Houston, and Scott Spencer, a transportation management consultant, that emphasized the need to continue to operate the space shuttle in support of the station. As they state in their article, “For more than 10 years, space crews from the United States, Russia, and other countries have successfully lived and worked year round, in six-month shifts, on the International Space Station, where they have conducted scientific research. In the coming years, that work will continue—but with a crucial safeguard missing: the space shuttle fleet that gives human beings a unique capability to fix the space station's guidance system and rocket thrusters in the event of a terrible failure.” They point out what will become a clear and present danger: “Loss of control of the space station would mean a catastrophic reentry into the Earth's atmosphere of the massive structure—the largest object ever placed in orbit around the Earth, measuring over three football fields long and weighing more than 400 tons. The tons of falling debris that would survive reentry would pose an unprecedented threat to populated areas around the world. They point out that the space station does have redundant life support and control systems that might make such a failure unlikely. But to say it is so redundant that it could never happen ignores the tragic lessons learned due to overconfidence in fail-safe technology in disasters throughout history, from the sinking of the Titanic to the nuclear reactor crisis in Japan. Such a catastrophe would have significant international ramifications and liability for the United States, Russia, and the other space station partners. In the event of damage from a fire, space debris, or a potential collision from the frequent clocking of manned or unmanned commercial resupply spacecraft, the space station backup systems offer little margin of safety. If the life support or guidance systems or rocket thrusters are damaged, the station could need a rapid rescue mission to stay in orbit. The shuttles have unique capabilities as repair vehicles. They are the only spacecraft that have the vital airlocks and life-support supplies, and the robotic arm that is needed to move the equipment necessary for spacewalking repair crews. Spare parts needed for critical repairs have been taken up by the space shuttle, and stowed on the station—but none could be installed to repair and regain control and use of the $100 billion space station if it is deemed uninhabitable for repair crews. The Soyuz and other potential commercial spacecraft that are intended to support the station all lack the life support systems needed for the multiple six-hour repair spacewalks.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Private spaceflight development creates a new method to get to the ISS</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Pearson 12</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">(Michael, “Historic launch of private rocket heralds new era” May 22, 2012, [[http://www.cnn.com/2012/05/22/tech/us-spacex/index.html]] MGE)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">(CNN) -- A new era in space exploration dawned Tuesday as a slender rocket shot into the dark Florida sky before sunrise, carrying the first private spacecraft bound for the International Space Station. "We're now back on the brink of a new future, a future that embraces the innovation the private sector brings to the table," NASA Administrator Charles Bolden said. "The significance of this day cannot be overstated." The unmanned SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket blasted off from Cape Canaveral, Florida, at 3:44 a.m., carrying 1,300 pounds of food, clothing and scientific experiments on a demonstration mission to gauge the company's ability to safely and efficiently deliver supplies to astronauts staffing the orbiting station. Opinion: Private space travel -- A new era begins? If successful, the test could open the door to a wave of commercial exploitation of space. Dragon roars toward ISS CNN Explains: Commercial space flight Why SpaceX launch is important SpaceX makes history Tuesday's launch marks the culmination of six years of preparation to bring commercial flights to the space station following the retirement of NASA's space shuttle fleet last year. It's backed by entrepreneur Elon Musk, the founder of PayPal. Stellar week for SpaceX founder Elon Musk "Every bit of adrenaline in my body released at that moment," Musk said of the launch, in a statement released by NASA. "People were really giving it their all. For us, it was like winning the Super Bowl." The rocket launched without a hitch following a flawless countdown that came three days after a faulty valve on one of the rocket's engines forced a last-second postponement. Its solar array panels deployed later Tuesday. At 180 feet tall and 12 feet in diameter, the Falcon 9 rocket is tiny in comparison to the football-field-long Saturn V rockets that carried Apollo spacecraft into orbit. It carries the company's Dragon cargo capsule capable of carrying 13,228 pounds of supplies into orbit, the company said. The capsule is scheduled to perform a series of maneuvers that should bring it within reach of the space station's robotic arm on Friday. If NASA gives the go-ahead, the crew will use the arm to attach the capsule to the station and begin unloading supplies, according to SpaceX. It will remain attached to the station for two weeks before it plummets back into the atmosphere and splashes into the Pacific Ocean off the California coast, according to SpaceX. Read more about the launch on CNN's Light Years blog The cargo manifest for the trip includes 674 pounds of food, clothing and miscellaneous supplies, 46 pounds of supplies for use in science experiments, 271 pounds of cargo bags for use in future flights and 22 pounds of computer equipment. It will return with science experiments, hardware and used gear. Cremated human remains were placed in the second stage of the Falcon and will orbit the Earth. Celestis Inc. charges families $2,995 to launch 1 gram of remains in this type of memorial spaceflight. NASA's Internet tool SkyWatch is providing information on viewing the Dragon from Earth. The cargo capsule will continue its orbit Wednesday as it travels toward the space station. The launch is an important step for NASA and the United States, which currently has no means of independently reaching space. NASA relies on the Russian space agency to ferry U.S. astronauts to orbit. "What's really important is not control, as much as it is the fact that the United States will once again be in the lead, will be providing our own vehicles to take our own astronauts and cargo to the International Space Station," Bolden said. "It's fine to rely on partners, but that's not where the greatest nation in the world wants to be." White House science adviser John P. Holdren also hailed the launch. "Every launch into space is a thrilling event, but this one is especially exciting because it represents the potential of a new era in American spaceflight," he said. "Partnering with U.S. companies such as SpaceX to provide cargo and eventually crew service to the International Space Station is a cornerstone of the president's plan for maintaining America's leadership in space."</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">But no launch pads makes launch costs high, means limited private space ventures</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Citizen Space 12</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">(a project of the United States Rocket Academy, is dedicated to citizen science and citizen space exploration, “Another Vicious Cycle” 9/7/12, [[http://www.citizensinspace.org/2012/09/another-vicious-circle/]] MGE)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">Yesterday, we published an article on how launch pad shortages are causing customers to bundle satellites to reduce the number of launches. Unfortunately, this creates a vicious cycle. The ultimate solution to the launch-pad problem is to transition from expendable launch vehicles to reusable vehicles, which can be prepped quickly and don’t spend a lot of time on the pad. But bundling satellites onto larger rockets reduces the number of launches, which reduces the apparent demand and harms the business case for reusable vehicles. As a result, the pad problem continues. Vicious cycles like this have prevented the development of reusable launch vehicles for 40 years. Right now, NASA is contributing to another vicious cycle in a big way (both figuratively and literally) with the development of the Space Launch System. An ambitious deep-space exploration backed by NASA, could create a market for many hundreds of smalls launches, or it could support the development a superheavy launch system like SLS – but it can’t afford both. At the same, the development of SLS will mean that any exploration hardware NASA develops will be designed to fit on SLS, and impossible to launch on smaller, more economical reusable vehicles which might be developed in the private sector. Thus, the Space Launch System threatens to lock NASA into high launch costs for another generation while depriving private industry of the chance to compete for a market that could bring about a revolution in launch costs. If America is to have a meaningful future in space, we need to break out of these vicious cycles. The solution is not, as some believe, to get the US government to buy a handful of flights to the International Space Station. (There’s a good reason why NASA’s COTS and CCDEV programs are funding expendable vehicles, not reusables.) To make real progress, we need thousands of launches. </span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The ISS causes settlement, and tech progress makes it possible</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hauser and John 9</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;"> (Marty Hauser VP, Washington Operations, Research and Analysis Mariel John Research Analyst, Space Foundation, “The International Space Station: Decision 2015” [[http://www.spacefoundation.org/docs/ISS_Decision_2015.pdf]]MGE)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">One of the most broadly recognized objectives of the ISS is articulated on the NASA Exploration Web site: its “use as a test bed for technology development, demonstration, and problem resolution in the areas of life support, fire safety, power, propulsion, thermal management, etc.” 34 The ISS provides the unique ability to carry out this important task. If the United States intends to undertake long-duration exploration missions, it is essential that NASA collects empirical data on the maintainability and availability of space hardware systems. This can only be accomplished with operating experience, and the ISS offers this capability. NASA has already been able to develop and refine ventilation systems, air filtration systems, water recycling systems, and oxygen producing systems, to name only a few. When hardware components malfunction, the ISS crews have demonstrated creativity, collaboration, and teamwork in order to carry out repairs in orbit. This has led to the development of new repair techniques and has provided valuable lessons on what does and does not work in space. 35 The benefits of having a relatively close “island in space” where systems can be tested are evident in the experience with the Remote Power Control Mechanism. This component, similar to a circuit breaker, is used frequently in space systems. When this component malfunctioned, NASA was able to study the problem and create an improved version. Thousands of replacements were shipped to the ISS and installed. Had this problem occurred on a vehicle destined for the Moon or Mars, studying the problem, creating replacements, and carrying out repairs would have been much more difficult, if not impossible. 36 Research on humans in space is at least as vital as research on space hardware. The ISS offers the only option for research on the effect of long-duration spaceflight on humans. The Vision for Space Exploration mentions the critical role of the ISS to “understanding the effects of space environments on the human body, developing techniques for mitigating these hazards, minimizing the logistical burden of supporting humans far from Earth, and addressing remote medical emergencies.” 37 Extensive research is being done to create countermeasures to the bone and muscle loss astronauts experience during long-duration flights. Research on medical devices and procedures is also essential. Similarly, research and advances in radiation exposure and protection will be vital to the safety of astronauts on future exploration missions. Human factors research associated with long duration space travel is also critically important. For example, research is now being carried out wherein an astronaut keeps journals that will be analyzed to help better understand the effects of living in an isolated and confined environment for extended periods. 38 Research is also being carried out on crew member and crew-ground interactions. Preliminary findings from this experiment indicate that crew members improve in mood and social climate over the course of their missions as they adapt to the new environment. 39 Research carried out on ISS allows the United States to be better prepared for its future exploration endeavors.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Even without the ISS, lower launch costs facilitate settlement</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Collins and Autino 10)</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">Patrick Collins (exceptionally well known and respected authority on space economics, space tourism, reusable launch vehicles, and space solar power), and Adriano Autino (prolific science and space writer/lecturer for leading magazines, journals, and space advocate organizations), Acta Astronautica, July 2010, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace”, accessed August 24, 2011, Volume 66, Issues 11-12,[[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0094576509004512]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">Costs for the development of low-cost orbital passenger transportation systems are of the order of 10 billion Euros [7–9]. Even 10 times this amount would be less than 5 years of space agencies' current budgets. The economic benefits seem sure to greatly outweigh the cost, due to the much larger commercial markets that would be created as a result, in contrast to the very small markets created with 1 trillion Euro-equivalents invested in satellite and launch vehicle manufacturing to date.That is, there seem to be no technical reasons why rapid growth of space travel services could not be realised: the technology has existed for decades, and companies wishing to develop vehicles are hampered by only one obstacle, which is the easiest for governments to solve—lack of funds. Hence the rest of this paper assumes that over coming decades households will start to purchase space ﬂight services, which will grow to reach 5 million passengers/year, out of a worldwide middle-class population of more than 2 billion people, a few decades from now.Starting from today, in order to achieve the scale of activity shown in Fig. 1 over the next 30 years, government funding equivalent to about 10% of space agencies' budgets, or some 2 billion Euros/year would probably suffice to stimulate private investment in reusable orbital passenger vehicle manufacturing and operations. Thereafter most of the funding would come from private companies, just as airline and hotel companies finance their own growth today. 1.1. Implications of launch cost reduction Reducing the cost of space travel to 1% of existing launch vehicles' costs, in combination with the growth of a new consumer service market in space, would greatly aid the growth of many commercial space activities, thereby creating numerous new business opportunities both on Earth and in space. This process is already at work on a small scale in relation to sub-orbital ﬂight services: in addition to a large number of travel companies acting as agents for sub-orbital ﬂights (including JTB, the largest travel company in Japan), Zero-G Corporation supplies parabolic ﬂight services, Bigelow Aerospace is developing the first space hotel, Spaceport Associates advises on spaceport design, Orbital Outfitters Inc. supplies customised ﬂight suits, spaceports are being developed in several places, and several support organisations have been established. All of this activity is occurring some years before the first high-priced services even start, so a much wider range of different space travel-related businesses are sure to grow in future. In the case of orbital services there will be an even wider range of companies with much larger revenues, including companies supplying various services to orbiting hotels. These will include services which terrestrial hotels typically purchase today, such as catering, cleaning, accounting, entertainment, plus such additional services as space-based window maintenance, air supply, solargenerated electricity, water supply, waste disposal services, and others. As activities in orbit expand progressively, they could grow to include use of materials extracted from the Moon and near-Earth asteroids and cometoids, of which the potential has been researched for several decades [11]. Due to the much higher cost of activities in orbit than on the surface of the Earth, orbiting hotels seem likely to create the first market for non-terrestrial materials like ice, water, oxygen and hydrogen, as discussed in [12]. Another potentially major space-based industry, which has been held back for 40 years by high launch costs, is the supply of solar power from space to Earth. Although the potential of this system was recognised in studies by the US Department of Energy in the late 1970s, and confirmed in the 1990s [13], total funding has remained minimal. However, progress could be rapid once launch costs fall to a few percent of ELV costs [14]. Hence, as passenger space travel activities expand to large scale, a growing range of manufacturing activities in Earth orbit, on the lunar surface and elsewhere could develop spontaneously, driven by entrepreneurial effort to exploit new business opportunities opened up by the growth of new commercial markets in Earth orbit. These will in turn open the door to the large-scale space activities described in [11]. The growth of orbital passenger space travel to several million passengers/year over a few decades would represent a direct commercial turnover of some 100 billion Euros/year. In such a scenario of rapid growth, annual investment in new facilities, research and development might add the same amount again. Indeed, having reached such a scale, there would be no foreseeable limit to further growth—in particular it need not be limited, like terrestrial activities, by environmental or political constraints. Quite apart from the numerous opportunities which such a scenario offers for growth of the space industry, it also offers great potential benefits for humanity, in several different fields, as discussed in turn in the following. 2. Employment In most countries, most of the population do not have economically significant land holdings, and so employment is the economic basis of social life, providing income and enabling people to have stable family lives. The high level of unemployment in most countries today is therefore not only wasteful, it also causes widespread poverty and unhappiness, and is socially damaging, creating further problems for the future. One reason for investing in the development of passenger space travel, therefore, is that it could create major new fields of employment, capable of growing as far into the future as we can see. As of 2001, the hotel, catering and tourism sector was estimated to employ 60 million people world-wide, or 3% of the global workforce, and 6% of Europeans [15]. Hence we can estimate that the passenger air travel industry, including airlines, airports, hotels and other tourismrelated work, indirectly employs 10–20 times the number of people employed in aircraft manufacturing alone. Likewise, passenger space travel services could presumably create employment many times that in launch vehicle manufacturing—in vehicle operations and maintenance, at spaceports, in orbiting hotels, in many companies supplying these, in services such as staff training, certification and insurance, and in a growing range of related businesses. This possibility is particularly valuable because high unemployment, both in richer and poorer countries, has been the major economic problem throughout the world for decades. Consequently the growth of such a major new market for advanced aerospace technology and services seems highly desirable, as discussed further in [16]. By contrast, in recent years employment in the traditional space industry in USA and Europe has been shrinking fast: a 2003 report by the US Federal Aviation Administration stated that employment in launch vehicle manufacturing and services fell from 28,617 in 1999 to 4828 in 2002, while employment in satellite manufacturing fell from 57,372 to 31,262 [17]. Likewise, European space industry employment fell by 20% from 1995 to 2005; the major space engineering company Astrium cut 3300 staff from 2003 through 2006; and in 2005 alone, European prime contractors cut 13.5% of their staff or some 2400 people [18]. Unfortunately, the probability of space industry employment recovering soon is low, because satellite manufacturing and launch services face both low demand and rapidly growing competition from India and China, where costs are significantly lower. It is therefore positively bizarre that government policy-makers have declined to even discuss the subject of investing in the development of passenger space travel services, and have permitted no significant investment to date out of the nearly 20 billion Euro-equivalents which space agencies spend every year! This is despite the very positive 1998 NASA report "General Public Space Travel and Tourism" [19], and the NASA-funded 2002 "ASCENT" study referred to above [2,3]. In the capitalist system, companies compete to reduce costs since this directly increases their profits. However, reducing the number of employees through improving productivity raises unemployment, except to the extent that new jobs are created in new and growing industries. In an economy with a lack of new industries, increasing so-called "economic efficiency" creates unemployment, which is a social cost. In this situation, governments concerned for public welfare should either increase the rate of creation of new industries, and/or slow the elimination of jobs, at least until the growth of new industries revives, or other desirable counter-measures, such as new social arrangements, are introduced. These may include more leisure time, job-sharing, and other policies designed to prevent the growth of a permanent "under-class" of unemployed and "working poor"—a development which would pose a major threat to western civilisation. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Space settlement solves risk of endless resource wars and every scenario for extinction</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Collins and Autino 10)</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">Patrick Collins (exceptionally well known and respected authority on space economics, space tourism, reusable launch vehicles, and space solar power), and Adriano Autino (prolific science and space writer/lecturer for leading magazines, journals, and space advocate organizations), Acta Astronautica, July 2010, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace”, accessed August 24, 2011, Volume 66, Issues 11-12,[[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0094576509004512]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">The major source of social friction, including international friction, has surely always been unequal access to resources. People ﬁght to control the valuable resources on and under the land, and in and under the sea. The natural resources of Earth are limited in quantity, and economically accessible resources even more so. As the population grows, and demand grows for a higher material standard of living, industrial activity grows exponentially. The threat of resources becoming scarce has led to the concept of ‘‘Resource Wars’’. Having begun long ago with wars to control the gold and diamonds of Africa and South America, and oil in the Middle East, the current phase is at centre stage of world events today [37]. A particular danger of ‘‘resource wars’’ is that, if the general public can be persuaded to support them, they may become impossible to stop as resources become increasingly scarce. Many commentators have noted the similarity of the language of US and UK government advocates of ‘‘war on terror’’ to the language of the novel ‘‘1984’’ which describes a dystopian future of endless, fraudulent war in which citizens are reduced to slaves. 7.1. Expansion into near-Earth space is the only alternative to endless ‘‘resource wars’’ As an alternative to the ‘‘resource wars’’ already devastating many countries today, opening access to the unlimited resources of near-Earth space could clearly facilitate world peace and security. The US National Security Space Ofﬁce, at the start of its report on the potential of space-based solar power (SSP) published in early 2007, stated: ‘‘Expanding human populations and declining natural resources are potential sources of local and strategic conﬂict in the 21st Century, and many see energy as the foremost threat to national security’’ [38]. The report ended by encouraging urgent research on the feasibility of SSP: ‘‘Considering the timescales that are involved, and the exponential growth of population and resource pressures within that same strategic period, it is imperative that this work for ‘‘drilling up’’ vs. drilling down for energy security begins immediately’’ [38]. Although the use of extra-terrestrial resources on a substantial scale may still be some decades away, it is important to recognise that simply acknowledging its feasibility using known technology is the surest way of ending the threat of resource wars. That is, if it is assumed that the resources available for human use are limited to those on Earth, then it can be argued that resource wars are inescapable [22,37]. If, by contrast, it is assumed that the resources of space are economically accessible, this not only eliminates the need for resource wars, it can also preserve the beneﬁts of civilisation which are being eroded today by ‘‘resource war-mongers’’, most notably the governments of the ‘‘Anglo-Saxon’’ countries and their ‘‘neo-con’’ advisers. It is also worth noting that the $1 trillion that these have already committed to wars in the Middle-East in the 21st century is orders of magnitude more than the public investment needed to aid companies sufﬁciently to start the commercial use of space resources. Industrial and ﬁnancial groups which proﬁt from monopolistic control of terrestrial supplies of various natural resources, like those which proﬁt from wars, have an economic interest in protecting their proﬁtable situation. However, these groups’ continuing proﬁts are justiﬁed neither by capitalism nor by democracy: they could be preserved only by maintaining the pretence that use of space resources is not feasible, and by preventing the development of low-cost space travel. Once the feasibility of low-cost space travel is understood, ‘‘resource wars’’ are clearly foolish as well as tragic. A visiting extra-terrestrial would be pityingly amused at the foolish antics of homo sapiens using longrange rockets to ﬁght each other over dwindling terrestrial resources—rather than using the same rockets to travel in space and have the use of all the resources they need! 7.2. High return in safety from extra-terrestrial settlement Investment in low-cost orbital access and other space infrastructure will facilitate the establishment of settlements on the Moon, Mars, asteroids and in man-made space structures. In the ﬁrst phase, development of new regulatory infrastructure in various Earth orbits, including property/usufruct rights, real estate, mortgage ﬁnancing and insurance, trafﬁc management, pilotage, policing and other services will enable the population living in Earth orbits to grow very large. Such activities aimed at making near-Earth space habitable are the logical extension of humans’ historical spread over the surface of the Earth. As trade spreads through near-Earth space, settlements are likely to follow, of which the inhabitants will add to the wealth of different cultures which humans have created in the many different environments in which they live. Success of such extra-terrestrial settlements will have the additional beneﬁt of reduc[e]ing the danger of human extinction due to planet-wide or cosmic accidents [27]. These horrors include both man-made disasters such as nuclear war, plagues or growing pollution, and natural disasters such as super-volcanoes or asteroid impact. It is hard to think of any objective that is more important than preserving peace. Weapons developed in recent decades are so destructive, and have such horriﬁc, long-term side-effects that their use should be discouraged as strongly as possible by the international community. Hence, reducing the incentive to use these weapons by rapidly developing the ability to use space-based resources on a large scale is surely equally important [11,16]. The achievement of this depends on low space travel costs which, at the present time, appear to be achievable only through the development of a vigorous space tourism industry. 8. Summary As discussed above, if space travel services had started during the 1950s, the space industry would be enormously more developed than it is today. Hence the failure to develop passenger space travel has seriously distorted the path taken by humans’ technological and economic development since WW2, away from the path which would have been followed if capitalism and democracy operated as intended. Technological know-how which could have been used to supply services which are known to be very popular with a large proportion of the population has not been used for that purpose, while waste and suffering due to the unemployment and environmental damage caused by the resulting lack of new industrial opportunities have increased. In response, policies should be implemented urgently to correct this error, and to catch up with the possibilities for industrial and economic growth that have been ignored for so long. This policy renewal is urgent because of the growing dangers of unemployment, economic stagnation, environmental pollution, educational and cultural decline, resource wars and loss of civil liberties which face civilisation today. In order to achieve the necessary progress there is a particular need for collaboration between those working in the two ﬁelds of civil aviation and civil space. Although the word ‘‘aerospace’’ is widely used, it is largely a misnomer since these two ﬁelds are in practice quite separate. True ‘‘aerospace’’ collaboration to realise passenger space travel will develop the wonderful profusion of possibilities outlined above. 8.1. Heaven or hell on Earth? As discussed above, the claim that the Earth’s resources are running out is used to justify wars which may never end: present-day rhetoric about ‘‘the long war’’ or ‘‘100 years war’’ in Iraq and Afghanistan are current examples. If political leaders do not change their viewpoint, the recent aggression by the rich ‘‘Anglo-Saxon’’ countries, and their cutting back of traditional civil liberties, are ominous for the future. However, this ‘‘hellish’’ vision of endless war is based on an assumption about a single number—the future cost of travel to orbit—about which a different assumption leads to a ‘‘heavenly’’ vision of peace and ever-rising living standards for everyone. If this cost stays above 10,000 Euros/kg, where it has been unchanged for nearly 50 years, the prospects for humanity are bleak. But if humans make the necessary effort, and use the tiny amount of resources needed to develop vehicles for passenger space travel, then this cost will fall to 100 Euros/kg, the use of extra-terrestrial resources will become economic, and arguments for resource wars will evaporate entirely. The main reason why this has not yet happened seems to be lack of understanding of the myriad opportunities by investors and policy-makers. Now that the potential to catch up half a century of delay in the growth of space travel is becoming understood, continuing to spend 20 billion Euro-equivalents/year on government space activities, while continuing to invest nothing in developing passenger space travel, would be a gross failure of economic policy, and strongly contrary to the economic and social interests of the public. Correcting this error, even after such a costly delay, will ameliorate many problems in the world today. As this policy error is corrected, and investment in proﬁtable space projects grows rapidly in coming years, we can look forward to a growing world-wide boom. Viewed as a whole, humans’ industrial activities have been seriously underperforming for decades, due to the failure to exploit these immensely promising ﬁelds of activity. The tens of thousands of unemployed space engineers in Russia, America and Europe alone are a huge waste. The potential manpower in rapidly developing India and China is clearly vast. The hundreds of millions of disappointed young people who have been taught that they cannot travel in space are another enormous wasted resource. We do not know for certain when the above scenario will be realised. However, it could have such enormous value that considerable expenditure is justiﬁed in order to study its feasibility in detail [5]. At the very least, vigorous investment by both private and public sectors in a range of different sub-orbital passenger vehicle projects and related businesses is highly desirable. Fortunately, the ambitious and rapid investment by the Indian and Chinese governments in growing space capabilities may ﬁnally jolt the space industries of Russia, America, Europe and Japan out of their long economic stagnation, and induce them to apply their accumulated know-how to economically valuable activities—notably supplying widely popular travel services to the general public.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A reduction of the risk of extinction by 1 millionth of 1 percent outweighs</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bostrom 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;"> (Nick, Oxford Martin School & Faculty of Philosophy, 2011, “The Concept of Existential Risk” [[http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html]] MGE)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">Holding probability constant, risks become more serious as we move toward the upper-right region of figure 2. For any fixed probability, existential risks are thus more serious than other risk categories. But just how much more serious might not be intuitively obvious. One might think we could get a grip on how bad an existential catastrophe would be by considering some of the worst historical disasters we can think of—such as the two world wars, the Spanish flu pandemic, or the Holocaust—and then imagining something just a bit worse. Yet if we look at global population statistics over time, we find that these horrible events of the past century fail to register (figure 3). Figure 3: World population over the last century. Calamities such as the Spanish flu pandemic, the two world wars, and the Holocaust scarcely register. (If one stares hard at the graph, one can perhaps just barely make out a slight temporary reduction in the rate of growth of the world population during these events.) But even this reflection fails to bring out the seriousness of existential risk. What makes existential catastrophes especially bad is not that they would show up robustly on a plot like the one in figure 3, causing a precipitous drop in world population or average quality of life. Instead, their significance lies primarily in the fact that they would destroy the future. The philosopher Derek Parfit made a similar point with the following thought experiment: I believe that if we destroy mankind, as we now can, this outcome will be much worse than most people think. Compare three outcomes: (1) Peace. (2) A nuclear war that kills 99% of the world’s existing population. (3) A nuclear war that kills 100%. (2) would be worse than (1), and (3) would be worse than (2). Which is the greater of these two differences? Most people believe that the greater difference is between (1) and (2). I believe that the difference between (2) and (3) is very much greater. … The Earth will remain habitable for at least another billion years. Civilization began only a few thousand years ago. If we do not destroy mankind, these few thousand years may be only a tiny fraction of the whole of civilized human history. The difference between (2) and (3) may thus be the difference between this tiny fraction and all of the rest of this history. If we compare this possible history to a day, what has occurred so far is only a fraction of a second. (10: 453-454) To calculate the loss associated with an existential catastrophe, we must consider how much value would come to exist in its absence. It turns out that the ultimate potential for Earth-originating intelligent life is literally astronomical. One gets a large number even if one confines one’s consideration to the potential for biological human beings living on Earth. If we suppose with Parfit that our planet will remain habitable for at least another billion years, and we assume that at least one billion people could live on it sustainably, then the potential exist for at least 1018 human lives. These lives could also be considerably better than the average contemporary human life, which is so often marred by disease, poverty, injustice, and various biological limitations that could be partly overcome through continuing technological and moral progress. To calculate the loss associated with an existential catastrophe, we must consider how much value would come to exist in its absence. It turns out that the ultimate potential for Earth-originating intelligent life is literally astronomical. One gets a large number even if one confines one’s consideration to the potential for biological human beings living on Earth. If we suppose with Parfit that our planet will remain habitable for at least another billion years, and we assume that at least one billion people could live on it sustainably, then the potential exist for at least 10^18 human lives. These lives could also be considerably better than the average contemporary human life, which is so often marred by disease, poverty, injustice, and various biological limitations that could be partly overcome through continuing technological and moral progress. However, the relevant figure is not how many people could live on Earth but how many descendants we could have in total. One lower bound of the number of biological human life-years in the future accessible universe (based on current cosmological estimates) is 10^34 years.[10] Another estimate, which assumes that future minds will be mainly implemented in computational hardware instead of biological neuronal wetware, produces a lower bound of 10^54 human-brain-emulation subjective life-years (or 10^71 basic computational operations).(4)[11] If we make the less conservative assumption that future civilizations could eventually press close to the absolute bounds of known physics (using some as yet unimagined technology), we get radically higher estimates of the amount of computation and memory storage that is achievable and thus of the number of years of subjective experience that could be realized.[12] Even if we use the most conservative of these estimates, which entirely ignores the possibility of space colonization and software minds, we find that the expected loss of an existential catastrophe is greater than the value of 10^18 human lives. This implies that the expected value of reducing existential risk by a mere one millionth of one percentage point is at least ten times the value of a billion human lives. The more technologically comprehensive estimate of 1054 human-brain-emulation subjective life-years (or 1052 lives of ordinary length) makes the same point even more starkly. Even if we give this allegedly lower bound on the cumulative output potential of a technologically mature civilization a mere 1% chance of being correct, we find that the expected value of reducing existential risk by a mere one billionth of one billionth of one percentage point is worth a hundred billion times as much as a billion human lives. One might consequently argue that even the tiniest reduction of existential risk has an expected value greater than that of the definite provision of any “ordinary” good, such as the direct benefit of saving 1 billion lives. And, further, that the absolute value of the indirect effect of saving 1 billion lives on the total cumulative amount of existential risk—positive or negative—is almost certainly larger than the positive value of the direct benefit of such an action.[13] </span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan stimulates disease research, also solves space disease</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Koebler 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;"> (Jason, science and technology reporter for U.S. News & World Report, “Space: The New Frontier For Medical Breakthroughs” June 25, 2012, [[http://www.usnews.com/news/articles/2012/06/25/space-the-new-frontier-for-medical-breakthroughs_print.html]]MGE)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">Deadly bacteria that have spent time in space are already on Earth—but instead of killing humans, they might just save lives. Scientists are using bacteria cultivated on the International Space Station to help develop vaccines that experts say could revolutionize the medical field. In 1998, researchers began studying how microbes such as bacteria, viruses, fungi, and yeast behaved in space because NASA wanted to be able to keep astronauts safe in the closed space station environment. What they found, specifically with certain types of bacteria, was surprising, says Tara Ruttley, NASA's associate program scientist for the International Space Station. [See Spectacular Snapshots of Space] "Bacteria can either respond in microgravity by sitting there and doing nothing, or they can become more aggressive and virulent," meaning they reproduce and evolve to cause disease more readily, she says. But that property of bacteria allows scientists to study exactly why certain bacteria, such as salmonella and MRSA, make people sick. Scientists aren't exactly sure why certain bacteria become more virulent in space, but Ruttley says they believe it might be a stress response to being put into a low-gravity environment. But whatever the reason, studying bacteria that have spent time in space can make it easier for scientists to develop defenses. "If you know the gene that makes bacteria more aggressive, you can build a defense against it," she says. Last week, William Gerstenmaier, NASA's head of human explorations and operations, told the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation that medical discoveries and vaccines developed on the International Space Station could help the United States "create a new economy based on space-based research." "It's like when we went to Africa to look for new plant species to use for drugs," he said. "We can create a new industry with this." [NASA: Private U.S. Spacecraft Could Save Agency Millions] Cheryl Nickerson and Roy Curtiss, professors at Arizona State University's Biodesign Institute, are leading the charge. They are studying salmonella that has spent time in space, in an attempt to "turn it from foe to friend" by crippling the disease-causing genes and replacing them with ones that protect against Streptococcus pneumoniae, the bacteria that causes meningitis, pneumonia, and many other diseases. In space, "we can unveil many of [salmonella's] responses that are happening here on earth but are masked by gravity," Nickerson says. "We've been able to identify missing info and use the new information to understand how [salmonella] causes disease … what you have now is a discovery platform that … can be used to create new vaccine technologies." Nickerson and Curtiss also believe that a vaccine developed on Earth, when flown to space, could become more potent if it spends time in orbit. ASU's institute recently finished an experiment in which they kept a strain of their salmonella-based vaccine in space for six weeks and compared it with the same vaccine strain developed on Earth. "It's too early to give any updates, but we have a lot of data we're very excitedly digging into as we speak," she says. Although her initial experiments have been promising, Nickerson says people need to be wary of getting too far ahead of themselves—she says it'll likely be 8-10 years before her vaccine or any others developed using bacteria that spent time in space are ready for commercial sale. [Stolen NASA Laptop Contained International Space Station Codes] "I've heard people promise a translational product, and that's not what a responsible scientist will do. I can't guarantee a whole lot of things," she says. "I believe, but cannot guarantee that we're going to have next-generation breakthroughs. I think it'll happen in infectious disease, cancer, aging, and visual disorders … but we have to be careful about making claims." But many companies are already banking on the promise of developing medical breakthroughs on the International Space Station. Ruttley says NASA's research on the human body has already led to greater understanding about bone, muscle, and heart atrophy, vision impairments, and more. Mike Gold, director of D.C. operations and business growth at Bigelow Aerospace, a company developing commercial spaceflight solutions, says that private industry's ability to go to space will speed up research. "We're underestimating the impact of [microgravity research and development] on our economy," he told the Senate panel last week, adding that researchers at Johns Hopkins University are interested in developing cancer drugs in space and other companies are studying treatments for muscular dystrophy and osteoporosis based on space research. "The companies and countries that have an expertise in microgravity manufacturing will be the economic giants of the future, and the first place we're going to see that is in pharmaceuticals," he told U.S. News in a separate interview. But he says researchers need to be able to send experiments to space more often before any treatments become a reality. "Scientists need to be able to repeat an experiment a number of times," he says. "We can't fly an experiment once and then wait five years to fly it again. To become a reality, we need to allow researchers to fly their experiments numerous times to get results." </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Extinction</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Steinbrunner 98</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;"> – Senior fellow at the Brookings institute</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">(John D. Steinbruner, “Biological Weapons: A Plague Upon All Houses,” FOREIGN POLICY n. 109, Winter 1997/1998, pp. 85-96, ASP.)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">It is a considerable comfort and undoubtedly a key to our survival that, so far, the main lines of defense against this threat have not depended on explicit policies or organized efforts. In the long course of evolution, the human body has developed physical barriers and a biochemical immune system whose sophistication and effectiveness exceed anything we could design or as yet even fully understand. But evolution is a sword that cuts both ways: New diseases emerge, while old diseases mutate and adapt. Throughout history, there have been epidemics during which human immunity has broken down on an epic scale. An infectious agent believed to have been the plague bacterium killed an estimated 20 million people over a four-year period in the fourteenth century, including nearly one-quarter of Western Europe's population at the time. Since its recognized appearance in 1981, some 20 variations of the HIV virus have infected an estimated 29.4 million worldwide, with 1.5 million people currently dying of AIDS each year. Malaria, tuberculosis, and cholera - once thought to be under control - are now making a comeback. As we enter the twenty-first century, changing conditions have enhanced the potential for widespread contagion. The rapid growth rate of the total world population, the unprecedented freedom of movement across international borders, and scientific advances that expand the capability for the deliberate manipulation of pathogens are all cause for worry that the problem might be greater in the future than it has ever been in the past. The threat of infectious pathogens is not just an issue of public health, but a fundamental security problem for the species as a whole.</span>

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Spaceports-1AC ISS Version-Leadership]]Leadership</span>==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Spaceflight capabilities are failing, we need an incentive for companies to develop to become a space industrial power</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Miller 12</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">(Charles, “How the US can become a next generation space industrial power” November 5, 2012, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/2184/1]] MGE)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">Point 1: America must recapture world leadership in commercial space transportation. We are now fourth in the world in commercial space transportation, behind Russia, Europe, and Ukraine. China and India are coming on fast. This is completely unacceptable. The loss of these markets is an economic tragedy. With a radical reduction in launch costs, and high flight rates, we are a next generation space industrial power. Without it, we are not. If this was only about jobs and profits, I would say let the markets decide. But this is a national security problem. Our national security is harmed because US launch vehicles are more expensive, and less reliable, because they fly less often. Our national security is harmed because of the hollowing out of the space industrial base. Our national security is harmed when it depends on Russian rocket engines. Becoming number one again in commercial space transportation is an easy first goal. We may already be on a path to achieve this goal because of the American entrepreneurial spirit. But we need to declare this an important goal, and take effective action to see it through. Point 2: We should set the national goal of low-cost, reliable access to space—an order of magnitude reduction in cost, and an order of magnitude increase in reliability. Low-cost access is a critical national and economic /security issue. It is the one key point to becoming a Next Generation Space Industrial Power. It is the one key point to expanding human civilization across the solar system. With a radical reduction in launch costs, and high flight rates, we are a next generation space industrial power. Without it, we are not. Whichever country achieves low-cost and reliable access to space first will start a virtuous cycle that will deliver tremendous national and economic security benefits. This nation will dominate the carrying trade, which will create new markets, which will drive new technologies and new capabilities, which will increase flight rates and lower launch costs, which will allow us to expand into more new markets and so on. Low-cost access is Mahanian theory in action. At NASA, in the summer of 2011, a team I led that included all mission directorates and all centers unequivocally concluded that low-cost and reliable access to space was the number one priority from among all emerging commercial space opportunities. This NASA team came to two other critical conclusions: American industry can build a two-stage reusable launch vehicles with today's technology. Technology was the primary barrier forty years ago. Technology is not the primary barrier today. The primary problem is that we can’t close a traditional business case. The flight rate from existing markets does not justify the investment. In another business, private risk-taking capital would take over at this point, and make the investment. But the huge size of the required investment, combined with the speculative nature of the future markets, makes the risks far too high for any private investor. This has much in common with the Transcontinental Railroad, which could not be justified as a pure commercial investment. Both are examples of market failure at the national strategic level. The key to closing the business case is not for government to take over design and development. It is not loan guarantees. It is not a multibillion-dollar 2nd Generation RLV technology program. The key is to stimulate on the demand side, to create incentives that drive up the flight rate and close the business case for reusable systems. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">It fuels perception of decline - lack of a strong civil space commitment kills credibility and cooperation</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Stone 11)</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">Christopher Stone (Strategy Integration Analyst at National Guard Bureau, Vice President at Falcon Research, Inc, Space Strategy Planner at United States Air Force), The Space Review (Space think tank), March 14, 2011, "American leadership in space: leadership through capability", accessed August 28, 2011, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1797/1]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">Recently, Lou Friedman wrote a piece where he articulated his view on what American leadership in space means to many and what it means to him (see “American leadership”, The Space Review, February 14, 2011). I would like to respond by providing some context that I think is lacking from the discussion. The United States’ goal should be leadership through spacefaring capabilities, in all sectors. First, let me start by saying that I agree with Mr. Friedman’s assertion that “American leadership is a phrase we hear bandied about a lot in political circles in the United States, as well as in many space policy discussions.” I have been at many space forums in my career where I’ve heard the phrase used by speakers of various backgrounds, political ideologies, and nation. Like Mr. Friedman states, “it has many different meanings, most derived from cultural or political biases, some of them contradictory”. This is true: many nations, as well as organizations and individuals worldwide, have different preferences and views as to what American leadership in space is, and/or what it should be. He also concludes that paragraph by stating that American leadership in space could also be viewed as “synonymous with American… hegemony”. I again will agree that some people within the United Stats and elsewhere have this view toward American leadership. However, just because people believe certain viewpoints regarding American leadership does not mean that those views are accurate assessments or definitions of what actions demonstrate US leadership in the space medium. When it comes to space exploration and development, including national security space and commercial, I would disagree somewhat with Mr. Friedman’s assertion that space is “often” overlooked in “foreign relations and geopolitical strategies”. My contention is that while space is indeed overlooked in national grand geopolitical strategies by many in national leadership, space is used as a tool for foreign policy and relations more often than not. In fact, I will say that the US space program has become less of an effort for the advancement of US space power and exploration, and is used more as a foreign policy tool to “shape” the strategic environment to what President Obama referred to in his National Security Strategy as “The World We Seek”. Using space to shape the strategic environment is not a bad thing in and of itself. What concerns me with this form of “shaping” is that we appear to have changed the definition of American leadership as a nation away from the traditional sense of the word. Some seem to want to base our future national foundations in space using the important international collaboration piece as the starting point. Traditional national leadership would start by advancing United States’ space power capabilities and strategies first, then proceed toward shaping the international environment through allied cooperation efforts. The United States’ goal should be leadership through spacefaring capabilities, in all sectors. Achieving and maintaining such leadership through capability will allow for increased space security and opportunities for all and for America to lead the international space community by both technological and political example. As other nations pursue excellence in space, we should take our responsibilities seriously, both from a national capability standpoint, and as country who desires expanded international engagement in space. The world has recognized America as the leaders in space because it demonstrated technological advancement by the Apollo lunar landings, our deep space exploration probes to the outer planets, and deploying national security space missions. We did not become the recognized leaders in astronautics and space technology because we decided to fund billions into research programs with no firm budgetary commitment or attainable goals. We did it because we made a national level decision to do each of them, stuck with it, and achieved exceptional things in manned and unmanned spaceflight. We have allowed ourselves to drift from this traditional strategic definition of leadership in space exploration, rapidly becoming participants in spaceflight rather than the leader of the global space community. One example is shutting down the space shuttle program without a viable domestic spacecraft chosen and funded to commence operations upon retirement of the fleet. We are paying millions to rely on Russia to ferry our astronauts to an International Space Station that US taxpayers paid the lion’s share of the cost of construction. Why would we, as United States citizens and space advocates, settle for this? The current debate on commercial crew and cargo as the stopgap between shuttle and whatever comes next could and hopefully will provide some new and exciting solutions to this particular issue. However, we need to made a decision sooner rather than later. Finally, one other issue that concerns me is the view of the world “hegemony” or “superiority” as dirty words. Some seem to view these words used in policy statements or speeches as a direct threat. In my view, each nation (should they desire) should have freedom of access to space for the purpose of advancing their “security, prestige and wealth” through exploration like we do. However, to maintain leadership in the space environment, space superiority is a worthy and necessary byproduct of the traditional leadership model. If your nation is the leader in space, it would pursue and maintain superiority in their mission sets and capabilities. In my opinion, space superiority does not imply a wall of orbital weapons preventing other nations from access to space, nor does it preclude international cooperation among friendly nations. Rather, it indicates a desire as a country to achieve its goals for national security, prestige, and economic prosperity for its people, and to be known as the best in the world with regards to space technology and astronautics. I can assure you that many other nations with aggressive space programs, like ours traditionally has been, desire the same prestige of being the best at some, if not all, parts of the space pie. Space has been characterized recently as “congested, contested, and competitive”; the quest for excellence is just one part of international space competition that, in my view, is a good and healthy thing. As other nations pursue excellence in space, we should take our responsibilities seriously, both from a national capability standpoint, and as country who desires expanded international engagement in space. If America wants to retain its true leadership in space, it must approach its space programs as the advancement of its national “security, prestige and wealth” by maintaining its edge in spaceflight capabilities and use those demonstrated talents to advance international prestige and influence in the space community. These energies and influence can be channeled to create the international space coalitions of the future that many desire and benefit mankind as well as America. Leadership will require sound, long-range exploration strategies with national and international political will behind it. American leadership in space is not a choice. It is a requirement if we are to truly lead the world into space with programs and objectives “worthy of a great nation”.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Credibility matters - commitment to space is the barometer by which other countries judge our hegemony</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Dittmar 12)</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">Mary Lynne Dittmar (Dr., the President and CEO of Dittmar Associates, Inc. She is a senior consultant to NASA and to the space industry, specializing in strategic planning, space policy, strategic communications, commercialization, and public/private partnerships), The Space Review, January 3, 2012, "An enduring value proposition for NASA human spaceflight (part 5)", accessed May 16, 2012, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1998/1]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">Whether or not the US HSF program is actually in retreat depends on one’s point of view. But, as long as the US is not flying humans into space, that point of view is largely irrelevant. What matters in this discussion is the point of view of other nations—and from where they sit, the US suffers from diminished prestige relative to earlier times. It is also seen as a labile partner in cooperative HSF efforts.1 The global response to the release of China’s white paper—evident within 24 hours—suggests there is widespread understanding of (and in some quarters, concern about) at least some of the implications therein. The paper details a methodical approach that builds on what has come before.2 By contrast, when looking to the US for leadership in space, for almost two years other nations have borne witness to a community and a government stuck in a squabble about the merits of “commercial spaceflight” vs. “government spaceflight” or about “Shuttle” vs. “future programs”, or even about “whether government should be involved in spaceflight at all,” a point of view that can only be seriously considered if one is willing to dismiss foreign policy as part of the bargain. Other valuable components of the Obama Administration’s space policy, such as technology development and a focus on capabilities—also with positive implications for soft power—are generally lost in the noise. Seen from a national security perspective, these arguments are mostly spurious. The roles played by NASA and commercial spaceflight providers are not the same. From the point of view of other nations, there is a major policy statement and a variety of implications inherent in a government commitment to a national space program (NASA), particularly HSF: the very Value Proposition (VP) this series has focused on. The same VP does not apply to commercial efforts. They have Value Propositions of their own. A key issue underlying these struggles is lack of clarity within the government as to how—or perhaps if—the United States will balance capabilities and responsibilities resident in private and public civil space sectors, in the interests of national security. In the opinion of the author, this was a major reason for Congressional resistance to the policy shift brought forward by the Obama Administration, although certainly not the only one.3 Pundits have been quick to point to jobs, “pork”, and re-election—and only a naïve observer would disregard those realities—but the hole in US space policy suddenly revealed by the joint occurrence of the end of the Space Shuttle program, the cancellation of Constellation, and the shift to new vendors and procurement processes was not caused by the change in policy, it culminated in it.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Leadership leads to liberal cooperation - prevents nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Zhang and Shi 11)</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">Yuhan Zhang (researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C.), and Lin Shi (from Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C.), East Asia Forum, January 22, 2011, “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry”, accessed May 16, 2011, [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">Over the past two decades, no other state has had the ability to seriously challenge the US military. Under these circumstances, motivated by both opportunity and fear, many actors have bandwagoned with US hegemony and accepted a subordinate role. Canada, most of Western Europe, India, Japan, South Korea, Australia, Singapore and the Philippines have all joined the US, creating a status quo that has tended to mute great power conflicts. However, as the hegemony that drew these powers together withers, so will the pulling power behind the US alliance. The result will be an international order where power is more diffuse, American interests and influence can be more readily challenged, and conflicts or wars may be harder to avoid. As history attests, power decline and redistribution result in military confrontation. For example, in the late 19th century America’s emergence as a regional power saw it launch its first overseas war of conquest towards Spain. By the turn of the 20th century, accompanying the increase in US power and waning of British power, the American Navy had begun to challenge the notion that Britain ‘rules the waves.’ Such a notion would eventually see the US attain the status of sole guardians of the Western Hemisphere’s security to become the order-creating Leviathan shaping the international system with democracy and rule of law. Defining this US-centred system are three key characteristics: enforcement of property rights, constraints on the actions of powerful individuals and groups and some degree of equal opportunities for broad segments of society. As a result of such political stability, free markets, liberal trade and flexible financial mechanisms have appeared. And, with this, many countries have sought opportunities to enter this system, proliferating stable and cooperative relations. However, what will happen to these advances as America’s influence declines? Given that America’s authority, although sullied at times, has benefited people across much of Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, the Balkans, as well as parts of Africa and, quite extensively, Asia, the answer to this question could affect global society in a profoundly detrimental way. Public imagination and academia have anticipated that a post-hegemonic world would return to the problems of the 1930s: regional blocs, trade conflicts and strategic rivalry. Furthermore, multilateral institutions such as the IMF, the World Bank or the WTO might give way to regional organisations. For example, Europe and East Asia would each step forward to fill the vacuum left by Washington’s withering leadership to pursue their own visions of regional political and economic orders. Free markets would become more politicised — and, well, less free — and major powers would compete for supremacy. Additionally, such power plays have historically possessed a zero-sum element. In the late 1960s and 1970s, US economic power declined relative to the rise of the Japanese and Western European economies, with the US dollar also becoming less attractive. And, as American power eroded, so did international regimes (such as the Bretton Woods System in 1973).</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2Nd internal link is cooperation – spaceport development encourages international law, cooperation and leadership</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nucci and Gabrynowicz 11</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">Mária Zulick Nucci is an attorney, licensed to practice in Pennsylvania and New Jersey. She also is admitted in several federal jurisdictions. Her practice focuses on federal and state appellate litigation. Joanne Irene Gabrynowicz is the Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Space Law; professor of space law and remote sensing law; Director of the National Center for Remote Sensing, Air, and Space Law at the University of Mississippi School of Law; and a Director of the International Institute of Space Law. She can be contacted at jgabryno@ olemiss.edu. 10 The Issue Is: What Is a Spaceport? The Air & Space Lawyer Volume 24, No. 1, 2011 ([[http://www.americanbar.org/content/dam/aba/migrated/Forums/Airspace/MO/MemberDocuments/air_space_24_1.authcheckdam.pdf]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">Initially, states are analogizing spaceports to airports, which can be reasonable, and relationships among local, state, and federal authorities can be forged using the airport model. As spaceports develop, however, it may become necessary to consider factors that are inapplicable to airports, chief among which is Article VI of the Outer Space Treaty, which makes the U.S. government responsible for supervising all U.S. nongovernmental space actors.21 As a result, the federal government may increasingly need to supervise spaceport operations more closely than it does traditional airports, and may need to invoke the constitutional doctrine of preemption to ensure that the United States meets its obligations under that treaty.22 The Future of the Future for Spaceports In August 2009, the U.S. Department of Transportation created the Commercial Space Transportation Center of Excellence, led by New Mexico State University, as part of the FAA’s Air Transportation Centers of Excellence Program.23 Under the program, the FAA works with universities and members of the aviation industry with the goal of increasing the safety and efficiency of the air transportation system. Because commercial space flight is not confined to the United States, its development and, in turn, that of spaceports are likely to affect the development of international law. For example, a spaceport is planned for Kiruna, Sweden. In January 2009, Spaceport America and Spaceport Sweden signed a memorandum of understanding outlining cooperative efforts, and will consider each other to be “Sister Spaceports,” analogous to the “Sister Cities” program between U.S. and non-U.S. cities. In October 2009, seven nonfederal existing or proposed spaceports and three non-U.S. spaceports formed the Spaceports Council within the Commercial Spaceflight Federation.24 Spaceports also have international law implications. For example, in order to reduce travel time, there are plans to operate point-to-point, longdistance commercial transportation using suborbital flights. This could lead to the development of spaceports near large cities, rather than the current preference for remote or smaller city locations, in order to facilitate suborbital transportation on U.S.–foreign city–pair routes. This will also involve the development of the Next Generation Air Transportation System (NextGen), comprehensive improvements to the National Airspace System, and plans to reduce airspace and airport congestion throughout the U.S. air transportation system.25 On May 4, 2010, the FAA announced the inauguration of the Commercial Space Transportation Grants Program and requested applications for grants.26 More significantly, on June 28, 2010, the Obama administration announced a new National Space Policy of the United States of America, including initiatives for increased commercial and other private-sector space activity and public–private sector cooperation. The Space Policy contemplates increases in NASA’s budget of $6 billion over the next five years. NASA had already invested $50 million in five private-sector entities for commercial space flight research and development. The Space Policy’s Second Principle states: A robust and competitive commercial space sector is vital to continued progress in space. The United States is committed to encouraging and facilitating the growth of a U.S. commercial space sector that supports U.S. needs, is globally competitive, and advances U.S. leadership in the generation of new markets and innovation-driven entrepreneurship.27 Most recently, on September 29, 2010, the Senate passed S. 3729, giving NASA a three-year authorization and matching the $19 billion that the Obama administration had requested for NASA for fiscal year 2011. The bill authorizes $612 million for commercial crew and cargo services development in 2011 and $500 million for commercial crew development in 2012 and 2013. Conclusion A range of developments, including current and proposed spaceport projects, the new federal grant program, contemplated international suborbital travel, the Spaceports Council, NextGen, the new National Space Policy, and the NASA authorization, all indicate an increasing role for spaceports in aviation and aerospace law. Taking a long-term view that looks beyond the immediate state of the recovering economy, these developments hopefully mark a revival of the interest in space that was so prevalent during the 1950s and 1960s. This renewed interest in space draws on the support of international cooperation, rather than the competition and hostility between superpowers that characterized the Cold War and its related “space race.” In today’s environment, competition will focus on the business and commercial spheres, rather than solely or principally on political and military aspects. The diversity of issues presented by the planning, funding, development, and operation of spaceports similarly raises a wide, and increasingly diverse, range of legal issues for spaceports and their owners, operators, and users.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The ISS fosters cooperation</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hauser and John 9</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;"> (Marty Hauser VP, Washington Operations, Research and Analysis Mariel John Research Analyst, Space Foundation, “The International Space Station: Decision 2015” [[http://www.spacefoundation.org/docs/ISS_Decision_2015.pdf]]MGE)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">As the world becomes increasingly interconnected, strong international partnerships are essential to the success of any nation, including the United States. The ISS allows the United States to maintain and continue to forge such partnerships and to explore ways of working successfully with other nations on technical projects. It provides a starting point for future collaboration beyond space programs, for projects of any kind. The utility of international partnerships was recognized early in NASA’s history. In 1969, considering the future of the U.S. space program, the Space Task Group noted the importance of international participation and communication. It believed this would promote a sense of world community; optimize international scientific, technical, and economic participation; apply space technology to humanity’s needs; and share the benefits and costs of space research and exploration. 16 These factors continue to drive international cooperation today. Even if increased cooperation is desirable and has been put into action during the construction phase, one may still question whether the ISS program is designed to promote future collaboration. In The Evolution of Cooperation by Robert Axelrod, an expert on strategic interactions, two of the primary methods for promoting future partnerships include making interactions more durable and more frequent. 17 The ISS does both. It is a highly visible, long-lasting program backed by international agreements, and therefore is more durable than other, less publicized or less formal Japan’s H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV) on its maiden flight in September 2009, shortly before docking and unloading at the ISS. Additional HTV missions are planned as part of the resupply process for the ISS. Credit: NASAThe International Space Station: Decision 2015 — SpaCe fouNDatioN 7 international arrangements. Due to the technological challenges involved in design, development, production, launch, and operation of so complex an orbital facility, frequent international interaction and iterative cooperation are essential. Global cooperation on large-scale technical projects is a growing phenomenon, and the International Space Station has been studied as a model for these types of partnerships. 18 A great example is the 2008 integration of two international laboratories, the European Columbus lab and the Japanese Kibo lab, into the ISS. The Canadian Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator has been added, and both the European Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV) and the Japanese H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV) have successfully performed servicing missions. These concrete steps forward provide strong evidence that the program is succeeding. 19 International partners place a great deal of importance in the ISS. The name of the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency’s ( JAXA) laboratory Kibo means “hope” in Japanese. When the first module of the laboratory was delivered in March 2008, the Prime Minister of Japan hailed it as the beginning of Japan’s new “home in space.” 20 Each international partner mentions its participation in the ISS program as a major effort of its space program. The JAXA vision statement, written in 2005, notes that participation in the ISS program shows Japan’s status as an “equal partner with the United States and European countries” and establishes its status in the international community. 21 Russian, European, and Japanese space policy documents all mention the importance of research done on the ISS to successful future human spaceflight missions. 22 If U.S. support for the ISS program lapses in 2015, it is likely that one of the most significant negative impacts would be on international relations, and global perceptions as to whether or not the U.S. is a reliable partner. Concern over U.S. intentions is already apparent. Even amid the excitement of the Kibo module being launched, an article was published in the Daily Yomiuri, an English-language online supplement to Japan’s largest selling newspaper, that warned people not to be overly optimistic. 23 The article notes that the United States plans to shut down the ISS in 2015 and, if that happens, the Kibo laboratory will not be operational for the 10 years it was designed to last, in which case benefits from the project may be limited. The article highlights the risks of “international projects in cooperation with countries like the United States, where policies can change abruptly with the changing of administrations.” The article also says that Europe has engaged in diplomatic talks with Russia and the United States about the ISS, while Japan, “has relied almost completely on the United States, and has fallen behind Europe as a result.” 24 At the 2009 Paris Air Show, international partners voiced their interest in continuing the ISS mission past 2015, possibly to 2025. European Space Agency partners noted that they have a strong desire to extend the program to fully exploit their Columbus science lab. 25 The ramifications of a decision to withdraw from the ISS program in 2015 would, therefore, extend far beyond this single project. The United States’ choice to honor (or not) international commitments vis-à-vis the ISS will affect other countries’ views of the United States as a partner in virtually all future endeavors. The ISS provides the opportunity to cement lasting partnerships and cooperation in many areas. A unilateral U.S. decision to end the program against the wishes of the international partners will adversely affect future programs. If the United States is unable to sustain its engagement with its international partners, it will either have to forgo future large-scale space programs, or undertake all costs on its own.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Science leadership is key to sustainable hegemony and prevents the escalation of wars</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Coletta, Poli Sci Professor, 09)</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">Damon Coletta (Professor of Political Science at the U.S. Air Force Academy, Ph.D. in Political Science, December 1999 Harvard University, Master in Public Policy, 1993 Stanford University, Master in Electrical Engineering, 1989 Stanford University, B.S.E.E., 1988), Defense Technical Information Center, September 2009, "Science, Technology, and the Quest for International Influence", accessed May 22, 2012, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA536133&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">To discover sustainable hegemony in an increasingly multipolar world, American policy makers will need more than the Kaysen list of advantages from basic science. Dr. Carl Kaysen served President John Kennedy as deputy national security adviser and over his long career held distinguished professorships in Political Economy at Harvard and MIT. During the 1960s, Kaysen laid out a framework with four important reasons why a great power, the United States in particular, should take a strategic interest in the basic sciences. 1. Scientific discoveries provided the input for applied research, which in turn produced technologies crucial for wielding economic and military power. 2. Scientific activity educated a cadre of operators for leadership in industries relevant to government such as health care and defense. 3. Science proficiency generated the raw elements for mounting focused, applied efforts such as the Manhattan Project during World War II to build the first atomic bomb. 4. Scientific progress built a basic research reserve that when necessary could move quickly to shore up national needs. 1 These arguments underscored science‘s contribution to new products and services that provided market or military advantages. The pursuit of physics, chemistry, and biology at the frontiers of knowledge could have direct effects on national excellence. The following sections of this article extend Kaysen‘s list for the present multi-polar world. The United States‘ largest military and economic shares in such a world do not guarantee empire. Soft power from scientific achievement, however, may make up part of the deficit, enough to augment America‘s reputation and American leadership in the international order. The U.S. science establishment is then described and evaluated for its capacity to integrate and leverage the complete list of science benefits: Kaysen‘s nation-based items plus the civilization-based advantages exposited here. Case studies of the Office of Naval Research and U.S. scientific outreach to Brazil illustrate underlying strengths and weaknesses of the U.S. system for maintaining the lead in basic science. Among the weaknesses, democratic regimes tend to suffocate professions, particularly in the sciences, due to natural hostility between democracy and technocracy. The United States might yet find the right balance by inculcating a politically sophisticated professionalism. In other areas of heavy government responsibility—finance, health care, foreign intelligence, and defense—officials and the public have over time placed considerable trust in expert agents. With greater scientific literacy at the mass level and greater political literacy at the scientific level, America‘s state and society may forge a somewhat freer, healthier relationship with American science, accruing benefits for U.S. material power in the long run and, in the short run, for persuasive influence in the international system. Science and International Leadership In their book on Leading Sectors and World Powers (1996), George Modelski and William Thompson extended their analysis of innovation back, beyond the birth of industrial capitalism, to the Sung Dynasty in China at the turn of the First Millennium. 2 Modelski and Thompson mentioned inventions like the compass that helped leaders extract wealth from maritime East-West trade routes, but they also noted the Sung rulers‘ cultivation of knowledge and the influence of Chinese intellectuals on administrative reform. A scientific society has the opportunity to apply methods and models toward political and economic questions. Just before the November 2008 elections, the New York Times’ David Ignatius sat down with two former national security advisers, Zbigniew Brzezinski and Brent Scowcroft, for a series of interviews on foreign policy. 3 In their discussion of complementary strengths that could lay the groundwork for greater transatlantic cooperation, the advisers noted how impressive it was that the European Union could knit together so many independent states with sophisticated, comprehensive rules and regulations without inadvertently strangling economic growth. It seems improbable that Europe could build the administrative structures for a successful common currency or a single labor market without an ethos that came from scientific competence. Progress in the physical sciences can spill over in a way that supports modern institutions and efficient public policy. Spillover to social sciences reinforces the notion that scientific progress and scientific literacy are civilizing influences. As such they can fortify what Joseph Nye termed a country‘s soft power, its capacity to establish appealing precedents for the rest of the world. 4 Science shares properties with Olympic sport in that it can open avenues for non-coercive cultural hegemony. Foreign emulation in science, though, counts for more than soccer or gymnastics. The demonstration effect in physics may initially appear as man-overcoming-Nature rather than man-versusman, but great scientific advance is more cumulative than victory in the Games. Anyone seeking to take the next step must accommodate the vernacular of the pioneer and accept his tutelage in the universal logic governing scientific concepts. Moreover, the ingenuity and skills on display as a citizen in a specific nation-state, albeit working at university, unlocks another secret of nature register around the world as excellence that could someday be harnessed by government and adapted to the state-versus-state context. That fungibility garners international respect and piques interest in greater collaboration. In his study of American science overtures to Europe during the first decades of the Cold War, John Krige related how overlapping interests and in some instances the overlapping community of scientists and government officials infused pure science aid with foreign policy purpose. The construction of CERN (Conseil Européen pour la Recherche Nucléaire) for all-European particle research in Geneva. European conferences of the well-connected Ford Foundation and the development of the NATO Science Committee did not simply advance basic knowledge; they also nurtured a special dialogue, unencumbered by normal diplomatic preoccupations. This privileged communication nevertheless facilitated American hegemony and buttressed Western solidarity against intimidation, or alternate offers, from the Soviet Union. In material balance of power terms, the larger economy and more capable nuclear forces of the United States were seen as less threatening to Western Europe than the Red Army, deployed just over the makeshift border with East Germany. 5 Cultural appeal, including scientific prowess as well as liberal democratic ideals, afforded the United States extra diplomatic margin as it simultaneously expanded its own arsenal and its alliances against a technically inferior opponent. Finally, during the late-Cold War, after 1970, the economic rise of Germany and Japan, the larger diplomatic role of China, and the greater international participation from post-colonial governments in the developing world reshaped the global agenda. Problems traditionally managed by the great powers— arms control, arms proliferation, international development, environmental consequences of industrialization and urbanization—were picked up by non-governmental entities who sought to influence state behavior. Given their small budgets and their status as outside observers rather than diplomats or official negotiators, specialized knowledge was their instrument of choice. As transportation and communication technologies improved through the 1980s and 1990s, issue-based groups and public policy institutes proliferated, combining with academic researchers to build epistemic communities.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Increased leadership opens diplomatic channels with China and facilitates a code of conduct</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Foust 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;"> (Jeff, editor and publisher of The Space Review, “Key space issues for 2013” [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/2211/1]] MGE)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">Besides these big issues, there are a number of smaller ones to watch in 2013. One of them deals with the future, if any, of a proposed code of conduct for outer space activities. The European Union has proposed such a code, and in 2012 the State Department expressed its support for the concept of a code, although not explicitly endorsing the EU proposal. That raised concerns among some in Congress that the code was a step towards space arms control treaties that they opposed. In the defense authorization bill passed this month, a provision addresses that issue, requiring the administration, should it sign any such code of conduct, to certify “that such agreement has no legally-binding effect or basis for limiting the activities of the United States in outer space.” In addition, the administration is required to provide briefings to Congress about the status any code negotiations and notification upon signing of any such document. However, those provisions may be moot since there seems to be little, if any, progress on the development of a code of conduct. “It’s a good idea in principle. However, I believe it’s largely dead,” said Scott Pace of George Washington University’s Space Policy Institute at the SWF event. “The diplomatic aspect of that has been so badly fumbled that I don’t really think there’s a prospect right now for how to move forward with it.” SWF’s Brian Weeden wasn’t quite as ready to write off the code, but acknowledged the prospects for it weren’t good. Nonetheless, he said, it made sense to continue international dialogue on issues raised by the code. Such discussions are likely to include China, as some people play up a rivalry between the two nations. But others still hold out hope for increased cooperation between China and the US, noting that China’s competition is more with other Asian space powers, like India and Japan, than with America. “I would see forthcoming, maybe in the next four years of the Obama Administration, an opening on a government-to-government cooperative basis for space cooperation between the US and China,” said Eligar Sadeh of Astroconsulting International. “China really is looking for the United States to take the initiative and lead” on space cooperation between the two nations. The challenges with dealing with China, not to mention other obstacles like reduced budgets, point to a need for changes in culture in various government agencies and other organizations, including a willingness to adopt other approaches of doing business that can be faster and less expensive that current methods. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Treaties prevent global conflicts</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens, 8</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 5pt;"> – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, [[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 5pt;">Perhaps of even greater concern is that several other nations, including one of China’s regional rivals, India, may feel compelled to seek ­offensive as well as defensive capabilities in space. The U.S. trade journal Defense News, for instance, quoted unidentified Indian defense officials as stating that their country had already begun developing its own kinetic-energy (nonexplosive, hit-to-kill) and laser-based antisatellite weapons. If India goes down that path, its archrival Pakistan will probably follow suit. Like India, Pakistan has a well-developed ballistic missile program, including medium-range missiles that could launch an antisatellite system. Even Japan, the third major Asian power, might join such a space race. In June 2007 the National Diet of Japan began considering a bill backed by the current Fukuda government that would permit the development of satellites for “military and national security” purposes. As for Russia, in the wake of the Chinese test President Vladimir Putin reiterated Moscow’s stance against the weaponization of space. At the same time, though, he refused to criticize Beijing’s actions and blamed the U.S. instead. The American efforts to build a missile defense system, Putin charged, and the increasingly aggressive American plans for a military position in space were prompting China’s moves. Yet Russia itself, as a major spacefaring power that has incorporated satellites into its national security structure, would be hard-pressed to forgo entering an arms race in space. Given the proliferation of spacefaring entities, proponents of a robust space warfare strategy believe that arming the heavens is inevitable and that it would be best for the U.S. to get there first with firepower. Antisatellite and space-based weapons, they argue, will be necessary not only to defend U.S. military and commercial satellites but also to deny any future adversary the use of space capabilities to enhance the performance of its forces on the battlefield. Yet any arms race in space would almost inevitably destabilize the balance of power and thereby multiply the risks of global conflict. In such headlong competition—whether in space or elsewhere—equilibrium among the adversaries would be virtually impossible to maintain. Even if the major powers did achieve stability, that reality would still provide no guarantee that both sides would perceive it to be so. The moment one side saw itself to be slipping behind the other, the first side would be strongly tempted to launch a preemptive strike, before things got even worse. Ironically, the same would hold for the side that perceived itself to have gained an advantage. Again, there would be strong temptation to strike first, before the adversary could catch up. Finally, a space weapons race would ratchet up the chances that a mere technological mistake could trigger a battle. After all, in the distant void, reliably distinguishing an intentional act from an accidental one would be highly problematic. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">Hit-to-Kill InterceptorsAccording to assessments by U.S. military and intelligence officials as well as by independent experts, the Chinese probably destroyed their weather satellite with a kinetic-energy vehicle boosted by a two-stage medium-range ballistic missile. Technologically, launching such direct-ascent antisatellite weapons is one of the simplest ways to take out a satellite. About a dozen nations and consortia can reach low Earth orbit (between roughly 100 and 2,000 kilometers, or 60 to 1,250 miles, high) with a medium-range missile; eight of those countries can reach geostationary orbit (about 36,000 kilometers, or 22,000 miles, above Earth).But the real technical hurdle to making a hit-to-kill vehicle is not launch capacity; it is the precision maneuverability and guidance technology needed to steer the vehicle into its target. Just how well China has mastered those techniques is unclear. Because the weather satellite was still operating when it was destroyed, the Chinese operators would have known its exact location at all times.Ground-Based LasersThe test of China’s direct-ascent antisatellite device came on the heels of press reports in September 2006 that the Chinese had also managed to “paint,” or illuminate, U.S. spy satellites with a ground-based laser [see lower box on page 83]. Was Beijing actually trying to “blind” or otherwise damage the satellites? No one knows, and no consensus seems to have emerged in official Washington circles about the Chinese intent. Per­haps China was simply testing how well its network of low-power laser-ranging stations could track American orbital observation platforms.Even so, the test was provocative. Not all satellites have to be electronically “fried” to be put out of commission. A 1997 test of the army’s MIRACL system (for midinfrared advanced chemical laser) showed that satellites designed to collect optical images can be temporarily disrupted—dazzled—by low-power beams. It follows that among the satellites vulnerable to such an attack are the orbital spies.The U.S. and the former Soviet Union began experimenting with laser-based antisatellite weapons in the 1970s. Engineers in both countries have focused on the many problems of building high-power laser systems that could reliably destroy low-flying satellites from the ground. Such systems could be guided by “adaptive optics”: deformable mirrors that can continuously compensate for atmospheric distortions. But tremendous amounts of energy would be needed to feed high-power lasers, and even then the range and effectiveness of the beams would be severely limited by dispersion, by attenuation as they passed through smoke or clouds, and by the difficulty of keeping the beams on-target long enough to do damage.During the development of the SDI, the U.S. conducted several laser experiments from Hawaii, including a test in which a beam was bounced off a mirror mounted on a satellite. Laser experiments continue at the Starfire Optical Range at Kirtland Air Force Base in New Mexico. Pentagon budget documents from fiscal years 2004 through 2007 listed antisatellite operations among the goals of the Starfire research, but that language was removed from budget documents in fiscal year 2008 after Congress made inquiries. The Starfire system incorporates adaptive optics that narrow the outgoing laser beam and thus increase the density of its power. That capability is not required for imagery or tracking, further suggesting that Starfire could be used as a weapon.Yet despite decades of work, battle-ready versions of directed-energy weapons still seem far away. An air force planning document, for instance, predicted in 2003 that a ground-based weapon able to “propagate laser beams through the atmosphere to [stun or kill low Earth orbit] satellites” could be available between 2015 and 2030. Given the current state of research, even those dates seem optimistic.Co-orbital SatellitesRecent advances in miniaturized sensors, powerful onboard computers and efficient rocket thrusters have made a third kind of antisatellite technology increasingly feasible: the offensive microsatellite. One example that demonstrates the potential is the air force’s experimental satellite series (XSS) project, which is developing microsatellites intended to conduct “autonomous proximity operations” around larger satellites. The first two microsatellites in the program, the XSS-10 and XSS-11, were launched in 2003 and 2005. Though ostensibly intended to inspect larger satellites, such microsatellites could also ram target satellites or carry explosives or directed-energy payloads such as radio-frequency jamming systems or high-powered microwave emitters. Air force budget documents show that the XSS effort is tied to a program called Advanced Weapons Technology, which is dedicated to research on military laser and microwave systems.During the cold war the Soviet Union developed, tested and even declared operational a co-orbital antisatellite system—a maneuverable interceptor with an explosive payload that was launched by missile into an orbit near a target satellite in low Earth orbit. In effect, the device was a smart “space mine,” but it was last demonstrated in 1982 and is probably no longer working. Today such an interceptor would likely be a microsatellite that could be parked in an orbit that would cross the orbits of several of its potential targets. It could then be activated on command during a close encounter.In 2005 the air force described a program that would provide “localized” space “situational awareness” and “anomaly characterization” for friendly host satellites in geostationary orbit. The program is dubbed ANGELS (for autonomous nanosatellite guardian for evaluating local space), and the budget line believed to represent it focuses on acquiring “high value space asset defensive capabilities,” including a “warning sensor for detection of a direct ascent or co-orbital vehicle.” It is clear that such guardian nanosatellites could also serve as offensive weapons if they were maneuvered close to enemy satellites.And the list goes on. A “parasitic satellite” would shadow or even attach itself to a target in geostationary orbit. Farsat, which was mentioned in an appendix to the [Donald] Rumsfeld Space Commission report in 2001, “would be placed in a ‘storage’ orbit (perhaps with many microsatellites housed inside) relatively far from its target but ready to be maneuvered in for a kill.”Finally, the air force proposed some time ago a space-based radio-frequency weapon system, which “would be a constellation of satellites containing high-power radio-frequency transmitters that possess the capability to disrupt/­destroy/disable a wide variety of electronics and national-level command and control systems.”Air force planning documents from 2003 envisioned that such a technology would emerge after 2015. But outside experts think that orbital radio-frequency and microwave weapons are technically feasible today and could be deployed in the relatively near future.Space BombersThough not by definition a space weapon, the Pentagon’s Common Aero Vehicle/Hypersonic Technology Vehicle (often called CAV) enters into this discussion because, like an ICBM, it would travel through space to strike Earth-bound targets. An unpowered but highly maneuverable hypersonic glide vehicle, the CAV would be deployed from a future hypersonic space plane, swoop down into the atmosphere from orbit and drop conventional bombs on ground targets. Congress recently began funding the project but, to avoid stoking a potential arms race in space, has prohibited any work to place weapons on the CAV. Although engineers are making steady progress on the key technologies for the CAV program, both the vehicle and its space plane mothership are still likely decades off.Some of the congressional sensitivity to the design of the CAV may have arisen from another, much more controversial space weapons concept with parallel goals: hypervelocity rod bundles that would be dropped to Earth from orbital platforms. For decades air force planners have been thinking about placing weapons in orbit that could strike terrestrial targets, particularly buried, “hardened” bunkers and caches of weapons of mass destruction. Commonly called “rods from God,” the bundles would be made up of large tungsten rods, each as long as six meters (20 feet) and 30 centimeters (12 inches) across. Each rod would be hurled downward from an orbiting spacecraft and guided to its target at tremendous speed.Both high costs and the laws of physics, however, challenge their feasibility. Ensuring that the projectiles do not burn up or deform from reentry friction while sustaining a precise, nearly vertical flight path would be extremely difficult. Calculations indicate that the nonexplosive rods would probably be no more effective than more conventional munitions. Furthermore, the expense of lofting the heavy projectiles into orbit would be exorbitant. Thus, despite continued interest in them, rods from God seem to fall into the realm of science fiction.Obstacles to Space WeaponsWhat, then, is holding the U.S. (and other nations) back from a full-bore pursuit of space weapons? The countervailing pressures are threefold: political opposition, technological challenges and high costs.The American body politic is deeply divided over the wisdom of making space warfare a part of the national military strategy. The risks are manifold. I remarked earlier on the general instabilities of an arms race, but there is a further issue of stability among the nuclear powers. Early-warning and spy satellites have traditionally played a crucial role in reducing fears of a surprise nuclear attack. But if antisatellite weapons disabled those eyes-in-the-sky, the resulting uncertainty and distrust could rapidly lead to catastrophe.One of the most serious technological challenges posed by space weapons is the proliferation of space debris, to which I alluded earlier. According to investigators at the air force, NASA and Celestrak (an independent space-monitoring Web site), the Chinese antisatellite test left more than 2,000 pieces of junk, baseball-size and larger, orbiting the globe in a cloud that lies between about 200 kilometers (125 miles) and 4,000 kilometers (2,500 miles) above Earth’s surface. Perhaps another 150,000 objects that are a centimeter (half an inch) across and larger were released. High orbital velocities make even tiny pieces of space junk dangerous to spacecraft of all kinds. And ground stations cannot reliably monitor or track objects smaller than about five centimeters (two inches) across in low Earth orbit (around a meter in geostationary orbit), a capability that might enable satellites to maneuver out of the way. To avoid being damaged by the Chinese space debris, in fact, two U.S. satellites had to alter course. Any shooting war in space would raise the specter of a polluted space environment no longer navigable by Earth-orbiting satellites.Basing weapons in orbit also pre­sents difficult technical obstacles. They would be just as vulnerable as satellites are to all kinds of outside agents: space debris, projectiles, electromagnetic signals, even natural micrometeoroids. Shielding space weapons against such threats would also be impractical, mostly because shielding is bulky and adds mass, thereby greatly increasing launch costs. Orbital weapons would be mostly autonomous mechanisms, which would make operational errors and failures likely. The paths of objects in orbit are relatively easy to predict, which would make hiding large weapons problematic. And because satellites in low Earth orbit are overhead for only a few minutes at a time, keeping one of them constantly in range would require many weapons.Finally, getting into space and operating there is extremely expensive: between $2,000 and $10,000 a pound to reach low Earth orbit and between $15,000 and $20,000 a pound for geostationary orbit. Each space-based weapon would require replacement every seven to 15 years, and in-orbit repairs would not be cheap, either.Alternatives to Space WarfareGiven the risks of space warfare to national and international security, as well as the technical and financial hurdles that must be overcome, it would seem only prudent for spacefaring nations to find ways to prevent an arms race in space. The U.S. focus has been to reduce the vulnerability of its satellite fleet and explore alternatives to its dependence on satellite services. Most other space-capable countries are instead seeking multilateral diplomatic and legal measures. The options range from treaties that would ban antisatellite and space-based weapons to voluntary measures that would help build transparency and mutual confidence.The Bush administration has adamantly opposed any form of negotiations regarding space weapons. Opponents of multilateral space weapons agreements contend that others (particularly China) will sign up but build secret arsenals at the same time, because such treaty violations cannot be detected. They argue further that the U.S. cannot sit idly as potential adversaries gain spaceborne resources that could enhance their terrestrial combat capabilities.Proponents of international treaties counter that failure to negotiate such agreements entails real opportunity costs. An arms race in space may end up compromising the security of all nations, including that of the U.S., while it stretches the economic capacities of the competitors to the breaking point. And whereas many advocates of a space weapons ban concede that it will be difficult to construct a fully verifiable treaty—because space technology can be used for both military and civilian ends—effective treaties already exist that do not require strict verification. A good example is the Biological Weapons Convention. Certainly a prohibition on the testing and use (as opposed to the deployment) of the most dangerous class of near-term space weapons—destructive (as opposed to jamming) antisatellite systems—would be easily verifiable, because earthbound observers can readily detect orbital debris. Furthermore, any party to a treaty would know that all its space launches would be tracked from the ground, and any suspicious object in orbit would promptly be labeled as such. The international outcry that would ensue from such overt treaty violations could deter would-be violators.Since the mid-1990s, however, progress on establishing a new multilateral space regime has lagged. The U.S. has blocked efforts at the United Nations Conference on Disarmament in Geneva to begin negotiations on a treaty to ban space weapons. China, meanwhile, has refused to accept anything less. Hence, intermediate measures such as voluntary confidence-building, space traffic control or a code of responsible conduct for spacefaring nations have remained stalled.Space warfare is not inevitable. But the recent policy shift in the U.S. and China’s provocative actions have highlighted the fact that the world is approaching a crossroads. Countries must come to grips with their strong self-interest in preventing the testing and use of orbital weapons. The nations of Earth must soon decide whether it is possible to sustain the predominantly peaceful human space exploration that has already lasted half a century. The likely alternative would be unacceptable to all.</span>

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Spaceports-1AC ISS Version-Solvency]]Solvency</span>==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contention three is Solvency</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The space launch industry is marked by uncertainty, mistrust, and lack of launch capacity</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Ben-Ari et al, Senior Fellow at CSIS, 10)</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Guy Ben-Ari</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;"> (deputy director and senior fellow with the Defense-Industrial Initiatives Group at CSIS), Brian Green (director of strategic force assessments at Systems Planning and Analysis), Joshua Hartman (s a Senior Fellow with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program), Gary Powell (Senior Associate with the Defense-Industrial Initiatives Group at CSIS), Stephanie Sanok (Senior fellow at CSIS), Tara Callahan, Lindsey Ohmit, Thomas Patterson, Gregory Sanders, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">CSIS</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">July 2010</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">, "National Security and the Commercial Space Sector", accessed July 27, 2012, [[http://csis.org/files/publication/100726_Berteau_CommcialSpace_WEB.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">C. 1. Lack of reliable access to launch suppliers effectively reduces launch supply. While manufacturing capacity of launch vehicles may be ample, commercial satellite launch customers have a limited range of launch options available. Commercial access to U.S. and Chinese launch services are constrained, leaving Arianespace and ILS as the principal options. In the future, Sea Launch may be a viable option if it emerges from bankruptcy successfully. SpaceX, with the recent successful launch of a Falcon 9 medium-launch vehicle, may also become a viable option—in the long- term, but not now or in the near future. U.S. launch vehicles have an extraordinary record of reliability during the past decade. This has resulted in part from the national security community’s priority on and continued investment in mission assurance. Not surprisingly, given the dominance of the U.S. government as a launch customer and the U.S. government’s focus on mission assurance, the systems and processes for U.S. launch range and operations have been primarily developed around government requirements and culture. Many believe that this has reduced access to launch ranges and added schedule risk for commercial launch customers. These effects can be seen in launch scheduling, the current practice of which often prevents commercial entities from establishing reliable launch dates. The DoD now reserves a launch slot with ULA 30 to 36 m’onths before the launch is scheduled. Typical commercial customers place launch reservations 24 months ahead of the anticipated launch date. Thus, ULA is fully booked for the next three years with government launches, and commercial customers seeking a launch slot are shut out. DoD launches are often delayed, but program offices often release those launch slots very late—a few months before the scheduled launch—thus not allowing commercial customers to take advantage of the newly opened launch slot and leaving valuable launch opportunities unused. As government launch needs change, ULA is provided incentives to meet those changing needs before it meets the needs of any commercial customer. DoD also tends to view specific launch vehicles as committed to a specific DoD launch; when program delays occur, those specific launch vehicles are often not released for commercial use. Finally, commercial launches have sometimes lost launch slots because launch schedules for higher-priority government payloads changed. As a consequence, commercial satellite launch consumers currently have little confidence in their access to U.S. launch or in their ability to hold launch dates even if manifested. Several senior leaders among commercial launch customers and launch providers contend that government and ULA credibility with commercial launch customers is very low. Some suggest that neither the government nor ULA has much incentive to change their practices. Accommodating commercial satellite launches may detract from DoD’s focus on and ULAs support of mission assurance, and some interviewees maintain that the government-ULA contract provides disincentives for ULA to support commercial launches.’4 The lack of structured, constructive dialogue between commercial operators and DoD launch range operators makes addressing some of these problems difficult.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">‘</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan solves hegemony and is necessary to solve regulatory problems that will doom the industry</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Winters 11</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">Nathan J. Winters, Nathan J. Winters Lieutenant Commander, United States Navy, MASTER OF SCIENCE IN SPACE SYSTEMS OPERATIONS Naval Postgraduate School, Enabling the Commercial Space Transportation Industry at the Mid-Atlantic Regional Spaceport September 2011([[@http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA551942]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">The MARS needs to continue to distinguish itself as a leading spaceport. Virginia has led the way in promoting its space industry and will need to continue these efforts. The symbiotic relationship between the MARS and NASA’s WFF will need to continue to evolve. With the declining NASA budget a thriving commercial space industry will be vital in reducing operating costs and ensuring stability and growth during a time of Federal downsizing. NASA has studied the possibility of closing WFF several times. This closure has been prevented by strong political opposition. It is in the best interests of the MARS, NASA, and the commercial space industry to ensure each other’s success and continued utilization of WFF. Since NASA awarded Virginia-based Orbital Science Corporation a CRS contract, a consistent line of funding is in place that must be utilized to the greatest extent possible. NASA will be required to purchase, at a minimum, another 27 cargo flights and 10 crew flights through 2020. The existing contract and the possible future NASA contracts should be used as the anchor tenant to attract more business. The U.S. Air Force Operationally Responsive Space Office has launched four spacecraft from Wallops with the possibility for more launches in the future. This relationship should continue to be developed and MARS promoted as a responsive, lean launch provider. While the orbital market has a much higher entry cost than the sub-orbital market, continued demonstration of MARS as a lean launch provider could attract emerging space companies like Bigelow Aerospace. The sub-orbital market should take advantage of WFF’s existing airport and infrastructure to perform sub-orbital flights. The MARS’ unique location on the East Coast and near the nation’s capital, and other population centers, places it in a key position to offer sub-orbital flights. The sub-orbital tourism, point-to-point, and research markets are likely to be the highest in demand and should be targeted for future growth. Wallops has a long history of suborbital research and could expand this field to include more commercial launches. FAA’s commercial space transportation regulations are in their infancy but are still minimal. The NASA regulations while more mature and far more complex are being adapted for commercial usage. NASA plans on leaving all commercial space licensing to the FAA. In the future even a NASA mission launched from a Federal range would require an FAA license. NASA is likely to still have their own safety requirements that will be redundant to FAA requirements. A key part to enabling commercial space transportation industry at MARS is reducing the uncertainty about how NASA and FAA regulations will coexist. The nascent commercial space transportation industry has been enabled by NASA investment in COTS, CCDev and CRS. This, along with the FAA’s matching grants and other Federal and state incentives, has helped jump-start the commercial space transportation industry. The possible roadblocks of excessive regulation have been minimized by the FAA’s limited Final Rule on Crew and Space Flight Requirements and the CSLAA. By not certifying vehicles as safe, the FAA acknowledges that passengers will fly at their own risk. While this congressional “hands off” mandate will encourage research and development in this emerging market it could backfire if an accident occurs that results in more strict regulation. After December 23, 2012 the FAA may propose new regulations on the commercial space industry without restriction. The amount of regulations will be dependent upon how much the commercial space industry has matured. Industry lessons learned and best practices are needed to determine future requirements. The FAA has already held public meetings to address many of the concerns facing this emerging market. Specifically, the deconfliction of FAA and NASA regulations will be necessary to prevent duplication of efforts. Both regulators need to ensure their requirements are compatible or complementary for both government and non-government organizations. The development of a robust commercial space transportation industry is important to the U. S. and its National Security in many different areas. Economically, a strong space industry and a vigorous space launch schedule will promote space jobs and programs to stay in the U. S. A larger and more experienced space industrial base will greatly benefit National Security Space programs and develop national capabilities in new technical realms. Another important impact to National Security Space is the required expansion and growth of the space transportation infrastructure. Similar to the railroads, interstate highways, and airports of today a space transportation infrastructure will need to be developed and will be a requirement for future growth and expansion. Without this infrastructure National Security Space will be required to maintain its own aging infrastructure and would not be able to benefit from new construction, technology and innovations that the commercial space sector would develop on its own. In a shrinking Global economy the commercial space industry will be vital in maintaining the competitive edge in, and our access to, space. The more developed the U.S. commercial space industry is the more likely it will be able to adapt and overcome any challenges it is faced with. It is in the U.S. Government’s strategic interest to remain a leader in the Global space transportation industry. This emerging commercial space transportation market has the potential to become a thriving industry with proper investment and minimal regulation.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">USFG is key –</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1) orbital vehicles</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Handberg 8</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">(Roger, Professor and Chair of the Department of Political Science at the University of Central Florida, “State Spaceports: Road to the Economic Future or Hype? State Governments and Predictions of the Future of Technology” presented at the annual meeting of the APSA 2008 Annual Meeting, Hynes Convention Center, Boston, Massachusetts, Aug 28, 2008, [[http://citation.allacademic.com/meta/p_mla_apa_research_citation/2/7/9/5/6/p279568_index.html?phpsessid=627c885416f176d9758e5500d9b1527f]] MGE)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">Space policy retains a peculiar character to it in that the rhetoric is often frontier analogy driven but the economic realities remain often government funded development with the private sector taking over once developmental success has been acquired. This means that the industry is dominated by the desires of the federal government whether the military or civilian, meaning NASA. This mind set reflects the early growth of the field in a time when national security needs drove what was done in terms of space activities. Over the years, that pattern has broken down with regards to many space applications especially in communications and navigation. Space launch however retains that imprint of the national security state. The Ansari X-Prize was a deliberate attempt to break the cycle of government control but that was only partially successful. Sending humans to orbit still remains strictly a government activity, suborbital is now open to private vendors but efforts at orbital flight remain more distant even though there was an earlier America Prize suggested for encouraging efforts at reaching orbit and back similar to the Ansari X-Prize with the prize being set at $50 million. 25 What appears to be occurring is that a separation is growing between the older spaceports located on federal spaceports and the newer proposals. All three, California, Florida and Virginia, remain focused on orbital flights using ELVs presently but are open to RLVs once those are developed especially in the case of Florida with shuttle shutdown looming. That pathway is only possible with the cooperation of the operators of the federal spaceports a reality which remains a hindrance but accommodations are being made. By focusing on processing facilities, the state entities provide a service that lessens the burden on the federal operator. The newer spaceports are more heavily invested in the space tourism aspect of commercial space activities which poses a dilemma. The dilemma is a simple one, what if RLVs do not become economically successful, remember their client base is the private sector, interested in making a profit. Given the cost of purchasing a flight ($200,000 presently), how large the market will be is unclear once you get past the optimism-hype. This reality makes the state spaceport arena more problematic than appears at first glance. 26 Several initiatives are premised on a specific vehicle coming to fruition such as the Rocketplane in Oklahoma; others are in effect being done on spec with no actual tenant identified. As Florida has already found with its RLV storage hanger, that leaves a state in the situation that there is no occupant given the paucity of available tenants. As was mentioned earlier, the death of the VentureStar meant that the many states lost their justification for pursuing a spaceport so their pursuit slackened and in some cases went dormant. The continuing issue’s with SpaceX regarding successful flight is particularly disappointing for Florida since they have in effect bet their money on the Falcon 1 and its successor the Falcon 9 being successful and being used to supply the ISS. What is more troubling for state spaceport initiatives is the reality that there are international competitors for the opportunity to be the launch port for RLV vehicles. Singapore and Dubai in the United Arab Emirates have been put forth as launch points for the Explorer vehicle, a derivative of the “Cosmopolis XXI (C-21), a multi-passenger space plane designed by Russia's Myasishchev Design Bureau (MDB).” 27 What is more important is that the choice was made among ten different sites including several in the United States. The Singapore spaceport appears to be lagging while the site in the UAE appears more substantial. The economics are that the UAE site is closer to potential customers and is less difficult to enter than the United States with its restrictions on foreign travelers. What is more critical here is recognition that U.S. state spaceports are competing clearly in an international market for a limited roster of potential flight partners. Virginia Galactic is rumored to be interested in both locations especially Singapore but is deferring any immediate plans to build facilities – this reflects the fact that development of SpaceShipTwo has been delayed by an accident during development that resulted in three deaths. The Explorer vehicle was not part of the Ansari X-Prize competition; in fact, the Ansari family is invested in the project after helping sponsor the X-Prize. What this does is further heighten the competition between space tourism vendors and states who wish to service them as spaceports. Even in Europe, there is interest in moving into the spaceport business in support of space tourism in the form of Spaceport Sweden. 28 Even more troubling from a state perspective is the fact that suborbital flight as presently conceived is a dead end in that those flights do not get you to orbit in the end. Reaching orbit remains a much more difficult feat given the realities and physics of space launch. A RLV has to overcome weight issues relative to applicable lift capacity. Those weight issues in the end led to the X-33 cancelation; NASA evaluations were either negative or inconclusive whether the weight issue inherent in a single stage to orbit vehicle could be overcome. Making it two stage to orbit is one option but using a lift plane to be the first stage runs into weight and safety questions including re-entry. If reaching orbit was easy; then it would be done already commercially. Presently, all commercially viable space industries operate on the assumption that you do not have to bring the payload back to earth safely. Once the payload’s useful life is exhausted, you either lift it higher into a parking orbit or you allow it either to slowly descend into the atmosphere to be destroyed or you eject it out of orbit in a controlled crash as it were. The result is a major problem with space debris but that is strictly an international level issue; spaceports are becoming increasingly attractive for a number of states as symbols of technological progress and potential economic growth. Space remains glamorous which draws attention but the economics remain much more daunting than the rhetoric would lead one to understand. There is likely to be a continuing market for suborbital tourism but whether that will grow sufficiently in the United States to justify expanded state investment in spaceports is unclear. The original state spaceports, California, Florida, Virginia and Alaska, arose out of the perceived need for more accessible launch facilities for ELVs. The initial focus was upon small launch vehicles, a market that has not met expectations. The first three also have the potential for conducting human spaceflight in the form of RLVs while Alaska’s future is more problematic since it launches government payloads which are more a function of their present political clout than any economic incentive. However, having a useful facility regardless of who funded it originally gives a state an asset that can be exploited as Alaska remains a player. The newer spaceports such as Spaceport America and the Oklahoma Spaceport also have economic potential since they have launch vendors already on board but in the former case, international competition may reduce the economic impact as Virgin Galactic opens up other launch sites closer to its customer base. Other spaceports such as Spaceport Sheboygan have potential as economic incubators fostering industries related to space activities. Launching vehicles will likely remain a lesser priority. There exists no easy road to success for state spaceports because as was clear a decade ago; too much relies on others to develop the technologies that will facilitate reliable and cheaper space launch whether human spaceflight or payloads of applications. The legislative obstacles to state spaceports have been significantly reduced in impact but the spaceports still operate in an environment controlled by the federal government because ultimately that is what international law and practice demand. Private individuals and ventures all enter space with consent of a national government. Other governments remain reluctant to change that pattern since they, as the United States does, remain very much aware of the military potential of space launch regardless of its ostensible peaceful purpose</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2) Perception</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Webber 3</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;"> (Derek, “Lessons of ASCENT - Messages for Industry, the Federal Government and Spaceport Authorities” September 2003 Presented at Space 2003, Long Beach, CA, Spaceport Associates, Washington DC * AIAA Member, Director,[[http://www.spacefuture.com/archive/lessons_of_ascent_messages_for_industry_the_federal_government_and_spaceport_authorities.shtml]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">MGE)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">The Final Report of the President's Commission on the Future of the US Aerospace Industry came out with some very strong recommendations. And it did so at a time when the country is re-evaluating its commitment to the further exploration and development of space, in the aftermath of the loss of the Space Shuttle Columbia. It is not necessary to repeat here all of the recommendations of the Commission. But instead it is worthwhile to pick out those aspects that derive directly from the ASCENT work, and of which NASA and other government agencies associated with the development of space, need to be aware. The country has already lost its leadership in space. US industry has only 40% of global launches today, and the ASCENT Study indicates that unless there is a shift in focus and priorities, then the figure will be down to 25% twenty years from now. There are ramifications both in employment and in the education of our future generations. Even the financially stretched Russian industry is doing better in terms of market share, and is already taking the initiative in the early development of the new commercial opportunities represented by public space travel. The Europeans are gearing up to use the Russian Soyuz system capabilities for their own purposes from the European launch facilities at Kourou. It seems clear that the Chinese will not be far behind, with imminent launches of their first Shenzhou crews. The message for the US government is therefore no less than a need to seek to bring about a reversal of the relative decline of the US as a space power. One part of doing this is to remove some of the impediments for foreign customers to fly their payloads on US launch vehicles. Another way is by taking steps to encourage those infrastructure-and regulatory- developments that will facilitate the growth of a domestic space tourism industry. In this context one must include both sub-orbital and orbital developments and facilities, although the ASCENT Study focused on the latter. The States seem so far to be way ahead of the Federal government in this regard. Many States are exploring the possibilities of having spaceports within their territories to help in their employment and other needs. The Federal government should play its part in facilitating these first steps as the spaceports are being established. The commercial development of space, and its next logical step of space tourism, is the most American of endeavors: it is a way to make money out of people being free and having fun. Of course, down the road, there are other benefits for the nation, and even the world. But at least the ASCENT Study makes abundantly clear that the US cannot expect to rank itself amongst the world's most thriving civilizations if it does not continue on the road that it set for itself at the start of the space age. The more entrepreneurial parts of the commercial sector have seized the message already, and soon we shall see the first sub-orbital space tourists follow in Alan Shepard's footsteps. The Federal government must also play its part. NASA can be directed to work with these new realities. The Aerospace Commission identifies public space travel as an important new sector "??.that holds the potential for increasing launch demand and improvements in space launch reliability and reusability?.?? and would ultimately support a robust space transportation industry with "airline-like operations"?..?" Perhaps the best way for this redirection of NASA to take effect would be in terms of budgetary resource re-allocation. As was discussed earlier, there is no justification for significant expenditures to be taking place on ideas and concepts that have no likelihood of taking place within the next twenty years. The ASCENT Study provides the guidance for this necessary resource reallocation, as discussed earlier in the paper. By the same token, there is a need to actively support initiatives to bring about the new industry of space tourism. At the very least, NASA needs to create a small Office of Public Space Travel to facilitate the needs of the emerging sector, and to coordinate those needs with the Administration's other long-term plans. A good example of an early role for such an office would be an involvement in the OSP architecture design discussions to find ways to ensure that the resulting OSP vehicle design can play a useful part in the future of orbital space tourism. This can be the way in which the US takes back the lead from the Russians in this area, and/or prevents the Chinese from taking this initiative of providing trips for American space tourists. The ASCENT Study makes it very clear what the implications will be if the US does not develop an RLV that can eventually be used for public space travel purposes. The OSP is the best shot we have at this for the short term. </span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">3) Integration into air traffic control</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">ISU 8</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">International Space University GREAT EXPECTATIONS: An Assessment of the Potential for Suborbital Transportation Masters Report 2008 ([[http://texasspacealliance.org/docs/ISU-Masters08-GreatExpectations-Report.pdf]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 5pt;">Following the first successful flight of an airplane in 1903, the focus of the aviation industry was on research and development of aircraft technology, not on the development of airfields. A rudimentary set of airfields was established during World War I, but the significant development of airfields in the United States was driven by commerce, such as the need for airmail flights to have refueling and mail drop off sites in various locations. The aviation industry began growing rapidly in the late 1920’s, which then drove the need for improved infrastructure and regulatory frameworks, including licensing. As passenger travel became more commonplace and high capacity aircraft emerged (such as the Boeing 747), the construction of larger airports became a requirement as well as the expansion and improvement of existing airports. This was expensive and required a great deal of government support. Some key dates and events in the development of the airport infrastructure in the United States are presented below in Table 5-1. It is important to note that the overall development of the airport system in the United States was largely reactive, rather than proactive. This was particularly true in the technical and legal regimes. Similarly, spaceport development will likely be driven by the development of the space vehicle industry; however, the additional challenge of integrating spacecraft traffic and infrastructure requirements with that of existing air traffic and infrastructure exists. This will be particularly important for the development of PTP transportation, and unlike the history of airport development, the development and integration of spaceports may require proactive initiatives with regard to legal and technical challenges. The costs of developing the infrastructure to support a growing space industry, particularly that of a PTP suborbital industry, may also have some parallels to early airport development. With respect to demand and public safety, additional construction and improvement of the airport infrastructure was required as the aviation industry evolved. Such improvements were quite expensive and therefore required government support, such as the U.S. Airport and Airway Development Act. Similarly, spaceport construction and infrastructure costs are high, and such ventures often require support from the government. Many spaceports are already supported at least in part by public funding. A selection of spaceports currently under development for suborbital space tourism, their estimated development costs, and sources of funding are shown in Table 5-2 below: As the example of Spaceport America has shown recently, garnering public support and funds can be a challenge (Medina, 2008). Development of a network of spaceports, or integration into the existing airport system, will be an expensive and challenging endeavor. Some savings may be made by using existing facilities, such as decommissioned military bases, and their runways, or by using existing rocket range facilities. Europe in particular, has large numbers of long runways left over from the cold war which would be capable of supporting some suborbital concepts. It may be viable to develop a purpose built spaceport without public funding, especially if it is designed for tourism purposes other than PTP transportation. This is the case with the joint ventures creating the tourism infrastructure for Spaceport Sweden in Kiruna (Spaceport Sweden, 2008).</span>





===**1AC - UMich + Valley**=== 

**Contention one is Hegemony**

**2 internal links –**



**First, commitment to Space - The US has lost global perceptions of space leadership, tanking credibility**

**(Dittmar 12)**

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Mary Lynne Dittmar (Dr., the President and CEO of Dittmar Associates, Inc. She is a senior consultant to NASA and to the space industry, specializing in strategic planning, space policy, strategic communications, commercialization, and public/private partnerships), The Space Review, January 3, 2012, "An enduring value proposition for NASA human spaceflight (part 5)", accessed May 16, 2012, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1998/1</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Whether or not the US HSF program is actually in retreat depends on one’s point of view. But, as long as the US is not flying humans into space, that point of view is largely irrelevant. What matters in this discussion is the point of view of other nations—and from where they sit, the US suffers from diminished prestige relative to earlier times. It is also seen as a labile partner in cooperative HSF efforts.1 The global response to the release of China’s white paper—evident within 24 hours—suggests there is widespread understanding of (and in some quarters, concern about) at least some of the implications therein. The paper details a methodical approach that builds on what has come before.2 By contrast, when looking to the US for leadership in space, for almost two years other nations have borne witness to a community and a government stuck in a squabble about the merits of “commercial spaceflight” vs. “government spaceflight” or about “Shuttle” vs. “future programs”, or even about “whether government should be involved in spaceflight at all,” a point of view that can only be seriously considered if one is willing to dismiss foreign policy as part of the bargain. Other valuable components of the Obama Administration’s space policy, such as technology development and a focus on capabilities—also with positive implications for soft power—are generally lost in the noise. Seen from a national security perspective, these arguments are mostly spurious. The roles played by NASA and commercial spaceflight providers are not the same. From the point of view of other nations, there is a major policy statement and a variety of implications inherent in a government commitment to a national space program (NASA), particularly HSF: the very Value Proposition (VP) this series has focused on. The same VP does not apply to commercial efforts. They have Value Propositions of their own. A key issue underlying these struggles is lack of clarity within the government as to how—or perhaps if—the United States will balance capabilities and responsibilities resident in private and public civil space sectors, in the interests of national security. In the opinion of the author, this was a major reason for Congressional resistance to the policy shift brought forward by the Obama Administration, although certainly not the only one.3 Pundits have been quick to point to jobs, “pork”, and re-election—and only a naïve observer would disregard those realities—but the hole in US space policy suddenly revealed by the joint occurrence of the end of the Space Shuttle program, the cancellation of Constellation, and the shift to new vendors and procurement processes was not caused by the change in policy, it culminated in it.</span>



**No launch pads makes launch costs high, means no private space ventures**

**Citizen Space 9/7**<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> (a project of the United States Rocket Academy, is dedicated to citizen science and citizen space exploration, “Another Vicious Cycle” 9/7/12, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 5pt;">[[http://www.citizensinspace.org/2012/09/another-vicious-circle/]]</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> MGE)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Yesterday, we published an article on how launch pad shortages are causing customers to bundle satellites to reduce the number of launches. Unfortunately, this creates a vicious cycle. The ultimate solution to the launch-pad problem is to transition from expendable launch vehicles to reusable vehicles, which can be prepped quickly and don’t spend a lot of time on the pad. But bundling satellites onto larger rockets reduces the number of launches, which reduces the apparent demand and harms the business case for reusable vehicles. As a result, the pad problem continues. Vicious cycles like this have prevented the development of reusable launch vehicles for 40 years. Right now, NASA is contributing to another vicious cycle in a big way (both figuratively and literally) with the development of the Space Launch System. An ambitious deep-space exploration backed by NASA, could create a market for many hundreds of smalls launches, or it could support the development a superheavy launch system like SLS – but it can’t afford both. At the same, the development of SLS will mean that any exploration hardware NASA develops will be designed to fit on SLS, and impossible to launch on smaller, more economical reusable vehicles which might be developed in the private sector. Thus, the Space Launch System threatens to lock NASA into high launch costs for another generation while depriving private industry of the chance to compete for a market that could bring about a revolution in launch costs. If America is to have a meaningful future in space, we need to break out of these vicious cycles. The solution is not, as some believe, to get the US government to buy a handful of flights to the International Space Station. (There’s a good reason why NASA’s COTS and CCDEV programs are funding expendable vehicles, not reusables.) To make real progress, we need thousands of launches.</span>



**Second, cooperation - spaceport development encourages international law, cooperation and leadership**

**Nucci and Gabrynowicz 11**

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Mária Zulick Nucci is an attorney, licensed to practice in Pennsylvania and New Jersey. She also is admitted in several federal jurisdictions. Her practice focuses on federal and state appellate litigation. Joanne Irene Gabrynowicz is the Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Space Law; professor of space law and remote sensing law; Director of the National Center for Remote Sensing, Air, and Space Law at the University of Mississippi School of Law; and a Director of the International Institute of Space Law. She can be contacted at jgabryno@ olemiss.edu. 10 The Issue Is: What Is a Spaceport? The Air & Space Lawyer Volume 24, No. 1, 2011 (http://www.americanbar.org/content/dam/aba/migrated/Forums/Airspace/MO/MemberDocuments/air_space_24_1.authcheckdam.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Initially, states are analogizing spaceports to airports, which can be reasonable, and relationships among local, state, and federal authorities can be forged using the airport model. As spaceports develop, however, it may become necessary to consider factors that are inapplicable to airports, chief among which is Article VI of the Outer Space Treaty, which makes the U.S. government responsible for supervising all U.S. nongovernmental space actors.21 As a result, the federal government may increasingly need to supervise spaceport operations more closely than it does traditional airports, and may need to invoke the constitutional doctrine of preemption to ensure that the United States meets its obligations under that treaty.22 The Future of the Future for Spaceports In August 2009, the U.S. Department of Transportation created the Commercial Space Transportation Center of Excellence, led by New Mexico State University, as part of the FAA’s Air Transportation Centers of Excellence Program.23 Under the program, the FAA works with universities and members of the aviation industry with the goal of increasing the safety and efficiency of the air transportation system. Because commercial space flight is not confined to the United States, its development and, in turn, that of spaceports are likely to affect the development of international law. For example, a spaceport is planned for Kiruna, Sweden. In January 2009, Spaceport America and Spaceport Sweden signed a memorandum of understanding outlining cooperative efforts, and will consider each other to be “Sister Spaceports,” analogous to the “Sister Cities” program between U.S. and non-U.S. cities. In October 2009, seven nonfederal existing or proposed spaceports and three non-U.S. spaceports formed the Spaceports Council within the Commercial Spaceflight Federation.24 Spaceports also have international law implications. For example, in order to reduce travel time, there are plans to operate point-to-point, longdistance commercial transportation using suborbital flights. This could lead to the development of spaceports near large cities, rather than the current preference for remote or smaller city locations, in order to facilitate suborbital transportation on U.S.–foreign city–pair routes. This will also involve the development of the Next Generation Air Transportation System (NextGen), comprehensive improvements to the National Airspace System, and plans to reduce airspace and airport congestion throughout the U.S. air transportation system.25 On May 4, 2010, the FAA announced the inauguration of the Commercial Space Transportation Grants Program and requested applications for grants.26 More significantly, on June 28, 2010, the Obama administration announced a new National Space Policy of the United States of America, including initiatives for increased commercial and other private-sector space activity and public–private sector cooperation. The Space Policy contemplates increases in NASA’s budget of $6 billion over the next five years. NASA had already invested $50 million in five private-sector entities for commercial space flight research and development. The Space Policy’s Second Principle states: A robust and competitive commercial space sector is vital to continued progress in space. The United States is committed to encouraging and facilitating the growth of a U.S. commercial space sector that supports U.S. needs, is globally competitive, and advances U.S. leadership in the generation of new markets and innovation-driven entrepreneurship.27 Most recently, on September 29, 2010, the Senate passed S. 3729, giving NASA a three-year authorization and matching the $19 billion that the Obama administration had requested for NASA for fiscal year 2011. The bill authorizes $612 million for commercial crew and cargo services development in 2011 and $500 million for commercial crew development in 2012 and 2013. Conclusion A range of developments, including current and proposed spaceport projects, the new federal grant program, contemplated international suborbital travel, the Spaceports Council, NextGen, the new National Space Policy, and the NASA authorization, all indicate an increasing role for spaceports in aviation and aerospace law. Taking a long-term view that looks beyond the immediate state of the recovering economy, these developments hopefully mark a revival of the interest in space that was so prevalent during the 1950s and 1960s. This renewed interest in space draws on the support of international cooperation, rather than the competition and hostility between superpowers that characterized the Cold War and its related “space race.” In today’s environment, competition will focus on the business and commercial spheres, rather than solely or principally on political and military aspects. The diversity of issues presented by the planning, funding, development, and operation of spaceports similarly raises a wide, and increasingly diverse, range of legal issues for spaceports and their owners, operators, and users.</span>



**Independently – international regimes build up and spill over**

**Mutschler 10**

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Max M. Mutschler, “Preventive Arms Control in Space: Breaking the Deadlock” Paper presented at ECPR-SGIR 7th Pan-European International Relations Conference, Stockholm 9-11 Sep. 2010. Institute of Political Science University of Tübingen (http://stockholm.sgir.eu/uploads/Mutschler_SGIR2010_Arms_Control_in_Space.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">I will start my discussion with neoliberal institutionalism (Keohane 1989; Keohane 1984), one of the most prominent theories of international cooperation. Neoliberal institutionalism belongs to the rationalist approaches to international regimes that conceptualize their actors as self-interested and goal-seeking. States are the central actors in international relations; they have stable preferences and aim at the maximization of their individual utility. States’ preferences about outcomes are seen as stable over time. This, however, does not mean that change on the international level cannot be explained by this approach. Preferences over policy options can change, mostly as a result of a change in the expected utility of certain options. Cooperation within a certain issue-area may seem too risky, but with the establishment of an international regime, cooperation becomes the preferred policy. The central point here is that the interests of the states – conceptualized as their preferences over outcomes that maximize their utility – determine their behaviour and thereby their interaction on the international levels. How do states manage to cooperate within the rather cooperation-unfriendly environment of international anarchy? The answer of institutionalism is straightforward. International institutions, especially international regimes, enable states to cooperate despite the fact that in an anarchic world, there is no power that can hinder the other states from cheating. In an interdependent world, states often have mutual interests. Zero-sum games are the exception, not the rule. However, these mutual interests must not be taken as a guarantee for international cooperation, as there are various collective action problems that hinder international cooperation. The most famous of these is the so-called “prisoner’s dilemma”. The prisoner’s dilemma is a symmetrical game with two players. Each has the option to cooperate (C) or to defect (D), and each player prefers mutual cooperation to mutual defection. However, the best outcome for each player is a situation in which he defects while the other side chooses to cooperate (DC). It follows that cooperating while the other player defects (CD) is the worst outcome. In such a situation, cooperation is highly unlikely because it is rational for each player to choose defection since he will achieve a higher pay-off than with cooperation.7 International regimes help rational egoists to cooperate in situations similar to the “prisoner’s dilemma”, where uncertainty is the central problem. States do not know if they can trust in their partners – if they can expect them to stick to their commitments. At this point, regimes come into play. Regimes reduce this risk of defection by clearly defining cooperation and often by setting up monitoring agreements. These agreements make information available on the compliance of the cooperation partners, lowering the risk of cooperation. Each is informed about the non-cooperation of the other(s) and can change its own strategy, and the probability of being identified as a cheater reduces the expected utility of cheating. However, it is important that the “game” is not played as a one-shot-game, as it is essential that the so-called “shadow of the future” enables states to follow a strategy of reciprocity. This means that a state chooses to reward cooperation of the other side with cooperation in the future and accordingly to punish current defection with defection in the future.8 The explanation for the establishment of international regimes is a functional one, meaning that it “account*s+ for causes in terms of their effects” (Keohane 1984, 80). In the case of international regimes, the positive effects of regimes are the causes that lead to their establishment. “Institutions exist, because they would have reasonably been expected to increase the welfare of their creator” (Keohane 1984, 80). In the literature, it is quite common to analyze the decisions of states to arm or not to arm as a prisoner’s dilemma (Müller and Schörnig 2006, 40–7; Stein 1983, 312–3). The collective optimum would be no armament or at least the control of armament on both sides. However, there is the temptation to acquire a (decisive) advantage by choosing defection (arming). The insecurity about the motives of the other state(s) makes all sides choose defection and arming is the dominant strategy. This basic logic holds for preventive arms control in space, too. Luithardt (2009) analyses the case of space weapons from this perspective. I follow his argument and present some data to support it.</span>





**Space cooperation equals sustainable use of space – solves debris and space race.**

**Buxbaum 11**

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Peter A Buxbaum for ISN Insights 27 June 2011 “ Taming the Heavens: The New Space Diplomacy”</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">http://www.capfalcon.net/2011/06/29/taming-the-heavens-the-new-space-diplomacy/)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The NSSS does not go far enough, in Grego's opinion. She criticized the document for failing to emphasize arms control agreements "as part of a larger scheme for keeping space secure" and for failing to recommend that the United States take the lead on space diplomacy. Well-crafted arms control proposals could lower the risk of arms races or conflicts in space or on the ground, Grego said, and protect the space environment from the harmful debris caused when countries deliberately destroy satellites. "A more robust diplomatic initiative that includes the major space-faring countries would have the potential to increase cooperation with countries that are not traditional US military allies," she added, "and spur other countries to develop realistic proposals that could ensure a safe and sustainable future in space. Diplomatic engagement could help relieve suspicions among countries, reduce incentives for building anti-satellite systems and other space weapons by establishing negotiated limits, and avert space disputes." The UCS released a report last year which called for the US government to "declare that the United States will not intentionally damage or disable satellites" and "press other space powers to make the same pledge." The report recommended that the US make satellites "more resistant to interference and develop ways to quickly replace them or compensate with other measures if they are disabled." The report also called for the US to assemble an expert negotiating team and to "engage in international discussions on space." "The United States should play an active and leading role in engaging the international community to further develop space laws and norms and to keep space free of weapons," said Grego. "A Code of Conduct provides a useful but preliminary standard for responsible space conduct. It should be a first step, but not the last.”</span>







**AND, Space operations key to national credibility and soft power**

**(Logsdon, Poli Sci Professor, 07)**

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">John Logsdon (Professor of Political Science at George Washington University, former director of the Space Policy Institute), The Journal for Space and Missile Professionals, March 2007, “Human Space Flight and National Power”, Volume 3, Number 2, accessed March 13, 2012, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA520377</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">What the above analysis suggests is that if human space flight has made, and will continue to make, a significant contribution to US national power, that contribution will come in the form of “soft power.” That this could be the case has been recognized from the start of the US human space flight program. For example, the first comprehensive statement of US space policy, approved by President Dwight D. Eisenhower in January 1960, declared, “To the layman, manned space flight and exploration will represent the true conquest of outer space. No unmanned experiment can substitute for manned exploration in its psychological effect on the peoples of the world.” 7 The May 1961 DoD memorandum suggesting to President John F. Kennedy that he set a manned lunar landing as a national goal noted that “Dramatic achievements in space … symbolize the technological power and organizing capabilities of a nation,” that “This nation needs to make a positive decision to pursue space projects aimed at national prestige. Our attainments are a major element in the international competition between the Soviet system and our own. … ‘civilian’ projects such as lunar and planetary exploration are, in this sense, part of the battle along the fluid front of the cold war,” that “such undertakings may affect our military strength only indirectly if at all, but they have an increasing effect on our national posture,” and that “It is man, not machines, that captures the imagination of the world.” 8 The case for the soft power payoffs from human space flight may have most clearly and pungently been stated by former Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger, who in 1971 was deputy director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). Writing to President Richard M. Nixon about recommendations of the OMB staff to cancel the two remaining Apollo flights and to not approve Space Shuttle development decision which would have had the effect of ending the US human space flight program, Weinberger suggested: Recent Apollo flights have been very successful from all points of view. Most important is the fact that they give the American people a much needed lift in spirit, (and the people of the world an equally needed look at American superiority). [Canceling Apollo 16 and 17 and not approving Shuttle development] would be confirming in some respects a belief that I fear is gaining credence at home and abroad: That our best years are behind us, that we are turning inward, reducing our defense commitments, and voluntarily starting to give up our super-power status, and our desire to maintain world superiority. 9 Twelve years later, NASA made much the same argument in the briefing to President Ronald W. Reagan which asked him to approve the development of a space station, saying that “The presence of man is the key to leadership in space.” 10 Unfortunately, neither the Space Shuttle nor the International Space Station (ISS) programs have lived up to their promised performance, and thus it is a fair question to ask whether human space flight as carried out by NASA over the past quarter century has been a significant contributor to US soft power. The recent contribution of human spaceflight to US national prestige is uncertain, particularly given the uneven record of the international partnership on the ISS. However, the ability to carry non-US astronauts on the space shuttle is a useful foreign policy tool. Even so, space achievements involving direct human presence remain a potent source of national pride, and that such pride is the primary underpinning reason why the US public continues to support human spaceflight. Certainly, space images—an American astronaut on the Moon, a Space Shuttle launch—rank only below the American flag and the bald eagle as patriotic symbols, and such patriotism is a foundation of US soft (and hard) power. The self-image of the United States as a successful nation is threatened when we fail in our space efforts, and catastrophes such as Challenger and Columbia seem to tap deep emotions. Space Exploration and National Power President George W. Bush announced a new US “Vision for Space Exploration” on 14 January 2004; that vision aims at “a sustained and affordable human and robotic partnership to explore the solar system and beyond,” with an initial human return to the Moon and the human missions to Mars. The fundamental goal of the vision is “to advance US scientific, security, and economic objectives.” [emphasis added] 11 In what ways can human exploration of the Moon, Mars, and beyond contribute to space power, and thus to national security? This question has been eloquently addressed by the current NASA administrator, Dr. Michael D. Griffin: “The most enlightened, yet least discussed, aspect of national security involves being the kind of nation and, doing the kinds of things, that inspire others to want to cooperate as allies and partners rather than to be adversaries. And in my opinion, this is NASA’s greatest contribution to our Nation’s future in the world.” He added, Today, and yet not for much longer, America’s ability to lead a robust program of human and robotic exploration sets us above and apart from all others. It offers the perfect venue for leadership in an alliance of great nations, and provides the perfect opportunity to bind others to us as partners in the pursuit of common dreams. And if we are a nation joined with others in pursuit of such goals, all will be less likely to pursue conflict in other arenas. Griffin went even further in his analysis: “Imagine if you will a world of some future time—whether it be 2020 or 2040 or whenever—when some other nations or alliances are capable of reaching and exploring the Moon, or voyaging to Mars, and the United States cannot and does not. Is it even conceivable that in such a world America would still be regarded as a leader among nations, never mind the leader?” He asked “Are we willing to accept those consequences?” 12 These remarks have been quoted at some length because they sum up the core argument of this essay—that human space flight, well conceived and well executed, is a valuable source of soft power for the United States. Whether or not direct military or economic benefits flow from having the ability to send people to orbit and beyond, human space flight will continue to make an important contribution to having the rest of the world see the United States as a great country.</span>



**Science leadership is key to sustainable hegemony and cooperation**

**(Coletta, Poli Sci Professor, 09)**

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Damon Coletta (Professor of Political Science at the U.S. Air Force Academy, Ph.D. in Political Science, December 1999 Harvard University, Master in Public Policy, 1993 Stanford University, Master in Electrical Engineering, 1989 Stanford University, B.S.E.E., 1988), Defense Technical Information Center, September 2009, "Science, Technology, and the Quest for International Influence", accessed May 22, 2012, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA536133&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">To discover sustainable hegemony in an increasingly multipolar world, American policy makers will need more than the Kaysen list of advantages from basic science. Dr. Carl Kaysen served President John Kennedy as deputy national security adviser and over his long career held distinguished professorships in Political Economy at Harvard and MIT. During the 1960s, Kaysen laid out a framework with four important reasons why a great power, the United States in particular, should take a strategic interest in the basic sciences. 1. Scientific discoveries provided the input for applied research, which in turn produced technologies crucial for wielding economic and military power. 2. Scientific activity educated a cadre of operators for leadership in industries relevant to government such as health care and defense. 3. Science proficiency generated the raw elements for mounting focused, applied efforts such as the Manhattan Project during World War II to build the first atomic bomb. 4. Scientific progress built a basic research reserve that when necessary could move quickly to shore up national needs. 1 These arguments underscored science‘s contribution to new products and services that provided market or military advantages. The pursuit of physics, chemistry, and biology at the frontiers of knowledge could have direct effects on national excellence. The following sections of this article extend Kaysen‘s list for the present multi-polar world. The United States‘ largest military and economic shares in such a world do not guarantee empire. Soft power from scientific achievement, however, may make up part of the deficit, enough to augment America‘s reputation and American leadership in the international order. The U.S. science establishment is then described and evaluated for its capacity to integrate and leverage the complete list of science benefits: Kaysen‘s nation-based items plus the civilization-based advantages exposited here. Case studies of the Office of Naval Research and U.S. scientific outreach to Brazil illustrate underlying strengths and weaknesses of the U.S. system for maintaining the lead in basic science. Among the weaknesses, democratic regimes tend to suffocate professions, particularly in the sciences, due to natural hostility between democracy and technocracy. The United States might yet find the right balance by inculcating a politically sophisticated professionalism. In other areas of heavy government responsibility—finance, health care, foreign intelligence, and defense—officials and the public have over time placed considerable trust in expert agents. With greater scientific literacy at the mass level and greater political literacy at the scientific level, America‘s state and society may forge a somewhat freer, healthier relationship with American science, accruing benefits for U.S. material power in the long run and, in the short run, for persuasive influence in the international system. Science and International Leadership In their book on Leading Sectors and World Powers (1996), George Modelski and William Thompson extended their analysis of innovation back, beyond the birth of industrial capitalism, to the Sung Dynasty in China at the turn of the First Millennium. 2 Modelski and Thompson mentioned inventions like the compass that helped leaders extract wealth from maritime East-West trade routes, but they also noted the Sung rulers‘ cultivation of knowledge and the influence of Chinese intellectuals on administrative reform. A scientific society has the opportunity to apply methods and models toward political and economic questions. Just before the November 2008 elections, the New York Times’ David Ignatius sat down with two former national security advisers, Zbigniew Brzezinski and Brent Scowcroft, for a series of interviews on foreign policy. 3 In their discussion of complementary strengths that could lay the groundwork for greater transatlantic cooperation, the advisers noted how impressive it was that the European Union could knit together so many independent states with sophisticated, comprehensive rules and regulations without inadvertently strangling economic growth. It seems improbable that Europe could build the administrative structures for a successful common currency or a single labor market without an ethos that came from scientific competence. Progress in the physical sciences can spill over in a way that supports modern institutions and efficient public policy. Spillover to social sciences reinforces the notion that scientific progress and scientific literacy are civilizing influences. As such they can fortify what Joseph Nye termed a country‘s soft power, its capacity to establish appealing precedents for the rest of the world. 4 Science shares properties with Olympic sport in that it can open avenues for non-coercive cultural hegemony. Foreign emulation in science, though, counts for more than soccer or gymnastics. The demonstration effect in physics may initially appear as man-overcoming-Nature rather than man-versusman, but great scientific advance is more cumulative than victory in the Games. Anyone seeking to take the next step must accommodate the vernacular of the pioneer and accept his tutelage in the universal logic governing scientific concepts. Moreover, the ingenuity and skills on display as a citizen in a specific nation-state, albeit working at university, unlocks another secret of nature register around the world as excellence that could someday be harnessed by government and adapted to the state-versus-state context. That fungibility garners international respect and piques interest in greater collaboration. In his study of American science overtures to Europe during the first decades of the Cold War, John Krige related how overlapping interests and in some instances the overlapping community of scientists and government officials infused pure science aid with foreign policy purpose. The construction of CERN (Conseil Européen pour la Recherche Nucléaire) for all-European particle research in Geneva. European conferences of the well-connected Ford Foundation and the development of the NATO Science Committee did not simply advance basic knowledge; they also nurtured a special dialogue, unencumbered by normal diplomatic preoccupations. This privileged communication nevertheless facilitated American hegemony and buttressed Western solidarity against intimidation, or alternate offers, from the Soviet Union. In material balance of power terms, the larger economy and more capable nuclear forces of the United States were seen as less threatening to Western Europe than the Red Army, deployed just over the makeshift border with East Germany. 5 Cultural appeal, including scientific prowess as well as liberal democratic ideals, afforded the United States extra diplomatic margin as it simultaneously expanded its own arsenal and its alliances against a technically inferior opponent. Finally, during the late-Cold War, after 1970, the economic rise of Germany and Japan, the larger diplomatic role of China, and the greater international participation from post-colonial governments in the developing world reshaped the global agenda. Problems traditionally managed by the great powers— arms control, arms proliferation, international development, environmental consequences of industrialization and urbanization—were picked up by non-governmental entities who sought to influence state behavior. Given their small budgets and their status as outside observers rather than diplomats or official negotiators, specialized knowledge was their instrument of choice. As transportation and communication technologies improved through the 1980s and 1990s, issue-based groups and public policy institutes proliferated, combining with academic researchers to build epistemic communities.</span>



**Independently, soft power solves extinction**

**(Nye, IR Professor, and Armitage 07)**

**Joseph Nye**<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> (Professor and Former Dean Of Kennedy School of Government at Harvard), </span>**and Richard Armitage**<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> (deputy secretary of state from 2001 to 2005, both are co-chairs of the CSIS Commission on Smart Power), </span>**CSIS**<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> (Center for Strategic and International Studies), </span>**2007**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">, “CSIS Commission on Smart Power: a smarter, more secure America”, accessed March 28, 2012, http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/071106_csissmartpowerreport.pdf</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Soft power is the ability to attract people to our side without coercion. Legitimacy is central to soft power. If a people or nation believes American objectives to be legitimate, we are more likely to persuade them to follow our lead without using threats and bribes. Legitimacy can also reduce opposition to—and the costs of—using hard power when the situation demands. Appealing to others’ values, interests, and preferences can, in certain circumstances, replace the dependence on carrots and sticks. Cooperation is always a matter of degree, and it is profoundly influenced by attraction. This is evident in the changing nature of conflict today, including in Iraq and against al Qaeda. In traditional conflict, once the enemy is vanquished militarily, he is likely to sue for peace. But many of the organizations against which we are fighting control no territory, hold few assets, and sprout new leaders for each one that is killed. Victory in the traditional sense is elusive. Militaries are well suited to defeating states, but they are often poor instruments to fight ideas. Today, victory depends on attracting foreign populations to our side and helping them to build capable, democratic states. Soft power is essential to winning the peace. It is easier to attract people to democracy than to coerce them to be democratic. Since America rose on the world stage in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, it has wielded a distinctive blend of hard and soft power. Despite nineteenth-century military adventures in the Western hemisphere and in the Philippines, the U.S. military has not been put in the service of building a colonial empire in the manner of European militaries. Particularly since World War II, America has sought to promote rules and order in a world in which life continues to be nasty, brutish, and short for the majority of inhabitants. American sources of soft power are plentiful. Soft power is more than mere cultural power, although the appeal of Hollywood and American products can play a role in inspiring the dreams and desires of others. Sources include the political values and ideas enshrined in the Constitution and Bill of Rights, U.S. economic and educational systems, personal contacts and exchanges, and our somewhat reluctant participation and leadership in institutions that help shape the global agenda. One of the biggest sources of U.S. soft power is quite simply America’s obvious success as a nation. Not everyone looks forward to a more interconnected and tolerant world. These ideas can be threatening to those who consider their way of life to be under siege by the West. Those who feel this divide most strongly are often the very people who seek to fight America and its allies. Yet every year the United States attracts more than four times the number of immigrants than any other country, and hundreds of thousands of foreign scholars and students as well. America’s history as an immigrant nation is an important source of its soft power. There is an enormous strength and vitality in the American civic spirit of opportunity, tolerance, mutual respect, and shared commitment and in an economy that rewards innovation and hard work. For people everywhere, the United States can be a partner for a better life. wHat IS Smart Power? Smart power is neither hard nor soft—it is the skillful combination of both. Smart power means developing an integrated strategy, resource base, and tool kit to achieve American objectives, drawing on both hard and soft power. It is an approach that underscores the necessity of a strong military, but also invests heavily in alliances, partnerships, and institutions at all levels to expand American influence and establish the legitimacy of American action. Providing for the global good is central to this effort because it helps America reconcile its overwhelming power with the rest of the world’s interests and values. Elements of this approach exist today in U.S. foreign policy, but they lack a cohesive rationale and institutional grounding. Three main obstacles exist. First, U.S. foreign policy has tended to over-rely on hard power because it is the most direct and visible source of American strength. The Pentagon is the best trained and best resourced arm of the federal government. As a result, it tends to fill every void, even those that civilian instruments should fill. America must retain its military superiority, but in today’s context, there are limits to what hard power can achieve on its own. Second, U.S. foreign policy is still struggling to develop soft power instruments. Diplomatic tools and foreign assistance are often directed toward states, which increasingly compete for power with non-state actors within their borders. Diplomacy and foreign assistance are often underfunded and underused. These tools are neglected i part because of the difficulty of demonstrating their short-term impact on critical challenges. Figure 1 shows U.S. spending on international affairs over the past 20 years. Note that funding was generally stagnant for a decade. Increases in the early 1990s—due primarily to economic aid to Eastern and Central Europe—were offset by reductions in development assistance and public diplomacy funding. Increases from 1999 to 2002 were driven in part by security concerns following the embassy bombings in Nairobi and Dar el Salaam. Recent increases are on account of support to critical countries in the war on terror, the Millennium Challenge Corporation and PEPFAR initiatives, and humanitarian emergencies. It should come as no surprise that some of the best-funded and most appreciated soft power tools have been humanitarian operations carried out by the U.S. military such as tsunami relief in Southeast Asia and the earthquake response in Pakistan, since these operations produced results that were clear, measurable, and unassailable. Wielding soft power is especially difficult, however, because many of America’s soft power resources lie outside of government in the private sector and civil society, in its bilateral alliances, or through its participation in multilateral institutions. Third, U.S. foreign policy institutions are fractured and compartmentalized. Coordination, where there is any, happens either at a relatively low level or else at the very highest levels of government—both typically in crisis settings that drive out long-range planning. Stovepiped institutional cultures inhibit joint action. More thought should also be put into sequencing and integrating hard and soft power instruments, particularly in the same operating theater. Some elements of this approach are already occurring in the conduct of ongoing counterinsurgency, nation building, and counterterrorism operations—tasks that depend critically but only partially on hard power. The United States has in its past wielded hard and soft power in concert, with each contributing a necessary component to a larger aim. We used hard power to deter the Soviet Union during the Cold War and soft power to rebuild Japan and Europe with the Marshall Plan and to establish institutions and norms that have become the core of the international system. Today’s context presents a unique set of challenges, however, and requires a new way of thinking about American power Today's Challenges The twenty-first century presents a number of unique foreign policy challenges for today’s decisionmakers. These challenges exist at an international, transnational, and global level. Despite America’s status as the lone global power and concerns about the durability of the current international order, America should renew its commitment to the current order and help find a way for today’s norms and institutions to accommodate rising powers that may hold a different set of principles and values. Furthermore, even countries invested in the current order may waver in their commitment to take action to minimize the threats posed by violent non-state actors and regional powers who challenge this order. The information age has heightened political consciousness, but also made political groupings less cohesive. Small, adaptable, transnational networks have access to tools of destruction that are increasingly cheap, easy to conceal, and more readily available. Although the integration of the global economy has brought tremendous benefits, threats such as pandemic disease and the collapse of financial markets are more distributed and more likely to arise without warning. The threat of widespread physical harm to the planet posed by nuclear catastrophe has existed for half a century, though the realization of the threat will become more likely as the number of nuclear weapons states increases. The potential security challenges posed by climate change raise the possibility of an entirely new set of threats for the United States to consider. The next administration will need a strategy that speaks to each of these challenges. Whatever specific approach it decides to take, two principles will be certain: First, an extra dollar spent on hard power will not necessarily bring an extra dollar’s worth of security. It is difficult to know how to invest wisely when there is not a budget based on a strategy that specifies trade-offs among instruments. Moreover, hard power capabilities are a necessary but insufficient guarantee of security in today’s context. Second, success and failure will turn on the ability to win new allies and strengthen old ones both in government and civil society. The key is not how many enemies the United States kills, but how many allies it grows.</span>



**Science leadership also prevents conflict escalation and resource wars**

**(Royal Society 10)**

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Royal Society, AAAS (American Association for the Advancement of Science, Founded in 1848, it serves some 262 affiliated societies and academies of science, serving 10 million individuals), January 2010, “New Frontiers of Science Diplomacy”, accessed January 3, 2012, http://diplomacy.aaas.org/files/New_Frontiers.pdf</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Cooperation on the scientific aspects of sensitive issues may sometimes be the only way to initiate a wider political dialogue. The soft power of science, and the universality of scientific methods, can be used to diffuse tensions even in ‘hard power’ scenarios, such as those relating to traditional military threats. For example, technologies to verify nuclear arms control agreements were a rare focus of joint working between the US and USSR during the Cold War. Lessons from the Cold War are once again highly pertinent. In the run-up to the May 2010 Review Conference of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT), nuclear disarmament is firmly back on the international agenda. However, the timescale for disarmament is long, as illustrated by the history of negotiations over the Chemical Weapons Convention. After the Geneva Convention banned the use of chemical weapons in 1925, negotiations for a treaty banning their production and stockpiling did not start until the 1980s, and the convention entered into force only in 1997. Even now, stockpiles of chemical weapons in the US and Russia have yet to be destroyed. So focusing in 2010 on the challenges of the final stages of a nuclear disarmament process may be premature. A more practical next step could be to establish the scientific requirements for the verification regime necessary to support future stages of negotiation (Pregenzer 2008). In 2008, the Norwegian Minister of Foreign Affairs suggested that a high-level Intergovernmental Panel on Nuclear Disarmament could be established (based on the model of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change). This panel could begin by identifying the scientific and technical aspects of disarmament, and then set out a research agenda necessary to achieve them. International cooperation would be essential, both between nuclear and non-nuclear weapon states, as all would need to have confidence that reductions are taking place. The recent initiative between the UK and Norwegian governments on disarmament verification sets a precedent here, and could be expanded to include additional States (VERTIC 2009). However, security threats now extend beyond the military domain, with environmental security attracting particular attention (Abbott C, Rogers P & Sloboda S 2007). Essential resources, such as freshwater, cultivable land, crop yields and fish stocks, are likely to become scarcer in many parts of the world, increasing the risk of competition over resources within and between states (UNEP 2009). This could intensify as previously inaccessible regions, such as the Arctic Ocean, open up as a consequence of climate change and ice melt. Substantial parts of the world also risk being left uninhabitable by rising sea levels, reduced freshwater availability or declining agricultural capacity. Many of the regions that are vulnerable to the impacts of these multiple stresses are already the locus of existing instability and conflict (see Figure 2).</span>



**Finally, the Terminal Impacts - Leadership leads to liberal cooperation - prevents nuclear war**



**(Zhang and Shi 11)**

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Yuhan Zhang (researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C.), and Lin Shi (from Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C.), East Asia Forum, January 22, 2011, “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry”, accessed May 16, 2011, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Over the past two decades, no other state has had the ability to seriously challenge the US military. Under these circumstances, motivated by both opportunity and fear, many actors have bandwagoned with US hegemony and accepted a subordinate role. Canada, most of Western Europe, India, Japan, South Korea, Australia, Singapore and the Philippines have all joined the US, creating a status quo that has tended to mute great power conflicts. However, as the hegemony that drew these powers together withers, so will the pulling power behind the US alliance. The result will be an international order where power is more diffuse, American interests and influence can be more readily challenged, and conflicts or wars may be harder to avoid. As history attests, power decline and redistribution result in military confrontation. For example, in the late 19th century America’s emergence as a regional power saw it launch its first overseas war of conquest towards Spain. By the turn of the 20th century, accompanying the increase in US power and waning of British power, the American Navy had begun to challenge the notion that Britain ‘rules the waves.’ Such a notion would eventually see the US attain the status of sole guardians of the Western Hemisphere’s security to become the order-creating Leviathan shaping the international system with democracy and rule of law. Defining this US-centred system are three key characteristics: enforcement of property rights, constraints on the actions of powerful individuals and groups and some degree of equal opportunities for broad segments of society. As a result of such political stability, free markets, liberal trade and flexible financial mechanisms have appeared. And, with this, many countries have sought opportunities to enter this system, proliferating stable and cooperative relations. However, what will happen to these advances as America’s influence declines? Given that America’s authority, although sullied at times, has benefited people across much of Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, the Balkans, as well as parts of Africa and, quite extensively, Asia, the answer to this question could affect global society in a profoundly detrimental way. Public imagination and academia have anticipated that a post-hegemonic world would return to the problems of the 1930s: regional blocs, trade conflicts and strategic rivalry. Furthermore, multilateral institutions such as the IMF, the World Bank or the WTO might give way to regional organisations. For example, Europe and East Asia would each step forward to fill the vacuum left by Washington’s withering leadership to pursue their own visions of regional political and economic orders. Free markets would become more politicised — and, well, less free — and major powers would compete for supremacy. Additionally, such power plays have historically possessed a zero-sum element. In the late 1960s and 1970s, US economic power declined relative to the rise of the Japanese and Western European economies, with the US dollar also becoming less attractive. And, as American power eroded, so did international regimes (such as the Bretton Woods System in 1973).</span>



**AND, Statistics prove**

**(Owen, Poli Sci Professor, 11)**

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">John Owen (Associate professor of Politics at the University of Virginia), Cato Institute, February 11, 2011, “Don’t Discount Hegemony”, accessed March 13, 2012, http://www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/11/john-owen/dont-discount-hegemony/</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Andrew Mack and his colleagues at the Human Security Report Project are to be congratulated. Not only do they present a study with a striking conclusion, driven by data, free of theoretical or ideological bias, but they also do something quite unfashionable: they bear good news. Social scientists really are not supposed to do that. Our job is, if not to be Malthusians, then at least to point out disturbing trends, looming catastrophes, and the imbecility and mendacity of policy makers. And then it is to say why, if people listen to us, things will get better. We do this as if our careers depended upon it, and perhaps they do; for if all is going to be well, what need then for us? Our colleagues at Simon Fraser University are brave indeed. That may sound like a setup, but it is not. I shall challenge neither the data nor the general conclusion that violent conflict around the world has been decreasing in fits and starts since the Second World War. When it comes to violent conflict among and within countries, things have been getting better. (The trends have not been linear—Figure 1.1 actually shows that the frequency of interstate wars peaked in the 1980s—but the 65-year movement is clear.) Instead I shall accept that Mack et al. are correct on the macro-trends, and focus on their explanations they advance for these remarkable trends. With apologies to any readers of this forum who recoil from academic debates, this might get mildly theoretical and even more mildly methodological. Concerning international wars, one version of the “nuclear-peace” theory is not in fact laid to rest by the data. It is certainly true that nuclear-armed states have been involved in many wars. They have even been attacked (think of Israel), which falsifies the simple claim of “assured destruction”—that any nuclear country A will deter any kind of attack by any country B because B fears a retaliatory nuclear strike from A. But the most important “nuclear-peace” claim has been about mutually assured destruction, which obtains between two robustly nuclear-armed states. The claim is that (1) rational states having second-strike capabilities—enough deliverable nuclear weaponry to survive a nuclear first strike by an enemy—will have an overwhelming incentive not to attack one another; and (2) we can safely assume that nuclear-armed states are rational. It follows that states with a second-strike capability will not fight one another. Their colossal atomic arsenals neither kept the United States at peace with North Vietnam during the Cold War nor the Soviet Union at peace with Afghanistan. But the argument remains strong that those arsenals did help keep the United States and Soviet Union at peace with each other. Why non-nuclear states are not deterred from fighting nuclear states is an important and open question. But in a time when calls to ban the Bomb are being heard from more and more quarters, we must be clear about precisely what the broad trends toward peace can and cannot tell us. They may tell us nothing about why we have had no World War III, and little about the wisdom of banning the Bomb now. Regarding the downward trend in international war, Professor Mack is friendlier to more palatable theories such as the “democratic peace” (democracies do not fight one another, and the proportion of democracies has increased, hence less war); the interdependence or “commercial peace” (states with extensive economic ties find it irrational to fight one another, and interdependence has increased, hence less war); and the notion that people around the world are more anti-war than their forebears were. Concerning the downward trend in civil wars, he favors theories of economic growth (where commerce is enriching enough people, violence is less appealing—a logic similar to that of the “commercial peace” thesis that applies among nations) and the end of the Cold War (which end reduced superpower support for rival rebel factions in so many Third-World countries). These are all plausible mechanisms for peace. What is more, none of them excludes any other; all could be working toward the same end. That would be somewhat puzzling, however. Is the world just lucky these days? How is it that an array of peace-inducing factors happens to be working coincidentally in our time, when such a magical array was absent in the past? The answer may be that one or more of these mechanisms reinforces some of the others, or perhaps some of them are mutually reinforcing. Some scholars, for example, have been focusing on whether economic growth might support democracy and vice versa, and whether both might support international cooperation, including to end civil wars. We would still need to explain how this charmed circle of causes got started, however. And here let me raise another factor, perhaps even less appealing than the “nuclear peace” thesis, at least outside of the United States. That factor is what international relations scholars call hegemony—specifically American hegemony. A theory that many regard as discredited, but that refuses to go away, is called hegemonic stability theory. The theory emerged in the 1970s in the realm of international political economy. It asserts that for the global economy to remain open—for countries to keep barriers to trade and investment low—one powerful country must take the lead. Depending on the theorist we consult, “taking the lead” entails paying for global public goods (keeping the sea lanes open, providing liquidity to the international economy), coercion (threatening to raise trade barriers or withdraw military protection from countries that cheat on the rules), or both. The theory is skeptical that international cooperation in economic matters can emerge or endure absent a hegemon. The distastefulness of such claims is self-evident: they imply that it is good for everyone the world over if one country has more wealth and power than others. More precisely, they imply that it has been good for the world that the United States has been so predominant. There is no obvious reason why hegemonic stability theory could not apply to other areas of international cooperation, including in security affairs, human rights, international law, peacekeeping (UN or otherwise), and so on. What I want to suggest here—suggest, not test—is that American hegemony might just be a deep cause of the steady decline of political deaths in the world. How could that be? After all, the report states that United States is the third most war-prone country since 1945. Many of the deaths depicted in Figure 10.4 were in wars that involved the United States (the Vietnam War being the leading one). Notwithstanding politicians’ claims to the contrary, a candid look at U.S. foreign policy reveals that the country is as ruthlessly self-interested as any other great power in history. The answer is that U.S. hegemony might just be a deeper cause of the proximate causes outlined by Professor Mack. Consider economic growth and openness to foreign trade and investment, which (so say some theories) render violence irrational. American power and policies may be responsible for these in two related ways. First, at least since the 1940s Washington has prodded other countries to embrace the market capitalism that entails economic openness and produces sustainable economic growth. The United States promotes capitalism for selfish reasons, of course: its own domestic system depends upon growth, which in turn depends upon the efficiency gains from economic interaction with foreign countries, and the more the better. During the Cold War most of its allies accepted some degree of market-driven growth. Second, the U.S.-led western victory in the Cold War damaged the credibility of alternative paths to development—communism and import-substituting industrialization being the two leading ones—and left market capitalism the best model. The end of the Cold War also involved an end to the billions of rubles in Soviet material support for regimes that tried to make these alternative models work. (It also, as Professor Mack notes, eliminated the superpowers’ incentives to feed civil violence in the Third World.) What we call globalization is caused in part by the emergence of the United States as the global hegemon.</span>





**AND, No offense - Elites will inevitably pursue hegemony**

**(Calleo 10)**

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">David P. Calleo (Director – European Studies Program and Professor at SAIS), Survival, July 21, 2010, “American Decline Revisited", Volume 52, Issue 4, Pg. 215 – 227, accessed March 13, 2012, Taylor and Francis Online Database</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The history of the past two decades suggests that adjusting to a plural world is not easy for the United States. As its economic strength is increasingly challenged by relative decline, it clings all the more to its peerless military prowess. As the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have shown, that overwhelming military power, evolved over the Cold War, is less and less effective. In many respects, America's geopolitical imagination seems frozen in the posture of the Cold War. The lingering pretension to be the dominant powereverywhere has encouraged the United States to hazard two unpromising land wars, plus a diffuse and interminable struggle against 'terrorism'. Paying for these wars and the pretensions behind them confirms the United States in a new version of Cold War finance. Once more, unmanageable fiscal problems poison the currency, an old pathology that firmly reinstates the nation on its path to decline. It was the hegemonic Cold War role, after all, that put the United States so out of balance with the rest of the world economy. In its hegemonic Cold War position, the United States found it necessary to run very large deficits and was able to finance them simply by creating and exporting more and more dollars. The consequence is today's restless mass of accumulated global money. Hence, whereas the value of all global financial assets in 1980 was just over 100% of global output, by 2008, even after the worst of the financial implosion, that figure had exploded to just under 300%.25 Much of this is no doubt tied up in the massive but relatively inert holdings of the Chinese and Japanese. But thanks to today's instantaneous electronic transfers, huge sums can be marshalled and deployed on very short notice. It is this excess of volatile money that arguably fuels the world's great recurring bubbles. It can create the semblance of vast real wealth for a time, but can also (with little notice) sow chaos in markets, wipe out savings and dry up credit for real investment. What constitutes a morbid overstretch in the American political economy thus ends up as a threat to the world economy in general. To lead itself and the world into a more secure future the United States must put aside its old, unmeasured geopolitical ambitions paid for by unlimited cheap credit. Instead, the United States needs a more balanced view of its role in history. But America's post-Soviet pundits have, unfortunately, proved more skilful at perpetuating outmoded dreams of past glory than at promoting the more modest visions appropriate to a plural future. One can always hope that newer generations of Americans will find it easier to adjust to pluralist reality. The last administration, however, was not very encouraging in this regard. III What about Barack Obama? So far, his economic policy has shown itself probably more intelligent and certainly more articulate than his predecessor's. His thinking is less hobbled by simple-minded doctrines. It accepts government's inescapable role in regulating markets and providing a durable framework for orderly governance and societal fellowship. To be sure, the Obama administration, following in the path of the Bush administration, has carried short-term counter-cyclical stimulation to a previously unimagined level. Perhaps so radical an expansion of credit is unavoidable under present circumstances. The administration is caught between the need to rebalance by scaling back and the fear that restraint applied now will trigger a severe depression. Obama's chief aide, Rahm Emanuel, is famous for observing: 'Rule one: Never allow a crisis to go to waste. They are opportunities to do big things.'26 So far, Obama's administration has made use of its crisis to promote an unprecedented expansion of welfare spending.27 Much of the spending is doubtless good in itself and certainly serves the administration's strong counter-cyclical purposes. But at some point the need to pass from expansion to stabilisation will presumably be inescapable. Budget cuts will have to be found somewhere, and demographic trends suggest that drastic reductions in civilian welfare spending are unlikely. Elementary prudence might suggest that today's financial crisis is an ideal occasion for America's long-overdue retreat from geopolitical overstretch, a time for bringing America's geopolitical pretensions into harmony with its diminishing foreign possibilities and expanding domestic needs. The opportunities for geopolitical saving appear significant. According to the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), current military plans will require an average military budget of $652bn (in 2010 dollars) each year through 2028. The estimate optimistically assumes only 30,000 troops will be engaged abroad after 2013. As the CBO observes, these projections exceed the peak budgets of the Reagan administration's military build-up of the mid-1980s (about $500bn annually in 2010 dollars). This presumes a military budget consuming 3.5% of GDP through 2020.28 Comparable figures for other nations are troubling: 2.28% for the United Kingdom, 2.35% for France, 2.41% for Russia and 1.36% for China.29 Thus, while the financial crisis has certainly made Americans fear for their economic future, it does not yet seem to have resulted in a more modest view of the country's place in the world, or a more prudent approach to military spending. Instead, an addiction to hegemonic status continues to blight the prospects for sound fiscal policy. Financing the inevitable deficits inexorably turns the dollar into an imperial instrument that threatens the world with inflation.</span>



**AND, Leadership transition causes apolarity and competition**

**(Brezezinski, IR Professor, 12)**

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Zbigniew Brzezinski (Robert E. Osgood Professor of American Foreign Policy at the School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University) Foreign Policy “After America” January/February 2012</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">For if America falters, the world is unlikely to be dominated by a single preeminent successor -- not even China. International uncertainty, increased tension among global competitors, and even outright chaos would be far more likely outcomes. While a sudden, massive crisis of the American system -- for instance, another financial crisis -- would produce a fast-moving chain reaction leading to global political and economic disorder, a steady drift by America into increasingly pervasive decay or endlessly widening warfare with Islam would be unlikely to produce, even by 2025, an effective global successor. No single power will be ready by then to exercise the role that the world, upon the fall of the Soviet Union in 1991, expected the United States to play: the leader of a new, globally cooperative world order. More probable would be a protracted phase of rather inconclusive realignments of both global and regional power, with no grand winners and many more losers, in a setting of international uncertainty and even of potentially fatal risks to global well-being. Rather than a world where dreams of democracy flourish, a Hobbesian world of enhanced national security based on varying fusions of authoritarianism, nationalism, and religion could ensue. The leaders of the world's second-rank powers, among them India, Japan, Russia, and some European countries, are already assessing the potential impact of U.S. decline on their respective national interests. The Japanese, fearful of an assertive China dominating the Asian mainland, may be thinking of closer links with Europe. Leaders in India and Japan may be considering closer political and even military cooperation in case America falters and China rises. Russia, while perhaps engaging in wishful thinking (even schadenfreude) about America's uncertain prospects, will almost certainly have its eye on the independent states of the former Soviet Union. Europe, not yet cohesive, would likely be pulled in several directions: Germany and Italy toward Russia because of commercial interests, France and insecure Central Europe in favor of a politically tighter European Union, and Britain toward manipulating a balance within the EU while preserving its special relationship with a declining United States. Others may move more rapidly to carve out their own regional spheres: Turkey in the area of the old Ottoman Empire, Brazil in the Southern Hemisphere, and so forth. None of these countries, however, will have the requisite combination of economic, financial, technological, and military power even to consider inheriting America's leading role. […] At the same time, the security ofa number of weakerstates locatedgeographicallynext to majorregional powers</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> also </span>**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">depends on the international status quo reinforced by America's global preeminence -- and would be made significantly more vulnerable in proportion to America's decline. The states in that exposed position -- including Georgia, Taiwan, South Korea, Belarus, Ukraine, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Israel, and the greater Middle East -- are today's geopolitical equivalents of nature's most endangered species. Their fates are closely tied to the nature of the international environment left behind by a waning America, be it ordered and restrained or, much more likely, self-serving and expansionist. A faltering United States could also find its strategic partnership with Mexico in jeopardy. America's economic resilience and political stability have so far mitigated many of the challenges posed by such sensitive neighborhood issues as economic dependence, immigration, and the narcotics trade. A decline in American power, however, would likely undermine the health and good judgment of the U.S. economic and political systems. A waning United States would likely be more nationalistic, more defensive about its national identity, more paranoid about its homeland security, and less willing to sacrifice resources for the sake of others' development. The worsening of relations between a declining America and an internally troubled Mexico could even give rise to a particularly ominous phenomenon: the emergence, as a major issue in nationalistically aroused Mexican politics, of territorial claims justified by history and ignited by cross-border incidents. Another consequence of American decline could be a corrosion of the generally cooperative management of the global commons -- shared interests such as sea lanes, space, cyberspace, and the environment, whose protection is imperative to the long-term growth of the global economy and the continuation of basic geopolitical stability. In almost every case, the potential absence of a constructive and influential U.S. role would fatally undermine the essential communality of the global commons because the superiority and ubiquity of American power creates order where there would normally be conflict.</span>



**Contention 2 is Settlement**



**Extinction inevitable**

**Matheny 7** <span style="font-size: 5pt;">(Jason G., Research Associate at the Future of Human Institute at Oxford University, Ph.D. Candidate in Applied Economics at Johns Hopkins University, holds a Master’s in Public Health from the Bloomberg School of Public Health at Johns Hopkins University and an M.B.A. from the Fuqua School of Business at Duke University, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, Volume 27, Issue 5, October, http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htm MGE)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">It is possible for humanity (or its descendents) to survive a million years or more, but we could succumb to extinction as soon as this century. During the Cuban Missile Crisis, U.S. President Kennedy estimated the probability of a nuclear holocaust as "somewhere between one out of three and even" (Kennedy, 1969 , p. 110). John von Neumann, as Chairman of the U.S. Air Force Strategic Missiles Evaluation Committee, predicted that it was "absolutely certain (1) that there would be a nuclear war; and (2) that everyone would die in it" (Leslie, 1996 , p. 26). More recent predictions of human extinction are little more optimistic. In their catalogs of extinction risks, Britain's Astronomer Royal, Sir Martin Rees (2003) , gives humanity 50-50 odds on surviving the 21st century; philosopher Nick Bostrom argues that it would be "misguided" to assume that the probability of extinction is less than 25%; and philosopher John Leslie (1996) assigns a 30% probability to extinction during the next five centuries. The "Stern Review" for the U.K. Treasury (2006) assumes that the probability of human extinction during the next century is 10%. And some explanations of the "Fermi Paradox" imply a high probability (close to 100%) of extinction among technological civilizations (Pisani, 2006 ).4 Estimating the probabilities of unprecedented events is subjective, so we should treat these numbers skeptically. Still, even if the probability of extinction is several orders lower, because the stakes are high, it could be wise to invest in extinction countermeasures.</span>





**A reduction of the risk of extinction by 1 millionth of 1 percent is would save ten billion lives and comes before any other impact**

**Bostrom 11**<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> (Nick, Oxford Martin School & Faculty of Philosophy, 2011, “The Concept of Existential Risk” http://www.existentialrisk.com/concept.html MGE)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Holding probability constant, risks become more serious as we move toward the upper-right region of figure 2. For any fixed probability, existential risks are thus more serious than other risk categories. But just how much more serious might not be intuitively obvious. One might think we could get a grip on how bad an existential catastrophe would be by considering some of the worst historical disasters we can think of—such as the two world wars, the Spanish flu pandemic, or the Holocaust—and then imagining something just a bit worse. Yet if we look at global population statistics over time, we find that these horrible events of the past century fail to register (figure 3). Figure 3: World population over the last century. Calamities such as the Spanish flu pandemic, the two world wars, and the Holocaust scarcely register. (If one stares hard at the graph, one can perhaps just barely make out a slight temporary reduction in the rate of growth of the world population during these events.) But even this reflection fails to bring out the seriousness of existential risk. What makes existential catastrophes especially bad is not that they would show up robustly on a plot like the one in figure 3, causing a precipitous drop in world population or average quality of life. Instead, their significance lies primarily in the fact that they would destroy the future. The philosopher Derek Parfit made a similar point with the following thought experiment: I believe that if we destroy mankind, as we now can, this outcome will be much worse than most people think. Compare three outcomes: (1) Peace. (2) A nuclear war that kills 99% of the world’s existing population. (3) A nuclear war that kills 100%. (2) would be worse than (1), and (3) would be worse than (2). Which is the greater of these two differences? Most people believe that the greater difference is between (1) and (2). I believe that the difference between (2) and (3) is very much greater. … The Earth will remain habitable for at least another billion years. Civilization began only a few thousand years ago. If we do not destroy mankind, these few thousand years may be only a tiny fraction of the whole of civilized human history. The difference between (2) and (3) may thus be the difference between this tiny fraction and all of the rest of this history. If we compare this possible history to a day, what has occurred so far is only a fraction of a second. (10: 453-454) To calculate the loss associated with an existential catastrophe, we must consider how much value would come to exist in its absence. It turns out that the ultimate potential for Earth-originating intelligent life is literally astronomical. One gets a large number even if one confines one’s consideration to the potential for biological human beings living on Earth. If we suppose with Parfit that our planet will remain habitable for at least another billion years, and we assume that at least one billion people could live on it sustainably, then the potential exist for at least 1018 human lives. These lives could also be considerably better than the average contemporary human life, which is so often marred by disease, poverty, injustice, and various biological limitations that could be partly overcome through continuing technological and moral progress. To calculate the loss associated with an existential catastrophe, we must consider how much value would come to exist in its absence. It turns out that the ultimate potential for Earth-originating intelligent life is literally astronomical. One gets a large number even if one confines one’s consideration to the potential for biological human beings living on Earth. If we suppose with Parfit that our planet will remain habitable for at least another billion years, and we assume that at least one billion people could live on it sustainably, then the potential exist for at least 10^18 human lives. These lives could also be considerably better than the average contemporary human life, which is so often marred by disease, poverty, injustice, and various biological limitations that could be partly overcome through continuing technological and moral progress. However, the relevant figure is not how many people could live on Earth but how many descendants we could have in total. One lower bound of the number of biological human life-years in the future accessible universe (based on current cosmological estimates) is 10^34 years.[10] Another estimate, which assumes that future minds will be mainly implemented in computational hardware instead of biological neuronal wetware, produces a lower bound of 10^54 human-brain-emulation subjective life-years (or 10^71 basic computational operations).(4)[11] If we make the less conservative assumption that future civilizations could eventually press close to the absolute bounds of known physics (using some as yet unimagined technology), we get radically higher estimates of the amount of computation and memory storage that is achievable and thus of the number of years of subjective experience that could be realized.[12] Even if we use the most conservative of these estimates, which entirely ignores the possibility of space colonization and software minds, we find that the expected loss of an existential catastrophe is greater than the value of 10^18 human lives. This implies that the expected value of reducing existential risk by a mere one millionth of one percentage point is at least ten times the value of a billion human lives. The more technologically comprehensive estimate of 1054 human-brain-emulation subjective life-years (or 1052 lives of ordinary length) makes the same point even more starkly. Even if we give this allegedly lower bound on the cumulative output potential of a technologically mature civilization a mere 1% chance of being correct, we find that the expected value of reducing existential risk by a mere one billionth of one billionth of one percentage point is worth a hundred billion times as much as a billion human lives. One might consequently argue that even the tiniest reduction of existential risk has an expected value greater than that of the definite provision of any “ordinary” good, such as the direct benefit of saving 1 billion lives. And, further, that the absolute value of the indirect effect of saving 1 billion lives on the total cumulative amount of existential risk—positive or negative—is almost certainly larger than the positive value of the direct benefit of such an action.[13]</span>



**Integration and public funding key is widespread space travel**

**ISU 8**

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">International Space University GREAT EXPECTATIONS: An Assessment of the Potential for Suborbital Transportation Masters Report 2008 (http://texasspacealliance.org/docs/ISU-Masters08-GreatExpectations-Report.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The question then remains: will private investment and pubic-private partnerships be enough to create the infrastructure required for viable PTP suborbital transportation? Only time will tell, but if history is any indication, it will take significant public funding to develop the network of spaceports that would function similar to the world’s current network of airports. Moreover, the ability to use the existing airport infrastructure could be a key in developing PTP suborbital travel, but will be limited to specific spacecraft designs that are suitable to existing airport infrastructure.For the industry to be sustainable there will be the need to integrate space vehicle operations with traditional air traffic operations in a seamless manner. The FAA proposed concept of operations for Space and Air Traffic Management System is a step in the right direction. Although its provisions as currently stated will be insufficient to handle full fledged PTP suborbital transportation (as it appears to be more geared towards traditional space operations and space tourism), it will nonetheless be very useful at the nascent stage of the industry when the reliability levels of the vehicles are yet to be fully ascertained. The rules and procedures to be adopted will depend on the characteristics of the vehicle with respect to ATC clearances. It is hoped, however, that the ultimate vehicle will be one that will be more responsive to ATC clearance (notably, horizontal take off and powered reentry and landing). STM as a means of tracking objects in space would be necessary to ensure a safe flight path for the vehicles. This would have to depend on national or international arrangements to provide space surveillance capability which at present is possessed by only a few nations.</span>



**cost reduction jumpstarts the space industry, causes settlement and exploration**

**(Collins and Autino 10)**

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Patrick Collins (exceptionally well known and respected authority on space economics, space tourism, reusable launch vehicles, and space solar power), and Adriano Autino (prolific science and space writer/lecturer for leading magazines, journals, and space advocate organizations), Acta Astronautica, July 2010, “What the growth of a space tourism industry could contribute to employment, economic growth, environmental protection, education, culture and world peace”, accessed August 24, 2011, Volume 66, Issues 11-12, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 5pt;">[[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0094576509004512]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Costs for the development of low-cost orbital passenger transportation systems are of the order of 10 billion Euros [7–9]. Even 10 times this amount would be less than 5 years of space agencies' current budgets. The economic benefits seem sure to greatly outweigh the cost, due to the much larger commercial markets that would be created as a result, in contrast to the very small markets created with 1 trillion Euro-equivalents invested in satellite and launch vehicle manufacturing to date.That is, there seem to be no technical reasons why rapid growth of space travel services could not be realised: the technology has existed for decades, and companies wishing to develop vehicles are hampered by only one obstacle, which is the easiest for governments to solve—lack of funds. Hence the rest of this paper assumes that over coming decades households will start to purchase space ﬂight services, which will grow to reach 5 million passengers/year, out of a worldwide middle-class population of more than 2 billion people, a few decades from now.Starting from today, in order to achieve the scale of activity shown in Fig. 1 over the next 30 years, government funding equivalent to about 10% of space agencies' budgets, or some 2 billion Euros/year would probably suffice to stimulate private investment in reusable orbital passenger vehicle manufacturing and operations. Thereafter most of the funding would come from private companies, just as airline and hotel companies finance their own growth today. 1.1. Implications of launch cost reduction Reducing the cost of space travel to 1% of existing launch vehicles' costs, in combination with the growth of a new consumer service market in space, would greatly aid the growth of many commercial space activities, thereby creating numerous new business opportunities both on Earth and in space. This process is already at work on a small scale in relation to sub-orbital ﬂight services: in addition to a large number of travel companies acting as agents for sub-orbital ﬂights (including JTB, the largest travel company in Japan), Zero-G Corporation supplies parabolic ﬂight services, Bigelow Aerospace is developing the first space hotel, Spaceport Associates advises on spaceport design, Orbital Outfitters Inc. supplies customised ﬂight suits, spaceports are being developed in several places, and several support organisations have been established. All of this activity is occurring some years before the first high-priced services even start, so a much wider range of different space travel-related businesses are sure to grow in future. In the case of orbital services there will be an even wider range of companies with much larger revenues, including companies supplying various services to orbiting hotels. These will include services which terrestrial hotels typically purchase today, such as catering, cleaning, accounting, entertainment, plus such additional services as space-based window maintenance, air supply, solargenerated electricity, water supply, waste disposal services, and others. As activities in orbit expand progressively, they could grow to include use of materials extracted from the Moon and near-Earth asteroids and cometoids, of which the potential has been researched for several decades [11]. Due to the much higher cost of activities in orbit than on the surface of the Earth, orbiting hotels seem likely to create the first market for non-terrestrial materials like ice, water, oxygen and hydrogen, as discussed in [12]. Another potentially major space-based industry, which has been held back for 40 years by high launch costs, is the supply of solar power from space to Earth. Although the potential of this system was recognised in studies by the US Department of Energy in the late 1970s, and confirmed in the 1990s [13], total funding has remained minimal. However, progress could be rapid once launch costs fall to a few percent of ELV costs [14]. Hence, as passenger space travel activities expand to large scale, a growing range of manufacturing activities in Earth orbit, on the lunar surface and elsewhere could develop spontaneously, driven by entrepreneurial effort to exploit new business opportunities opened up by the growth of new commercial markets in Earth orbit. These will in turn open the door to the large-scale space activities described in [11]. The growth of orbital passenger space travel to several million passengers/year over a few decades would represent a direct commercial turnover of some 100 billion Euros/year. In such a scenario of rapid growth, annual investment in new facilities, research and development might add the same amount again. Indeed, having reached such a scale, there would be no foreseeable limit to further growth—in particular it need not be limited, like terrestrial activities, by environmental or political constraints. Quite apart from the numerous opportunities which such a scenario offers for growth of the space industry, it also offers great potential benefits for humanity, in several different fields, as discussed in turn in the following. 2. Employment In most countries, most of the population do not have economically significant land holdings, and so employment is the economic basis of social life, providing income and enabling people to have stable family lives. The high level of unemployment in most countries today is therefore not only wasteful, it also causes widespread poverty and unhappiness, and is socially damaging, creating further problems for the future. One reason for investing in the development of passenger space travel, therefore, is that it could create major new fields of employment, capable of growing as far into the future as we can see. As of 2001, the hotel, catering and tourism sector was estimated to employ 60 million people world-wide, or 3% of the global workforce, and 6% of Europeans [15]. Hence we can estimate that the passenger air travel industry, including airlines, airports, hotels and other tourismrelated work, indirectly employs 10–20 times the number of people employed in aircraft manufacturing alone. Likewise, passenger space travel services could presumably create employment many times that in launch vehicle manufacturing—in vehicle operations and maintenance, at spaceports, in orbiting hotels, in many companies supplying these, in services such as staff training, certification and insurance, and in a growing range of related businesses. This possibility is particularly valuable because high unemployment, both in richer and poorer countries, has been the major economic problem throughout the world for decades. Consequently the growth of such a major new market for advanced aerospace technology and services seems highly desirable, as discussed further in [16]. By contrast, in recent years employment in the traditional space industry in USA and Europe has been shrinking fast: a 2003 report by the US Federal Aviation Administration stated that employment in launch vehicle manufacturing and services fell from 28,617 in 1999 to 4828 in 2002, while employment in satellite manufacturing fell from 57,372 to 31,262 [17]. Likewise, European space industry employment fell by 20% from 1995 to 2005; the major space engineering company Astrium cut 3300 staff from 2003 through 2006; and in 2005 alone, European prime contractors cut 13.5% of their staff or some 2400 people [18]. Unfortunately, the probability of space industry employment recovering soon is low, because satellite manufacturing and launch services face both low demand and rapidly growing competition from India and China, where costs are significantly lower. It is therefore positively bizarre that government policy-makers have declined to even discuss the subject of investing in the development of passenger space travel services, and have permitted no significant investment to date out of the nearly 20 billion Euro-equivalents which space agencies spend every year! This is despite the very positive 1998 NASA report "General Public Space Travel and Tourism" [19], and the NASA-funded 2002 "ASCENT" study referred to above [2,3]. In the capitalist system, companies compete to reduce costs since this directly increases their profits. However, reducing the number of employees through improving productivity raises unemployment, except to the extent that new jobs are created in new and growing industries. In an economy with a lack of new industries, increasing so-called "economic efficiency" creates unemployment, which is a social cost. In this situation, governments concerned for public welfare should either increase the rate of creation of new industries, and/or slow the elimination of jobs, at least until the growth of new industries revives, or other desirable counter-measures, such as new social arrangements, are introduced. These may include more leisure time, job-sharing, and other policies designed to prevent the growth of a permanent "under-class" of unemployed and "working poor"—a development which would pose a major threat to western civilisation.</span>



**Settlement feasible - exponential tech progress**



**(David 05)**

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Leonard David (Senior Space Writer), Space, February 23, 2005, " Space Colonization: The Quiet Revolution", accessed September 21, 2011, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 5pt;">[[http://www.space.com/813-space-colonization-quiet-revolution.html]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Advances in such areas as propulsion, power, using space resources, and giving other worlds a planetary makeover through terraforming -- along with public space travel -- are hastening the day of space colonization. Backing that view is Eric Rice, chair of a symposium on space colonization held at STAIF this year. Rice is leader of an American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) technical committee that focuses on space colonization issues. "There are so many things underway now that relate to space colonization. The International Space Station is part of this too, as well as the long-term potential for terraforming Mars into another planet for humans to live on," Rice told SPACE.com. Rice said that </span><span style="font-size: 6.6666669845581055px;">the growing business of public space tourism "is really the spirit of colonization."</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">The giggle factor of citizen space travelers is totally gone, he said. Part of that "de-giggling", Rice said, stems from last year's set of flights by SpaceShipOne. Then there's the work of Las Vegas, Nevada entrepreneur Robert Bigelow in fabricating inflatable space modules to be planted in Earth orbit. Also the pay-for-a-seat travels to the space station of Dennis Tito and Mark Shuttleworth in past years are milestones along the route, he added. Lastly, toss in numbers of firms and organizations now busy making space tourism a growing profitable concern. It all adds up to "a quiet revolution," Rice said. Exponential trajectory The prognosis for space colonization is good, said Edward McCullough, principal scientist for The Boeing Company in Huntington Beach, California. He pointed to numbers of technologies that are on exponential growth curves - that is, showing signs of increasing rapid growth. "During the last half of the 20th century, a host of technologies and disciplines which had witnessed millennia of slow or no growth...suddenly went exponential," McCullough reported at the STAIF meeting. McCullough pointed to photography, chemistry and quantum mechanics that have combined to produce a new industrial revolution. Electrical and mechanical engineering are on courses that appear to indicate unbounded exponential improvement. Delving into the structure of DNA has spurred a better understanding of the cellular processes. The human genome has been sequenced and micro biomechanics has taken off, he said. Furthermore, the centuries old technology of printing has been extended to three dimensions with inks of polymers, ceramics, wood and metals.</span>



Plan: **The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in domestic space launch sites.**









**Contention 3 is Solvency**



**The space launch industry is marked by uncertainty, mistrust, and lack of launch capacity**

**(Ben-Ari et al, Senior Fellow at CSIS, 10)**

**Guy Ben-Ari**<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> (deputy director and senior fellow with the Defense-Industrial Initiatives Group at CSIS), Brian Green (director of strategic force assessments at Systems Planning and Analysis), Joshua Hartman (s a Senior Fellow with the CSIS Technology and Public Policy Program), Gary Powell (Senior Associate with the Defense-Industrial Initiatives Group at CSIS), Stephanie Sanok (Senior fellow at CSIS), Tara Callahan, Lindsey Ohmit, Thomas Patterson, Gregory Sanders, </span>**CSIS**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">, </span>**July 2010**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">, "National Security and the Commercial Space Sector", accessed July 27, 2012, http://csis.org/files/publication/100726_Berteau_CommcialSpace_WEB.pdf</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">C. 1. Lack of reliable access to launch suppliers effectively reduces launch supply. While manufacturing capacity of launch vehicles may be ample, commercial satellite launch customers have a limited range of launch options available. Commercial access to U.S. and Chinese launch services are constrained, leaving Arianespace and ILS as the principal options. In the future, Sea Launch may be a viable option if it emerges from bankruptcy successfully. SpaceX, with the recent successful launch of a Falcon 9 medium-launch vehicle, may also become a viable option—in the long- term, but not now or in the near future. U.S. launch vehicles have an extraordinary record of reliability during the past decade. This has resulted in part from the national security community’s priority on and continued investment in mission assurance. Not surprisingly, given the dominance of the U.S. government as a launch customer and the U.S. government’s focus on mission assurance, the systems and processes for U.S. launch range and operations have been primarily developed around government requirements and culture. Many believe that this has reduced access to launch ranges and added schedule risk for commercial launch customers. These effects can be seen in launch scheduling, the current practice of which often prevents commercial entities from establishing reliable launch dates. The DoD now reserves a launch slot with ULA 30 to 36 months before the launch is scheduled. Typical commercial customers place launch reservations 24 months ahead of the anticipated launch date. Thus, ULA is fully booked for the next three years with government launches, and commercial customers seeking a launch slot are shut out. DoD launches are often delayed, but program offices often release those launch slots very late—a few months before the scheduled launch—thus not allowing commercial customers to take advantage of the newly opened launch slot and leaving valuable launch opportunities unused. As government launch needs change, ULA is provided incentives to meet those changing needs before it meets the needs of any commercial customer. DoD also tends to view specific launch vehicles as committed to a specific DoD launch; when program delays occur, those specific launch vehicles are often not released for commercial use. Finally, commercial launches have sometimes lost launch slots because launch schedules for higher-priority government payloads changed. As a consequence, commercial satellite launch consumers currently have little confidence in their access to U.S. launch or in their ability to hold launch dates even if manifested. Several senior leaders among commercial launch customers and launch providers contend that government and ULA credibility with commercial launch customers is very low. Some suggest that neither the government nor ULA has much incentive to change their practices. Accommodating commercial satellite launches may detract from DoD’s focus on and ULAs support of mission assurance, and some interviewees maintain that the government-ULA contract provides disincentives for ULA to support commercial launches.’4 The lack of structured, constructive dialogue between commercial operators and DoD launch range operators makes addressing some of these problems difficult.</span>



**Plan solves hegemony and is necessary to solve regulatory problems that will doom the industry**

**Winters 11**

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Nathan J. Winters, Nathan J. Winters Lieutenant Commander, United States Navy, MASTER OF SCIENCE IN SPACE SYSTEMS OPERATIONS Naval Postgraduate School, Enabling the Commercial Space Transportation Industry at the Mid-Atlantic Regional Spaceport September 2011(</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 5pt;">[[@http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA551942]]</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The MARS needs to continue to distinguish itself as a leading spaceport. Virginia has led the way in promoting its space industry and will need to continue these efforts. The symbiotic relationship between the MARS and NASA’s WFF will need to continue to evolve. With the declining NASA budget a thriving commercial space industry will be vital in reducing operating costs and ensuring stability and growth during a time of Federal downsizing. NASA has studied the possibility of closing WFF several times. This closure has been prevented by strong political opposition. It is in the best interests of the MARS, NASA, and the commercial space industry to ensure each other’s success and continued utilization of WFF. Since NASA awarded Virginia-based Orbital Science Corporation a CRS contract, a consistent line of funding is in place that must be utilized to the greatest extent possible. NASA will be required to purchase, at a minimum, another 27 cargo flights and 10 crew flights through 2020. The existing contract and the possible future NASA contracts should be used as the anchor tenant to attract more business. The U.S. Air Force Operationally Responsive Space Office has launched four spacecraft from Wallops with the possibility for more launches in the future. This relationship should continue to be developed and MARS promoted as a responsive, lean launch provider. While the orbital market has a much higher entry cost than the sub-orbital market, continued demonstration of MARS as a lean launch provider could attract emerging space companies like Bigelow Aerospace. The sub-orbital market should take advantage of WFF’s existing airport and infrastructure to perform sub-orbital flights. The MARS’ unique location on the East Coast and near the nation’s capital, and other population centers, places it in a key position to offer sub-orbital flights. The sub-orbital tourism, point-to-point, and research markets are likely to be the highest in demand and should be targeted for future growth. Wallops has a long history of suborbital research and could expand this field to include more commercial launches. FAA’s commercial space transportation regulations are in their infancy but are still minimal. The NASA regulations while more mature and far more complex are being adapted for commercial usage. NASA plans on leaving all commercial space licensing to the FAA. In the future even a NASA mission launched from a Federal range would require an FAA license. NASA is likely to still have their own safety requirements that will be redundant to FAA requirements. A key part to enabling commercial space transportation industry at MARS is reducing the uncertainty about how NASA and FAA regulations will coexist. The nascent commercial space transportation industry has been enabled by NASA investment in COTS, CCDev and CRS. This, along with the FAA’s matching grants and other Federal and state incentives, has helped jump-start the commercial space transportation industry. The possible roadblocks of excessive regulation have been minimized by the FAA’s limited Final Rule on Crew and Space Flight Requirements and the CSLAA. By not certifying vehicles as safe, the FAA acknowledges that passengers will fly at their own risk. While this congressional “hands off” mandate will encourage research and development in this emerging market it could backfire if an accident occurs that results in more strict regulation. After December 23, 2012 the FAA may propose new regulations on the commercial space industry without restriction. The amount of regulations will be dependent upon how much the commercial space industry has matured. Industry lessons learned and best practices are needed to determine future requirements. The FAA has already held public meetings to address many of the concerns facing this emerging market. Specifically, the deconfliction of FAA and NASA regulations will be necessary to prevent duplication of efforts. Both regulators need to ensure their requirements are compatible or complementary for both government and non-government organizations. The development of a robust commercial space transportation industry is important to the U. S. and its National Security in many different areas. Economically, a strong space industry and a vigorous space launch schedule will promote space jobs and programs to stay in the U. S. A larger and more experienced space industrial base will greatly benefit National Security Space programs and develop national capabilities in new technical realms. Another important impact to National Security Space is the required expansion and growth of the space transportation infrastructure. Similar to the railroads, interstate highways, and airports of today a space transportation infrastructure will need to be developed and will be a requirement for future growth and expansion. Without this infrastructure National Security Space will be required to maintain its own aging infrastructure and would not be able to benefit from new construction, technology and innovations that the commercial space sector would develop on its own. In a shrinking Global economy the commercial space industry will be vital in maintaining the competitive edge in, and our access to, space. The more developed the U.S. commercial space industry is the more likely it will be able to adapt and overcome any challenges it is faced with. It is in the U.S. Government’s strategic interest to remain a leader in the Global space transportation industry. This emerging commercial space transportation market has the potential to become a thriving industry with proper investment and minimal regulation.</span>





**Congress key to spaceports which are key to settlement – attract capital, technology and human resources.**

**Mineiro ‘8**

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Michael Mineiro - – Legal counsel to NOAA -- Boren National Security Fellow alumnus with unique expertise on China and Chinese outer space law and policy. Currently serves as an international and interagency affairs specialist at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) National Environmental Satellite, Data and Information Service (NESDIS). A former guest Lecturer at the International Space University. Doctoral Boeing Fellow of Air & Space Law at McGill University LAW AND REGULATION GOVERNING U.S. COMMERCIAL SPACEPORTS: LICENSING, LIABILITY, AND LEGAL CHALLENGES- The Journal of Air Law and Commerce 73 no4 759-805 Fall 2008 Ebsco 9/19/12 WE DO NOT ADVOCATE THE GENDER LANGUAGE IN OUR EVIDENCE –</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Congress needs to take the necessary steps to identify and resolve legal and political challenges inhibiting the growth of commercial spaceports. Not addressing these challenges and allowing commercial spaceports to falter would undermine the economic and national security of the United States. Alternatively, resolving these challenges and supporting commercial spaceport development at this nascent stage will position the United States as a world leader in commercial space transportation infrastructure, capable of attracting entrepreneurship, capital, technology, and human resources. One can imagine a future not so far away where spaceports are centers of great economic activity, supporting passenger flights around the world, into orbit, or to celestial bodies. Mankind is reaching out to the stars, and spaceports are where our first steps are being taken. By fostering the development of commercial spaceports today, we build a road to tomorrow.</span>



**USFG is key –**

**1) orbital vehicles**

**Handberg 8** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Roger, Professor and Chair of the Department of Political Science at the University of Central Florida, “State Spaceports: Road to the Economic Future or Hype? State Governments and Predictions of the Future of Technology” presented at the annual meeting of the APSA 2008 Annual Meeting, Hynes Convention Center, Boston, Massachusetts, Aug 28, 2008, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://citation.allacademic.com/meta/p_mla_apa_research_citation/2/7/9/5/6/p279568_index.html?phpsessid=627c885416f176d9758e5500d9b1527f]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> MGE)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Space policy retains a peculiar character to it in that the rhetoric is often frontier analogy driven but the economic realities remain often government funded development with the private sector taking over once developmental success has been acquired. This means that the industry is dominated by the desires of the federal government whether the military or civilian, meaning NASA. This mind set reflects the early growth of the field in a time when national security needs drove what was done in terms of space activities. Over the years, that pattern has broken down with regards to many space applications especially in communications and navigation. Space launch however retains that imprint of the national security state. The Ansari X-Prize was a deliberate attempt to break the cycle of government control but that was only partially successful. Sending humans to orbit still remains strictly a government activity, suborbital is now open to private vendors but efforts at orbital flight remain more distant even though there was an earlier America Prize suggested for encouraging efforts at reaching orbit and back similar to the Ansari X-Prize with the prize being set at $50 million. 25 What appears to be occurring is that a separation is growing between the older spaceports located on federal spaceports and the newer proposals. All three, California, Florida and Virginia, remain focused on orbital flights using ELVs presently but are open to RLVs once those are developed especially in the case of Florida with shuttle shutdown looming. That pathway is only possible with the cooperation of the operators of the federal spaceports a reality which remains a hindrance but accommodations are being made. By focusing on processing facilities, the state entities provide a service that lessens the burden on the federal operator. The newer spaceports are more heavily invested in the space tourism aspect of commercial space activities which poses a dilemma. The dilemma is a simple one, what if RLVs do not become economically successful, remember their client base is the private sector, interested in making a profit. Given the cost of purchasing a flight ($200,000 presently), how large the market will be is unclear once you get past the optimism-hype. This reality makes the state spaceport arena more problematic than appears at first glance. 26 Several initiatives are premised on a specific vehicle coming to fruition such as the Rocketplane in Oklahoma; others are in effect being done on spec with no actual tenant identified. As Florida has already found with its RLV storage hanger, that leaves a state in the situation that there is no occupant given the paucity of available tenants. As was mentioned earlier, the death of the VentureStar meant that the many states lost their justification for pursuing a spaceport so their pursuit slackened and in some cases went dormant. The continuing issues with SpaceX regarding successful flight is particularly disappointing for Florida since they have in effect bet their money on the Falcon 1 and its successor the Falcon 9 being successful and being used to supply the ISS. What is more troubling for state spaceport initiatives is the reality that there are international competitors for the opportunity to be the launch port for RLV vehicles. Singapore and Dubai in the United Arab Emirates have been put forth as launch points for the Explorer vehicle, a derivative of the “Cosmopolis XXI (C-21), a multi-passenger space plane designed by Russia's Myasishchev Design Bureau (MDB).” 27 What is more important is that the choice was made among ten different sites including several in the United States. The Singapore spaceport appears to be lagging while the site in the UAE appears more substantial. The economics are that the UAE site is closer to potential customers and is less difficult to enter than the United States with its restrictions on foreign travelers. What is more critical here is recognition that U.S. state spaceports are competing clearly in an international market for a limited roster of potential flight partners. Virginia Galactic is rumored to be interested in both locations especially Singapore but is deferring any immediate plans to build facilities – this reflects the fact that development of SpaceShipTwo has been delayed by an accident during development that resulted in three deaths. The Explorer vehicle was not part of the Ansari X-Prize competition; in fact, the Ansari family is invested in the project after helping sponsor the X-Prize. What this does is further heighten the competition between space tourism vendors and states who wish to service them as spaceports. Even in Europe, there is interest in moving into the spaceport business in support of space tourism in the form of Spaceport Sweden. 28 Even more troubling from a state perspective is the fact that suborbital flight as presently conceived is a dead end in that those flights do not get you to orbit in the end. Reaching orbit remains a much more difficult feat given the realities and physics of space launch. A RLV has to overcome weight issues relative to applicable lift capacity. Those weight issues in the end led to the X-33 cancelation; NASA evaluations were either negative or inconclusive whether the weight issue inherent in a single stage to orbit vehicle could be overcome. Making it two stage to orbit is one option but using a lift plane to be the first stage runs into weight and safety questions including re-entry. If reaching orbit was easy; then it would be done already commercially. Presently, all commercially viable space industries operate on the assumption that you do not have to bring the payload back to earth safely. Once the payload’s useful life is exhausted, you either lift it higher into a parking orbit or you allow it either to slowly descend into the atmosphere to be destroyed or you eject it out of orbit in a controlled crash as it were. The result is a major problem with space debris but that is strictly an international level issue; spaceports are becoming increasingly attractive for a number of states as symbols of technological progress and potential economic growth. Space remains glamorous which draws attention but the economics remain much more daunting than the rhetoric would lead one to understand. There is likely to be a continuing market for suborbital tourism but whether that will grow sufficiently in the United States to justify expanded state investment in spaceports is unclear. The original state spaceports, California, Florida, Virginia and Alaska, arose out of the perceived need for more accessible launch facilities for ELVs. The initial focus was upon small launch vehicles, a market that has not met expectations. The first three also have the potential for conducting human spaceflight in the form of RLVs while Alaska’s future is more problematic since it launches government payloads which are more a function of their present political clout than any economic incentive. However, having a useful facility regardless of who funded it originally gives a state an asset that can be exploited as Alaska remains a player. The newer spaceports such as Spaceport America and the Oklahoma Spaceport also have economic potential since they have launch vendors already on board but in the former case, international competition may reduce the economic impact as Virgin Galactic opens up other launch sites closer to its customer base. Other spaceports such as Spaceport Sheboygan have potential as economic incubators fostering industries related to space activities. Launching vehicles will likely remain a lesser priority. There exists no easy road to success for state spaceports because as was clear a decade ago; too much relies on others to develop the technologies that will facilitate reliable and cheaper space launch whether human spaceflight or payloads of applications. The legislative obstacles to state spaceports have been significantly reduced in impact but the spaceports still operate in an environment controlled by the federal government because ultimately that is what international law and practice demand. Private individuals and ventures all enter space with consent of a national government. Other governments remain reluctant to change that pattern since they, as the United States does, remain very much aware of the military potential of space launch regardless of its ostensible peaceful purpose</span>





**2) Perception**

**Webber 3**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Derek, “Lessons of ASCENT - Messages for Industry, the Federal Government and Spaceport Authorities” September 2003 Presented at Space 2003, Long Beach, CA, Spaceport Associates, Washington DC * AIAA Member, Director, http://www.spacefuture.com/archive/lessons_of_ascent_messages_for_industry_the_federal_government_and_spaceport_authorities.shtml</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">MGE)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The Final Report of the President's Commission on the Future of the US Aerospace Industry came out with some very strong recommendations. And it did so at a time when the country is re-evaluating its commitment to the further exploration and development of space, in the aftermath of the loss of the Space Shuttle Columbia. It is not necessary to repeat here all of the recommendations of the Commission. But instead it is worthwhile to pick out those aspects that derive directly from the ASCENT work, and of which NASA and other government agencies associated with the development of space, need to be aware. The country has already lost its leadership in space. US industry has only 40% of global launches today, and the ASCENT Study indicates that unless there is a shift in focus and priorities, then the figure will be down to 25% twenty years from now. There are ramifications both in employment and in the education of our future generations. Even the financially stretched Russian industry is doing better in terms of market share, and is already taking the initiative in the early development of the new commercial opportunities represented by public space travel. The Europeans are gearing up to use the Russian Soyuz system capabilities for their own purposes from the European launch facilities at Kourou. It seems clear that the Chinese will not be far behind, with imminent launches of their first Shenzhou crews. The message for the US government is therefore no less than a need to seek to bring about a reversal of the relative decline of the US as a space power. One part of doing this is to remove some of the impediments for foreign customers to fly their payloads on US launch vehicles. Another way is by taking steps to encourage those infrastructure-and regulatory- developments that will facilitate the growth of a domestic space tourism industry. In this context one must include both sub-orbital and orbital developments and facilities, although the ASCENT Study focused on the latter. The States seem so far to be way ahead of the Federal government in this regard. Many States are exploring the possibilities of having spaceports within their territories to help in their employment and other needs. The Federal government should play its part in facilitating these first steps as the spaceports are being established. The commercial development of space, and its next logical step of space tourism, is the most American of endeavors: it is a way to make money out of people being free and having fun. Of course, down the road, there are other benefits for the nation, and even the world. But at least the ASCENT Study makes abundantly clear that the US cannot expect to rank itself amongst the world's most thriving civilizations if it does not continue on the road that it set for itself at the start of the space age. The more entrepreneurial parts of the commercial sector have seized the message already, and soon we shall see the first sub-orbital space tourists follow in Alan Shepard's footsteps. The Federal government must also play its part. NASA can be directed to work with these new realities. The Aerospace Commission identifies public space travel as an important new sector "??.that holds the potential for increasing launch demand and improvements in space launch reliability and reusability?.?? and would ultimately support a robust space transportation industry with "airline-like operations"?..?" Perhaps the best way for this redirection of NASA to take effect would be in terms of budgetary resource re-allocation. As was discussed earlier, there is no justification for significant expenditures to be taking place on ideas and concepts that have no likelihood of taking place within the next twenty years. The ASCENT Study provides the guidance for this necessary resource reallocation, as discussed earlier in the paper. By the same token, there is a need to actively support initiatives to bring about the new industry of space tourism. At the very least, NASA needs to create a small Office of Public Space Travel to facilitate the needs of the emerging sector, and to coordinate those needs with the Administration's other long-term plans. A good example of an early role for such an office would be an involvement in the OSP architecture design discussions to find ways to ensure that the resulting OSP vehicle design can play a useful part in the future of orbital space tourism. This can be the way in which the US takes back the lead from the Russians in this area, and/or prevents the Chinese from taking this initiative of providing trips for American space tourists. The ASCENT Study makes it very clear what the implications will be if the US does not develop an RLV that can eventually be used for public space travel purposes. The OSP is the best shot we have at this for the short term.</span>





**3) Integration into air traffic control**

**ISU 8**

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">International Space University GREAT EXPECTATIONS: An Assessment of the Potential for Suborbital Transportation Masters Report 2008 (http://texasspacealliance.org/docs/ISU-Masters08-GreatExpectations-Report.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Following the first successful flight of an airplane in 1903, the focus of the aviation industry was on research and development of aircraft technology, not on the development of airfields. A rudimentary set of airfields was established during World War I, but the significant development of airfields in the United States was driven by commerce, such as the need for airmail flights to have refueling and mail drop off sites in various locations. The aviation industry began growing rapidly in the late 1920’s, which then drove the need for improved infrastructure and regulatory frameworks, including licensing. As passenger travel became more commonplace and high capacity aircraft emerged (such as the Boeing 747), the construction of larger airports became a requirement as well as the expansion and improvement of existing airports. This was expensive and required a great deal of government support. Some key dates and events in the development of the airport infrastructure in the United States are presented below in Table 5-1. It is important to note that the overall development of the airport system in the United States was largely reactive, rather than proactive. This was particularly true in the technical and legal regimes. Similarly, spaceport development will likely be driven by the development of the space vehicle industry; however, the additional challenge of integrating spacecraft traffic and infrastructure requirements with that of existing air traffic and infrastructure exists. This will be particularly important for the development of PTP transportation, and unlike the history of airport development, the development and integration of spaceports may require proactive initiatives with regard to legal and technical challenges. The costs of developing the infrastructure to support a growing space industry, particularly that of a PTP suborbital industry, may also have some parallels to early airport development. With respect to demand and public safety, additional construction and improvement of the airport infrastructure was required as the aviation industry evolved. Such improvements were quite expensive and therefore required government support, such as the U.S. Airport and Airway Development Act. Similarly, spaceport construction and infrastructure costs are high, and such ventures often require support from the government. Many spaceports are already supported at least in part by public funding. A selection of spaceports currently under development for suborbital space tourism, their estimated development costs, and sources of funding are shown in Table 5-2 below: As the example of Spaceport America has shown recently, garnering public support and funds can be a challenge (Medina, 2008). Development of a network of spaceports, or integration into the existing airport system, will be an expensive and challenging endeavor. Some savings may be made by using existing facilities, such as decommissioned military bases, and their runways, or by using existing rocket range facilities. Europe in particular, has large numbers of long runways left over from the cold war which would be capable of supporting some suborbital concepts. It may be viable to develop a purpose built spaceport without public funding, especially if it is designed for tourism purposes other than PTP transportation. This is the case with the joint ventures creating the tourism infrastructure for Spaceport Sweden in Kiruna (Spaceport Sweden, 2008).</span>


== == 
==**Seaports**== 
===**1AC - Glenbrooks + Dowling**=== 
**Contention 1 is Inherency**

**Obama hasn’t actually allocated money, just perceived—no link uq—at most one East Coast port would be ready by Panama expansion**
**Miami Herald 7-19**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">­-(Charles Rabin and Curtis Morgan, “ White House speeds up permits, offers no new cash for PortMiami dredge project”. Miami Herald, July 19, 2012, </span>[[http://www.miamiherald.com/2012/07/19/2902727/white-house-speeds-up-permits.html%29/sjl|http://www.miamiherald.com/2012/07/19/2902727/white-house-speeds-up-permits.html)//sjl]]
__Thursday’s____announcement__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by the White House ...</span> __Panama Canal’s expected 2015 opening.__



**Contention 2 is the Economy**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The Panama Canal expansion drastically alters maritime trade—new harbor deepening is key to trade competitiveness </span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Bridges 2011</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jerry A,Chairman of the Board of the American Association of Port Authorities and Executive Director of Virginia Port Authority, “Testimony of Jerry A. Bridges Chairman of the Board of the American Association of Port Authorities and Executive Director of Virginia Port Authority before the United States House of Representatives Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee Hearing: the Economic importance of Seaports: Is the United States Prepared for 21st Century Trade Realities?” , October 26, 2011, </span>[[http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyWater/2011-10-26%20Bridges.pdf]])
<span class="Underline">Ports are</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> dynamic, </span><span class="Underline">vibrant centers of</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> trade and </span><span class="Underline">commerce </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">... access to seaports. </span><span class="Underline">We cannot wait</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**2 Internal Links—**

**First, Seaport trade key to 25% of GDP, largest I/L to economy**
**Nagle 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Author Kurt Nagle is president and chief executive officer of the American Association of Port Authorities (AAPA). After gaining a master’s degree in economics, he worked in Washington, DC, focusing on seaports and international trade. Before joining AAPA in 1985, he was director of international trade for the National Coal Association and assistant secretary for the Coal Exporters Association. (Kurt, “ AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF PORT AUTHORITIES”, American Association of Port authorities, 2012, http://www.industrytoday.com/article_view.asp?ArticleID=F370)//sjl//</span>
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ECONOMIC IMPACT: HUGE Currently, </span>__...__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">energy savings and traffic congestion relief. </span>//

//**That’s key to reducing a US trade deficit**//
//**Istrate et al. 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Emilia Istrate is a senior research associate and associate fellow with the Metropolitan Policy Program at Brookings. Her research agenda focuses on the intersection of international economics with regional economics, including exports, foreign direct investment, global cities, infrastructure financing, and other economic aspects of the internationalization of metropolitan areas. Prior to joining Brookings, Ms. Istrate conducted research on regional economic development and entrepreneurship at the School of Public Policy, George Mason University. She also co-authored a United Nations Economic Commission for Europe report on promoting energy efficiency in transition countries. Ms. Istrate has a PhD in Public Policy from George Mason University, with specialization in regional economic development, and holds graduate degrees in international studies from the Diplomatic Academy of Vienna, Austria and the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS). (Emilia, “ Export Nation: How U.S. Metros Lead National Export Growth and Boost Competitiveness”, Brookings Metropolitan Program, July 2010, </span>[[http://www.brookings.edu/%7E/media/research/files/reports/2010/7/26%20mountain%20exports%20muro/0726_exports_istrate_rothwell_katz.pdf%29/sjl|http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2010/7/26%20mountain%20exports%20muro/0726_exports_istrate_rothwell_katz.pdf)//sjl]]//
//__Exports Could Contribute to the Rebalancing ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> economy and its distance from trading partners.</span>//

//<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Trade deficit kills the economy </span>//
//<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Weller et. al. 2011</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Christian, Dr. Christian E. Weller is a Senior Fellow at American Progress and an associate professor of public policy at the University of Massachusetts Boston. His area of expertise includes retirement income security, macroeconomics, money and banking, and international finance. He is also a research scholar at the University of Massachusetts Amherst’s Political Economy Research Institute and an institute fellow at the University of Massachusetts Boston’s Gerontology Institute. Prior to joining the Center, he was on the research staff at the Economic Policy Institute, where he remains a research associate. “The Case for Strategic Export Promotion”, </span>[[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/02/high_tech_trade.html/print.html]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span>//
//<span class="Underline">The United States faces enormous ... </span>//sustained //and// long-term //economic growth<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>//

//**Second, Delays in supply chains crush the economy**//
//**Lamb-Hale 2010**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Nicole Y., Assistant Secretary for Manufacturing and Services International Trade Administration for the U.S. Department of Commerce, “Testimony before the Senate Committee on Finance, Subcommittee on International Trade, Customs, and Global Competitiveness for ‘Doubling U.S. Exports: Are U.S Sea Ports Ready for the Challenge?’” April 29, 2010, </span>[[http://www.finance.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/042910nltest.pdf]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> MGE)</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As sourcing and product </span>__delivery ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> build facilities and employ people. </span>//

//**Strong US growth is key to promoting an American economic model – the alternative is mercantilism, which destroys economic cooperation and risks protectionism**//
//**Posen 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Deputy director and senior fellow of the Peterson Institute for International Economics (Adam, “Economic leadership beyond the crisis,” http://clients.squareeye.com/uploads/foresight/documents/PN%20USA_FINAL_LR_1.pdf)</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the postwar period, </span>US power<span class="Underline"> ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> should concentrate on the following priority measures.</span>//

//**Protectionism will cause terrorism and global wars – risks extinction**//
//**Panzner 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase (Michael, “Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse,” p. 136-138)</span>//
//Continuing <span class="Underline">calls for </span>curbs on<span class="Underline"> ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the beginnings of a new world war.</span>//

//**And even without protectionism, economic decline increases the likelihood of conflict**//
//**Royal 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Less intuitive is how </span>__periods of economic ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> economic-security debate and deserves more attention.</span>//

//<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Trade is the biggest disincentive for war—maintaining globalization solves all their impacts </span>//
//<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Griswold 11</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Daniel Griswold is director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the Cato Institute and author of Mad about Trade: Why Main Street America Should Embrace Globalization. “Free Trade and the Global Middle Class,” Hayek Society Journal Vol. 9 </span>[[http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf%20Accessed%206/30/12|http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf Accessed 6/30/12]]//

//<span class="Underline">Our more globalized world has also ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> less likely those gains will be destroyed by civil conflict and war.</span>//


//**Contention 3 is Naval Power**//

//**Low depth and width limits military cargo movements now**//
//**MARAD, 05 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">US Department of Transportation Marine Administration [6/2005, “REPORT TO CONGRESS ON THE PERFORMANCE OF PORTS AND THE INTERMODAL SYSTEM,” http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/Rpt_to_Congress-Perf_Ports_Intermodal_Sys-June2005.pdf]</span>//
//__Lack of attention to port maintenance ...____restrict military__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> or significant commercial </span>__cargo__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>//

//**2 internal links—**//

//**First is the Shipbuilding Industry**//

//**Federal funded dredging is vital to the competiveness of the shipping industry**//
//**Weakley 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- President, Lake Carriers´ Association (James H.I., “Realize America's Maritime Promise”, April 30, 2008, </span>[[http://www.ramphmtf.org/speeches_043008.html]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>//sjl

__America´s deep-draft navigation system ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> passengers would quickly lose its efficiencies. </span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The Maritime industry is key to naval primacy—it affects every sector of the Navy</span>
**Navy League 11** (Navy League of the United States, “America’s Maritime Industry The foundation of American seapower” [[http://www.navyleague.org/files/americas-maritime-industry.pdf]] MGE)

The<span class="Underline"> American </span>Maritime Industry<span class="Underline"> also </span>contributes ... maintaining U.S. maritime superiority.

**A Strong navy is key to deter great power war**
**Conway et al 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [James T., General, U.S. Marine Corps, Gary Roughead, Admiral, U.S. Navy, Thad W. Allen, Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard, “A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower,” October, http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Deter major power war</span>**.** __No other disruption ...__ __extended campaigns ashore__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Second is sealift:**

**a) Dredging eliminates size limitations constricting sealift operations**
**Juda & Burroughs, 04**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Juda: professor, Department of Marine Affairs, University of Rhode Island, Ph.D., Columbia University; Burroughs: professor, Department of Marine Affairs, University of Rhode Island, Ph.D., Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution [Lawrence Juda and Richard Burroughs, 4/2004, “Dredging Navigational Channels in a Changing Scientific and Regulatory Environment,” </span>[[http://www.uritc.org/media/finalreportspdf/536151.pdf]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span>port facilities and maritime transportation<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ...</span><span class="Underline"> port facilities</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> where they have not existed before.</span>

**b) Port/rail intermodalism bolsters sealift effectiveness**
**AAPA, 03** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– American Association of Port Authorities [Fall 2003, “The Impact of War & Terrorism,” AAPA Seaports Magazine, Fall Edition, </span>[[http://www.aapaseaports.com/pdf_issues/AAPASeaports_Fall2003.pdf]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">] </span>
__Vital national efforts such as ...__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">than those associated with Operation Desert Storm in 1991.</span>

**Sealift is independently key to naval power and a pre-requisite to strategic offshore balancing**
**Reilly, 07** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Rear Admiral, U.S. Navy: Commander, Military Sealift Command; Quotes Roughead, the Navy’s highest ranking officer at the time [Robert D., 12/2007, “Commander's Perspective: Cooperative strategy for 21st century sea power,” </span>[[http://www.msc.navy.mil/sealift/2007/December/perspective.htm]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">] JAD</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On Oct. 16, </span>__Chief of Naval Operations__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Adm. Gary </span>__...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to the warfighters, </span>__wherever, whenever__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Transition to offshore balancing is inevitable**
**Layne 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Christopher Layne, PhD in political science from the University of California at Berkeley, JD from the University of Southern California Law Center, LLM in international law from the University of Virginia Law School, Mary Julia and George R Jordan professor of international affairs at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University, research fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at the Independent Institute, former associate professor of international studies at the University of Miami, former fellow in the Center for Social Theory and Comparative History at the University of California Los Angeles, former fellow at the CATO Institute, former fellow at the Center for International Studies at the University of Southern California, former MacArthur Foundation fellow in global security, former visiting professor at the Naval Postgraduate School, former research fellow at the Center for Science and International Affairs in the Kennedy School at Harvard University, former member of the professional staff at the Arroyo Center at the California Institute of Technology, former foreign policy analyst for NATO, 1-27-12, “The (Almost) Triumph of Offshore Balancing,” [[http://nationalinterest.org/commentary/almost-triumph-offshore-balancing-6405]]) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although cloaked in the reassuring boilerplate about ... decades will be its own decline and China’s rise.</span>

**Balancing solves war – the only question is efficiency of our Navy**
**Layne 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Christopher Layne, PhD in political science from the University of California at Berkeley, JD from the University of Southern California Law Center, LLM in international law from the University of Virginia Law School, Mary Julia and George R Jordan professor of international affairs at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University, research fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at the Independent Institute, former associate professor of international studies at the University of Miami, former fellow in the Center for Social Theory and Comparative History at the University of California Los Angeles, former fellow at the CATO Institute, former fellow at the Center for International Studies at the University of Southern California, former MacArthur Foundation fellow in global security, former visiting professor at the Naval Postgraduate School, former research fellow at the Center for Science and International Affairs in the Kennedy School at Harvard University, former member of the professional staff at the Arroyo Center at the California Institute of Technology, former foreign policy analyst for NATO, 4-26-12, “The End of Pax Americana: How Western Decline became Inevitable,” http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2012/04/the-end-of-pax-americana-how-western-decline-became-inevitable/256388/2/) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The United States has a legacy commitment ... the world transformation occurring before their eyes.</span>

**The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in port intermodal rail infrastructure and in expediting port deepening projects in the United States.**



**Contention 4 is Solvency**

**Federal investment in dredging nationwide is needed to solve and without expediting construction, will take decades**
**Nagle 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">­- Author Kurt Nagle is president and chief executive officer of the American Association of Port Authorities (AAPA). After gaining a master’s degree in economics, he worked in Washington, DC, focusing on seaports and international trade. Before joining AAPA in 1985, he was director of international trade for the National Coal Association and assistant secretary for the Coal Exporters Association. (Kurt J., “ Testimony of Kurt J. Nagle President and CEO of the American Association of Port Authorities Before The United States House of Representatives Appropriations Committee Energy and Water Development, and Related Agencies Subcommittee”, American Association of Port Authorities, March 7, 2012, </span>[[http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/EWTestimony%20Mar2012%20Final.pdf%29/sjl|http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/EWTestimony%20Mar2012%20Final.pdf)//sjl]]

__Modernization____and deepening of federal channels ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> challenges of today and tomorrow. </span>


**Federal regulations __prevent__ other actors from solving – only federal action to streamline the process and increase funding solves**
**Anderson, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> –Chief Executive Officer of the Jacksonville Port Authority (JAXPORT) (Paul A., “testimony of A. Paul Anderson Chief Executive Officer of the Jacksonville Port Authority (JAXPORT) for the Record of the united States House of Representatives Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Subcommittee on Water Resources and the Environment Hearing: “The Economic Importance of Seaports: Is the United States Prepared for 21st Century Trade Realities?””, US house of Representatives, October 26, 2011, [[http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyWater/2011-10-26%20Anderson.pdf]])//sjl//</span>

//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">With increasingly larger ships calling the East ... </span>////<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">funding critical infrastructure projects is </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">fundamentally broken</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Inadequate rail access at ports is the main barrier to larger volume of all cargo**
**MARAD, 05 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">US Department of Transportation Marine Administration [6/2005, “REPORT TO CONGRESS ON THE PERFORMANCE OF PORTS AND THE INTERMODAL SYSTEM,” </span>[[http://www.marad.dot.gov/documents/Rpt_to_Congress-Perf_Ports_Intermodal_Sys-June2005.pdf]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">] JAD</span>
__Poor or inadequate rail access ...__ __rail infrastructure__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
== == 
==**Title XI**== 
===**1AC - Niles**=== 
**Plan:** **The United States federal government should expand United States Maritime Administration Title XI loan guarantee funding for short sea transportation in the United States.**

**Contention one is the** **__Economy__** **–**

**Two Internal Links –**

**__First is stimulus__**

**The plan generates a massive economic stimulus and reduces oil dependence – loan guarantees are the most effective catalyst for widespread investment**
**Margaronis, 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Marine highway would ride wave of economic benefits, Stas, Guest Columnist Seattle Pi, [[http://www.seattlepi.com/local/opinion/article/Marine-highway-would-ride-wave-of-economic-1293286.php#ixzz1yY1CGarw|http://www.seattlepi.com/local/opinion/article/Marine-highway-would-ride-wave-of-economic-1293286.php#ixzz1yY1CGarw]]]</span>
Currently<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>the U<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>S<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>is … defray the cost to taxpayers … costs for shippers and consumers.

**And current funding is insufficient**
**Zimmer, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Nancy, August, “Progress on America’s Marine Highway” graduated from Smith College (B.A., cum laude, 1998), and City University of New York School of Law, (J.D., 2001). She is admitted to the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts, and the First Circuit Court of Appeals, and is a trained mediator. She is also a former commercial fisherman and commercial fishing boat owner. She is a member of the Maritime Law Association of the United States. Nancy can be contacted on +1 508 432-2121 or by email at [[mailto:zimmer@sealaw.org|zimmer@sealaw.org]], [[http://www.corporatelivewire.com/top-story.html?id=66]]]</span>
For the U<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>S<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>**to …** disheartening at best.

**Oil dependence escalates**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mark </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rosen</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Deputy General Counsel at the Center for Naval Analyses & Professor of Homeland Security Law and Policy at George Washington University) </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">2010</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “Energy Independence and Climate Change: The Economic and National Security Consequences of Failing to Act” University of Richmond Law Review, Lexis</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There is a growing consensus in U.S. … archipelago would be held hostage. 110</span>

**__Second is congestion__**


**It underlies a multibillion dollar drag on the economy – chokes any possible recovery**

**Needham, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Report: Traffic congestion costs billions, weighs on the economic recovery, Vicki, The Hill, [[http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/801-economy/184105-report-traffic-congestion-costs-billions-weighs-on-the-economic-recovery]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Traffic </span>congestionis **costing billions** **…**nothing is not a productive option<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>



**The global economy is fragile**

**Xinhua News, 5/23/12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[OECD: Global Economy Recovery Fragile, reprinted, [[http://english.cri.cn/6826/2012/05/23/191s701502.htm]]]</span>

The **global economy** has embarked … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the problem of income inequality."</span>



**The economic impact is widespread**

**Wagner, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [The Economic Impact of Traffic Congestion on Truck-borne Freight, Steve Wagner, Communications Manager CFIRE a transportation think tank, extensively citing a 2010 Urban Mobility Report, [[http://www.wistrans.org/cfire/2011/03/2010-umr/]]]</span>

The 2010<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Urban Mobility </span>Report<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>… provider of travel time information.


**And, the externalities act as a multiplier – decreases the underlying foundation of US economic leadership**
**Lewis, 08** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[David, Senior Vice President with HDR where he serves as the firm’s Chief Economist and Direc­tor for Economics and Financial Services, He served previously as President and CEO of HLB Decision Economics, prior to which he was a Principal Economist of the U.S. Congressional Budget Office. Brookings Institution, America’s Traffic Congestion Problem: Toward a Framework for Nationwide Reform, [[http://www.brookings.edu/research/papers/2008/07/%7E/media/Research/Files/Papers/2008/7/congestion%20pricing%20lewis/07_congestion_lewis.PDF|http://www.brookings.edu/research/papers/2008/07/~/media/Research/Files/Papers/2008/7/congestion%20pricing%20lewis/07_congestion_lewis.PDF]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Apart from a handful of places around the country ...</span> erode the economy of nearly fifty-five thousand jobs.

**The internal link is __linear__**
**Perakis and Denisis,08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [A survey of short sea shipping and its prospects in the USA, ANASTASSIOS N. PERAKIS* and ATHANASIOS DENISIS Department of Naval Architecture & Marine Engineering, University of Michigan, 213 NAME Building, 2600 Draper Dr., Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2145, USA, [[http://intermodalmarine.com/pdfs/Survey%20of%20SSS%20Prospects%20in%20the%20U.S..pdf]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">3. Mitigating highway congestion </span>...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> at the start and the end of the transportation chain.</span>

**And, independently an effective MTS is vital to growth – capacity limitations act as a deadly stranglehold**
**Lobiondo, et al 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Congressional Testimony, Frank A. LoBiondo is the U.S. Representative for New Jersey's 2nd congressional district, serving since 1995. He is a member of the Republican Party, CREATING JOBS AND INCREASING U.S. EXPORTS BY ENHANCING THE MARINE TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2011 HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, SUBCOMMITTEE ON COAST GUARD AND MARITIME TRANSPORTATION, COMMITTEE ON TRANSPORTATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE, [[http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:BIbLMqrPg5gJ:www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-112hhrg66919/pdf/CHRG-112hhrg66919.pdf+&hl=en&gl=us]]]</span>
Inorder to remain **competitive** **in a global economy ...** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thank you, Mr. Chairman.</span>

**Absence of growth causes nuclear war**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Austin ‘09** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, Resident Scholar – American Enterprise Institute, and Desmond Lachman, Resident Fellow – American Enterprise Institute, “The Global Economy Unravels”, Forbes, 3-6, http://www.aei.org/article/100187)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Conversely, global policymakers do not seem ... small explosions that coalesce into </span>//a big bang//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Growth itself prevents conflict**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Bernauera 10**-</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Climate Change, Economic Growth, and Conflict Thomas Bernauera, Anna Kalbhenna, Vally Koubia,b and Gabriele Ruoffa a ETH Zurich Center for Comparative and International Studies (CIS) and Institute for Environmental Decisions (IED) and b University of Bern Department of Economics and Oeschger Institute for Climate Change Research;[[http://ncgg.princeton.edu/IPES/2010/papers/S1115_paper1.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Economic growth and conflict</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Previous research has shown that </span><span class="BoldUnderline">__reduced__ __...__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> supported by the existing literature.</span>


**Contention 2 is the Navy**



**Shipyard decimate the shipbuilding industry**

**Munoz, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [January 11, The Obama Infrastructure Plan, and Another Shipyard Closes, OP-ED by Tony Munoz, Editor-in-Chief of the Maritime ExecutiveMagazine and the MarEx Newsletter, [[http://www.maritime-executive.com/article/obama-infrastructure-plan-and-another-shipyard-closes]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As President Obama announced his robust infrastructure ... and health care for the poor. Imagine….</span>



**Naval readiness is rapidly declining now with no funding for modernization— investment is key**

**Eaglen ’12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[3 April 2012, MacKenzie Eaglen, Research Fellow for National Security in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, at The Heritage Foundation, Lanterloon,“U.S. military faces a readiness crisis,” </span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-size: 8pt;">[[@http://lanterloon.com/u-s-military-faces-a-readiness-crisis/]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, AZhang]</span>

__None of America’s armed forces can meet all ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> weakness will be greater in the long run.</span>



**Increased support for short sea shipping sustains the shipbuilding industry**

**Raymond, 05** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Charles, President and CEO Horizon Inc. “Short Sea Shipping: Long On Benefits”,</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.inboundlogistics.com/cms/article/short-sea-shipping-long-on-benefits/</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To help meet the current congestion crisis ...</span> //real commitment// on the part of U.S. political leaders.



**And, expansion of title XI funding ensures __increased naval capacity__**

**Goure, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Lexington Institute, Obama Could Create Jobs And Support Defense, Daniel, PhD, [[http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/obama-could-create-jobs-and-support-defense?a=1&c=1171]]]</span>

A<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> less well recognized </span>candidate for ... put<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> more </span>money behind the MHI.



**Risks escalation of every transnational threat – the ship building industry is key**

**NLUS, 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – a nonprofit organization dedicated to educating our citizens about the importance of sea power to U.S. national security and supporting the men and women of the U.S. Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard and U.S.-flag Merchant Marine and their families (Navy League of the United States, “Maritime Primacy & Economic Prosperity: Maritime Policy 2012-13”, Navy League of the United States, 1/21/12, [[http://www.navyleague.org/files/legislative_affairs/maritime_policy20122013.pdf]] | AK)</span>

Global engagement is critical to the U.S. economy, ... <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Taking care of our wounded warriors is fundamental.</span>



**And, inland water ways are functionally limitless – the plan is the easiest means of infrastructure expansion and revitalizes the maritime sector**

**Perakis and Denisis,08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [A survey of short sea shipping and its prospects in the USA, ANASTASSIOS N. PERAKIS* and ATHANASIOS DENISIS Department of Naval Architecture & Marine Engineering, University of Michigan, 213 NAME Building, 2600 Draper Dr., Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2145, USA, [[http://intermodalmarine.com/pdfs/Survey%20of%20SSS%20Prospects%20in%20the%20U.S..pdf]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In addition to the above environmental and societal benefits ... shipowners, and the public as well [46].</span>



**And, a strong maritime and shipbuilding industry is a vital pre requisite to credible naval capabilities**

**Alberto, et al., 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Lieutenant Colonel Ronald P., U.S. Army, Colonel Michael G. Archuleta, U.S. Air Force, Lieutenant Colonel Steven H. Bills, U.S. Air Force, Commander William A. Bransom, U.S. Navy, Mr. Kenneth Cohen, Department of State, Commander William A. Ebbs, U.S. Navy, George Manjgaladze, Ministry of Defense, Republic of Georgia, Commander Elizabeth B. Myhre, U.S. Navy, Audrea M. Nelson, DA, Robert L. Riddick, Department of Defense, Colonel Christopher M. Ross, U.S. Army, Julia N. Ruhnke, DA, Lieutenant Colonel Gregory M. Ryan, U.S. Marine Corps, Colonel David D. Thompson, U.S. Air Force, Commander Hugh D. Wetherald, U.S. Navy, Dr. Mark Montroll, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Dr. Michael Farbman, USAID, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Captain David B. Hill, U.S. Coast Guard, faculty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, “SHIPBUILDING”, The Industrial College of the Armed Forces, National Defense University, 2005, http://www.ndu.edu/icaf/programs/academic/industry/reports/2005/pdf/icaf-is-report-shipbuilding-2005.pdf, Deech)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In conclusion, </span>our study found that the tremendous advantage ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> value to the nation of the vessel.</span>



**Great power war**

**Conway et al 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [James T., General, U.S. Marine Corps, Gary Roughead, Admiral, U.S. Navy, Thad W. Allen, Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard, “A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower,” October, http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Deter major power war</span> **...** __projection enable extended campaigns ashore__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



**Failure to effectively build a fleet undermines Navy capacity, power projection, and peaceful competition with China**

**Cropsey ’10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Seth Cropsey, Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute, Washington, DC. He served as Naval Officer from 1985 to 2004 and as deputy senior under secretary of the Navy in the administrations of Ronald Reagan and George H. Bush, “The US Navy in Distress,” Strategic Analysis Vol. 34 No. 1, January 2010, pp. 43-44, </span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-size: 8pt;">[[@http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/Cropsey_US_Navy_In_Distress.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, AZhang]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The United States faces several alternative naval ... US combat fleet in the western Pacific.</span>



**Naval strength solves Middle East war**

**Vego, 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> — professor of operations at the Naval War College, former commanding officer in the former Yugoslav Navy and former West German merchant marine (Milan N., “On Naval Power”, Joint Forces Quarterly, July 2008, http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/jfq-50/JFQ-50.pdf, Deech)</span>

Naval forces can be employed in support of foreign ... defeat opposing forces quickly<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and decisively.</span>



**And, goes __global__ and __nuclear__**

**Gold, 07** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Thomas J., Masters in Strategic Intelligence, Joint Military Intelligence College, Nuclear Conflict in the Middle East: An Analysis of Future Events, p. 53-55]</span>

If the political<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, ethnic, and military </span>policies ... global nuclear war is //__now__// a possibility<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



**Stabilizing the shipbuilding industry would reduce costs and solve institutional problems**

**Cropsey ’12**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> [18 April 2012, “The U.S. Navy Shipbuilding Plan: Assumptions and Associated Risks to National Security” Dr. Seth Cropsey, Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute, Washington, DC. He served as Naval Officer from 1985 to 2004 and as deputy senior under secretary of the Navy in the administrations of Ronald Reagan and George H. Bush, </span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-size: 8pt;">[[@http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/SethCropsey--USNavyShipbuildingPlan--Testimony041812.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">, AZhang]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Knowledge of shipbuilding remains part ... dependence on a rapidly shrinking supplier base.</span>




**Contention Three is __Solvency__**



**A comprehensive federal expansion of Title XI loan guarantees mitigates congestion and creates conditions favorable for private investment – the plan reverse the only barrier to short sea transportation**

**Cook, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> — former General Counsel of the Maritime Administration, Counsel to Seward and Kissel LLP (H. Clayton, “Dead in the Water”, Maritime Executive, 7/8/2012, http://www.maritime-executive.com/article/dead-in-the-water, Deech)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">***Note: SST = short sea transportation, CCF = capital construction fund**</span>

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For more than a decade, Europe ... and included as a transaction cost.</span>**



And, solely private sector action is insufficient – high startup costs make external incentives critical

McCormick, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Strengthening US Government US Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood addressed the recent National Port Summit in San Diego. Wayne McCormick, of America’s Marine Highways, conducted the following interviewSupport of Marine Highways, [[http://americasmarinehighways.com/userfiles/Inland%20Port%20Mag%20-%20LaHood%20%282%29.pdf]]]</span>**

**The private sector<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> most always ... important component of the Marine Highway</span>**



And, the plan reduces risk and creates the financial backing necessary for short sea shipping

Margaronis, 08 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Green Ships Can Fight Global Warming, </span><span class="st" style="font-size: 8pt;">president of California-based Santa Maria Shipowning & Trading Inc, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">p. online document retrieved via a google download, full text email [[mailto:alexanderdpappas@gmail.com|alexanderdpappas@gmail.com]]]</span>**

**A loan guarantee is not the same ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> participants and start-up companies that hope to build ships.</span>**



And, that heightens the resiliency of the transportation network – a secure federal funding stream ensures adequate coordination

Lombardo, 04**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Short Sea Shipping: Practices, Opportunities and Challenges[[http://www.insourceaudit.com/WhitePapers/Short_Sea_Shipping.asp#_ftn1|[1]]] Written by Gary A. Lombardo, Ph.D.[[http://www.insourceaudit.com/WhitePapers/Short_Sea_Shipping.asp#_ftn2|[2]]] Prepared by TransportGistics, Inc, [[http://www.insourceaudit.com/WhitePapers/Short_Sea_Shipping.asp]]]</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Opportunities </span>A<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> successful </span>//short sea shipping program// ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> infrastructure cost categories were identified.</span>**



And, marine infrastructure is key – other networks have reached maximum capacity – ineffective coordination precipitates wider congestion

Jackson, 07 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[LEVERAGING THE STRATEGIC VALUE OF THE U.S. INLAND WATERWAY SYSTEM, Colonel Donald E. Jackson, Jr. United States Army Professor John F. Troxell Project Adviser, http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:0K7n92gvqk0J:www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD%3DADA469583+&hl=en&gl=us]</span>**

**As our road and rail networks have become** increasingly congested **andnear** ...**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and develop future capabilities.24</span>**



And, put away your process and funding counterplans – consistent funding and a net increase are required to generate new capacity

Jackson, 07**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [LEVERAGING THE STRATEGIC VALUE OF THE U.S. INLAND WATERWAY SYSTEM, Colonel Donald E. Jackson, Jr. United States Army Professor John F. Troxell Project Adviser, http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:0K7n92gvqk0J:www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD%3DADA469583+&hl=en&gl=us]</span>**

**In ordertobe an** effective and reliable link**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ... are growing along the Gulf Intra-coastal and North Atlantic ports.77</span>**



No link uniqueness

Cook, 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [H. Clayton Cook, Esq. has been involved with Jones Act issues for more than 40 years and served as General Counsel of the Maritime Administration from 1970-1973. He is currently Counsel to Seward & Kissel LLP in Washington, DC.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Dual-Use Vessel Program and Americas Marine Highway Next Steps, [[http://www.maritime-executive.com/article/the-dual-use-vessel-program-and-america-s-marine-highway-next-steps]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Short Sea Shipping” and AMH </span>A MarAdand <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Department of Transportation ...</span> //government start-up assistance.//


----





=== === 














=Negative= 
==Intel== 
===Lexington=== 
====R1 - Westminster OG - Dredging==== 
[2NR] States CP
[2NR] Sequestration DA
Cap K
T-Maintenance

====R4 - Pinecrest MM - Fuel Cell Buses==== 
[2NR] China Funding CP
[2NR] Immigration Reform DA
Cap K
T-Vehicles

====R5 - Centennial BW - Racially Just and Clean Mass Transit==== 
T-USFG
Dialectical Materialism
State PIC
[2NR] Immigration Reform DA

===Westside=== 
====R2 - Millard West - NIB (Public Transport Only)==== 
[2NR] Cap K
Immigration Reform DA
China FDI CP
T-Direct Investment

====R3 - OPRF MM - Relational Planning==== 
[2NR] China CP
[2NR] Fiscal Cliff DA
Taoism K
T-Maintenance
[2NR] Case Answers

====R5 - WDM Valley PS - SSS (Subsidies)==== 
T-Direct Investment
[2NR] Cap K
Immigration Reform DA
China FDI CP

====Quarters - Dowling LS - Spaceports (w/ALICE fuel)==== 
Cap K
[2NR] States CP
[2NR] Immigration Reform DA
T-9 Areas
[2NR] Plan Flaw

===Dowling=== 
====R1 - Eagan - Critical Security Screening (Trafficking, Patriarchy)==== 
[2NR] Fiscal Cliff DA
[2NR] Case Answers
Rayburn K
T-Soft Infrastructure
Bonds CP

====<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">R4 - Roosevelt HH - Critical Mass Transit (Economic Rationality, Calculations)</span>==== 
[2NR] Dialectical Materialism K
States CP
Fiscal Cliff DA

====<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">R6 - HoFlo FG - Critical Evacuation (Racism, Neolib)</span>==== 
[2NR] Equity Impact Statement CP
Taoism K
T-9 Areas
Fiscal Cliff DA

===Glenbrooks=== 
====<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">R2 - Westminster HM - Dredging</span>==== 
[2NR] Cap K
Immigration Reform DA
EIS CP
T-Maintenance

====<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">R4 - Barstow AN - NIB</span>==== 
Immigration Reform DA
[2NR] Cap K
T-Direct Investment
China FDI CP

====<span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">R6 - ICW KR - Dredging</span>==== 
[2NR] Immigration Reform DA
China FDI CP
Cap K
T-Maintenance
==== ==== 
===University of Michigan=== 
====R1 - Stratford JS - Dredging==== 
[2NR] LOST CP
T-Maintenance
[2NR] Elections DA
Cap K

====R3 - Barstow NW - NIB==== 
[2NR] Elections DA
Cap K
T-Direct Investment
China FDI CP

====R5 - St. Vincent de Paul FG - Critical Trees in Roads==== 
State PIC
[2NR] Oil DA
Heg Good K
T-USFG

===Valley=== 
====R2 - Highland Park TS - Critical Bikes (advocacy statement)==== 
[2NR] Dialectical Materialism K
T-USFG
Anthropocentrism K

====R4 - Edina OP - Title XI==== 
Elections DA
Oil DA
T-Direct Investment
[2NR] Cap K

====R5 - Bloomington HZ - Critical Integrated TI==== 
[2NR] State PIC
Kappeler K
Daoism K

===Niles=== 
====R1 - Dowling KW - Port Dredging==== 
[2NR] States CP
[2NR] Elections DA
Cap K
T-Increase

====R4 - New Trier KS - CCS==== 
NatGas CP
Elections DA
[2NR] Cap K
T-Energy

====R5 - GBN BM - Port Dredging==== 
States CP
[2NR] Elections DA
Cap K
T-Increase
=== === 
==T== 
===T-Increase=== 
====1NC - Dredging==== 
**Increase means to become larger or greater in quantity**
**__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Encarta Online Dictionary</span>__**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">. 2006. ("Increase." <http://encarta.msn.com/encnet/features/dictionary/DictionaryResults.aspx?refid=1861620741>.)</span>
__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">in·crease</span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;"> [ in krss ] transitive and intransitive verb (//past and past participle// in·creased, //present participle// in·creas·ing, //3rd person present singular// in·creas·es)Definition</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">: make or become larger or greater: __to become, or make something become, larger in number, quantity, or degree__</span>**
<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">noun (//plural// in·creas·es)</span>

**Transportation infrastructure investment means ONLY capital investment in port dredging**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">DOT 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Department of Transportation ("National Infrastructure Investments: TIGER Discretionary Grants", Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance, 2011, https://www.cfda.gov/?s=program&mode=form&tab=step1&id=9cfbdf4746fa10a640961c2f55a5be99)//KL//</span>
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The grants for </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">National </span>Infrastructure Investments<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ... impact on the Nation, a metropolitan area, or a region.</span>//

//**Expenditure is distinct from expedited review**//
//<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Leone, 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Port Director of the Massachusetts Port Authority (Michael, Letter to the Federal Maritime Commission, 12/21, http://www.fmc.gov/assets/1/Documents/11-19-comments%20of%20Massachusetts%20Port%20Authority%20(MassPort).pdf)</span>//JH
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">There are several actions the US ... now operating in all trade lanes</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
==== ==== 
===**T-Direct Investment**=== 
====1NC - Title XI==== 
**Interpretation- ‘Its’ is a possessive pronoun showing ownership**
**Glossary of English Grammar Terms, 2005**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(http://www.usingenglish.com/glossary/possessive-pronoun.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mine, yours, his, hers, </span>__its__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, ours, theirs </span>__are__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>__possessive pronouns____used to__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> substitute a noun</span> __and to show__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> possession or </span>__ownership.__

**Transportation investment requires federal funding**
**Warner 11 [**US Senator who introduced this bill into the Senate (introduced by Mark Warner and Mark Kirk, “S. 1968: A bill to require the Secretary of Transportation to establish a pilot program to increase accountability with respect to outcomes of transportation investments, and for other purposes,” December 8, 2011, http://www.govtrack.us/congress/bills/112/s1968/text]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">‘(5) TRANSPORTATION INVESTMENT- </span>**__The term ‘transportation investment’ ...__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> this title or section 134 or 135 of title 23.</span>
==== ==== 
==CP== 
===State PIC=== 
====1NC==== 
**Text: James and I should [plan].**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We must not cede our agency to the all-powerful, righteous state. This traps us in the cycle of in-activism, never allowing us to kritik or confront the state that dominates us, and the other. </span>**
**__Shaffer__** 20**__07__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Butler teaches at the Southwestern University School of Law. B.S., Law, 1958, University of Nebraska, Lincoln; B.A., Political Science, 1959, and J.D., 1961, University of Chicago; Member, Colorado and Nebraska State Bars. “Identifying With the State” June 29th 2007. </span><span style="color: #000099; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.lewrockwell.com/shaffer/shaffer159.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">)</span>
**__One of the deadliest practices we engage ...__** **__self-directed integrity in our lives.__**

**The power of the state commands all and claims legitimacy for all within its domain. The power of the sovereign robs us of our agency and makes true change impossible, because all political discussion is then understood post a preexisting state centered structure we automatically must follow. Voting Negative is key, we must present a challenge to this imposed discursive pre-condition and an intensive rethinking of how we engage in such political dialogue is needed.**
**W****adiwel** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">in</span> **02**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Dinesh Joesph, “Cows and Sovereignty: Biopower and Animal Life” Borderlands E-Journal Vol.1 #2)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But such a political program has far reaching ... intersection which may be found in the animal life shared by both entities.</span>

===China FDI CP=== 
====1NC - NIB==== 
**CP Text: The USFG should request that the People’s Republic of China provides the necessary funding to [do the plan]**

**CP solves Case—supported in both US and China avoiding link to politics**
**Richter 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Mr. Richter received his J.D. from the University of Bonn, Germany in 1984, was a Rotary Foundation Award recipient in 1980/81 – and a Congressional Fellow of the American Political Science Association in 1986/87. Stephan Richter is the publisher and editor-in-chief of The Globalist, the daily online magazine on the global economy, politics and culture, which he founded and launched in January 2000. He also is the President of The Globalist Research Center.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Stephan, “ Yes, There Will Be a U.S. Infrastructure Bank”, The Globalist, March 11, 2011, [[http://www.theglobalist.com/storyid.aspx?StoryId=9039]])//sjl</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Many Americans might be surprised ... </span>__of the entire world economy.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Let's hope that outcome can be avoided.”</span>

===NatGas CP=== 
====1NC==== 
**CP Text: The USFG should adopt regulations following the principles of the Golden Rules recommended by our Birol evidence to promote the production of unconventional Natural Gas.**

**A number of regulations must be put in place to make the Natural Gas Industry successful and environmentally beneficial**
**Birol et al. 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Earned a BSc degree in power engineering from the Istanbul Technical University. He received his MSc and PhD in energy economics from the Technical University of Vienna. He was awarded the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic in 2012[4], the country’s highest honor.In 2009, alongside awards from the Dutch and Polish governments, Dr. Birol received the German Federal Cross of Merit, the country's most prestigious decoration (Verdienstkreuz 1. Klasse des Verdienstordens der Bundesrepublik Deutschland). He received the Golden Honor Medal of Austria in 2007 and was made a Chevalier dans l'Ordre des Palmes Académiques by the government of France in 2006. These followed awards from the governments of Turkey in 2005 and the United States in 2004 and the Russian Academy of Sciences in 2002. This report was prepared by the Office of the Chief Economist (OCE) of the International Energy Agency. It was designed and directed by Fatih Birol, Chief Economist of the IEA. The analysis was co-ordinated by Christian Besson and Tim Gould. Principal contributors to this report were Marco Baroni, Laura Cozzi, Ian Cronshaw, Capella Festa, Matthew Frank, Timur Gül, Paweł Olejarnik, David Wilkinson and Peter Wood. Other contributors included Amos Bromhead, Dafydd Elis, Timur Topalgoekceli and Akira Yanagisawa. Sandra Mooney provided essential support. (International Energy Agency(Faith), “ Golden Rules for a Golden Age of Gas”, International Energy Agency, November 12, 2012, [[http://www.worldenergyoutlook.org/media/weowebsite/2012/goldenrules/WEO2012_GoldenRulesReport.pdf%29//sjl|http://www.worldenergyoutlook.org/media/weowebsite/2012/goldenrules/WEO2012_GoldenRulesReport.pdf)//sjl]]</span>
__Measure, disclose and engage__ ... __verification of environmental performance.__

**Unregulated production of Unconventional gas causes a host of environmental impacts and collapses the Natural Gas Industry**
**Birol et al. 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Earned a BSc degree in power engineering from the Istanbul Technical University. He received his MSc and PhD in energy economics from the Technical University of Vienna. He was awarded the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic in 2012[4], the country’s highest honor.In 2009, alongside awards from the Dutch and Polish governments, Dr. Birol received the German Federal Cross of Merit, the country's most prestigious decoration (Verdienstkreuz 1. Klasse des Verdienstordens der Bundesrepublik Deutschland). He received the Golden Honor Medal of Austria in 2007 and was made a Chevalier dans l'Ordre des Palmes Académiques by the government of France in 2006. These followed awards from the governments of Turkey in 2005 and the United States in 2004 and the Russian Academy of Sciences in 2002. This report was prepared by the Office of the Chief Economist (OCE) of the International Energy Agency. It was designed and directed by Fatih Birol, Chief Economist of the IEA. The analysis was co-ordinated by Christian Besson and Tim Gould. Principal contributors to this report were Marco Baroni, Laura Cozzi, Ian Cronshaw, Capella Festa, Matthew Frank, Timur Gül, Paweł Olejarnik, David Wilkinson and Peter Wood. Other contributors included Amos Bromhead, Dafydd Elis, Timur Topalgoekceli and Akira Yanagisawa. Sandra Mooney provided essential support. (International Energy Agency(Faith), “ Golden Rules for a Golden Age of Gas”, International Energy Agency, November 12, 2012, [[http://www.worldenergyoutlook.org/media/weowebsite/2012/goldenrules/WEO2012_GoldenRulesReport.pdf%29//sjl|http://www.worldenergyoutlook.org/media/weowebsite/2012/goldenrules/WEO2012_GoldenRulesReport.pdf)//sjl]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yet a bright </span>__future for ...__ __development of unconventional resources.__

===States CP=== 
====1NC - Dredging==== 
**Text: The 50 states, relevant territories, and the District of Columbia should substantially increase its investment in expedited port deepening projects in the United States.**

**States can do the plan – report from Army Corps proves**
**AP 6/22**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – associated press (The Associated Press, “Price tag to dredge Eastern ports for big ships: $5 billion”, 6/22/12, http://www.usatoday.com/money/economy/story/2012-06-21/southern-ports-expansion/55746890/1) // CB</span>
__The Southeast,__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> forecast to undergo ... federal infrastructure bank for major projects.</span>

==DA== 
===Fiscal Cliff DA=== 
====1NC - Econ==== 
**Will pass – new negotiations, willing to give up taxes**
**Madison 12/6** (Lucy, “On "fiscal cliff" deal, House GOP appears poised to back Boehner” On "fiscal cliff" deal, House GOP appears poised to back Boehner MGE)
As the clock ticks for Democrats ... minimize the damage to the economy."

**[Link]**

**Causes global economic collapse**
**Schuman 11/13**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael, “Will the Global Economy Tumble Off America’s Fiscal Cliff?” [[http://business.time.com/2012/11/13/will-the-global-economy-tumble-off-americas-fiscal-cliff/?xid=gonewsedit&google_editors_picks=true]] MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Forget all of the talk about the rise ... global financial markets as well. </span>

**War**
**Royal 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Less intuitive is how </span>__periods of economic ...__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">debate and deserves more attention. </span>


====1NC - Sequestration==== 
**Will pass – new negotiations, willing to give up taxes**
**Madison 12/6** (Lucy, “On "fiscal cliff" deal, House GOP appears poised to back Boehner” On "fiscal cliff" deal, House GOP appears poised to back Boehner MGE)
As the clock ticks for Democrats ... minimize the damage to the economy."

**[Link]**

**Sequestration causes multiple conflicts and collapse of hegemony**
**Hunter 9/30**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Duncan, U.S. Representative from Alaska. “SEQUESTRATION SENDS WRONG MESSAGE TO U.S. FRIENDS AND FOES ALIKE,” [[http://www.utsandiego.com/news/2012/sep/30/tp-sequestration-sends-wrong-message-to-us/?page=1%23article|http://www.utsandiego.com/news/2012/sep/30/tp-sequestration-sends-wrong-message-to-us/?page=1#article]] MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To most Americans, the term “sequestration” does not mean ... defend our interests against any threat. </span>

**Heg leads to liberal cooperation - prevents nuclear war**
**(Zhang and Shi 11)**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yuhan Zhang (researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C.), and Lin Shi (from Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C.), East Asia Forum, January 22, 2011, “America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry”, accessed May 16, 2011, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Over the past two decades, ... international regimes (such as the Bretton Woods System in 1973).</span>


====1NC - Deterrence==== 

**Will pass – new negotiations, willing to give up taxes**

**Madison 12/6** (Lucy, “On "fiscal cliff" deal, House GOP appears poised to back Boehner” On "fiscal cliff" deal, House GOP appears poised to back Boehner MGE)

As the clock ticks for Democrats ... minimize the damage to the economy."

[Link]


**Fiscal cliff kills deterrence capabilities and destroys our military**

**Maginnis 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert, retired Army lieutenant colonel, and a national security and foreign affairs analyst for radio and television, “CATASTROPHIC’ DEFENSE CUTS SEEN AS TIPPING POINT OF U.S. MILITARY SUPREMACY,” MGE)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Our </span>__nuclear deterrence could ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the world’s </span>__leading____military power__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>



**Loss of deterrence causes adventurism and major war**

**Caves, ’10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ~John P., Senior Research Fellow in the Center for the Study of Weapons of Mass Destruction at the National Defense University. Strategic Forum, January~</span>

__Perceptions of a compromised ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> nuclear-armed terrorists alone could inflict.</span>


===Immigration Reform DA=== 
====1NC - Glenbrooks==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Immigration at top of agenda –Obama and House GOP support. EEK!!dont this line read with cap</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Carpenter, 11/14/</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">12, (Marty [Business Insider], “Spirit of compromise could help solve immigration, boost U.S. economy”, d/l: http://www.ksl.com/?nid=151&sid=22966547)//gr//</span>
//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">They say the definition of insanity ... we draw here—but not nearly as much as we could.</span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">But passing unpopular policies will stall agenda – he needs to build bridges.</span>**//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia;">**The Week, 11/8** (“$64,000 question: can Obama avoid becoming a lame-duck?” http://www.theweek.co.uk/us/us-elections-2012/49978/64000-question-can-obama-avoid-becoming-lame-duck#ixzz2BfmXOl00)</span>//gr
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">A Los Angeles Times editorial agrees that</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> **__...__**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> now rises by $3 million every minute." </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">[LINK]</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Immigration reform is essential element to scientific diplomacy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Pickering et al, 2010</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> (THOMAS R. -ov president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, undersecretary of state from 1997-2000 and chairs the advisory council of the Civilian Research and Development Foundation. Agre, a Nobel laureate, is a physician and director of the Malaria Research Institute at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, PETER AGRE, “Science diplomacy aids conflict reduction”http://www.signonsandiego.com/news/2010/feb/20/science-diplomacy-aids-conflict-reduction/, 7/27/10,)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Over two foggy days in April, ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> global problems and to global conflict</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">That's the best way to solve war--unique conflicts where hard power fails</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> **Krasnodebska 12**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Former Contributing Researcher for the USC Center for Conflict Prevention. Master of Public Diplomacy, USC (Molly, Conflict Prevention, http://uscpublicdiplomacy.org/index.php/newswire/media_monitor_reports_detail/science_diplomacy/)//TR</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Science diplomacy can function as</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> a tool ...</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> **__is currently being implemented__**.</span>


===Elections DA=== 
====1NC - Valley==== 
**Obama’s in the lead but Romney could still come through**
**Doms 9/28** (Colin, “Pollster Map Shows Possible Path For Romney Victory” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/09/28/pollster-romney-map_n_1924487.html]]</span> MGE)
But although the current __Pollster estimate ...__ Romney, that map is a losing map.

**[Link]**

**Romney election causes US Russia “crisis” within a year; Obama is “acceptable”**
**Richter, 7/2**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Paul, “Russian official: Romney's hard line could bring 'full-scale crisis'” [[http://www.latimes.com/news/politics/la-pn-russian-official-romneys-hard-line-could-bring-fullscale-crisis-20120702,0,3241680,print.story]] MGE)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mitt </span>__Romney’s____comment____that Russia is ...__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">“they don’t want a personal conflict,” he said. </span>

**Nuclear war**
**Allison & Blackwill, 10/31**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Graham, Director – Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard’s Kennedy School, and Former Assistant Secretary of Defense, and Robert D. Blackwill, Senior Fellow – Council on Foreign Relations, “10 Reasons Why Russia Still Matters”, Politico, 2011, http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=161EF282-72F9-4D48-8B9C-C5B3396CA0E6)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">That central point is that </span>__Russia matters__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ... to joining China in preventing U.N. Security Council</span>
==== ==== 
==K== 
===Kappeler K=== 
====1NC==== 
**The affirmative cedes the political sphere by asking: "what should the government do?" This focus on mega-spheres of action eclipses questions of what we would do if we were simply ourselves. This kills political activism, inculcating a spectator mentality and preventing change.**
**Kappeler 95** [Susanne, Associate Professor at Al-Akhawayn University, The Will to Violence: The politics of personal behavior, Pg. 10-11] JD
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yet </span>__our insight that indeed we are not responsible ...__ __values of war and violence.__

**Blaming cultural or structural causes for violence absolves people of individual responsibility and makes the problem worse.**
**Kappeler 95** [Susanne, Associate Professor at Al-Akhawayn University, The Will to Violence: The politics of personal behavior, Pg. 2-4] JD
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Violence is perceived as a phenomenon for science ... racist violence does indeed 'pay off.'</span>

**Surrendering ourselves to the state and abdicating personal responsibility makes extinction inevitable.**
**Beres, 94** (Louis Rene, Professor of International Law in the Department of Political Science at Purdue University, Spring,, Arizona Journal of International and Comparative Law, Lexis)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">By surrendering ourselves to States ... the most indelible badge of modern humankind.</span>

**Hence, our alternative: Vote Negative to reject the affirmative’s representations and re-conceive of violence as an issue of personal choice made by individuals.**

**This alternative is the best means of resolving violent conflict.**
**Kappeler 95** [Susanne, Associate Professor at Al-Akhawayn University, The Will to Violence: The politics of personal behavior, Pg.5-6] JD
__A politics aim in at a change in people's ...__ __against violence__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and for a non-violent society. </span>

**Finally, we don't defend collective irresponsibility. We think EVERY individual has part in the violence- but the point is that we need to take responsibility for the one factor we actually control ourselves.**
**Kappeler 95** [Susanne, Associate Professor at Al-Akhawayn University, The Will to Violence: The politics of personal behavior, Pg. 10] JD
__We are the war does not mean ...__ __events are always made elsewhere.__

===Dialectical Materialism K=== 
====1NC - Generic==== 
**The end is finally in sight**
**Farrell 10/4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – marketwatch, the burning platform (“A new Lost Decade is leading to revolution.” [[http://www.theburningplatform.com/?p=22549]]) CMR</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Unfortunately, the new one gets worse: Why? ...</span> __accelerating a new American Revolution.__

**The focus on the primacy of discourse ruptures this. Post-structuralist criticism makes lack of objectivity natural – but there are objective truths, like the oppression of workers globally – and you prevent real, radical change from occurring.**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mas'ud </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zavarzadeh</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Department of English, Syracuse University, editor of Transformation: Marxist Boundary Work in Theory, Economics, Politics and Culture—a biquarterly published by the not-for-profit Maisonneuve Press, College Literature Vol 21 Issue 3, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1994</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “The Stupidity That Consumption is Just as Productive as Production: In the Shopping Mall of the Post-Al Left” Questia</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The unsurpassable </span>__objectivity which ...__ made more tolerable, justifiable, and naturalized.

<span class="Underline">**And, the particular – shouldn’t try to eliminate** </span>
Rene Francisco <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Poitevin</span>, Doctoral Candidate in Sociology at UC Davis, member of the SR [Socialist Review], <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2001</span>, Socialist Review, “The end of anti-capitalism as we knew it: Reflections on postmodern Marxism,” [[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_qa3952/is_200101/ai_n8932891/]]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What the postmodern Marxist's reading ... </span><span class="UnderlineChar">agenda is not going to do it either.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Impacts – Capitalism causes war, oppression**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Brown, 5.** </span>Professor of Economics and Research Scientist at the University of Michigan<span class="Underline"> (Charles Brown, [[http://archives.econ.utah.edu/archives/pen-l/2005w15/msg00062.htm]]) </span>
<span class="Underline">The </span>capitalist class owns<span class="Underline"> the </span>factories<span class="Underline">, ...</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> large remains a shameful fact of life in the U.S.</span>

**AND, denial of object facts makes all violence possible.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sherry 96</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Suzanna, Professor of Civil Rights and Civil Liberties and the University of Minnesota, “The Sleep of Reason”)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Some, however, have suggested that the historical era ... of speaking such a truth to power. 145</span>

**Alternative: reject the affirmative in favor of a Marxist analysis of transportation infrastructure development. This round should be an educational exercise—that empowers us to recognize inequality and take action rather than just changing the way we think.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cole 3</span>(Mike, Senior Lecturer and Research and Publications Mentor in the School of Education, University of Brighton, //Global Capital, Postmodern/Poststructural Deconstruction and Social Change: a Marxist Critique//, pages 17-20, http://www.nodo50.org/cubasigloXXI/congreso/cole_05abr03.pdf) cp
Atkinson's main argument seems to be ... strategy for human betterment (cited in Cole, 2001, p. 77).

===Cap K=== 
====1NC==== 
**Traditional visions of transport economy through the plan’s elitist lens engenders the same problems and upholds capitalism – the alternative would reempower those who are ignored**
**Baeten 2000**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – D.Phil from the University of Oxford (2002) and is currently Professor of Human Geography at Lund University, Sweden¶ co-authored ‘Mobiliteit. Landschap van Macht en Onmacht’ (Acco, 2000) with Louis Albrechts and Andre Spithoven. He has published in leading journals over the past 10 years.¶ (“The tragedy of the highway: Empowerment, disempowerment and the politics of sustainability discourses and practices.” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://search.proquest.com.proxy.uchicago.edu/pubidlinkhandler/sng/pubtitle/European+Planning+Studies/$N/33322?accountid=14657|European Planning Studies]]</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">8. 1</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Feb 2000): 69-86.) CMR</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Many more quite similar examples can probably be ...</span> __downward spiral of deteriorating transport conditions__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Capitalism is based around oil consumption—causes nuclear resource wars and global warming—and peak oil makes collapse inevitable.**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 12pt;">Foster 8 </span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John Bellamy, Professor at the University of Oregon, Department of Sociology, Peak //Oil and Energy Imperialism//, Monthly Review, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.monthlyreview.org/080707foster.php]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The tightening oil situation has prompted</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> ...</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> system geared to growing inequality.</span>**

**Alternative Text: Reject the affirmative’s capitalist relations.**

**An endorsement of politics within a new collective organization is practicable – any other politics MUST BE REJECTED as slavery**
**Badiou ‘9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Alain, Prof. @ European Graduate School, Former chair of Philosophy @ École Normale Supérieure, The Meaning of Sarkozy, pgs. 97-103)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I would like to situate the Sarkozy episode, which is not an impressive ... we find ourselves in the history of this hypothesis.</span>

==== ==== 
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]