<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[toc]]
</span>
























<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> For Aff cites or a nice chat: andrewlopez700@gmail.com</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">For Neg cites or an indepth discussion on the Dark Knight series and/or Hannah Montana: sumon.chaki@gmail.com</span>
=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Affirmative</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Aff Intel</span>== 

<span style="color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial; font-size: small; text-align: start;">Wake - ITS</span>
<span style="color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial; font-size: small; text-align: start;">Georgetown - Climate</span>
<span style="color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial; font-size: small; text-align: start;">Bronx - Fix it First</span>
<span style="color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial; font-size: small; text-align: start;">Capitol - Fix it First</span>
<span style="color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial; font-size: small; text-align: start;">Glenbrooks - Fix it First</span>
<span style="color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial; font-size: small; text-align: start;">Scanton - Fix it First</span>
<span style="color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial; font-size: small; text-align: start;">Lexington - Climate all rounds except R3, when we read Fix it First</span>
<span style="color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial; font-size: small; text-align: start;">Emory - Climate</span>
<span style="color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial; font-size: small; text-align: start;">Harvard - Climate</span>
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Fix-It-First</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC Glenbrooks</span>=== 

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention 1—Transportation Inequality</span>==== 



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Governmental prioritization of highway development destroyed thriving communities and created racialized barriers between the urban and suburban.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Mandell, ‘8 [4/1/08, Bekah Mandell is an A.B. from Vassar College; J.D., [[#|Boston College]] Law School; Director of the Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity Fair Housing Project; Father Robert Drinan Family Fund Public Interest Fellow. “Racial Reification and Global Warming: A Truly [[#|Inconvenient Truth]],” [[http://lawdigitalcommons.bc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1046&context=twlj]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Racist federal transportation policy has reified race in American society in a number of ways</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">leaving it a gutted shell of the vibrant neighborhood it once was.216</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Freeways played an important role in the national urban renewal project of “Negro removal” through the displacement of minorities – today, inequitable highway expansion threatens the disintegration of whole communities across the country.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Sanchez et al, ‘3 [2003, Thomas W. Sanchez is an associate professor of Urban Affairs and Planning and research fellow in the Metropolitan Institute at Virginia Tech in Alexandria, Virginia. Rich Stolz is Senior Policy Analyst at Center for Community Change. Jacinta S. Ma is a Legal and Policy Advocacy Associate at The Civil Rights Project at Harvard. “Moving to Equity: Addressing Inequitable Effects of Transportation Policies on Minorities. Cambridge, MA: The Civil Rights” Project at [[#|Harvard University]]. http://civilrightsproject.ucla.edu/research/metro-and-regional-inequalities/transportation/moving-to-equity-addressing-inequitable-effects-of-transportation-policies-on-minorities/sanchez-moving-to-equity-transportation-policies.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Displacement and gentrification because of transportation projects are two examples of the negative impacts that</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">of individuals from being displaced, and the resulting disintegration of their communities.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Racism is the precondition for all institutional violence – it’s indispensable to internalizing the conditions of war and justifying state-sanctioned homicide.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Mendieta ‘2 [April 25th, Eduardo- New School of Social Research, SUNY @ Stonybrook, ph.D in Education; ‘To make live and to let die’ –Foucault on Racism; Meeting of The Foucault Circle APA Central Division Meeting –Chicago; http://www.stonybrook.edu/philosophy/faculty/emendieta/articles/foucault.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">I have thus far discussed Foucault’s triangulation between the discourses of the production of truth</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">of the living, then these threat and foes are biological in nature.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Racism must be rejected in every instance</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Memmi ’00 [2000, Albert is a Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris, Albert-; RACISM, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, without intermission, without remission</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">. True, it is a [[#|wager]], but the stakes are irresistible.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its equitable fix-it-first transportation infrastructure [[#|investment]] in the United States.</span>





====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention 2—Solvency</span>==== 



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The opportunity to make transportation equitable is within our grasps – we can either choose to acknowledge our role as actors within the political system or remain complacent and allow racism to [[#|continue]].</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">JCPES 11 – The Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, an NGO with the goal of improving the socioeconomic status of African Americans and other people of color, expanding their effective participation in the political and public policy arenas, and promoting communications and relationships across racial and ethnic lines, April 13, 2011, “Structural Racism, Privilege, and Policy: A Systems Perspective,” online: http://www.jointcenter.org/hpi/sites/all/files/DL14%20Concept%20Paper%2004%2001%2011.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Given the nation’s ongoing economic crises, equity is a critical lens through which we</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">at key points in the system that will facilitate real and lasting equity.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Yes, the nation-state is not perfect, but refusal to reform ignores our best tools for resistance – abandonment of the state is naïve and dangerous.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Dussel, ‘11 [2011, Enrique Dussel, Professor of Philosophy at the Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico, “From Critical Theory to the Philosophy of Liberation: Some Themes for Dialogue”, Transmodernity: Journal of Peripheral Cultural Production, http://escholarship.org/uc/item/59m869d2]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We should proceed in politics in the very same manner that Marx proceeded in economics</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">state” is a strategic orienting principle that functions as a regulative horizon.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Equitable fix-it-first [[#|investment]] solves – prioritizes those without adequate infrastructure before expanding the existing system.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rubin, ‘9 [August 7, 2009, Victor Rubin, Ph. D, is the Vice President for Research of Policy Link. He is an urban planning researcher and consultant, a former faculty member in city planning at the University of California, Berkeley, and a former official of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, "All Aboard!: Making Equity and Inclusion Central to Federal Transportation Policy." http://www.policylink.org/atf/cf/%7B97C6D565-BB43-406D-A6D5-ECA3BBF35AF0%7D/ all_aboard.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Who Pays? The system of funding transportation is, as many have said,</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[#|the principles]] needed to guide each of these [[#|financing]] mechanisms to ensure equity.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">June’s Transportation bill should’ve triggered their DA’s – authorized 100 billion in funding.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">PR News Wire 7/10 (News distributer, “New Federal Transportation Bill Signed into Law” MAP-21 will provide funding through September 2014, 7/10/12, [[http://www.marketwatch.com/story/new-federal-transportation-bill-signed-into-law-2012-07-10]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Image Sensing Systems, Inc. [[http://www.marketwatch.com/investing/stock/ISNS?link=MW_story_quote|ISNS +2.25%]] is pleased to</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">extended in nine short increments to take funding through June 30, 2012.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Fortunately, it doesn’t solve the aff AND neither do the states.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Snyder, ‘12 [Tanya, Streetsblog's Capitol Hill editor in September 2010 after covering Congress for Pacifica Radio’s Washington bureau, “A New Bill Passes, But America’s Transpo Policy Stays Stuck in 20th Century,” http://dc.streetsblog.org/2012/06/29/a-new-bill-passes-but-americas-transpo-policy-stays-stuck-in-20th-century/]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Maintaining infrastructure. The bill establishes performance measures for highway and transit maintenance. However</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">. This bill is a step backwards on road maintenance and sprawl prevention.</span>



====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention 3—The Truth</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Prioritize the effects of racial discrimination in the face of their utility calculus – utilitarianism’s attempt at neutrality tramples over efforts toward individual equality – individuals making decisions are inevitably not race neutral.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Byrnes, ’99 [Erin E. Byrnes, Arizona Law Review, Summer, 1999, 41 Ariz. L. Rev. 535, We don’t endorse this article’s employment of ableist language]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A functionalist critique of utilitarianism could also be employed in this context to advocate the</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">competition with societal goals, individual rights will be annihilated every time. 296</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Unfortunately, debate is a rigged game – Low-probability, high impact scenarios are preferred in the status quo because of inherent psychological judging biases DESPITE statistics—reject their fixation on worst case scenarios</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Berube, ‘00 [2000, David M. Berube is an Associate Professor of Speech Communication and Director of Debate at the University of South Carolina, PhD. New York University, CONTEMPORARY ARGUMENTATION AND DEBATE 21(2000) 55-73, “DEBUNKING MINI-MAX REASONING: THE LIMITS OF EXTENDED CAUSAL CHAINS IN CONTEST DEBATING”] We don’t endorse this article’s employment of ableist language</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">To employ a mathematical analogy, we can say that although the risk of extinction</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">this adage: We must avoid thinking that allows smoke to trump fire.</span>


====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention 3---The Truth - Round 5</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Added this card.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their risk reward security calculus leads to policy failure</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kessler, ‘8 (Oliver Kessler, Sociology at University of Bielefeld, “From Insecurity to Uncertainty: Risk and the Paradox of Security Politics” Alternatives 33 (2008), 211-232)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The problem of the second method AND capture the basic uncertainties.</span>



===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC Bronx</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Transportation Inequality</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Governmental prioritization of highway development over public transport destroyed thriving communities and created racialized barriers between the urban and suburban.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Mandell, ‘8 [4/1/08, Bekah Mandell is an A.B. from Vassar College; J.D., Boston College Law School; Director of the Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity Fair Housing Project; Father Robert Drinan Family Fund Public Interest Fellow. “Racial Reification and Global Warming: A Truly Inconvenient Truth,” http://lawdigitalcommons.bc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1046&context=twlj]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Racist federal transportation AND it once was.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This “white flight” was no accident, but rather a result racist federal preference. Urban sprawl sustained white privilege and redrew the map of opportunity and exclusion across America.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Marcantonio and Brenman, ‘11 [October 25, 2011; Richard A. Marcantonio is a Managing Attorney for Public Advocates Inc., a non-profit public interest law firm in San Francisco, California; Marc Brenman is former Executive Director of the Washington State Human Rights Commission and former Senior Policy Advisor for Civil Rights at the U.S. Department of Transportation; “Lessons from the History of Transportation Justice”’ http://equity.lsnc.net/lessons-from-the-history-of-transportation-justice/, we do not endorse the gendered language within this evidence]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A new era AND regions across America.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Freeways played an important role in the national urban renewal project of “Negro removal” through the displacement of minorities – today, inequitable highway expansion threatens the disintegration of whole communities across the country.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Sanchez et al, ‘3 [2003, Thomas W. Sanchez is an associate professor of Urban Affairs and Planning and research fellow in the Metropolitan Institute at Virginia Tech in Alexandria, Virginia. Rich Stolz is Senior Policy Analyst at Center for Community Change. Jacinta S. Ma is a Legal and Policy Advocacy Associate at The Civil Rights Project at Harvard. “Moving to Equity: Addressing Inequitable Effects of Transportation Policies on Minorities. Cambridge, MA: The Civil Rights” Project at Harvard University. http://civilrightsproject.ucla.edu/research/metro-and-regional-inequalities/transportation/moving-to-equity-addressing-inequitable-effects-of-transportation-policies-on-minorities/sanchez-moving-to-equity-transportation-policies.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Displacement and gentrification AND of their communities.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Racism is the precondition for all institutional violence – it’s indispensable to internalizing the conditions of war and justifying state-sanctioned homicide.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Mendieta, ‘2 [April 25th, Eduardo- New School of Social Research, SUNY @ Stonybrook, ph.D in Education; ‘To make live and to let die’ –Foucault on Racism; Meeting of The Foucault Circle APA Central Division Meeting –Chicago; http://www.stonybrook.edu/philosophy/faculty/emendieta/articles/foucault.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">I have thus AND biological in nature.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Racism must be rejected in without surcease.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Memmi, ’00 [2000, Albert is a Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris, Albert-; RACISM, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The struggle against AND stakes are irresistible.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its equitable fix-it-first transportation infrastructure investment.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Solvency</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The opportunity to make transportation equitable is within our grasps – we can either choose to acknowledge our role as actors within the political system or remain complacent and allow racism to continue.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">JCPES 11 – The Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, an NGO with the goal of improving the socioeconomic status of African Americans and other people of color, expanding their effective participation in the political and public policy arenas, and promoting communications and relationships across racial and ethnic lines, April 13, 2011, “Structural Racism, Privilege, and Policy: A Systems Perspective,” online: http://www.jointcenter.org/hpi/sites/all/files/DL14%20Concept%20Paper%2004%2001%2011.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Given the nation’s AND and lasting equity.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Yes, the nation-state is not perfect, but refusal to reform ignores our best tools for resistance – abandonment of the state is naïve and dangerous.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Dussel, ‘11 [2011, Enrique Dussel, Professor of Philosophy at the Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico, “From Critical Theory to the Philosophy of Liberation: Some Themes for Dialogue”, Transmodernity: Journal of Peripheral Cultural Production, http://escholarship.org/uc/item/59m869d2]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We should proceed AND a regulative horizon.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">White supremacy is the unnamed political system that shapes the modern world. We must engage in a broader debate to situate discussions of race and challenge these assumptions. Acknowledgement of institutional privilege is key.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Mills, ‘97 [1997, Charles-; Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago The Racial Contract; p. 1-3]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">White Supremacy is AND of our times.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Equitable fix-it-first investment solves – prioritizes those without adequate infrastructure before expanding the existing system.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rubin, ‘9 [August 7, 2009, Victor Rubin, Ph. D, is the Vice President for Research of PolicyLink. He is an urban planning researcher and consultant, a former faculty member in city planning at the University of California, Berkeley, and a former official of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, "All Aboard!: Making Equity and Inclusion Central to Federal Transportation Policy." http://www.policylink.org/atf/cf/%7B97C6D565-BB43-406D-A6D5-ECA3BBF35AF0%7D/ all_aboard.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Who Pays? The AND to ensure equity.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Federal fix-it-first is key – states focus on road construction rather than maintenance.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rubin, ‘9 [August 7, 2009, Victor Rubin, Ph. D, is the Vice President for Research of PolicyLink. He is an urban planning researcher and consultant, a former faculty member in city planning at the University of California, Berkeley, and a former official of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, "All Aboard!: Making Equity and Inclusion Central to Federal Transportation Policy." http://www.policylink.org/atf/cf/%7B97C6D565-BB43-406D-A6D5-ECA3BBF35AF0%7D/ all_aboard.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The federal transportation AND gotten that far.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Truth</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Great power war is obsolete – countries wont risk nuclear escalation AND cooperation checks.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Deudney and Ikenberry 09 *Professor of Political Science at Johns Hopkins AND Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University [Jan/Feb, 2009, Daniel Deudney and John Ikenberry, “The Myth of the Autocratic Revival: Why Liberal Democracy Will Prevail,” Foreign Affairs]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This bleak outlook AND autocratic revivalists acknowledge.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nuclear war doesn’t cause extinction – newest studies prove nuclear winter is a lie – natural cycles will prevent accumulation and their authors exaggerate like crazy.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Seitz, ‘6 [December 20, 2006 Russell is a Visiting Scholar in Harvard University's Center for International Affairs, published in Nature and Foreign Affairs on the subject of nuclear winter, “The' Nuclear Winter ' Meltdown: Photoshopping the Apocalypse” adamant.typepad.com/seitz/2006/12/preherein_honor.html ]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">All that remains AND TTAPS reception follows.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Warming doesn’t cause extinction – most recent fossil records prove.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Willis, et. al, ‘10 [Kathy J. Willis, Keith D. Bennett, Shonil A. Bhagwat & H. John B. Birks (2010): 4 °C and beyond: what did this mean for biodiversity in the past?, Systematics and Biodiversity, 8:1, 3-9, http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1080/14772000903495833</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The most recent AND & Jaramillo, 2007).]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ignore traditional impact calculus – systemic harms must be prioritized.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Mohan, ’93** [1993, Brij, Professor at LSU, “Eclipse Of Freedom,” p. 3-4]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The ordeal of AND the human condition.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC Case</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC AT Race Talk</span>==== 


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rhetorical silence protects the invisibility of whiteness and preserves privilege.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Crenshaw ‘97 [1997, Carrie, PhD, Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION; Resisting Whiteness’ Rhetorical Silence; 61(3), Summer; pp. 253-278]</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This analysis brings AND silence about whiteness.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Simply discussing racism doesn’t exacerbate it – difference cannot be hidden.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">RANDALL ‘8 [January 10th, 2008, Vernillia- professor of Law @ the University of Dayton web editor of RACE, RACISM AND THE LAW; Racism v. Colorism: A Wrong Headed Debate; ; [[http://academic.udayton.edu/race/01race/racism03.htm]]]</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Recently, I have AND in health care. </span>


===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC T</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC T - Maintenance</span>==== 

C/I – Investment includes maintenance.
Chan, et al, ’09 [March 2009, Chris Chan, Danny, Forwood, Heather Roper, Chris Sayers, “Public Infrastructure Financing: An International Perspective”, [[http://www.pc.gov.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0008/86930/public-infrastructure-financing.pdf]]]

Investment can AND full cost recovery.

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">---1AR T - Maintenance</span>==== 

C/I – transportation investment is maintenance – only our evidence is in the context of the budget.
Durango-Cohen and Madanat, ‘8 - Associate Professor Department Of Civil And Environmental Engineering at Northwestern Technological Institute, Professor of Engineering and Director of the Institute of Transportation Studies at UC Berkeley (Pablo and Samer, Optimization of inspection and maintenance decisions for infrastructure facilities under performance model uncertainty: A quasi-Bayes approach, 5/2/08, Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice V. 42 Issue 8, p. 1074-1085)

However, due to AND for their expenditure.


====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC T - Substantial</span>==== 

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">“SubstantialLY” means considerable or to a large degree.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Arkush, ‘2</span> [David, JD Candidate – Harvard University, “Preserving "Catalyst" Attorneys' Fees Under the Freedom of Information Act in the Wake of Buckhannon Board and Care Home v. West Virginia Department of Health and Human Resources”, Harvard Civil Rights-Civil Liberties Law Review, Winter,
37 Harv. C.R.-C.L. L. Rev. 131]
Plaintiffs should argue AND quantity or dimensions"). 101

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC CP</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC DBE "The McD Special"</span>==== 

ZERO SOLVENCY without the permutation – federal oversight is key to DBE involvement.
Rubin, ‘9 [August 7, 2009, Victor Rubin, Ph. D, is the Vice President for Research of PolicyLink. He is an urban planning researcher and consultant, a former faculty member in city planning at the University of California, Berkeley, and a former official of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, "All Aboard!: Making Equity and Inclusion Central to Federal Transportation Policy." http://www.policylink.org/atf/cf/%7B97C6D565-BB43-406D-A6D5-ECA3BBF35AF0%7D/ all_aboard.pdf]

To enable equitable AND be made mandatory.

====2AC Privatization==== 

ZERO SOLVENCY without the permutation – private sector leads to inequitable employment for transportation projects. ONLY federal mandated oversight solves.
Rubin, ‘9 [August 7, 2009, Victor Rubin, Ph. D, is the Vice President for Research of PolicyLink. He is an urban planning researcher and consultant, a former faculty member in city planning at the University of California, Berkeley, and a former official of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, "All Aboard!: Making Equity and Inclusion Central to Federal Transportation Policy." http://www.policylink.org/atf/cf/%7B97C6D565-BB43-406D-A6D5-ECA3BBF35AF0%7D/ all_aboard.pdf]

To enable equitable AND be made mandatory.

CP can’t solve – Private sectors quest for efficiency sidesteps concerns of minorities.
Mann 96 (Eric Mann, Eric Mann is the director of the Labor/Community Strategy Center in Los Angeles and a co-founder of the Bus Riders Union. The Strategy Center is a “think tank/act tank” that trains organizers and initiates high visibility environmental justice, mass transportation, and civil rights campaigns, “A NEW VISION
FOR URBAN TRANSPORTATION”, 1996, [[http://www.uchastings.edu/faculty-administration/faculty/piomelli/class-website/docs/Bus-Riders-Union-New-Vision.pdf]])

At its best, AND for the long-term.

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC States</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">States can’t solve AND increases segregated urban sprawl – means the CP only increases structural racism.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Sanchez et al, ‘3 [2003, Thomas W. Sanchez is an associate professor of Urban Affairs and Planning and research fellow in the Metropolitan Institute at Virginia Tech in Alexandria, Virginia. Rich Stolz is Senior Policy Analyst at Center for Community Change. Jacinta S. Ma is a Legal and Policy Advocacy Associate at The Civil Rights Project at Harvard. “Moving to Equity: Addressing Inequitable Effects of Transportation Policies on Minorities. Cambridge, MA: The Civil Rights” Project at Harvard University. [[http://civilrightsproject.ucla.edu/research/metro-and-regional-inequalities/transportation/moving-to-equity-addressing-inequitable-effects-of-transportation-policies-on-minorities/sanchez-moving-to-equity-transportation-policies.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Transportation policies have a direct effect on low-income, minority communities by making AND and may be much less than the 20 percent allocated by federal policy.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">CP links to politics – performance assessments means Congress gets involved.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Lovaas, ‘11 [Thursday, July 21, 2011, Deron Lovaas, NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL, “Testimony of Deron Lovaas Federal Transportation Policy Director, Natural Resources Defense Council On Legislative Issues for Transportation Reauthorization Before the U.S. Senate Environment and Public Works Committee” http://epw.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?FuseAction=Files.View&FileStore_id=3c239e35-6968-4a4f-8e6c-28dcf9066bed]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Policy Recommendation: A new transportation law must adopt a “fix-it- AND good repair goals in their Long-Range Plans and Transportation Improvement Programs.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Perm – do the plan and all non-competitive parts of the CP. Combination solves best.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">SGA, ‘11 [February 25, 2011, Smart Growth America is the only national organization dedicated to researching, advocating for and leading coalitions to bring smart growth practices to more communities nationwide, “New report from Brookings Institution advocates for road repair and maintenance,” http://www.smartgrowthamerica.org/2011/02/25/new-report-from-brookings-institution-advocates-for-road-repair-and-maintenance/]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Brookings Institution hosted an event this morning titled “State Roads to Economic Recovery AND have and meet transportation challenges while catalyzing economic growth at the same time.</span>





<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">States cant be trusted – empirics prove they prioritize highway expansion over maintenance.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Snyder, ‘12 [July 23, 2012, Tanya Snyder became Streetsblog's Capitol Hill editor in September 2010 after covering Congress for Pacifica and public radio, “Smart Growth America: States May Pave Over Their Own Good Intentions”, http://dc.streetsblog.org/2012/07/23/smart-growth-america-states-may-pave-over-their-own-good-intentions/#more-127806]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Last week, the Tri-State Transportation Campaign revealed how states prioritize spending: AND wait to see where the money actually goes before I get too excited.”</span>

====2AC States - DC Actor==== 

Links to politics – DC acting with the CP requires congressional action.
Council of DC, District of Columbia ‘12
[[http://dccouncil.us/pages/dc-home-rule]]

Under the Home Rule AND held by all 50 states.

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC DA</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC Agenda - Generic</span>==== 

Winners win.
Ignatius, ‘11/7 [November 7, 2012, David Ignatius, longtime writer and reporter, studied political theory at Harvard College and economics at Kings College, Cambridge, , “A time for Obama to be bold,” Washington Post, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/president-obama-go-big/2012/11/07/dbf545f8-28fc-11e2-bab2-eda299503684_story.html?hpid=z4]]]

Barack Obama will AND make it happen?

Political capital fails – Obama is a lousy politician.
Gerson, ‘10/29 [October 29, 2012, Michael Gerson, Policy Fellow with the ONE Campaign, visiting fellow with the Center for Public Justice, former senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, “Obama’s discrediting victory limits chances for another term”, [[http://seattletimes.com/html/opinion/2019555918_obamasdiscreditingvictoryxml.html]]]

But on health-care AND needs a new one

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC Elections - Link Turns</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Transportation investment is overwhelmingly popular DESPITE fears of pork-barrel spending – voters want job creation.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Halsey, ’12 [4/24/12, Ashley Halsey III is a staff writer for The Washington Post, “Infrastructure projects need public support, transportation experts say”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/local/trafficandcommuting/experts-want-to-build-public-support-for-infrastructure-projects/2012/04/23/gIQAvmMXcT_story.html]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The plan to AND create millions of jobs.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">---1AR Elections - Link Turns</span>==== 


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The link turn outweighs.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Demographics— polling numbers prove that everyone loves infrastructure spending.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rockefeller Foundation, ‘11 (Survey Methodology: From January 29 to February 6, 2011, Hart Research (D) and Public Opinion Strategies (R) conducted a national survey of voters on behalf of the Rockefeller</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Foundation. [[http://www.rockefellerfoundation.org/uploads/files/80e28432-0790-4d42-91ec-afb6d11febee.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The public understands AND 8% disagree with this</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Media Spin—Plan will be spun positively</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Johnson, ’12 [2/17/12, Fawn, Correspondent, National Journal, [[http://transportation.nationaljournal.com/2012/02/infrastructure-becomes-campaig.php]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Infrastructure Becomes Campaign AND that measure completed.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC Elections - Bilderberg </span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The election is rigged – the Bilderberg conference determines the winner.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Salbuchi, ‘12 [May 29, 2012, Adrian Salbuchi is a political analyst, author, speaker and radio/TV commentator in Argentina, Reprinted with permission from Russia Today, “Bilderberg Power Masters Meet in the US” http://lewrockwell.com/rep3/bilderberg-us-meet.html]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Every time a AND and Trilateralists, Stupid!”</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">---1AR Elections - Bilderberg</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">More examples – Bilderberg determined Portuguese elections and American VP nominations.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Watson, ‘12 [June 6, 2012, Paul Joseph Watson is the editor and writer for Prison Planet.com. He is the author of Order Out Of Chaos. Watson is also a regular fill-in host for The Alex Jones Show and Infowars Nightly News., “Eyewitnesses: Mitt Romney Attended Bilderberg 2012” [[http://www.prisonplanet.com/eyewitnesses-mitt-romney-attended-bilderberg-2012.html]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">An invite to AND as VP in 2008.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC Elections - Half-Truths</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Campaign half-truths outweigh the link – reinforces existing bias and changes minds.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">CNN, '9/25 [September 25, 2012, Halimah Abdullah, Election Center, CNN"Out of context out of bounds? Not in 2012" http://www.cnn.com/2012/09/25/politics/campaign-context/index.html]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Washington (CNN) -- The AND them," Riggio said. </span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC Elections - Money Wins Elections</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Money wins elections – votes don’t matter.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Fitrakis and Wasserman, ‘9/5 [Bob Fitrakis & Harvey Wasserman are authors of WILL THE GOP STEAL AMERICA’S 2012 ELECTION, September 5, 2012, “Will the GOP Steal America's 2012 Election?” http://www.dailykos.com/story/2012/09/05/1128300/-Will-the-GOP-Steal-America-s-2012-Election]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The power of AND democracy be damned. </span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC Elections - Voter Disenfranchisement</span>==== 


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Romney will steal the election – voter disenfranchisement, especially Ohio.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Fitrakis and Wasserman, ‘9/5 [Bob Fitrakis & Harvey Wasserman are authors of WILL THE GOP STEAL AMERICA’S 2012 ELECTION, September 5, 2012, “Will the GOP Steal America's 2012 Election?” http://www.dailykos.com/story/2012/09/05/1128300/-Will-the-GOP-Steal-America-s-2012-Election]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Republican Party AND massive grassroots upheaval. </span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC K</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC Capitalism K</span>==== 

Alt fails to build coalitions and leads to racial suppression.
Ross Assc. Director of the Center for AfroAmerican and African Studies @ U Mich 2000
Marlon-Professor of English; Pleasuring Identity, or the Delicious Politics of Belonging; NEW LITERARY HISTORY, Vol. 31, No. 4, Is There Life after Identity Politics?; Autumn, 2000; pp.827-850.

Although in his AND class-based identity formations?


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Only a policy alternative can solve racism.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Franklin, ‘93 [John Hope, James B Duke Professor Emeritus of History Duke University, 1985-1992 was Professor of legal History in the Law School at Duke University; THE COLOR LINE: Legacy for the Twenty First Century; p. 45]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Neither the courts AND even approached it.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Capitalism is too ingrained – prefer the plan’s pragmatic approach to inequality over the alternative’s so-called-revolution.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Wilson, ‘1 John K. Wilson, best-selling progressive author and coordinator of the Independent Press Association’s Campus Journalism Project, 2001 (How the Left Can Win Arguments and Influence People: A Tactical Manual for Pragmatic Progressives, Published by NYU Press, ISBN 0814793630, p. 15-16)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Capitalism is far AND an uninterested public.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This flips the K – small-step pragmatism is key to progressive success – their infatuation with revolution only worsens their impacts.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Wilson, 01</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">John K. Wilson, best-selling progressive author and coordinator of the Independent Press Association’s Campus Journalism Project, 2001 (How the Left Can Win Arguments and Influence People: A Tactical Manual for Pragmatic Progressives, Published by NYU Press, ISBN 0814793630, p. 121-3)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Progressives need to AND smaller, specific issues.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Totalizing conceptions of the “global capitalist system” doom the alternative – ignores creative methods of resistance and only leads to chaos.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Connolly, 11 </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">review quotes of his book “a world of becoming”, [[@http://marxclub.wordpress.com/2011/07/06/william-connolly-a-world-of-becoming/]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">To me, a AND orientation to it.</span>

Merely criticizing cap is insufficient – the alternative isn’t viable without a specific and workable alternative
Grossburg, 92
Professor of COMS at UNC, Lawrence, Communication Studies Professor at UNC, We Gotta Get Out of This Place, pg. 388-389

If it is capitalism AND provide any direction.

====---1AR Cap Root Cause of Racism==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Racism outweighs AND subsumes capitalism – the alternatives singular focus fails to account for the root cause.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Crenshaw ‘97 [1997, Carrie, PhD, Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION; Resisting Whiteness’ Rhetorical Silence; 61(3), Summer; pp. 253-278]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">However, as Nakayama AND limited her initial argument.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC Give Back the Land K</span>==== 

Debating as the federal government is key to understand policy - knowing how the state works is critical to solve racism.
Themba-Nixon, 2K (Makani, Executive Director of The Praxis Project, a policy advocacy nonprofit, COLORNESS: RACE, ACTION, CULTURE, July 31, v3, n2, ProQuest)

"This is all about policy," AND to making it so.

Turn – Anti-Tribe Propaganda – The alternative destroys the indigenous sovereignty movement by propagating false claims of tribal organization’s complicit in ongoing native genocide based entirely on his own fabricated evidence about the 1887 General Allotment Act and 1990 Indian Arts and Crafts Act, neither of which contained the eugenic connotations he assigns them.
LaVelle 1999
John P., The General Allotment Act "Eligibility" Hoax: Distortions of Law, Policy, and History in Derogation of Indian Tribes, Wicazo Sa Review, Vol. 14, No. 1, Indigenous Resistance and Persistence, pp. 251-30

In his next book, AND policy as well.

Abolishing the Federal Government is Bad – There is no alternative enforcement mechanism for preserving Native American land and treaty rights.
Churchill 1983
Ward, Marxism and Native Americans, pg 1-2

Hess’ talk covered AND Hess was recommending?

Their alternative will undoubtedly be a violent revolution that spares nobody who isn’t native AND Churchill is a crazy dude.
Laskin, ‘5 [February 10, 2005, Jacob Laskin is a senior editor for FrontPage Magazine, “The Record of a Radical” [[@http://frontpagemag.com/readArticle.aspx?ARTID=9610]]]

Indeed, on at least AND of existence altogether.”

ZERO alt solvency – Churchill is hated by the people he wants to help.
Dung and Bellecourt, ‘5 [Jan 30, 2005, AMERICAN INDIAN MOVEMENT GRAND GOVERNING COUNCIL MINISTRY FOR INFORMATION, Nee Gon Nway Wee Dung, aka, Clyde H. Bellecourt, Ojibwa Nation National Executive Director American Indian Movement, WaBun-Inini, aka, Vernon Bellecourt, Ojibwa Nation Executive Committee Member Director Council on Foreign Relations American Indian Movement “AMERICAN INDIAN MOVEMENT GRAND GOVERNING COUNCIL MINISTRY FOR INFORMATION” , [[http://www.aimovement.org/moipr/churchill05.html]]]

The American Indian AND American Indian Movement.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Only policy engagement is effective – means alt fails.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kurki 2011 </span>[September 2011, Milja, The Limitations of the Critical Edge: Reflections on Critical and Philosophical IR Scholarship Today, Principal Investigator of ‘Political Economies of Democratisation’, a European Research Council-funded project based at the International Politics Department, Aberystwyth University, Millennium: Journal of International Studies 40(1) 129–146]
We have yet another AND a clear lesson of history.


====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC Kappeler K</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kappeler’s critique crushes individual agency AND reinforces racism by ignoring structural causes.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Gelber, ‘95 [1995, Kath Gelber, Lecturer in Australian Politics and Human Rights at the University of New South Wales, “The Will To Oversimplify,” Green Left Weekly, Issue 198, August 16, Available Online at http://www.greenleft.org.au/back/1995/198/198p26b.htm]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Will to AND change the world.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC Ontology K</span>==== 

Ethics must come before ontology.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bulley, ‘4</span> (2004, Dan, PhD Candidate @ Department of Politics and International Studies--University of Warwick, "Ethics and Negotiation," [[http://www.lancs.ac.uk/fss/politics/events/aber/ethics%20and%20negotiation%20-%20bulley.doc|www.lancs.ac.uk/fss/politics/events/aber/ethics%20and%20negotiation%20-%20bulley.doc]])
Crucially an openness AND<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> to prevent the ‘worst’</span>.

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC State K</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">To deny a discussion of political workings through the role play of federal government in the name of race is almost BACKWARDS and serves the exclusionary historical practices of white supremacy – its equivalent to saying that black people aren’t smart enough to learn about the government.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">WOODSON founder of the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History 1933</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Carter G.- (1875-1950), African American historian and educator; founder and editor of the Journal of Negro History and the Negro History Bulletin; THE MISEDUCATION OF THE NEGRO; p.83-84</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Not long ago AND in his place.”</span>
===2AC DAS RACIST=== 

====2AC Economy==== 

Justifications to preserve US economic power lead to political cooption and violence.
Neocleous, ‘8 [Mark Neocleous, Prof. of Government @ Brunel, Critique of Security, p95-]

In other words, AND security strategy proposed.111

Economics is infiltrated with racist politics. A rising tide doesn’t raise all ships – economic growth differentially affects racial populations and leaves marginalized groups in the dust
Gabriel and Todorova ’2 [2002, Satyananda J., Evgenia O., “Racism and Capitalist Accumulation: An Overdetermined Nexus,” Journal of Critical Sociology]

The pervasiveness of AND established and expanded.

====2AC Hegemony==== 

Their narratives of U.S. hegemony rely on images of anarchy and racial inferiority that colonize knowledge production and lead to perpetual intervention
Kaplan, humanities prof, ‘4—President of the American Studies Association as well as a professor of English and the Edmund J. and Louise W. Kahn Endowed Term Professor in the Humanities at the University of Pennsylvania (Amy, American Quarterly 56.1 (2004) 1-18, “Violent Belongings and the Question of Empire Today Presidential Address to the American Studies Association, October 17, 2003,” Project MUSE)

This coming-out narrative, AND and universal human values.

====2AC Middle East==== 

Their Orientalist security rhetoric constructs the Middle East according to US interests – causes conflict.
Bilgin, ‘4—assistant prof, IR, Bilkent U. PhD, IR, U Wales (Pinar, Whose ‘Middle East’? Geopolitical Inventions and Practices of Security, [[http://www.arts.yorku.ca/politics/ncanefe/docs/readings%20for%20the%20curious%20mind/Pinar%20Bilgin%20on%20Whose%20Middle%20East.pdf]])

The significance of AND myriad non-state actors.

====2AC Mini-Max Reasoning==== 

Their mini-max reasoning is racist.
Berube, ‘2000 [2000, David M. Berube is an Associate Professor of Speech Communication and Director of Debate at the University of South Carolina, PhD. New York University, CONTEMPORARY ARGUMENTATION AND DEBATE 21(2000) 55-73, “DEBUNKING MINI-MAX REASONING: THE LIMITS OF EXTENDED CAUSAL CHAINS IN CONTEST DEBATING”] We don’t endorse this article’s employment of ableist language

The third fault AND won’t have to!”

====2AC Trade==== 

Trade and globalization are racist – ignore their biased evidence.
Brien and Leichenko, 2000 (Karen - Center for International Climate and Environmental Research At the U of Oslo, and Robin - Department of Geography and Center for Urban Policy Research, Rutgers University, "Double exposure: assessing the impacts of climate change within the context of economic globalization," Global Environmental Change Volume 10, Issue 3, October 2000, Pages 221–232)

Despite a widespread AND direct negative impacts.

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Climate Affirmative</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC Harvard R2</span>=== 

====Contention 1 Climate Change==== 



Global warming is irreversible because of CO2 emissions already in the atmosphere AND positive feedbacks – mitigation can’t solve fast enough.

Solomon et al ‘9 [Susan- member of the US National Academy of Sciences, the European Academy of Sciences, and the Academy of Sciences of France, Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Chairman of the IPCC, “Irreversible climate change due to carbon dioxide emissions,” PNAS, Vol 106, 2/10/09 http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2009/01/28/0812721106.full.pdf]

Over the 20th century, the atmospheric concentrations of key greenhouse gases increased due to

AND

magnitude that is directly linked to the peak level of carbon dioxide reached.



No efforts to protect transportation infrastructure now from climate change – it will be destroyed and mitigation cannot solve fast enough.

Frankel ’12 [11/8/12, Emil H Frankel is a visiting scholar from the Bipartisan Policy Center,” “Growing Risks: How do we choose?” http://transportation.nationaljournal.com/2012/11/sandys-infrastructure-legacy.php?comments=expandall#comments

Concern about adaptation to climate change and, partcularly, to rising sea levels has

AND

of government by which we assess, analyze, and make investment decisions.



THANKFULLY, the plan solves – allows for maintaining, hardening, redundancy, and reallocation.

BPC, ‘09 [12/15/09, The Bipartisan Policy Center is a non-profit organization established by former Senate Majority Leaders Howard Baker, Tom Daschle, Bob Dole and George Mitchell to provide a forum where tough policy challenges can be addressed in a pragmatic and politically viable manner “Transportation Adaptation to Global Climate Change”, [[http://bipartisanpolicy.org/library/research/transportation-adaptation-global-climate-change]]]

A range of adaptation and resiliency strategies are necessary to address the various climate change

AND

, as communities and businesses themselves relocate, infrastructure needs also will shift.



Our asset management framework is key to resiliency AND saving money in the long run.

Neumann, ’09 [December 2009, James Neumann, Resources for the Future is an independent, nonpartisan think tank that about energy, environmental, natural resource, and public health issues, Issue Brief 09-15, “Adaptation to Climate Change: Revisiting Infrastructure Norms”]

Providing information on climate forecasts to infrastructure engineers and planners will not be sufficient to

AND

which might include such counterintuitive adjustments as designing these assets with shorter lives.



Federal action is key to successful adaptation.

Smith, ’10 [March 2010, Pew Center for Global Climate Change, Joel B. Smith, Jason M. Vogel, Stratus Consulting Inc, Terri L. Cruce and Stephen Seidel Heather A. Holsinger Pew Center On Global Climate Change, “Adapting to Climate Change: A Call for Federal Leadership”, http://www.c2es.org/docUploads/adaptation-federal-leadership.pdf]

The federal government has a critical role to play in an effective and coordinated approach

AND

and Budget (OMB) to ensure the success of¶ interagency efforts.

====Plan==== 



The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in climate resilient transportation infrastructure in the United States.



====Contention 2 Legitimacy==== 



US climate leadership decimated by DOHA – plan key to galvanize action on warming

Miao ’12 [12/16/12, William Miao is a Yale Climate Institute Fellow, COP Fellow, Doha Talks Reporter, MEM Candidate @ The Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies. “OBAMA’S SECOND TERM – THE WORLD AWAITS MUCH NEEDED LEADERSHIP ON CLIMATE CHANGE,” December 16th 2012, http://environment.yale.edu/blog/2012/12/obamas-second-term-the-world-awaits-much-needed-leadership-on-climate-change/]

“We want our children to live in an America that […] isn’t threatened by

AND

given to the envoys, and no new commitment was seen in Doha.



Plan solves—US actions allows for global adaptation dialogue—spills over to overall American legitimacy.

Jacobs et al, ’10 [2010, Katharine L. Jacobs works at University of Arizona, and other members of the Panel on Adapting to the Impacts of Climate Change; National Research Council, “Adapting to the Impacts of Climate Change”, http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12783]

America’s climate choices regarding limiting greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and adapting to climate

AND

, 2008; Bang et al., 2007; World Bank, 2010).



Structural mechanisms mean that US national adaptation policies will be mainstreamed internationally

Jacobs et al, ’10 [2010, Katharine L. Jacobs works at University of Arizona, and other members of the Panel on Adapting to the Impacts of Climate Change; National Research Council, “Adapting to the Impacts of Climate Change”, http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12783]

Opportunities for “Mainstreaming” Climate Change Adaptation Activities into Existing U.S.

AND

part of their environmental standards in particular in promoting more sustainable agricultural practices.



Leadership is only effective when utilizing multilateral cooperation.

Fakiolas and Fakiolas,’07 [[[http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.baylor.edu/journals/mediterranean_quarterly/v018/18.4fakiolas.html#front|Efstathios T. Fakiolas]] holds a PhD from the Department of War Studies, King's College London, and is currently working as a strategy and southeastern European affairs analyst at ATEbank AND [[http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.baylor.edu/journals/mediterranean_quarterly/v018/18.4fakiolas.html#front|Tassos E. Fakiolas]] holds a PhD from IMEMO, Moscow, Russian Academy of Sciences and is a special adviser on Russian and east European affairs for a Greek business firm., “Pax Americana or Multilateralism?”, Mediterranean Quarterly 18.4 (2007) 53-86]

Since the aftermath of the 11 September 2001 terrorist bombings, the president of the

AND

able to make its conception of order and stability acceptable to the others.



Multilateral leadership solves extinction.

Monalván, ’10 [April 23, 2010, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/luis-carlos-montalvan|Luis Carlos Montalván]], Former Army Capt., freelance journalist and veteran’s advocate, Master's degrees in Journalism and Strategic Communications at Columbia University, “[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/luis-carlos-montalvan/multilateralism-is-essent_b_550332.html|Multilateralism is Essential for Peace in the 21st Century]],” Huffington Post, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/luis-carlos-montalvan/multilateralism-is-essent_b_550332.html]

Unilateralism is the wrong approach for American Diplomacy. There is nothing to suggest its

AND

peace that is just as sophisticated as our capability to make war.



====Contention 3 Airports==== 



Climate change will have negative effects on airports and connecting infrastructure.

Setwart et al, ’11 [Burr Stewart, Consultant, Tom Klin Mary Vigilante, Synergy Consultants, Inc., Transportation Research Circular E-C152, June 2011 “Climate Change Adaptation and Preparedness Planning for Airports”, [[http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/circulars/ec152.pdf]], pp. 37-44]

Airports across the United States and throughout the world are a vital part of a

AND

, which would result in changes to aircraft size and frequency in operations.



Civilian airport infrastructure is vital to theater airlift and air defense capability.

Department of the Air Force, ’1 [Air Force, “PRESENTATION TO THE COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES, SUBCOMMITTEE ON READINESS AND MANAGEMENT, UNITED STATES SENATE”, March 21, 2001, Air Force, http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/congress/2001_hr/010321js.pdf ]

The Air National Guard is a constitutionally unique military organization with roots dating back to

AND

, the Air Guard is a significant player in the Aerospace Expeditionary Force.



Airlift key to effective COIN operations – accelerates deployment, resupply, boosts morale, AND gets to the center of conflict areas.

Owen and Mueller, RAND Corp, ‘7 (Robert and Karl, “Airlift Capabilities for Future U.S. Counterinsurgency Operation” http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/monographs/2007/RAND_MG565.pdf)

U.S. armed forces are engaged in ongoing counterinsurgency (COIN) operations

AND

as effectively as military defeats. (See pp. 19–21.)



Only COIN can win future wars – the alternative is coercive tactics which ensure escalation.

Kahl, Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for The Middle East, ’07

[Colin Kahl, Former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for the Middle East, Associate Professor in the Security Studies Program in the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University, Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, “COIN of the Realm,” Foreign Affairs, November/December 2007, [[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/63035/colin-h-kahl/coin-of-the-realm?page=show]]]

HEARTS AND MINDS Counterinsurgency refers to military, paramilitary, political, economic, psychological

AND

directs commanders to determine how to "eliminate extremists without alienating the populace."



Failure to control these conflicts causes large-scale escalation

Horowitz & Shalmon, PoliSci Prof @ UPenn, ’09

[Michael C. Horowitz, Assistant Professor of Political Science at The University of Pennsylvania, PhD in Government from Harvard University, Foreign Policy Research Institute Scholar, Dan A. Shalmon, Senior Analyst at Lincoln Group, LLC., Graduate Student at Georgetown University, “The Future of War and American Military Strategy,” Spring 2009]

In an uncertain international security environment, small-scale events can spiral unpredictably,

AND

in a sporadically technology-intensive “small war” or stability operation.



North Korean collapse is inevitable – they devote too much money to the military AND their economy is faltering.

Kim, ’11

[Hyung-Jin Kim, Writer for the Associated Press, “SKorea: Nuclear push could bring North's collapse,” January 17th 2011, [[http://www.kansascity.com/2011/01/17/2588331/skorea-nuclear-push-could-bring.html]]]

Impoverished North Korea could bring its own collapse if it keeps pouring scarce national resources

AND

"I am inclined to see it as an indication of their desperation."



Irregular warfare capabilities key to prevent the collapse from escalating.

Maxwell, Special Forces Commander, ’10

[Colonel David S. Maxwell, US Army Special Forces Officer, Commander of Joint Special Operations Task Force Philippines, Faculty at the National War College, “Irregular Warfare on the Korean Peninsula,” November 30th 2010, http://usacac.army.mil/cac2/call/docs/11-23/ch_14.asp]

The fundamental assumption for this paper is that the threats that may emerge following collapse

AND

is the same as unconventional warfare and this breeds confusion within the alliance.



Escalation goes global – causes nuclear war.

Bennett & Lind, Government Prof @ Dartmouth, ’11

[Bruce W. Bennett, Senior Defense Analyst at The RAND Corporation, Jennifer Lind, Professor of Government at Dartmouth College, “The Collapse of North Korea: Military Missions and Requirements,” International Security, Volume 36, Number 2, Fall 2011]

A government collapse in North Korea could unleash a series of catastrophes on the peninsula

AND

countries,6 and the risk of escalation to the nuclear level.7



That causes extinction.

Hayes and Hamel-Green, ‘10 – *Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND ** Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)

The consequences of failing to address the proliferation threat posed by the North Korea developments

AND

threat but a global one that warrants priority consideration from the international community.



No offense – Intervention to rebuild failed states is inevitable

Choksy & Choksy, Former Director Middle East Studies at Indiana, ’11

[Carol E. B. Choksy, Adjunct lecturer in Strategic Intelligence and Information Management at Indiana University, CEO of IRAD Strategic Consulting, Inc, PhD from U Chicago, Jamsheed K. Choksy, Professor of Central Eurasian, International, Iranian, and Islamic Studies and Former Director of The Middle Eastern Studies Program at Indiana University, Council on the Humanities at the US National Endowment for the Humanities, PhD from Harvard University, “American Intervention in Failing Countries is Necessary,” May 12th 2011]

Intervention to stabilize and reconstruct failed, failing, fragile, and even re-

AND

Third World countries do impact everyone and require attention and resolution.[9]

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC Emory R1</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Changes - Legitimacy</span>==== 


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Took out the UN scenario. Everything else is the same, but added this card.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Multilateral leadership solves extinction.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Monalván, ’10 [April 23, 2010, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/luis-carlos-montalvan|Luis Carlos Montalván]], Former Army Capt., freelance journalist and veteran’s advocate, Master's degrees in Journalism and Strategic Communications at Columbia University, “[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/luis-carlos-montalvan/multilateralism-is-essent_b_550332.html|Multilateralism is Essential for Peace in the 21st Century]],” Huffington Post, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/luis-carlos-montalvan/multilateralism-is-essent_b_550332.html]</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Unilateralism is the wrong ... our capability to make war.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC Lexington R2</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Climate Change</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Global warming is irreversible because of CO2 emissions already in the atmosphere AND positive feedbacks – mitigation can’t solve fast enough.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Solomon et al ‘9 [Susan- member of the US National Academy of Sciences, the European Academy of Sciences, and the Academy of Sciences of France, Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Chairman of the IPCC, “Irreversible climate change due to carbon dioxide emissions,” PNAS, Vol 106, 2/10/09 http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2009/01/28/0812721106.full.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Over the 20th century, the... peak level of carbon dioxide reached. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">No efforts to protect transportation infrastructure now from climate change – it will be destroyed and mitigation cannot solve fast enough.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Frankel ’12 [11/8/12, Emil H Frankel is a visiting scholar from the Bipartisan Policy Center,” “Growing Risks: How do we choose?” http://transportation.nationaljournal.com/2012/11/sandys-infrastructure-legacy.php?comments=expandall#comments </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Concern about adaptation to climate ... and make investment decisions. </span>




<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">THANKFULLY, the plan solves – allows for maintaining, hardening, redundancy, and reallocation.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">BPC, ‘09 [12/15/09, The Bipartisan Policy Center is a non-profit organization established by former Senate Majority Leaders Howard Baker, Tom Daschle, Bob Dole and George Mitchell to provide a forum where tough policy challenges can be addressed in a pragmatic and politically viable manner “Transportation Adaptation to Global Climate Change”, [[http://bipartisanpolicy.org/library/research/transportation-adaptation-global-climate-change]]] </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A range of adaptation and resiliency ... infrastructure needs also will shift. </span>





<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our asset management framework is key to resiliency resilient AND saving money in the long run.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Neumann, ’09 [December 2009, James Neumann, Resources for the Future is an independent, nonpartisan think tank that about energy, environmental, natural resource, and public health issues, Issue Brief 09-15, “Adaptation to Climate Change: Revisiting Infrastructure Norms”] </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Providing information on climate forecasts ... these assets with shorter lives. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Federal action is key to successful adaptation.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Smith, ’10 [March 2010, Pew Center for Global Climate Change, Joel B. Smith, Jason M. Vogel, Stratus Consulting Inc, Terri L. Cruce and Stephen Seidel Heather A. Holsinger Pew Center On Global Climate Change, “Adapting to Climate Change: A Call for Federal Leadership”, http://www.c2es.org/docUploads/adaptation-federal-leadership.pdf] </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The federal government ... ensure the success of¶ interagency efforts. </span>



====Plan==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in climate resilient transportation infrastructure in the United States. </span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Infrastructure</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Climate change will destroy our transportation </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Schwartz, ’11 [Henry G. Schwartz, Jr., NAE, Consultant Transportation Research Circular E-C152, June 2011 “Adapting to Climate Change: Another Challenge for the Transportation Community”, [[http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/circulars/ec152.pdf]], pp. 27-36] </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The transportation planners, designers ... transportation network of this country. </span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Transportation destruction causes economic decline.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Little, ‘11 [04/05/11, Richard Little is the Director of the Keston Institute for Public Finance and Infrastructure Policy, “Infrastructure Investment and U.S. Competitiveness,” [[http://www.cfr.org/united-states/infrastructure-investment-us-competitiveness/p24585]]]</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The massive network of seaports, waterways ... decline and its consequences. </span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">US is key to the global economy.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Perry, ‘12 [April 3, 2012, Dr. Mark J. Perry is a professor of economics and finance in the School of Management at the Flint campus of the University of Michigan. Perry holds two graduate degrees in economics (M.A. and Ph.D.) from George Mason University near Washington, D.C. In addition, he holds an MBA degree in finance from the Curtis L. Carlson School of Management at the University of Minnesota. In addition to a faculty appointment at the University of Michigan-Flint, Perry is also a visiting scholar at The American Enterprise Institute in Washington, D.C. “U.S. Emerges As A Main Engine of Global Growth,” [[http://mjperry.blogspot.com/2012/04/us-emerging-as-main-engine-of-global.html]]]</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">BLOOMBERG -- "The U.S. ... being led by the U.S.” </span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Global economic decline leads to miscalculation and crisis escalation—escalates</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Harris and Burrows, ‘09 [Mathew, PhD European History at Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” [[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]]</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Increased Potential for Global Conflict ... more dog-eat-dog world.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Decline causes war – diversionary and behavioral theories prove.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Royal, ‘10 [2010, Jedediah Royal is the Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives”, ed. By Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Less intuitive is how periods ... considered ancillary to those views.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND highways specifically are at risk from climate change.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kafalenos and Leonard, et al., ’08 [2008, Robert S. Kafalenos, Federal Highway Administration; Kenneth J. Leonard, Cambridge Systematics, “What are the Implications of Climate Change and Variability for Gulf Coast Transportation?”, A Report by the U.S. Climate Change Science Program and the Subcommittee on Global Change Research Department of Transportation]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">As in most parts of the ... was restored over time (Gaspard et al., 2007). </span>




<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Surface transportation is key to the economy and the manufacturing industry – the plan’s investment solves.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hermann, ’11 [Andrew Herrmann, P.E. SECB, F.ASCE President American Society of Civil Engineers, “Impact Of Infrastructure Investment On The Manufacturing Sector”, pg lexis]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In contrast, a studyfrom the ... value for the U.S. economy. </span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Manufacturing is key to the defense industry.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">O’Hanlon et al 2k12</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Mackenzie Eaglen, American Enterprise Institute Rebecca Grant, IRIS Research Robert P. Haffa, Haffa Defense Consulting Michael O'Hanlon, The Brookings Institution Peter W. Singer, The Brookings Institution Martin Sullivan, Commonwealth Consulting Barry Watts, Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments “The Arsenal of Democracy and How to Preserve It: Key Issues in Defense Industrial Policy January 2012,” pg online @ [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/26%20defense%20industrial%20base/0126_defense_industrial_base_ohanlon]] //)</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The current wave of defense ... States in a globalized marketplace.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Strong defense industry solves nuclear deterrence and global war. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Watts 08 (Barry D Watts, Senior Fellow, The Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, “The US Defense Industrial Base, Past, Present and Future,” CBA,[[http://www.csbaonline.org/4Publications/PubLibrary/R.20081015._The_US_Defense_In/R.20081015._The_US_Defense_In.pdf]])</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Since the 1950s, the US defense industrial ... ahead as it has been since the 1950s.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nuclear deterrent solves all war.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Thayer, ‘12 [February 17, 2012, Bradley A. Thayer served as a consultant to the Department of Defense and is professor of political science at Baylor University, “THAYER: Preserving our nuclear deterrence - Obama proposal for force reduction is foolhardy” http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2012/feb/17/preserving-our-nuclear-deterrence/]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Last week’s leak from the Pentagon ... now and will need in the future.</span>


====Legitimacy==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">US credibility at the United Nations is in question – key to effective legitimacy.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Brimmers, ’11—Assistant Secretary of State for International Organizations, Bureau of International Organization Affairs [Esther Brimmer has a PHD in IR from Oxford, Assistant Secretary of State for International Organizations, Bureau of International Organization Affairs September 7th 2011 Remarks at the U.S. Institute of Peace, Sustaining America’s Global Leadership: U.S. Priorities at the United Nations [[http://www.state.gov/p/io/rm/2011/171747.htm]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">So amid these calls for U.S. ... essential than it has ever been.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">UN is specifically drawing attention to adaptation issues now—how the US responds is critical to create international dialogues and reverse the perception of US inaction.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jacobs et al, ’10 [2010, Katharine L. Jacobs works at University of Arizona, and other members of the Panel on Adapting to the Impacts of Climate Change; National Research Council, “Adapting to the Impacts of Climate Change”, http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12783]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">America’s climate choices regarding ... within a broad international context (Bales and Duke, 2008; Bang et al., 2007; World Bank, 2010).</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">US leadership and engagement on adaptation specifically is critical</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jacobs et al, ’10 [2010, Katharine L. Jacobs works at University of Arizona, and other members of the Panel on Adapting to the Impacts of Climate Change; National Research Council, “Adapting to the Impacts of Climate Change”, http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12783]</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Considering the Role of the United States ... in international climate change adaptation.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, structural mechanisms mean that US national adaptation policies will be mainstreamed internationally</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jacobs et al, ’10 [2010, Katharine L. Jacobs works at University of Arizona, and other members of the Panel on Adapting to the Impacts of Climate Change; National Research Council, “Adapting to the Impacts of Climate Change”, http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12783]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Opportunities for “Mainstreaming” Climate Change Adaptation ... promoting more sustainable agricultural practices.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Inaction on climate change spills over to broader cynicism over the United Nations</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">JUSKA head of the US policy group, CLIMATE CHANGE ‘12</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">EVAN-Why the UN still matters on Climate Change; HUFF POST GREEN; THE HUFFINGTON POST; September 27;</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/evan-juska/united-nations-climate-change_b_1920300.html]] </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">John Bolton, the former U.S. Ambassador ... much more pragmatic set of goals. </span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">U.S. multilateralism through the UN is key to international legitimacy and solve a multitude of extinction threats. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Brimmers, ’11—Assistant Secretary of State for International Organizations, Bureau of International Organization Affairs [Esther Brimmer has a PHD in IR from Oxford, Assistant Secretary of State for International Organizations, Bureau of International Organization Affairs September 7th 2011 Remarks at the U.S. Institute of Peace, Sustaining America’s Global Leadership: U.S. Priorities at the United Nations [[http://www.state.gov/p/io/rm/2011/171747.htm]]] </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Here in the United States, we face ... engagement at the United Nations works. </span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">US climate leadership decimated by DOHA – plan key to galvanize action on warming </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Miao ’12 [12/16/12, William Miao is a Yale Climate Institute Fellow, COP Fellow, Doha Talks Reporter, MEM Candidate @ The Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies. “OBAMA’S SECOND TERM – THE WORLD AWAITS MUCH NEEDED LEADERSHIP ON CLIMATE CHANGE,” December 16th 2012, http://environment.yale.edu/blog/2012/12/obamas-second-term-the-world-awaits-much-needed-leadership-on-climate-change/] </span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">“We want our children to live ... no new commitment was seen in Doha. </span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan is key to restore soft power.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Joseph S. Nye, Jr 20’9 - Dean of the John F. Kennedy School of Government, former Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs, Chair of the National Intelligence Council, and Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Security Assistance, Science and Technology (Los Angeles Times, bhhsnormans.net) </span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Pentagon is the best resourced ... its soft power. It can happen again. </span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Independently, hegemony shorn of international support causes extinction</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ikenberry, ’2 [John Ikenberry, Professor of Geopolitics and Global Justice @ Georgetown, October 2002, "America's Imperial Ambition—Foreign Affairs, lexis]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Pitfalls accompany this neoimperial grand ... preemptive strikes, could lead hostile states.</span>



===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC Georgetown</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its climate resiliency investment in transportation infrastructure in the United States.</span>
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Climate Change</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Global warming is real – our evidence subsumes all skeptics arguments and solves all data discrepancies in previous studies.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Muller 7-28-12 [Richard A. Muller, a professor of physics at the University of California, Berkeley, and a former MacArthur Foundation fellow, is the author, most recently, of “Energy for Future Presidents: The Science Behind the Headlines.” “The Conversion of a Climate-Change Skeptic,” New York Times, 7/28/12 http://www.nytimes.com/2012/07/30/opinion/the-conversion-of-a-climate-change-skeptic.html?_r=4&pagewanted=all]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">CALL me a converted skeptic. AND of the sun very little.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Warming is inevitable – status quo CO2 emissions and positive feedbacks.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Solomon et al ‘9 [Susan- member of the US National Academy of Sciences, the European Academy of Sciences, and the Academy of Sciences of France, Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Chairman of the IPCC, “Irreversible climate change due to carbon dioxide emissions,” PNAS, Vol 106, 2/10/09 http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2009/01/28/0812721106.full.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Over the 20th century, AND arbon dioxide reached.</span>
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Adaptation</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Climate change will destroy every sector of our current infrastructure.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Schwartz, ’11 [Henry G. Schwartz, Jr., NAE, Consultant Transportation Research Circular E-C152, June 2011 “Adapting to Climate Change: Another Challenge for the Transportation Community”, [[http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/circulars/ec152.pdf]], pp. 27-36]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The transportation planners, designers, AND vast transportation network of this country.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Flooding destroys ports, highways, rail, and airports – sea level rise will render defenses inoperable and ensure destruction</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kafalenos and Leonard, et al., ’08 [2008, Robert S. Kafalenos, Federal Highway Administration; Kenneth J. Leonard, Cambridge Systematics, “What are the Implications of Climate Change and Variability for Gulf Coast Transportation?”, A Report by the U.S. Climate Change Science Program and the Subcommittee on Global Change Research Department of Transportation]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">As in the case of relative sea level AND considerable as well, depending on the time required to restore system performance.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Adaptation measures solve – maintaining, hardening, redundancy, and reallocation, only way to stop destruction of infrastructure</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AT Data Cooking – we are key to cost effective infrastructure</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">BPC, ‘09 [12/15/09, The Bipartisan Policy Center is a non-profit organization established by former Senate Majority Leaders Howard Baker, Tom Daschle, Bob Dole and George Mitchell to provide a forum where tough policy challenges can be addressed in a pragmatic and politically viable manner “Transportation Adaptation to Global Climate Change”, http://bipartisanpolicy.org/library/research/transportation-adaptation-global-climate-change]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A range of adaptation and resiliency AND relocate, infrastructure needs also will shift.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Federal action is key—holdings, modeling, technical and fiscal support, and jurisdictional coordination.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Smith, ’10 [March 2010, Pew Center for Global Climate Change, Joel B. Smith, Jason M. Vogel, Stratus Consulting Inc, Terri L. Cruce and Stephen Seidel Heather A. Holsinger Pew Center On Global Climate Change, “Adapting to Climate Change: A Call for Federal Leadership”, http://www.c2es.org/docUploads/adaptation-federal-leadership.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The federal government has a AND the success of¶ interagency efforts.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Transportation infrastructure is key to the economy</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Little, ‘11 [04/05/11, Richard Little is the Director of the Keston Institute for Public Finance and Infrastructure Policy, “Infrastructure Investment and U.S. Competitiveness,” [[http://www.cfr.org/united-states/infrastructure-investment-us-competitiveness/p24585]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The massive network AND for their upkeep or own both the responsibility for economic decline and its consequences.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">US key to global economy AND US economic decline leads to strategic retrenchment and global nuclear war.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Friedberg and Schoenfeld, ‘8 [October 21, 2008, Aaron Friedberg is a professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School, Gabriel Schoenfeld, senior editor of Commentary, is a visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute in Princeton, N.J., “The Dangers of a Diminished America” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html?mod=googlenews_wsj]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">With the global financial system in serious trouble, is America's geostrategic dominance likely to</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">reckless with their nuclear toys, just at our moment of maximum vulnerability.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Global economic decline escalates tension – causes nuclear war.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Harris and Burrows, ‘9 [Mathew, PhD European History at Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council [NIC] and Jennifer, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Increased Potential for Global Conflict Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">within and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">studies prove decline leads to war</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Royal, ‘10 [2010, Jedediah Royal is the Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives”, ed. By Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.</span>
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Highways</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Highways are at risk from climate change impacts – storm surge, flooding, and erosion will cause bottlenecks that exacerbate the pressure on the system</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kafalenos and Leonard, et al., ’08 [2008, Robert S. Kafalenos, Federal Highway Administration; Kenneth J. Leonard, Cambridge Systematics, “What are the Implications of Climate Change and Variability for Gulf Coast Transportation?”, A Report by the U.S. Climate Change Science Program and the Subcommittee on Global Change Research Department of Transportation]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">As in most parts of the nation, roads are the backbone of the transportation</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">whether any strength was restored over time [Gaspard et al., 2007].</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Highways are key to the economy and competitiveness – stimulus, business productivity, manufacturing industry and empirical research.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Keane ’11 [Thomas P. Keane is an economist in FHWA's Office of Policy Development. He works both in research relating to the economic impacts of highway infrastructure investment and on the FHWA Congestion Pricing Team in the areas of variable tolling and parking pricing issues. He has been employed by FHWA since November 1990. He has a master's degree in applied economics from the University of Maryland. “The Economic Importance of the National Highway System,” Federal Highway Administration, Initially written in 1996, Updated 4/08/11 [[http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/publications/publicroads/96spring/p96sp16.cfm]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">When transportation decision-makers at the federal, state, and local levels discuss</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">900 full-time, on-site, highway construction jobs nationally.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, surface transportation investment is CRITICAL to U.S. Manufacturing and competitiveness – props up dependent industries.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hermann ’11 [Andrew Herrmann, P.E. SECB, F.ASCE President American Society of Civil Engineers, Impact Of Infrastructure Investment On The Manufacturing Sector, pg lexis//]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">ASCE commends the Joint Economic Committee for holding a hearing today on how surface transportation</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">in infrastructure, jobs creation, and growth of the domestic manufacturing sector.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Competitiveness solves great power war.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Baru, ‘9 [March 2009, Sanjaya Barus is visiting Professor at the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy in Singapore Geopolitical Implications of the Current Global Financial Crisis, Strategic Analysis, Volume 33, Issue 2 March 2009, pages 163 – 168]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hence, economic policies and performance do have strategic consequences. In the modern era</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">they will do so once again in today's America remains to be seen.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Manufacturing is critical to US defense industrial base</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Thompson, ’11 [2/14/2011, Loren Thompson is a contributor to Forbes, “Intelligence Community Fears U.S. Manufacturing Decline,”, http://www.forbes.com/sites/beltway/2011/02/14/intelligence-community-fears-u-s-manufacturing-decline/]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Last week, the federal government reported that the U.S. trade deficit</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">little evidence that they grasp the urgency of halting America’s decline in manufacturing.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That’s key to US deterrence posture – solves all war.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Eaglen and Sayer, ’09 [May 22, 2009, Mackenzie M. Eaglen and Eric Sayers, “Maintaining the Superiority of America’s Defense Industrial Base,” pg online Heritage Backgrounder, No. 2276 May 22, 2009]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Foundation of American Military Strength Since World War II, the United States has</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">and Marine to remain adequately prepared for a full spectrum of potential operations.</span>
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ports</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Storm surge and sea level rise from climate change decimates ports and waterways – they are critical to the economy</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kafalenos and Leonard, et al., ’08 [2008, Robert S. Kafalenos, Federal Highway Administration; Kenneth J. Leonard, Cambridge Systematics, “What are the Implications of Climate Change and Variability for Gulf Coast Transportation?”, A Report by the U.S. Climate Change Science Program and the Subcommittee on Global Change Research Department of Transportation]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Due to their location, marine facilities are most vulnerable to storm surge and relative</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">costs to system users would be dramatically higher, if not prohibitively higher.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Port infrastructure is the vital internal link for US agriculture competitiveness – freight movement and exports</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Khachatryan and Casavant ’11 [7/19/11 Hayk Khachatryan is a Research Associate and Director. Ken Casavant is the Professor at the Freight Policy Transportation Institute at the School of Economic Sciences at Washington State Unviersity “THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN U.S. TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS AND INTERNATIONAL TRADE,” [[http://wstc.wa.gov/Meetings/AgendasMinutes/agendas/2011/July19-20/documents/11_0719_BP5_FPTIInfrastTrdPolicyRept.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The efficient and affordable freight transportation system that facilitates the linkage to international markets has</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">PNW] economy to the rest of the world through the 16 ports.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That’s key to global food production</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Stulp, ’09 [3/20/2009, John Stulp is an agriculture commissioner in Colorado, “America’s economy needs farmers,” http://www.journal-advocate.com/news/2009/mar/20/americas-economy-needs-farmers]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">While farmers and ranchers constitute less than 2 percent of our population, they feed</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">continue to undergird the economy with products that touch every American every day.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">No offense – increasing food prices causes food insecurity</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Naylor and Falcon 10 – Director of the Center on Food Security and the Environment, the William Wrigly Senior Fellow, and professor of Environmental Earth System Science at Stanford University, and Falcon is the deputy director of the center on food security and the environment, former director of the freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies, and professor of International Agricultural Policy and Economics at Stanford University [Rosamond and Walter, “Food Security in an Environment and Economic Volatility”, Wiley Online Library, 12/15/10, http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/doi/10.1111/j.1728-4457.2010.00354.x/pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The recent upheavals in staple food prices, financial markets, and the global economy</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">on trade in staples, and others to move toward self-sufficiency.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">These conflicts will escalate – compromise is simply impossible in a world of resource shortage</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Vatkiotis 08-- Asia regional director for the Geneva-based Centre for Humanitarian Dialogue, Michael, 05/28, New Straits Times, “A hungry world tests skills of peacemakers,” Lexis,</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">THE food price crisis is threatening to plunge millions back into poverty and if not</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">affected countries solutions must be found that address both elite and popular grievances.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Food crises escalate</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Calvin, ‘02 [William H, Univ Washington, A Brain For All Seasons, http://faculty.washington.edu/wcalvin/BrainForAllSeasons/NAcoast.htm]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The population-crash scenario is surely the most appalling. Plummeting crop yields will</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">longer do so if it lost the extra warming from the North Atlantic.</span>


===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC DA</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC Elections</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Adaptation key to election credibility on climate change.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">New Atlantis, ’08 [Winter 2008, The Editors of The New Atlantis, "Adapting to Climate Change," The New Atlantis, Number 19, p. 146.]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Other changes are on the horizon, too. Although the leading presidential candidates all</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">climate change that demands neither a denial of the facts nor economic suicide.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That’s key to independents in swing states</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Clayton, ’9/7 [09/07/12, Mark Clayton, “Climate change: why it could be a hot topic on the campaign trail”, http://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Elections/President/2012/0907/Climate-change-why-it-could-be-a-hot-topic-on-the-campaign-trail]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">But there are also indications that Obama, scratching for support among independent voters in</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">is neutral impact – winning independent votes, but losing some conservative support."</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Conventional campaign wisdom is wrong—jobs are not key and climate action now key to swing independent voters</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Davenport, ‘9/6 [09/06/12, Coral Davenport, “Conventions Revive Climate-Change Debate”, http://www.nationaljournal.com/convention-events/conventions-revive-climate-change-debate-20120906]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Despite conventional campaign wisdom that talking about climate change during economically tough times is a</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">in backrooms have ratcheted up the pressure on Obama to address the issue.</span>
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">ITS Affirmative</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Economy</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Double dip recession is coming next year – only domestic growth efforts solve – none of their resiliency or alt cause claims apply.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Sivy, ‘8/28 [August 28, 2012, Michael Sivy is a Chartered Financial Analyst and a former securities analyst for an independent stock research firm. He was an investment columnist at Money for more than 23 years as well as a guest columnist for TIME's international edition. Sivy has appeared as a stock-market commentator on television, including the networks ABC, CBS, NBC, Fox, CNBC, CNN and MSNBC. In addition, he has been heard on NPR's All Things Considered, PRI's Marketplace and on the CBS Radio network. “Is the U.S. Headed for a Double-Dip Recession?”, http://business.time.com/2012/08/28/is-the-u-s-headed-for-a-double-dip-recession/]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In addition to a host of warnings, AND likely to do any better as storm clouds start rolling in.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">US key to global economy AND US economic decline leads to strategic retrenchment and global nuclear war.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Friedberg and Schoenfeld, ‘8 [October 21, 2008, Aaron Friedberg is a professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School, Gabriel Schoenfeld, senior editor of Commentary, is a visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute in Princeton, N.J., “The Dangers of a Diminished America” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html?mod=googlenews_wsj]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">With the global financial system in serious trouble, AND just at our moment of maximum vulnerability.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Global economic decline escalates tension – causes nuclear war.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Harris and Burrows, ‘9 [Mathew, PhD European History at Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” [[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Increased Potential for Global Conflict Of course, the report AND difficult both within and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">ITS deployment is key to the economy – reduces congestion, solves job growth, and leads to high paying jobs – state budget crisis means only federal role solves.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Keeling and Mooney, ‘11 [2011, Dr. Mary Keeling is a Manager of the IBM Institute for Business Value Center for Economic Analysis. She holds a PhD in Economics from Trinity College, Dublin. Gerard M. Mooney is currently General Manager of Global Smarter Cities. IBM Executive Report, “Transportation and economic development: Why smarter transport is good for jobs and growth” [[http://public.dhe.ibm.com/common/ssi/ecm/en/gbe03441usen/GBE03441USEN.PDF]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">High unemployment, languid economic growth and growing urbanization AND those employed to provide them.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Terrorism</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Al-Qaeda has capability and motive to develop nuclear and biological weapons – America will be targeted.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Telegraph, ‘11 [February 2, 2011, Heidi Blake was The Daily Telegraph's Investigative Reporter until November 2011. She was nominated for Young Journalist of the Year and Scoop of the Year in the 2010 British Press Awards having joined the paper in 2008. Christopher Hope writes for The Telegraph. “WikiLeaks: al-Qaeda 'is planning a dirty bomb'” [[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/wikileaks/8296956/WikiLeaks-al-Qaeda-is-planning-a-dirty-bomb.html]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A leading atomic regulator has privately AND the potential to cause "extraordinary loss of life".</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nuclear terror inevitable now – accessibility and tech development prove.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">USRJTA, ‘11 (May 2011, US Russia Joint Threat Assessment, ABOUT THE U.S.-RUSSIA JOINT THREAT ASSESSMENT ON NUCLEAR TERRORISM The U.S.-Russia Joint Threat Assessment on Nuclear Terrorism is a collaborative project of Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs and the U.S.A. and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences led by Rolf Mowatt-Larssen and Pavel Zolotarev. Authors: • Matthew Bunn. Associate Professor of Public Policy at Harvard Kennedy School and Co-Principal Investigator of Project on Managing the Atom at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. • Colonel Yuri Morozov (retired Russian Armed Forces). Professor of the Russian Academy of Military Sciences and senior fellow at the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences, chief of department at the General Staff of the Russian Armed Forces, 1995–2000. • Rolf Mowatt-Larssen. Senior fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, director of Intelligence and Counterintelligence at the U.S. Department of Energy, 2005–2008. • Simon Saradzhyan. Fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Moscow-based defense and security expert and writer, 1993–2008. • William Tobey. Senior fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs and director of the U.S.-Russia Initiative to Prevent Nuclear Terrorism, deputy administrator for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation at the U.S. National Nuclear Security Administration, 2006–2009. • Colonel General Viktor I. Yesin (retired Russian Armed Forces). Senior fellow at the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences and advisor to commander of the Strategic Missile Forces of Russia, chief of staff of the Strategic Missile Forces, 1994–1996. • Major General Pavel S. Zolotarev (retired Russian Armed Forces). Deputy director of the U.S.A and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences and head of the Information and Analysis Center of the Russian Ministry of Defense, 1993–1997, deputy chief of staff of the Defense Council of Russia, 1997–1998. Contributor: • Vladimir Lukov, director general of autonomous non-profit organization “Counter-Terrorism Center.”, http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/Joint-Threat-Assessment%20ENG%2027%20May%202011.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The expert community distinguishes pathways AND what scale the first act of nuclear terrorism occurs.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Retaliation and tension from an attack leads nuclear exchange.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ayson, ‘10 [Robert, professor of strategic studies and director of the center for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Online]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A terrorist nuclear attack, and even the use AND or support for the terrorists. This might not help the chances of nuclear restraint.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Escalates to extinction.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Morgan, ‘9 [Dennis, Professor at Hankuk University of Foreign Studies (South Korea, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race,” Futures, November, Science Direct]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In a remarkable website on nuclear war, AND misery and suffering in a nuclear winter.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our transportation infrastructure is vulnerable – only federal ITS solves.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Zeng, ‘7 [September 2007, Daniel Zeng, University of Arizona, Ph.D., Carnegie Mellon University</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Sudarshan S. Chawathe, University of Maine, Hua Huang, Xi’an Jiaotong University, Fei-Yue Wang, Chinese Academy of Sciences “Protecting Transportation Infrastructure”, From the article “Intelligent Transportation Systems”, http://www.its.washington.edu/itsc/v9n3.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Effective information sharing AND , privacy considerations, and civil rights.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Al Qaeda is planning biological attacks AND developing weapons is easy and hard to detect.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Garrett, ‘12 [January 5, 2012, Laurie Garrett is senior fellow for global health at the Council on Foreign Relations and recipient of the 1996 Pulitzer Prize for her coverage of the Ebola outbreak, “Flu Season” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/01/05/flu_season?print=yes&hidecomments=yes&page=full]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Within government circles around the world, AND unprepared for the synthetic-biology revolution.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bioterror is highly likely by the end of 2013 – only federal rapid response solves.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Gerstein, ‘10 [2010, Dr. Daniel Gerstein is a Strategist and Policy Expert with significant operational experience. He has written extensively about national security, “Bioterror in the Age of Biotechnology” [[http://www.ndu.edu/press/lib/images/jfq-57/gerstein.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Commission believes that unless the world community AND are that the time to prepare is now.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bioweapons escalation causes extinction and collapses the economy – this evidence assumes all their defense.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kellman, ‘8 [May-June 2008, Barry Kellman is the director of the International Weapons Control Center at the DePaul University College of Law, THE FUTURIST, World Future Society, http://www.wfs.org/March-April09/MJ2008_Kellman.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A looming danger confronts the world—AND dire consequences for all humanity.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan solves nuclear terror and bioterror – early warning solves rapid response.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Pincus, ‘11 [September 2011, Marcia Pincus is from the ITS Joint Program Office Research and Innovative Technology Administration U.S. Department of Transportation Department of Transportation, Final Report, “Intelligent Transportation Systems Benefits, Costs, Deployment, and Lessons Learned Desk Reference: 2011 Update”,[[http://www.benefitcost.its.dot.gov/its/benecost.nsf/files/BCLLDepl2011Update/$File/Ben_Cost_Less_Depl_2011%20Update.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A variety of sensors deployed on AND used for evacuation during emergencies.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its Intelligent Transportation Systems infrastructure investment in the United States.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Solvency</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Federal deployment is key – state implementation is fragmented.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ezell, ’10 [January, 2010, Stephen Ezell is a Senior Analyst with the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, B.S. from the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University, with an Honors Certificate from Georgetown’s Landegger International Business Diplomacy program, “Intelligent Transportation Systems”, The Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, http://www.itif.org/files/2010-1-27-ITS_Leadership.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In contrast to Japan, South Korea, and AND integrated intelligent transportation system.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Federal is key – solves integration and coordination – states</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ezell, ’10 [January, 2010, Stephen Ezell is a Senior Analyst with the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, B.S. from the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University, with an Honors Certificate from Georgetown’s Landegger International Business Diplomacy program, “Intelligent Transportation Systems”, The Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, http://www.itif.org/files/2010-1-27-ITS_Leadership.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">At the outset, this report provided a taxonomy AND to deploy and integrate ITS systems.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Smart antennas are key – increases coverage range and data rate – solves interference.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kandar et al ‘8 [2008, Sourav Dhar Kandar, Computer Science and Engineering at SKP Engineering College, Debdattta Kandar, Tanushree Bose and Rabindranath Bera Sikkim Manipal Institute of Technology, Smart Antenna Based Broadband communication in Intelligent Transportation system, http://arxiv.org/pdf/0903.3163.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Broadband wireless systems play an AND further increasing spectral efficiency.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Transportation bill should’ve triggered their DA’s – authorized 100 billion in funding.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">PR News Wire 7/10 (News distributer, “New Federal Transportation Bill Signed into Law” MAP-21 will provide funding through September 2014, 7/10/12, [[http://www.marketwatch.com/story/new-federal-transportation-bill-signed-into-law-2012-07-10]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Image Sensing Systems, AND take funding through June 30, 2012.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">But it doesn’t solve the aff – it only sustains current research funding.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">RITA, ’12 [August 2012, Research and Innovative Technology Administration US DOT, “ITS JPO Newsletter August 2012”, http://www.its.dot.gov/newsletter/august2012.htm]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Last month, AND at similar funding levels.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Status quo cant solve – only increased eligibility and authorized funding for research programs at 100 million and deployment programs at 63 million.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">PR News Wire 7/10 (News distributer, “New Federal Transportation Bill Signed into Law” MAP-21 will provide funding through September 2014, 7/10/12, [[http://www.marketwatch.com/story/new-federal-transportation-bill-signed-into-law-2012-07-10]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">"As an intelligent transportation systems (ITS) AND with funding of $63 million per year," continued Aubrey.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That’s not enough – need 2.5 to 3 billion total.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ezell ’10 – Senior Analyst with the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, B.S. from the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University, with an Honors Certificate from Georgetown’s Landegger International Business Diplomacy program (Stephen, “Intelligent Transportation Systems”, The Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, January 27, 2010. http://www.itif.org/files/2010-1-27-ITS_Leadership.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Significantly increase funding for AND ITS at the state and regional levels.</span>
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC T</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC T - Transportation Infrastructure</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We meet – the plan invests in transportation infrastructure.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Map-21, ‘12 [Committee Reports, 112th Congress (2011-2012), House Report 112-557, “House Report 112-557 - MAP-21 CONFERENCE REPORT TO ACCOMPANY H.R. 4348” http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/cpquery/ &dbname=cp112&sid=cp112X92ov&refer=&r_n=hr557.112&item=&&&sel=TOC_1554942&]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">SEC. 52001. RESEARCH, TECHNOLOGY AND safety of a surface transportation system.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">C/I Transportation Infrastructure means investment in assets that facilitate transit</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AJA, ’11 [“American Jobs Act”, 9/12/11, http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/omb/legislative/reports/american-jobs-act.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(9) INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT- (A) IN GENERAL- AND rail. (ix) Freight rail systems.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC Addons</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nuclear Terror - Poverty</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nuclear attack would destroy the world’s economy creating massive death and poverty throughout the developing world</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Graham, ‘8, former Senator and chairman of the Commission on the Prevention of WMD Proliferation and Terrorism AND Talent, former Senator and Distinguished Fellow at the Heritage Foundation, 9-14-2K8 (Bob, Jim, “Nuclear proliferation endangers world stability”, Miami Herald)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">During the first presidential AND toll throughout the developing world.''</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Structural violence outweighs.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Abu-Jamal 98 (Mumia, award-winning PA journalist, 9/19, http://www.flashpoints.net/mQuietDeadlyViolence.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We live, equally immersed, AND violence passes away with them.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC CP</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC NEPA CP</span>==== 


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Should doesn’t imply certainty nor immediatecy</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Atlas Collaboration ‘99</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">“Use of shall, should, may can,” http://rd13doc.cern.ch/Atlas/DaqSoft/sde/inspect/shall.html</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">'shall' describes something that AND defining what 'thoroughly' means).</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And “resolved” doesn’t sever immediacy</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Online Plain Text English Dictionary ‘9 (http://www.onelook.com/?other=web1913&w=Resolve)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Resolve: “To form a AND better course of life.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Resolved” doesn’t lock the aff into “certainty”:</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Merriam Webster ‘9 (http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/resolved)</span>

# <span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Main Entry: 1re•solve # Pronunciation: \ri-ˈzälv, -ˈzȯlv also -ˈzäv or -ˈzȯv\ # Function: verb # Inflected Form(s): resolved; re•solv•ing AND resolution : determine 3 : consult, deliberate</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">No severance – NEPA is normal means</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Peyser 5 – MS in City Planning @ MIT</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jennifer, “How Does Participation in the Framing, Review, and Incorporation of Scientific Information Affect Stakeholder Perspectives on Resource Management Decisions?,” http://web.mit.edu/dusp/epp/music/pdf/jpeyser.thesis.FINAL.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The National Environmental Policy Act AND state, local, and tribal governments.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">No impact to the environment</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Easterbrook 95 (Gregg, Distinguished Fellow @ The Fullbright Foundation and Reuters Columnist, “A Moment on Earth,” p. 25)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In the aftermath AND nature is accustomed to resisting.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC K</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC Race K</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Thinking and talking about “race” gives it its force</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Robinson ‘00</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Reginald Leamon Robinson, Professor of Law, Howard University School of Law, Boston College Third World Law Journal, Spring 2000, p. 236</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Basically, if race arises AND external, objective, and real.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">No prior questions – must focus on substance</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">David Owen, Reader of Political Theory at the Univ. of Southampton, Millennium Vol 31 No 3 2002 p. 655-7</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The second danger run AND potentially vicious circle arises.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Role of the ballot is to save the most lives – best ethic.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cummisky 96 (David, professor of philosophy at Bates College, Kantian Consequentialism, pg. 145)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We must not obscure the AND sacrifice some to save many.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC DA's</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC Bond Markets DA</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Aff solves—Economic growth ensures that deficits decline—it’s counter-cyclical.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Wray, ’10 [3/22/10, L. Randall Wray, Professor of Economics at the University of Missouri-Kansas City, Research Director with the Center for Full Employment and Price Stability, and Senior Research Scholar at The Levy Economics Institute, with Yeva Nersisyan, Ph.D. Candidate in Economics and Math and Statistics at the University of Missouri–Kansas City, 2010 (“Neoliberal Deficit Hysteria Strikes Again,” New Economic Perspectives, March http://neweconomicperspectives.blogspot.com/2010/03/neoliberal-deficit-hysteria-strikes.html, 2010]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Indeed, robust growth reduces AND when the economy recovers.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Investor confidence is resilient</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Tymoigne, ’10 [7/30/10, Eric Tymoigne, Ph.D. is Assistant Professor of Economics at Lewis and Clark College and Research Associate at The Levy Economics Institute, “The CBO’s Misplaced Fear of a Looming Fiscal Crisis,” Wall Street Pit, http://wallstreetpit.com/37891-the-cbos-misplaced-fear-of-a-looming-fiscal-crisis]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A government with a sovereign AND by the CBO (see Randy’s post here).</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Europe deficit crisis means investors won’t leave—no alternative to the US</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bloomberg, ’12 [7/16/12, Bloomberg News, “Downgrade Anniversary Shows Investors Gained Buying U.S.,” http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-16/downgrade-anniversary-shows-investors-gained-buying-u-s-.html]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We are a safe haven for AND 2001 when the nation ran budget surpluses.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">ITS pays for itself.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hartgen and Fields ‘9 [David T. Hartgen, Ph.D., P.E. is Emeritus Professor of Transportation Studies at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte. The author of more than 300 studies on transportation policy and planning, he established UNC Charlotte’s Center for Interdisciplinary Studies in 1989 and now conducts research in transportation policy and planning. M. Gregory Fields is a graduate student at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte pursuing a Ph.D. in georgraphy and urban-regional analysis. He earned his B.S. from the U.S. Military Academy and M.A. from Webster University in St. Louis and UNC Charlotte. “Gridlock and Growth: The Effect of Traffic Congestion on Regional Economic Performance,” Reason Foundation 2009 http://www.hartgengroup.net/Projects/National/USA/cong_region_performance/2009-06-22_Final_Summary_PS371.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The study also found that AND universities from work sites, not from home.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC Data Cooking</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan solves data cooking.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ezell ’10 – Senior Analyst with the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, B.S. from the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University, with an Honors Certificate from Georgetown’s Landegger International Business Diplomacy program (Stephen, “Intelligent Transportation Systems”, The Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, January 2010. http://www.itif.org/files/2010-1-27-ITS_Leadership.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1. Recognize intelligent transportations AND performance-based investment decisions.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Flyjberg is wrong – major methodological flaws</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Osland and Strand, 10 - Institute of Transport Economics, Norway (Oddgeir and Arvid, “The Politics and Institutions of Project Approval - a Critical-Constructive Comment on the Theory of Strategic Misrepresentation”, European Journal of Transport and Infrastructure Research, March, http://www.ejtir.tbm.tudelft.nl/issues/2010_01/pdf/2010_01_06.pdf)//DH</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The paragraph above includes AND misrepresentation is the major explanation.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC Elections [Obama Good]</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan is not perceived – ONLY thing that matters is the Debate in October.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Granderson 2012 [LZ Granderson is a contributor to CNN; 6/22/2012; One night will decide Obama's fate; http://www.cnn.com/2012/06/22/opinion/granderson-campaign-key/index.html?c=politics]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">President Barack Obama will AND struggling to defend his own record?</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">ITS popular- Improves efficiency of transportation and I-Pass proves.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">CMAP 09 (Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning, “INTELLIGENT TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS (ITS)”, 2009, http://www.cmap.illinois.gov/its/)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">If you drive in northeastern Illinois, chances are that you take advantage of I-Pass to avoid toll plaza delays. The 2009 Illinois Tollway annual AND our existing transportation facilities.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Predicting is impossible – too many Black Swans.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Greensfield 5/1 (Jeff, 5/1/12, “Why 2012 election predictions are rubbish: Fear the Black Swan!”, Yahoo News, http://news.yahoo.com/why-2012-predictions-are-rubbish--fear-the-black-swan-.html. Mr. Greensfield is a political correspondent for Yahoo News)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">You want to know who’s AND going to vote, I’ll say no sooth.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan won’t effect voters – minds already made up</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hellling 7/22, reporter for The Kansas City Star</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Dave, multi-media reporter for The Kansas City Star, providing videos for web, as well as regular contributions to the print edition, “People's minds are made up, unlikely to change”, Bradenton Herald, 7/22/12, accessed 7/22/12 http://www.bradenton.com/2012/07/22/4123483/peoples-minds-are-made-up-unlikely.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">But a growing number of political AND he noted, didn't move many voters.</span>

=====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC Elections [Obama Good Warming]</span>===== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Alternate causality—China</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Wortzel ‘8 (Former Director of Asian Studies at the Heritage Foundation (Larry et al, Report to Congress of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, Nov, p. google)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">China argues that developed AND developed and developing nations.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Obama can't solve warming - GOP power, lobby groups, and inertia will block any action</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Walsh 11 (Bryan, Environment Writer @ Time, " Who's Bankrolling the Climate-Change Deniers?" 10/4, http://www.time.com/time/health/article/0,8599,2096055,00.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Not anymore. With the AND one inside our heads.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">No impact to warming – history and scientific study prove</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jaworowski 8 (Professor Zbigniew, Chairman of the Scientific Council of the Central Laboratory for Radiological Protection in Warsaw and former chair of the United Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation, “Fear Propaganda,” http://www.ourcivilisation.com/aginatur/cycles/chap3.htm)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Doomsayers preaching the horrors AND Ocean (Figure 4,) and worldwide.</span>

=====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC Elections [Obama Good China War]</span>===== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Conventional Forces and Nuke Primacy</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Lieber and Press, ’07 [Keir A., Associate professor in the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University's Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service, and Daryl G., Associate Professor of Government at Dartmouth College and Coordinator of the War and Peace Studies Program at the John Sloan Dickey Center for International Understanding, “Superiority Complex,” The Atlantic Online, July/August, http://www.dartmouth.edu/~dpress/docs/Press_Superiority_Complex_ATL.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The most plausible AND decade’s counterforce upgrades.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Economic interdependence</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Perry & Scowcroft, ’09 *Professor at Stanford University, **Resident Trustee of the Forum for International Policy [William & Brent, 2009, “US Nuclear Weapons Policy,” Council on Foreign Relations]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Economic interdependence provides AND on larger strategic issues.</span>
=== === 



=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Negative</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Virilio K</span>== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The drive to improve transportation infrastructure is rooted in a worship of speed—time conquers space as we seek endless acceleration which dissolves politics</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Virilio ’97 [1997, Paul, Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School, Open Sky, Verso, Print, 81-83]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">But let us get back AND long-distance to be connected.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The alternative is to slow down and politicize speed. Our worship of acceleration makes a catastrophic Accident inevitable—the politics of speed turns the case and guarantees war, extinction, and meaningless life.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Sykes ‘9 [2009, Jason, Graduate Student @ UNT, “Paul Virilio’s critique of speed, technology, and institutions” PDF]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In Virlio’s view, the war machine AND , and institutions. Our escape lies in slowing down. “We must politicize speed.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Link - ITS</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">ITS technology increases complexity within the system – ignore their wishful predictions of the future – the technology is not ready and there are no guarantees for success</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Mohan, ‘9 [September 21, 2009; Dinesh Mohan is Professor for Biomechanics and Transportation Safety and Coordinator of the Transportation Research and Injury Prevention Programme at the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi. He is the recipient of: Distinguished Alumnus Award of Indian Institute of Technology Bombay, the American Public Health Association International Distinguished Career Award, the Bertil Aldman Award of the International Council on Biomechanics of Impacts, the Association for Advancement of Automotive Medicine’s Award of Merit and the International Association for Accident & Traffic Medicine’s International Award and Medal for outstanding achievement in traffic safety; “Intelligent Transportation Systems [ITS] and the Transportation System”; http://tripp.iitd.ac.in/course/lecture2010/mohan/module1/ITS%20DM.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In the long term, ITS use is expected AND based, traditional safety measures and not depend on the arrival of futuristic ITS technologies.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Link - Economy</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Maintaining a global economy based on speed ensures collapse—only slowing down prevents economic disaster.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kroker ‘8 [October 30th, Arthur is editor of CTheory, Ph.D. in political science and professor of political science at the University of Victoria, director of the Pacific Centre for Technology and Culture, on the Canada Research Chair in Technology, Culture and Theory, and Marilouise, editor of CTheory, Senior Research Scholar at the University of Victoria, City of Transformation: Paul Virilio in Obama's America,” CTheory is a peer reviewed international journal of theory, technology and culture. October 30, 2008. http://www.ctheory.net/articles.aspx?id=597#bio]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Are we beyond Speed and Politics? What characterizes contemporary politics is the unstable mixture</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">in space as part of the alienated, recursive loops of advanced capitalism.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Impact - Extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Acceleration will result in the global accident—this will end humanity</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Virilio ‘6 [2006, Paul, Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School Ecole Speciale d’Architecture, Paris, France, Translated by Chris Turner, July, Volume 3 Number 6 The Museum of Accidents]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Proof, if proof were needed, that far from promoting quietude, our industrialized</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">engineering, coming on the heels of atomic power, bears within it.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC AT Tech Good</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This isn’t responsive - our alternative isn’t a rejection of tech, it’s a recognition of the accident within transportation infrastructure</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Lateef ‘11 [March 19th, 2011, Abdul Lateef, writer for Posthuman destinies, “The Integral Accident: Grey Ecology is Needed Now More Than Ever by Drew Burk”, Posthuman Destinies, http://www.sciy.org/2011/03/19/the-integral-accident-grey-ecology-is-needed-now-more-than-ever-by-drew-burk/]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Today, there is no malevolent dictator behind it all. The accident and its</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">progress and invention. A grey ecology is needed now more than ever.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Recognizing the accident that is in each piece of tech is key</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Virilio ‘6 [July 2006, Paul Virilio, Emeritus Professor, “The Museum of Accidents”, International Journal of Baudrillard Studies, http://www.ubishops.ca/baudrillardstudies/vol3_2/virilio.htm]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A society which rashly privileges the present – real time – to the detriment of</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">finitude of man, just as ecology marks that of his geophysical environment.</span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Carbon Capture CP</span>== 


The United States federal government should substantially increase its carbon capturing technology investment as per our Schiffman evidence.

CP solves warming, costs nothing, and gets modeled – this card is the bees knees.
Schiffman, ‘2/8 [February 8, 2013, Richard Schiffman is an environmental journalist who publishes regularly in the Guardian and elsewhere, “US can slow climate change with new carbon-capture technology”, [[http://www.csmonitor.com/Commentary/Opinion/2013/0208/US-can-slow-climate-change-with-new-carbon-capture-technology/(page)/2]]]
the situation is indeed grave AND we can fight climate change

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Dualism K</span>== 

1NC



Objective science separates us from true social conditions

Nhanenge, ‘7 [February 2007, Jytte, MA in Development Studies @ University of South Africa, Ecofeminsm: Towards Integrating The Concerns Of Women, Poor People And Nature Into Development, PDF]

Descartes consequently believed that truth about the world could be derived from mathematics, arithmetic

AND

Merchant 1980: 195-196; Plumwood 1993: 109-110).



This dualist logic makes racism inevitable – marginalizes minorities

Ahkin, ’10 [2010, Melanie, Australian Philosopher, Monash University, “Human Centrism, Animist Materialism, and the Critique of Rationalism in Val Plumwood’s Critical Ecological Feminism,” Emergent Australian Philosophers, a peer reviewed journal of philosophy, PDF]

The five key features of dualism's “logic of domination” are as follows:

AND

of its constituents as interchangeable and replaceable resources for the dominant group.10



Vote negative to reject dualist paradigms

Nhanenge, ‘7 [February 2007, Jytte, MA in Development Studies @ University of South Africa, Ecofeminsm: Towards Integrating The Concerns Of Women, Poor People And Nature Into Development, PDF]

In order to end the purely quantitative approach in science and its androcentrism one transformation

AND

4; Shiva 1989: 16; Braidotti et al 1994: 30).



2NC

Climate scientists rely on objectivity – entrenches dualism and racism

Nhanenge, ‘7 [February 2007, Jytte, MA in Development Studies @ University of South Africa, Ecofeminsm: Towards Integrating The Concerns Of Women, Poor People And Nature Into Development, PDF]

Modern science is portrayed as a universal, value-free and objective system of

AND

Keller 1985: 7; Braidotti et al 1994: 30-31).

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Race K</span>== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[insert link]</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Racism must be rejected in EVERY INSTANCE without surcease – prerequisite to morality.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Memmi ’00 [2000, Albert is a Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris, Albert-; RACISM, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, without intermission, without remission</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link--Proliferation</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ignore their orientalist [[#|scholarship]] – anti-proliferation rhetoric is all rooted in Western nuclear apartheid ideology used to maintain the nuclear monopoly of the Western world</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Gusterson ‘99 [February 1999, Hugh, American Anthropological Association, MIT; "Weapons and the Other in the Western Imagination": Cultural Anthropology, Vol. 14, No. 1, pp. 111-143; MUSE]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Thus in Western discourse [[#|nuclear weapons]] are represented so that "theirs" are a</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(4) it legitimates the nuclear monopoly of the recognized nuclear powers.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link--Technology</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">technological utopianism sidesteps the discussions of race—the whole aff is a lie</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Dinerstein ‘6 (Dinerstein, Joel [Assistant Professor of English at Tulane University ] “Technology and Its Discontents: On the Verge of the Posthuman” American Quarterly, Volume 58, Number 3, Septermber 2006, pp. 570-571)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This is an important moment to grapple with the relationship of technology and whiteness since</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">to a utopian future that will not require social or political change.[[http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/american_quarterly/v058/58.3dinerstein.html#FOOT7|7]]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link--Postmodernism</span>**

Views that encompass everyone through pomo only increase racism

Harris ‘5 [2005, DARYL B., Howard University POSTMODERNIST DIVERSIONS IN AFRICAN AMERICAN THOUGHT, pg. 208-209]

Western conceptions rooted in modernity that searched for and emphasized varying degrees of certitude therefore

AND

speak—what is your primary significant other?” (p. 5).


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link--Psychoanalysis</span>**

Psychoanalysis is a racist science – diagnosing oppression makes racism worse

Young, ’87 [Young, R. M., Robert Maxwell Young, usually known as Robert M. Young or Bob Young (born September 26, 1935 in Highland Park, a suburb of Dallas, Texas), is a historian of science specialising in the 19th century and particularly Darwinian thought, a philosopher of the biological and human sciences, and a Kleinian psychotherapist.Young's initial education was in the United States, at Yale University and the University of Rochester Medical School, but in 1960 he moved to the University of Cambridge for his PhD on the history of ideas of mind and brain. The resulting monograph, Mind, Brain and Adaptation, has been called 'a modern classic' by Peter Gay.[1] From 1964 to 1976 he was a Fellow and Graduate Tutor of King's College, Cambridge and became Director of the Wellcome Unit for the History of Medicine. From 1976 to 1983 he was a full-time writer. In this period much of his political activities and writing involved radical critiques of science, technology and medicine. His contribution in this area has been compared by Gary Werskey with that of J. D. Bernal in an earlier generation[citation needed], (1987), we do not endorse Robert M. Young’s usage of the racial epithets in brackets, 'Racist society, racist science', in D. Gill and L. Levidow, eds., Anti-Racist Science Teaching. Free Association Books, pp. 16-42 reprinted in D. Gill et al., eds., Racism and Education: Structures and Strategies. Sage, 1992, pp. 303-19.]

Here is Anthias' summary. It is terminologically dense but provides a useful reminder of

AND

I want to make a noise about this silence. It's not acceptable.




**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Epistemology DA</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Epistemology DA - objective discussion of western thinking is flawed</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Stone-Mediatore ’10 [2010, Shari-; “Epistemologies of Discomfort: What Military-Family Anti-War Activists Can Teach Us About Knowledge of Violence”; Studies in Social Justice Volume 4, Issue 1, 25-45,; http://phaenex.uwindsor.ca/ojs/leddy/index.php/SSJ/article/view/2851/2371/]</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">For several decades now, feminist theorists have criticized modern epistemic norms, revealing male</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">my proposal, commenting that such people are “not academically-oriented.”</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Impacts</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">Turns Case - Hesitation to pursue peace sets the basis for World War III. Isolation of racially oppressed groups leads to the TERMINATION OF HUMANITY.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">MARABLE ’84 [1984, Manning- Director of the Institute for Research in African American Studies, Professor of History @ Columbia University; “Speaking Truth to Power: Essays on Race, Resistance and Radicalism; p. 198-199.]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Black Americans also comprehend that peace is not the absence of conflict. As long</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">the electoral mainstream, the results may be the termination of humanity itself.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Racism is the precondition for all violence – their impacts are just excuses to exercise domination.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Mendieta ‘2 [April 25th, Eduardo- New School of Social Research, SUNY @ Stonybrook, ph.D in Education; ‘To make live and to let die’ –Foucault on Racism; Meeting of The Foucault Circle APA Central Division Meeting –Chicago; http://www.stonybrook.edu/philosophy/faculty/emendieta/articles/foucault.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">I have thus far discussed Foucault’s triangulation between the discourses of the production of truth</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">of the living, then these threat and foes are biological in nature.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Value-neutral impact analysis cannot account for the day to day impact of racism – default to our systemic impacts</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Mohan, ’93 [1993, Brij, Professor at LSU, “Eclipse Of Freedom,” p. 3-4]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The ordeal of existence transcends the thermonuclear fever because the latter does not directly impact</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">-neutral assessment cannot be a politically correct statement on the human condition.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Good decision-making requires you to reject their fixation on worst-case scenarios</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rescher ’83 [1983, Nicholas, Risk Analysis Man, Risk: A Philosophical Introduction to the Theory of Risk Evaluation and Management, Pg 50]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The "worst possible case fixation" is one of the most damaging modes of</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">satisfactory index of the overall seriousness or gravity of a situation of hazard.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC AT Utilitarianism</span>**


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">You should prioritize the effects of racial discrimination in the face of their utility calculus—utilitarianism’s attempt at neutrality guarantees the annihilation of minority interests in the United States—race neutral impact frameworks are problematic when the individuals making decisions are not race neutral—star this card</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Byrnes, ’99 [Erin E. Byrnes, Arizona Law Review, Summer, 1999, 41 Ariz. L. Rev. 535]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A functionalist critique of utilitarianism could also be employed in this context to advocate the</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">competition with societal goals, individual rights will be annihilated every time. 296</span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Maritime Cooperation CP</span>== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The United States federal government should press littoral states to sign multilateral terrorism protocols, institute effective structures for measuring and ensuring compliance with their stipulations, conduct regular and rigorous threat assessments in order to inform the parameters of these multilateral protocols, redefine the mandates of existing multilateral security arrangements to play a greater role in countering maritime threats, and encourage the greater commercial use of communication and defensive technologies.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">CP solves conflict through maritime cooperation</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Chalk, ’08 – senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation [Peter Chalk, Ph.D. in political science, University of British Columbia; M.A. in political studies and international relations, University of Aberdeen “The Maritime Dimension of International Security”, RAND Report Prepared for the United States Air Force]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The maritime environment will AND accept a greater degree of overall transparency in its underlying corporate structures.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Offshore balancing fails while cooperation solves</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hoffman, ’08 [November 2008, From Preponderance to Partnership: American Maritime Power in the 21st Century, Frank Hoffman is a retired Marine officer with 30 years of experience in policy development, strategy and force analysis, and consulting, SM]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our maritime forces have to AND we can help others help themselves and bind them to an international system and a set of rules that benefit all.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Navy Solvency</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cooperation is the lynchpin of effective naval power in a world of budget cuts</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Moore 10 [Charles C. Moore, Naval Aviator, Western Pacific Experience, has a Masters from the US Army War College and Georgetown, currently commanding office at the Naval Air Station in Meridian. "Revitalizing the Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower, 2007, http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/Parameters/Articles/2011summer/Moore.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Summary The Cooperative Strategy remains a relevant AND to act is now, lest it risk having these crucial decisions being made by others.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Terror Solvency</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">MDA Cooperation solves terrorism</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bradford 11-9-11 [JOHN F. BRADFORD, a U.S. Navy officer, has served in several ships forward-deployed to the Western Pacific and ashore in a number of defence staff positions dealing with Asia-Pacific strategic affairs and defence policy Contemporary Southeast Asia Vol. 33, No. 2 (2011), pp. 183–208 . http://maritimesecurity.asia/free-2/maritime-security-asia/the-maritime-strategy-of-the-united-states-implications-for-indo-pacific-sea-lanes/]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Technology transfers are another important element of US capacity building programmes. Technology transfers are</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">can help partners bridge gaps in maritime surveillance and interdiction capabilities.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Tech Transfers Solvency</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Naval leadership coordination from the US solves allied capability</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ratcliff 2007 [Ronald E., National Security Decision Making professor at the Naval War College, Naval War College Review Autumn 2007, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0JIW/is_4_60/ai_n21118683/pg_2/?tag=content;col1]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Important as these points are, however, perhaps better explicating the way ahead and</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">the concept also has weaknesses that if not resolved will likely prove fatal.</span>
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">R&D Tax Credit CP</span>== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A permanent tax credit solves both economy and competitiveness - incentivizes innovation and increases jobs and GDP</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AIA '10 [Aerospace Industries Association, “Research and Development Tax Credit,” [[http://www.aia-aerospace.org/assets/RandDpaper.pdf]], May]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In short, a preponderance of AND in the credit rates would result in the creation of 162,000 jobs in the short-run.</span>
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Environmental Justice Bad</span>== 

**1NC**
Turn—Essentialism

a. Environmental Justice is essentialist—applies universal ideas assumptions and presumes a fixed biological notion of race

Yamamoto and Lyman, ‘01 [Spring 2001, Eric K. Yamamoto is a Professor of Law and Regents’ Medalist for Excellence in Teaching and Jen-L. W. Lyman, Vice President of the First Hawaiian Bank Personal Trust Division, “Racializing Environmental Justice”, 72 U. Colo. L. Rev. 311, Lexis]

Finally, the established framework tends to assume that all racial and indigenous groups,

AND

courts and environmental justice scholars make this simplifying assumption about race and culture.



b. Means the aff doesn’t solve—EJ focus divorces race from its social content—this is an act of racial avoidance

Yamamoto and Lyman, ‘01 [Spring 2001, Eric K. Yamamoto is a Professor of Law and Regents’ Medalist for Excellence in Teaching and Jen-L. W. Lyman, Vice President of the First Hawaiian Bank Personal Trust Division, “Racializing Environmental Justice”, 72 U. Colo. L. Rev. 311, Lexis]

What O'Neill identifies and what is missing from many other commentators' accounts is an

AND

examination of either racial history or the current racial disparities of society." 140







Turn—Eurocentrism

a. EJ movements operates from a white epistemology—whiteness is the invisible racial referent in modern environmentalism

Yamamoto and Lyman, ‘01 [Spring 2001, Eric K. Yamamoto is a Professor of Law and Regents’ Medalist for Excellence in Teaching and Jen-L. W. Lyman, Vice President of the First Hawaiian Bank Personal Trust Division, “Racializing Environmental Justice”, 72 U. Colo. L. Rev. 311, Lexis]

Critical race theory also facilitates interrogation of the often unexamined influences of whiteness on environmental

AND

-class cultural patterns of largely white Protestant, Anglo-Saxon origins."



b. Turns the aff—EJ still utilizes western understandings of nature make it impossible to solve because it precludes alternative ways of conceiving of the relationship between humans and nature

Yamamoto and Lyman, ‘01 [Spring 2001, Eric K. Yamamoto is a Professor of Law and Regents’ Medalist for Excellence in Teaching and Jen-L. W. Lyman, Vice President of the First Hawaiian Bank Personal Trust Division, “Racializing Environmental Justice”, 72 U. Colo. L. Rev. 311, Lexis]

As part of a critical re-examination, Native American legal scholars are attempting

AND

means to be spiritually, physically, and socially connected to the environment.



**2NC**

Obscuring differential forms of disempowerment creates minority disputes and conflicts—turns the aff

Yamamoto and Lyman, ‘01 [Spring 2001, Eric K. Yamamoto is a Professor of Law and Regents’ Medalist for Excellence in Teaching and Jen-L. W. Lyman, Vice President of the First Hawaiian Bank Personal Trust Division, “Racializing Environmental Justice”, 72 U. Colo. L. Rev. 311, Lexis]

To further refine the differential racialization analysis, "Jeff Chang suggests a notion of

AND

cannot begin to address meaningfully issues of "mutual misunderstanding and mistrust." 206



essentializing environmental effects uniquely harms Native populations and faultily prescribe changes in practices by ignoring culture

Yamamoto and Lyman, ‘01 [Spring 2001, Eric K. Yamamoto is a Professor of Law and Regents’ Medalist for Excellence in Teaching and Jen-L. W. Lyman, Vice President of the First Hawaiian Bank Personal Trust Division, “Racializing Environmental Justice”, 72 U. Colo. L. Rev. 311, Lexis]

Richard Lazarus, on the other hand, identifies the conceptual flaw in treating all

AND

discrimination as cultural suppression may undergird recent governmental cognizance of environmental injustice." 137





Their aff marginalizes native populations

Yamamoto and Lyman, ‘01 [Spring 2001, Eric K. Yamamoto is a Professor of Law and Regents’ Medalist for Excellence in Teaching and Jen-L. W. Lyman, Vice President of the First Hawaiian Bank Personal Trust Division, “Racializing Environmental Justice”, 72 U. Colo. L. Rev. 311, Lexis]

James Huffman also criticizes the traditional environmental justice framework, but from the perspective of

AND

the dominant environmental justice narrative tends to ignore or even undermine that perspective.



American environmental movements are antithetical to Native interests

Yamamoto and Lyman, ‘01 [Spring 2001, Eric K. Yamamoto is a Professor of Law and Regents’ Medalist for Excellence in Teaching and Jen-L. W. Lyman, Vice President of the First Hawaiian Bank Personal Trust Division, “Racializing Environmental Justice”, 72 U. Colo. L. Rev. 311, Lexis]

In a comprehensive treatment of land ethics and environmental law, Rebecca Tsosie finds a

AND

thus undermines the very thing it seeks to promote: genuine environmental justice.


==Proliferation DA vs Guam== 
**1NC**

Troops key to the credibility of the US nuclear umbrella
Nye ‘9 (Joseph, Prof. IR—Harvard U., Korea Times, “Will US-Japan Alliance Survive”, 7-14, http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/opinon/2009/07/137_48423.html)
Japan officially endorses the objective of a non-nuclear world, but it relies
AND
enhanced by joint projects such as the development of regional ballistic missile defense.

And decline forces Japanese proliferation—US commitment key
Bakanic et al 2008 (Elizabeth, Mark Christopher, Sandya Das, Laurie Freeman, George Hodgson, Mike Hunzeker, R. Scott Kemp, Sung Hwan Lee, Florentina Mulaj, Ryan Phillips, Princeton University Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Relations, “Preventing Nuclear Proliferation Chain Reactions: Japan, South Korea, and Egypt.”
Erosion of confidence in the U.S.- Japan security alliance: The strength
AND
.g. significant troop reductions or realignments) without first consulting Tokyo.

And re-arm causes an Asian arms race—Risks of nuclearization outweighs any potential benefits
Chanlett-Avery & Niktin, Congressional Research Service Analyst & Analyst in Nonproliferation, ’09
[Emma Chanlett-Avery, Specialist in Asian Affair for the Congressional Research Service, Mary Niktin, Analyst in Nonproliferation, Research Associate for the Center for Strategic and International Studies, “Japan’s Nuclear Future: Policy Debate, Prospects, and U.S. Interests,” February 19th 2009, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/nuke/RL34487.pdf]]]
To many security experts, the most alarming possible consequence of a Japanese decision to
AND
. However, most observers maintain that the risks outweigh potential stabilizing factors.

Asian proliferation uniquely risks nuclear war—Proximity of antagonistic countries and outdated detection systems make miscalculation likely
Cimbala, Professor @ Penn. State, ’08
[Stephen, Distinguished Prof. Pol. Sci.—Penn. State Brandywine, Comparative Strategy, “Anticipatory Attacks: Nuclear Crisis Stability in Future Asia”, 27, InformaWorld]
The spread of ballistic missiles and other nuclear-capable delivery systems in Asia,
AND
could overturn these expectations for the obsolescence or marginalization of major interstate warfare.

**2NC**
Framing issue—it’s all about perception­—even if relocation to Guam doesn’t decrease our commitment to Japan, reducing our force numbers on Okinawa is perceived as weaking out commitment
Schoff ‘9 (James, Associate Dir. Asia-Pacific Studies—Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, “Realigning Priorities: The U.S.-Japan Alliance & the Future of Extended Deterrence”, March, http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/RealignPriorities.pdf, p. xi-xii)
Symbols have always been important to the U.S.-Japan alliance and to
AND
assets to specific deterrence scenarios involving the alliance has not been explored adequately.

==Co-Basing CP== 
**1NC**

The United States federal government, in coordination with Japan, should adopt a basing strategy that focuses on collocating forces and consolidating bases with Japanese Self Defense Forces and Japanese civilian facilities and substantially increase its public diplomacy efforts in Japan. The United States federal government should close the Marine Corps Air Station Futenma and cancel any plans for relocating it.

A new basing strategy solves better than relocation to Guam—appeases public concerns
Smith, ’12 [April 2012, Sheila A. Smith, Senior Fellow for Japan Studies, “A Strategy for the U.S.-Japan Alliance”, http://www.cfr.org/japan/strategy-us-japan-alliance/p28010]
A future U.S.-Japan alliance strategy cannot stop at force posture adjustments
AND
the two allies consider a more dispersed U.S. military presence.

Public diplomacy solves public support and solidifies the foundation of the alliance
Denmark and Kliman ’10 [Abraham Denmark and Daniel Kliman Denmark is a Fellow with the Center for a New American Security (CNAS). At CNAS, Mr. Denmark directs the Asia-Pacific Security Program and several defense strategy and planning projects and Kliman is a visiting fellow at the Center for a New American Security. He contributes to the Asia-Pacific Security Program and other initiatives, a Japan Policy Fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and an Adjunct Research Associate with the Institute for Defense Analyses, “Cornerstone: A Future Agenda for the U.S.-Japan Alliance” 6/16 [[http://www.cnas.org/node/4591]]]
Washington and Tokyo also must do more to reinforce Japanese domestic support for the alliance
AND
that affect an elderly population, such as health care and social security.

**2NC**

Cobasing solves
Cronin et al, 10 [October, 2010, Patrick Cronin is a Senior Advisor and the Senior Director of the Asia-Pacific Security Program at the Center for a New American Security, “Renewal: Revitalizing the U.S.-Japan Alliance”, October, http://cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Renewal_CroninKlimanDenmark.pdf]
The United States should take additional measures to defuse local tensions stemming from the presence
AND
ultimately transform the island, boosting local economic growth and creating jobs.78

Co-basing solves the alliance better—results in cooperation and broad support
Smith ’10 [Sheila Smith, 2010/06/05 “More mature basing policy needed in Japan”, [[http://www.asahi.com/english/TKY201006040369.html]]]
5) Japan’s Self-Defense Forces ought to be based alongside the U.
AND
the time has come to shift more responsibilities to Japan’s own national military.


==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">CBC DA</span>== 

1NC



For the first time in his administration, Obama is losing the support of the CBC—top officials are criticizing him publically on recent cabinet nominees and his election practices

Curry, ‘1/29 [01/29/13, George E. Curry, NNPA Editor-in-Chief, “Congressional Black Caucus Member Says President Obama Disrespects Blacks”, http://www.blackvoicenews.com/news/news-wire/48571-congressional-black-caucus-member-says-president-obama-disrespects-blacks.html]

FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. (NNPA) – Rep. Alcee L. Hastings

AND

his first nine months of his administration was from a historically Black college.”



The plan is a win for Obama amongst the CBC and the black community

Muhammad, ’05 [11/18/05, Askia Muhammad is a White House Correspondent, “CBC champions Katrina relief”, http://www.finalcall.com/artman/publish/article_2270.shtml]

WASHINGTON (FinalCall.com) - Relief for Hurricane Katrina victims must not be

AND

to make sure we do everything in our power to make them whole.”



That causes the CBC to back down—Obama’s popularity amongst the black community prevents the CBC from being critical of him

Capeheart, ’11 [08/18/11, Jonathan Capehart, “Maxine Waters and Congressional Black Caucus need to be ‘unleashed’”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/post-partisan/post/maxine-waters-and-congressional-black-caucus-need-to-be-unleashed/2011/03/04/gIQA3O0TNJ_blog.html]

Rep. Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) took part in a Congressional Black

AND

to ensure that their constituents’ needs and concerns are part of the mix.



That annihilates minority interests—fear of attacking Obama because of popularity destroys the value of the CBC as the conscience of congress

Ford, ’12 [02/22/12, Glen Ford, “The Need for a Black Agenda”, http://www.blackagendareport.com/content/need-black-agenda]

Malcolm X, whose assassination is commemorated this week, warned us that, "

AND

need for a Black political agenda – except four more years of Obama.



This outweighs the aff—A black agenda on the social safety net and economic issues specifically prevents the equivalent of an ongoing extinction of people of color

The DEATH CULTURE posed by nuclear war has already ENDED the world for people of color, SURVIVAL AT ANY COST outweighs LIBERTY, PEACE and DIGNITY. People of color face NUCLEAR HOLOCAUST and GENOCIDE through their jobs, housing, schools, families and land. Someone MUST STAND UP and make the connection between NUCLEAR ARSENALS, RACISM, SEXISM and IMPERIALISM.

OMOLADE ‘84 [Summer 1984, Barbara- City College Center for Worker Education in New York City a historian of black women for the past twenty years and an organizer in both the women’s and civil rights/black power movements; Women of Color and the Nuclear Holocaust; WOMEN’S STUDIES QUARTERLY, Vol. 12., No. 2, Teaching about Peace, War, and Women in the Military, p. 12; http://www.jstor.org/stable/4004305]

In April, 1979, the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency

AND

cultural integrity, and nuclear arsenals and housing? Who will stand up?



2NC Overview



This is not just a politics DA—it’s a bottom up reform DA with a specific scenario about the only political bloc in congress that operates like a grassroots organization—Invisibility and disposability in a natural disasters are a product of a racist state that’s abandoned social justice policies—grassroots radical democratic pressure are key

Giroux 6 (Professor of English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, previous professors at BU, Miami U, and Penn State, “Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability”, JSTOR)

With the social state in retreat and the rapacious dynamics of neoliberalism, unchecked by

AND

, housing, and health care to all residents of the United States.



The Congressional Black Caucus agenda specifically is key to end racist economic underdevelopment

Root, ’12 [11/26/12, The Root is a daily online magazine that provides thought-provoking commentary on today's news from a variety of black perspectives, “Will Obama Push a 'Black Agenda' Now?”, http://www.chicagodefender.com/index.php/voices/15301-will-obama-push-a-black-agenda-now]

(The Root) -- President Barack Obama has been a target of endless criticism

AND

issues important to the black community has made him a target of criticism.



AT UQ O/W Link



African Americans are becoming disillusioned with Obama

Epstein, ’12 [09/06/2012, Jennifer Epstein, “Gripes aside, blacks still back Obama”, http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=88D01FEF-E2C9-4987-9456-8AE34757B8AF]

West and his frequent collaborator, Tavis Smiley, had hoped to see Obama do

AND

But, Blackwell said, “he just never delivered on the promise.”



The Congressional Black Caucus is rallying criticism against Obama

Hudson, ‘1/11 [01/11/13, Jerome Hudson, “ECONOMY, NOT DIVERSITY, OBAMA'S GREATEST FAILURE”, http://www.breitbart.com/Big-Government/2013/01/11/Rangel-Obama-Cabinet-Diversity-Embarrassing-as-Hell]

On Thursday, Rep. Charlie Rangel (D-NY) told MSNBC that

AND

Susan Rice, when the going gets tough, Obama gets politically expedient.



AT Invisibility Turn



This argument is silly and does not link – the introduction of the DA proves that we are devoted to the struggle – also proves we turn the aff.

Ford, ’12 [02/22/12, Glen Ford, “The Need for a Black Agenda”, http://www.blackagendareport.com/content/need-black-agenda]

Malcolm X, whose assassination is commemorated this week, warned us that, "

AND

need for a Black political agenda – except four more years of Obama.



The CBC agenda will specifically include social and economic justice measures

DESMOND-HARRIS staff-writer for THE ROOT 2k13

Jenee-; “Ceremonial Swearing In For New Black Caucus”; THE ROOT, January 3 [[http://www.theroot.com/buzz/ceremonial-swearing-new-black-caucus]]



(The Root) -- On Thursday the Congressional Black Caucus [[http://www.theroot.com/buzz/ceremonial-swearing-new-black-caucus|Foundation]] hosted a ceremonial

AND

the storm could determine how this nation will do for the next century."



AT No Link



Empirics go negative—the CBC unanimously introduced Disaster relief—the aff is a pet project to the CBC

Watt, ’05 [11/04/05, Office of Representative Melvin Watt, “Congressional Black Caucus Introduces Hurricane Katrina Relief Legislation”, http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/congressional-black-caucus-introduces-hurricane-katrina-relief-legislation-to-help-gulf-coast-residents-55279887.html]

WASHINGTON (emergingminds.org) -- All 42 House members of the Congressional Black

AND

devastation of Hurricane Katrina, and to make a commitment to eradicate poverty.



The affirmative lets Obama get away from specific reforms—universal economic boosters like stimulus spending minimize the need for minority targeted economic policies

Ross, ’11 [09/06/11, Janell Ross, “Congressional Black Caucus Members Criticize Obama On Unemployment”, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/07/07/congressional-black-caucus-unemployment_n_892702.html?ir=business]

The Obama administration has focused on broad-based initiatives aimed at lowering unemployment in

AND

at a black audiences. "And that does include the White House."

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Strategies</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Wake</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 1 vs. Marriotts Ridge WZ [ITS]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: T Telecommunications, R&D Tax Credit CP, Jackson Vanik, Virilio K, Case, Retrenchment Good, Fiscal Discipline</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Tax Credit CP, Retrenchment Good, Fiscal Discipline, Case</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 4 vs. Centennial KM [ITS]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: T Telecommunications, R&D Tax Credit CP, Jackson Vanik, Virilio K, Case, Fiscal Discipline</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Virilio K</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 5 vs. Alpharetta SR [Icebreakers]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: T Military, Race K, Maritime Cooperation CP, Jackson Vanik, Case, Retrenchment Good</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Maritime Cooperation CP, Case, Retrenchment Good</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Georgetown</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 1 vs Stuyvesant CH [JPSDDSP]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: T Military, Maritime Cooperation CP, Virilio K, Elections DA [Obama Good], Retrenchment Good, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Maritime Cooperation CP, Elections DA</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 4 vs New Trier WW [TRANSCOM]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: T Military, Race K, Elections DA [Obama Good], Iran Prolif Advantage CP, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Elections DA, Case</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 5 vs Lakeland PS [Port Security]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: T Transportation Infrastructure, Race K, Elections DA [Obama Good], Maritime Cooperation CP, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: T</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bronx</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 1 vs Classic High MW [Space Rockets]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: T Transportation Infrastructure, UN CP, Elections DA [Obama Good], Virilio K, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: T</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 3 vs Weston CC [NextGen]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: T, Advantage CP, Elections DA, Race K, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Race K</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 5 vs Bronx Law AL [Latinidad Performance]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: Framework, DnG K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Framework</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Octas vs Reservoir SS [Language Deconstruction]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: Framework, Speciesism K, Case, Ableism, "Fetish" K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Ableism, "Fetish K", Case</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Capitol Classic</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 2 vs Bronx Science LS [Climate Adaptation]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: T Maintenance, Microbubbles CP, Elections DA, Race K, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Race K</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 4 vs Mcdonogh ER [Racially Just and Clean Transportation]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: T Vehicles/Vagueness, Microbubbles CP, Elections DA, Virilio K, Case, Dualism</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: T</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 6 vs BCC BM [Disposable Politics]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: Framework, Speciesism K, Case, Ableism</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Framework</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Octas vs Centennial KH [Climate Adaptation]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: T Maintenance, Microbubbles CP, Elections DA, Race K, Case, Dualism</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Race K</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Semis vs Centennial MK [Racially Just and Clean Transportation]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: T Vehicles/Vagueness, Virilio K, Dualism K, Elections DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Ableism</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Glenbrooks</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 1 vs Greenhill JC [Bering Strait]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: Virilio K, T Land Grants, Advantage CP, Fiscal Cliff DA, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Advantage CP, Fiscal Cliff DA, Case</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 4 vs Highland Park ST [Critical Bikes]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: Framework, Race K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Framework</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 6 vs Grapevine JU [ITS]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: States CP, Fiscal Cliff DA, T, Race K, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Race K</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 7 vs St. Ignatius PL [ITS]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: States CP, Fiscal Cliff DA, T, Race K, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Fiscal Cliff DA, Case</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Scranton</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 2 vs NFA SS [Natives]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: Virilio K, T Transportation Infrastructure investment, States CP, Fiscal Cliff DA, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: States CP, Fiscal Cliff DA, Case</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 4 vs Lakeland PS [Port Security]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: Race K, T Transportation Infrastructure, Maritime Cooperation/Russia Counter-Terror CP, Fiscal Cliff, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Fiscal Cliff, Case</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 5 vs Pace ES [HTF]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: T Investment, Reform HTF/Petroleum Tax CP, Fiscal Cliff DA, Race K, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Race K, Case</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Lexington</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 1 vs Beacon YR [Performance]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: Framework, DnG K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Framework </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 4 vs Saratoga HJ [Abjection Psychoanalysis]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: Dialogical Procedure, Immigration DA, Case, Race Turns</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Immigration DA, Case</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 6 vs Kinkaid IR [JARC]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: T Vehicles, Immigration DA, States CP, Virilio K, Case, Environmental Justice Bad</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Immigration DA, Case, Environmental Justice Bad</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Quarters vs Bronx Science BK [Climate Adaptation]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: T Maintenance, Immigration DA, States CP, Virilio K, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Immigration DA, Case</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Emory</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 2 vs Sage Ridge CL[PPSP]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: T, Race K, Hagel DA, Maritime Cooperation/Congestion CP, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Hagel DA, Case</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 4 vs Cairo BP [Disabilities]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: T, Equity Assessment CP, Virilio K, Hagel DA, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Hagel DA, Equity Turns, Case</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 5 vs Seaholm GH [Gas Tax]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: T, Restructure/Petroleum Tax CP, Race K, Hagel DA, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Hagle DA, Case</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Harvard</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 1 vs Lexington KQ [NIB]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: T, Virilio K, States CP, Immigration DA, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Immigration DA, Case</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 4 vs Bronx Science BK [Disposability]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: T Maintenance, Framework, CBC DA. Carbon Capture CP, Race K, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: CBC DA, Case</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 6 vs Greenhill PS [Bering Strait]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: T Land Grants, Advantage CP [Russia BPC, Forest Conservation, FERA], Oil DA, Virilio K, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Oil DA, Case</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 7 vs Lexington LS [Guam]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: T, Cobasing CP, Immigration DA, Race K, Case, Prolif DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Cobasing CP, Prolif DA</span>