<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[toc]]
</span>

=<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Affirmative</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Golden Desert</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1AC - Bonds</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Infrastructure Advantage</span>==== 


Adv 1 : Infrastructure



New transportation investment is vital to employment, innovation and the environment

-Oil Spills

Walker ’11 (et al, ,- Dave Walker is founder and CEO of the Comeback America Initiative. He served as the seventh comptroller general of the United States and as head of the U.S. Government Accountability Of􏰀ice Bill Bradley,- former managing director of Allen & Company LLC. Tom Ridge,- president and CEO of the international con- sulting 􏰀irm Ridge Global, headquartered in Washington, D.C. He served as the nation’s 􏰀irst secretary of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security David “Road to Recovery: Transforming America’s Transportation” http://carnegieendowment.org/files/road_to_recovery.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">These shortfalls in our federal transportation program do not justify abandoning federal … development patterns sup- port mass transit investments.24 These examples show how </span>productivity and innovation are synergistic drivers of sustainable development.




Innovation checks extinction

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Heaberlin ’04</span> (Scott, led the Nuclear Safety and Technology Applications Product Line at the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, 2004 “A Case for Nuclear-Generated Electricity” pg 45-6)

Cohen looked at all the various population … it is a road that can lead to a happier place, a better place.









The plan’s investment solves deterrence, readiness, disaster relief

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">USMA ’09</span> (US Maritime Administration,- “America’s Ports and Intermodal Transportation System”)

The <span style="font-size: 8pt;">lifeblood</span><span class="Underline"> of America’s economy</span> passes … homeland are inextricably linked.



Solves nuke war

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gerson ’09</span> (Michael,- research analyst at the Center for Naval Analyses, a federally funded research center in Alexandria, Va., where his research focuses on deterrence, nuclear strategy, counter-proliferation, missile defense, and arms control “Conventional Deterrence in the Second Nuclear Age”)…<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> with significant nuclear capabilities and escalation dominance, can help prevent regimes from believing that nuclear possession provides opportunities for conventional aggression and coercion. </span>









Loss of readiness causes global war

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Spencer ‘2K</span> (Jack-, Senior Policy Analyst for Defense and National Security @ the Institute for International Studies @ the Heritage Foundation “The Facts About Military Readiness” http://www.heritage.org/Research/MissileDefense/ BG1394.cfm )

Military readiness is vital … thereby preserving peace.






Rapid disaster relief checks every impact --- including global nuke war

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Butts ’94</span> (Kent Hughes,- Associate Professor of Political Military Strategy in the Center for Strategic Leadership, U.S. Army War College “ENVIRONMENTAL SECURITY: A DOD PARTNERSHIP FOR PEACE”)

The change in the international … issue, to unite the futures of East and West <span class="Underline">in a "partnership" that is nonthreatening to Russia</span>.

====Plan Text==== 
The Federal Reserve Board of Governors should invest a substantial amount in transportation infrastructure.

====Economy Advantage==== 


Advantage 2 : Economy


Recovery will stall --- recession is coming

**Jolly 1/21** [David Jolly, January 21, 2013, “U.N. Agency Warns of Rising Unemployment”, NY Times, http://www.nytimes.com/2013/01/22/business/global/un-agency-warns-of-rising-unemployment.html?_r=0]



__More than 197 million people worldwide …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> jobless rates have not risen “often </span>__have experienced a worsening in job quality__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,” the organization said. </span>





Specifically because of austerity measures

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Oliff ’12</span> (et al, June 27th Phil,- Fellow in Governmental Finance with New York State’s Division of Budget and MA in Public Policy from Harvard, Christine Mai ,- research assistant @ State Fiscal Project, Vincent Palacios,- Center as a Research Associate for the State Fiscal Project in “States Continue to Feel Recession’s Impact” http://www.cbpp.org/cms/index.cfm?fa=view&id=711)

As a new fiscal year begins, the latest state … actions <span style="font-size: 5pt;">needed</span> to address <span style="font-size: 5pt;">state budget </span>shortfalls place a <span class="UnderlineBox">**considerable number**</span>of jobs at risk.





Only the plan solves ---- boosts demand, state budgets and infrastructure, __certainty__ is key

Lau ‘12 (8-17 Lawrence, Hong Kong economist and former vice-chancellor of the Chinese University of Hong Kong “What should the Fed do to jump-start US economy?”, http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/hkedition/2012-08/17/content_15682382.htm)

While the US economy is no longer contracting …<span class="UnderlineBox"> US economy and the whole world wishes the Fed every success! </span>





Avoids problems of previous monetary policy

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brown 9-21</span> (Ellen,- attorney and president of the Public Banking Institute. “Why QE3 Won’t Jumpstart the Economy—and What Would” https://webofdebt.wordpress.com/2012/09/21/why-qe3-wont-jumpstart-the-economy-and-what-would-2/)

The economy could use<span class="Underline"> a good dose of </span>“aggregate demand”—…<span class="Underline"> economy’s intractable doldrums</span>.





Best models prove

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Swain ’11</span> (Richard,- Economist from University of Sydney “The Macroeconomic Effects of Quantitative Easing”)

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The Great Financial Crisis (GFC) is considered the largest macroeconomic crisis since the …</span> valuable if future research examined this issue.





<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Economic decline triggers nuclear war</span>

Harris and Burrows 9<span class="Underline"> (</span>Mathew, PhD European History at Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” [[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]], AM)



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of course, the report encompasses more than …</span> __in a__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">more </span>__dog-eat-dog world.__ 




Stats prove

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Royal 10</span>**<span style="background-color: white;"> [Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,? in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]</span>









<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Less intuitive is how periods of economic …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention.</span>



Independently, plan solves Europe and Japan

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hudson ’12</span> (5-13 Alexander,- co-founder and Editor-in-Chief of Partisans, Fulbright Scholar @ Oxford, Ph.D candidate at Cal “It’s time for a currency war”)

In the wake of elections in the Netherlands, … effort by the world’s largest economies to finally wage war against economic despair.



Nuclear war

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Guardian ’02</span> (2-11, Lexis)

Even so, the west cannot afford to be … conflict with its bigger (and nuclear) neighbour<span class="Underline">.</span>



Extinction

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stokes ‘10</span> (Bruce, International Economics Columnist – National Journal, “Greek Tragedy Haunts Global Markets, Policies”, YaleGlobal, 3-17, http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/opinon/2010/03/137_62527.html)

WASHINGTON: To paraphrase the noted … boost European exports, aiding the beleaguered European economy. 







State budgets powerbombs research universities 

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kramer 6-22</span> (David,- “US science and technology eminence is in trouble, says report”)

<span class="Underline">US </span>research universities face serious <span class="Underline">…</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> science graduate students, the attrition rate is 50%. Universities should make doctoral programs more effective by reducing the time it takes to obtain degrees, and by better aligning programs with career opportunities inside and outside of academia.</span>



Triggers every impact

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NRC ’12</span> <span style="font-size: 5pt;">(National Research Council,- think tank on public policy issues specifically the Committee on Research Universities, which is composed of Chad Holliday, Chair, Chairman of the Board, Bank of America, and Chairman and CEO, E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, Hunter Rawlings, President Emeritus and Professor of Classical History, Cornell University*, Padmasree Warrior, Chief Technology Officer, Cisco Systems, Peter H. Henderson is Director of the National Research Council's Board on Higher Education and Workforce)</span>

Innovation is the strong driver of economic growth, <span style="font-size: 5pt;">…</span> <span class="Underline">the need for action to sustain</span> <span style="font-size: 5pt;">and strengthen</span> <span class="Underline">our assets </span>central<span class="Underline">to any strategy</span> for meeting our<span class="Underline"> national </span>goals.





==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Meadows</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1AC - NIB</span>=== 
====**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Econ Advantage</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Recovery will stall --- recession is coming</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">UN ’12 (Updated in Early 2012 “World Economic Situation and Prospects” “The present report is a joint product of the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs (UN/DESA), the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and the five United Nations regional commissions (Economic Commission for Africa (ECA), Economic Commission for Europe (ECE), Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC), Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) and Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia (ESCWA)).”</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Prospects for the world economy in 2012-2013 ...... against the pressures for adjustment.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">New transportation __[[#|investment]]__ is vital to [[#|employment]], innovation and the environment</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Walker ’11 (et al, ,- Dave Walker is founder and CEO of the Comeback America Initiative. He served as the seventh comptroller general of the United States and as head of the U.S. Government Accountability Of􏰀ice Bill Bradley,- former managing director of Allen & Company LLC. Tom Ridge,- president and CEO of the international con- sulting 􏰀irm Ridge Global, headquartered in Washington, D.C. He served as the nation’s 􏰀irst secretary of the U.S. Department of [[#|Homeland Security]] David “Road to Recovery: Transforming America’s Transportation” http://carnegieendowment.org/files/road_to_recovery.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">These shortfalls in our federal transportation program do not justify abandoning ..... drivers of sustainable development.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Innovation checks extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Heaberlin ’04 (Scott, led the Nuclear Safety and Technology __[[#|Applications]]__ Product Line at the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, 2004 “A Case for Nuclear-Generated Electricity” pg 45-6)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Cohen looked at all the various population estimates ...... However, it is a road that can lead to a happier place, a better place.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Infrastructure deficiencies put a ceiling on growth --- investment is necessary to break the cycle</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Likosky, 11 [Michael B. Likosky, senior fellow at the Institute for Public Knowledge at NYU, July 12, 2011, “Banking on the Future”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2011/07/13/opinion/13likosky.html]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">FOR decades, we have neglected ....... we possess modern infrastructure.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">No Advantage Cps - reform is a prerequisite to recovery</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Davidson, 5/20 (Paul, 5/20/2012, “USA's creaking infrastructure holds back economy,” [[http://www.usatoday.com/money/economy/story/2012-05-20/creaking-infrastructure/55096396/1]], JMP)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Inland waterways quietly keep ... at lower costs," Caterpillar Chief Financial Officer Ed Rapp says of the move.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Confidence is collapsing destroying investment --- NIB is a key short term stimulus that doesn’t drive up the deficit</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Skidelsky & Martin, 11[Robert Skidelsky, Emeritus Professor of Political Economy at the University of Warwick, and Felix Martin, macroeconomist and bond investor, March 30, 2011, New York Review of Books, “For a National Investment Bank,” [[http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">But could a National Investment Bank also help ...... assets for pension [[#|funds]] and other long-term investors.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Recovery isn’t sustainable --- NIB is key to stimulate the economy and boost [[#|jobs]]</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Skidelsky & Martin, 11[Robert Skidelsky, Emeritus Professor of Political Economy at the University of Warwick, and Felix Martin, macroeconomist and bond investor, March 30, 2011, New York Review of Books, “For a National Investment Bank,” [[http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">President Obama is in a bind. ...... bring to thebroader economy.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Prefer expert studies --- the plan is a uniquely beneficial form of stimulus</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Tyson, 11[Laura D. Tyson, Chan Chair in Global Management at UC Berkeley's Haas School of Business, 2011, “A Better Stimulus Plan for the U.S. Economy”, http://hbr.org/web/extras/hbr-agenda-2011/laura-d-tyson]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Although stimulus spending is a politically contentious ..... The time has come to make it happen.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">None of their generic turns apply – NIB uniquely secures private investment and investor confidence</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Tyson, 10[Laura Tyson, Professor at the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley, was chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers and the National Economic Council in the Clinton administration. She is a member of President Obama's Economic Recovery Advisory Board. August 29, 2010, “Why We Need a Second Stimulus,” NYT, Lexis]</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">OUR national debate about fiscal policy..... should be jobs and investment.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Support for EXPANDED P3s is high, but lack the necessary capacity – a national infrastructure bank serves as a critical model</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">LIKOSKY ET AL ’11 - senior fellow at the Institute for Public Knowledge, New York University (Likosky, Michael. Josh Ishimatsu. Joyce Miller. “RETHINKING 21ST - CENTURY GOVERNMENT: PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS AND THE NATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE BANK”. June, 2011. http://www.ssrc.org/workspace/images/crm/new_publication_3/%7B2c5cfcc9-6b9e-e011-bd4e-001cc477ec84%7D.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In an era of severe budgetary constraints ..... fiber-optic cables around the globe.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The threat of a devastating cyber attack is real – P3 is critical to solve cyber-security cooperation</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">FARRELL ’11 - deputy chief of staff for the US Air Force; Program for Senior Executives in National and International Security, Harvard University (“To Improve Cyber-Security, U.S. Needs Cohesive Public-Private Partnership”. February, 2011. http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/archive/2011/February/Pages/ToImproveCyber-Security,USNeedsCohesivePublic-PrivatePartnership.aspx)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">For the Pentagon, which operates ....... transported by private companies.”</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Great power escalation.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Fritz, 2009</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[Jason, researcher for International Commission on Nuclear Nonproliferation and Disarmament, former Army officer and consultant, and has a master of international relations at Bond University, “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control,” July, http://www.icnnd.org/latest/research/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">This paper will analyse the threat of cyber terrorism ........ and control centres directly.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Global instability results without the plan</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Raja ’12 (Kanaga,- Editor of the South-North Development Monitor (SUNS), which is published by the Third World Network “Expansionary policies needed to avoid a new recession”)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The world stands ..... urgent challenges of our age," concluded UNCTAD.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Economic decline triggers nuclear war</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Harris and Burrows 9 (Mathew, PhD European History at Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” [[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]], AM)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Of course, the report encompasses … in amore dog-eat-dog world.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Prefer our evidence – statistical suppo**rt</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Royal 10 [Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,? in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Less intuitive is how periods … armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Independently, growth solves war</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Yee 99 – B.Sc. (Econs) from the London School of Economics and Political Science; Singaporean infantry officer (Major Tan Yan, Jan-March. “Democratisation, Interdependence, and the Prospects for Future War.” Journal of the Singapore Armed Forces, V25 N1 . http://www.mindef.gov.sg/safti/pointer/back/journals/1999/Vol25_1/7.htm)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Like the Democratic Peace Proposition, the notion … to prevent war from happening.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Growth causes global coordination – solves extinction and sustainability</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Hefner 9 (Robert, Founder and Owner – GHK Explorations, Grand Energy Transition: The Rise of Energy Gases, Sustainable Life and Growth, and the Next Great Economic Expansion, “Chapter 14: Crisis and Opportunity,” p. 219-222)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">There will be nothing more transformational … might slow down this opportunity for you and for all humanity. We must all work together to jet the GET!</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Growth is the largest impact – empirically accesses all others</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Weede 08 [Erich, professor at the Institute for Political Science and Sociology, “Globalization and Inequality” Comparative Sociology 7, p. 415-433]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Globalization refers to an increasing international … it is fortunate that the two demographic giants of this world seem to prosper under global capitalism.</span>
====**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Plans we've read</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment through a national infrastructure bank.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment through a national infrastructure bank model.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The United States federal government ought to substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment through a national infrastructure bank.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The United States federal government ought to substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment through a national infrastructure bank model.</span>**

====**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Solvency</span>**==== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Only a federal NIB solves --- take outs are wrong</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Thomasson ’11 (Scott,- Economic and Domestic Policy Director Progressive Policy Institute “Hearing before the Subcommittee on Highways and Transit“National Infrastructure Bank: More Bureaucracy and Red Tape”)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The idea of establishing a national infrastructure bank to ...... state banks is entirelymisplaced.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">federal action is key for large scale projects and effectiveness</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">McConaghy & Kessler, 11 --- * Director of the Third Way Economic Program, AND Vice President for Policy at Third Way (January 2011, Ryan McConaghy and Jim Kessler, “A National Infrastructure Bank,” [[http://www.bernardlschwartz.com/political-initiatives/Third_Way_Idea_Brief_-_A_National_Infrastructure_Bank-1.pdf]], JMP)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">America’s economic future will hinge on how fast and well we move people, goods ....... enduring infrastructure investments.**</span>

=<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Negative</span>= 

==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">T</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">T - Military</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Infrastructure is physical capital that provides public services – it excludes the military</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Fourie 6 – Chief Operating Officer of ArcelorMittal South Africa (Johan, ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE: A REVIEW OF DEFINITIONS, THEORY AND EMPIRICS, 9/06, South African Journal of Economics, Vol 74, Issue 3, Wiley Online Library)//EM</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">One way to define infrastructure is to describe it in … or infrastructure capital, while urban planners might refer to them as transportation modalities and utilitcies.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Transportation infrastructure services are strictly limited to facilitating private economic activity</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Musick, 10 – Congressional Budget Office’s Microeconomic Studies Division (Nathan, “Public Spending on Transportation and Water Infrastructure,”</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/119xx/doc11940/11-17-infrastructure.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Although different definitions of “infrastructure” exist, …(such as those conducted by the Army Corps of Engineers following Hurricane Katrina in 2005).</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">T - Maintenance</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The affs not topical --- infrastructure investment is distinct from maintenance</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Lemer 11 - worked at The National Academies and studied at Harvard University (Andrew, “[[http://www.andrewlemer.com/2011/02/26/how-much-infrastructure-spending-is-%e2%80%9cenough%e2%80%9d/|How Much Infrastructure Spending Is “Enough?’”]], [[http://www.andrewlemer.com/2011/02/26/how-much-infrastructure-spending-is-%E2%80%9Cenough%E2%80%9D/]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">What has been neglected in all of the analyses … suggest that maintenance budgets are often squeezed, forcing neglect.</span>
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> T - Substantial</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A substantial investment is over 20%</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Traficant et. al 89 – former member of US House of Representatives(James, written with other Congressmembers, Bill Summary & Status 101st Congress (1989 - 1990) H.R.2489, 5/24/89, http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d101:h.r.02489:)EM</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(C) SUBSTANTIAL INVESTMENT DEFINED- … value of such facility (determined in the manner provided in subparagraph (B)(ii)) on the first day of such period.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Transportation infrastructure investment is $48.1 billion</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">GAO 11 – Investigative arm of Congress charged with examining matters relating to the receipt and payment of public funds (Government Accountability Office, Funding Used for Transportation Infrastructure Projects, but Some Requirements Proved Challenging, 6/29/11, http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-11-600)EM</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">This report responds to two GAO mandates ... work and other studies; and interviewed DOT, state, and local officials.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">T - Space Elevators</span>=== 

**transportation infrastructure is roads, highways, bridges, harbors, and airports** 

**US Chamber of Commerce 2010** (“transportation performance index” 9/23, [[http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/lra/files/LRA_TPI%20_Summary_Report%20Final%20092110.pdf|__http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/lra/files/LRA_TPI%20_Summary_Report%20Final%20092110.pdf__]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Step 1 – </span>__Definition: Transportation Infrastructure__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … of the Infrastructure Performance Index it is considered an element of energy infrastructure. </span>



**“Investment” requires capital expenditure****, different than research** 



**Anderson 06**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">– (Edward, Lecturer in Development Studies – University of East Anglia, et al., “The Role of Public Investment in Poverty Reduction: Theories, Evidence and Methods”, Overseas Development Institute Working Paper 263, March,[[http://www.odi.org.uk/resources/docs/1786.pdf]])</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Investment can be regarded as</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">an act of forgoing … that have the potential for full cost recovery.</span>



**In means within** 

**Encarta World English Dictionary, 7** (“In (1)”, 2007, http://encarta.msn.com/encnet/features/dictionary/DictionaryResults.aspx?refid=1861620513)

in [ [[http://encarta.msn.com/encnet/features/dictionary/Pronounce.aspx?search=in|in]] ] CORE MEANING: a grammatical word indicating that something or somebody is within or inside something.

in means within the limits of

Merriam Webster Online Dictionary, 06 (<span style="color: black;">[[http://www.m-w.com/cgi-bin/dictionary?book=Dictionary&va=in]]</span>)





**United States is the 50 States and DC**

**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Words and Phrases, 6</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> (Words and Phrases Permanent Edition, “United States,” Volume 43A, p. 265-267 December 2006, Thomson West)</span>

Fla.App. 3 Dist. 1976. Term “United States,” as used in statute providing for exclusion of income and losses derived from sources outside of United States means only the 50 states and the District of Columbia.



**Space Elevator Must be placed in international waters, or there is no solvency**

**Kent 07 -** <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Major, USAF, PE (Jason, Center for Strategy and Technology, Air War College. “Getting To Space On A Thread, Space Elevator As Alternative Space Access” April 2007)#SPS</span> 

__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dr. Edwards has completed …</span>west of Australia.____<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 70</span>__ 

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">T - NIB</span>=== 

**Interpretation and violation – aff has to be a net increase in an existing premium** 

**Buckley** et al, **06** –attorney (Jeremiah, Amicus Curiae Brief, Safeco Ins. Co. of America et al v. Charles Burr et al, http://supreme.lp.findlaw.com/supreme_court/briefs/06-84/06-84.mer.ami.mica.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First, the court said that the ordinary … the words around it”) (citation omitted). </span>



**Investment is __direct spending__ on infrastructure** 

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Scotland 5</span> (Government of Scotland, “Infrastructure Investment Plan: Investing in the Future of Scotland”, February, http://www.scotland.gov.uk/Publications/2005/02/20756/53558)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Appendix A: Technical Definitions of Infrastructure Investment</span>

<span class="Underline">The public expenditure system … capital element of PPP deals</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">T - Increase</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Interpretation and violation—Increase means net increase</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Words and Phrases 5 (Cummulative Supplementary Pamphlet, v. 20a, p.295)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Cal.App.2 Dist. 1991. Term “increase,” as … retirement or deactivation of other units at plant. West’s Ann.Cal.Pub.Res.Code § 25123.</span>
==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Counterplans</span>== 

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Animal PIC</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">do the 1ac without the word animal</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The concept of ‘animal’ reifies a human /nonhuman divide that allows us to distance ourselves from our obligation to the other. Their use of the term ensures that the divide remains reified. Thinking of a new ecology without nature, and elimination of the term ‘animal’ is critical to reposition our selves toward the environment.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Morton 2K8 Timothy, Professor of Literature and the Environment at the University of California, Davis, Ecologocentrism: Unworking Animals, SubStance, 117 37/3.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The category "animal" is among the ways in … (not community), because animism undermines the idea of "person" itself. Let us find out how.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Vote Neg - We need to alter how we view ourselves in the environment by seeing a system in which we are a part. Eliminating the human / nonhuman divide is an essential first step toward viewing nature as system of which we play an integral, not superior, part.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Morton 2K8</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Timothy, Professor of Literature and the Environment at the University of California, Davis, Ecologocentrism: Unworking Animals, SubStance, 117 37/3.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">This essay has not advocated "postmodern" … with the fact not that we are destroying Nature, but that there was no Nature .</span>
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">EIS CP </span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Text – The United States Federal Government should initiate an environmental impact and life cycle assessment regarding the consequences of removing the Ice Harbor, Little Goose, Lower Monumental, and Lower Granite dams. </span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">and adopt such a measure if, and only if, it complies with said assessment. </span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">cp solves the aff and avoid environmental consequences</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Gilpin 2k (Dr. Alan, Commissioner of Inquiry for Environment and Planning with the New South Wales Government, Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA): Cutting Edge for the Twenty-first Century, p. 14-15</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Life cycle EIA ..... major infrastructure developments.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Reforming the process is critical for transportation policy</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Schenck 09 – Institute for Environmental Research and Education American Center for Life Cycle Assessment (Rita, February 22nd, “The Business Case for Life Cycle Assessment in US Policy and Legislation”[[http://lcacenter.org/Data/Sites/1/SharedFiles/whitepapers/thebusinesscaseforlca.pdf]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Over the last forty .... get for the impacts they absorbe</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Cp builds international support and spills over– solves extinction</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Purvis, 03 –Nonresident Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy at the Brookings Institute (Nigel, “Greening U.S. Foreign Aid through the Millennium Challenge Account” Brookings Institute, June, [[http://www.brookings.edu/research/papers/2003/06/energy-purvis]] SW)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif;">Third, the global environment ....... ensure a level international playing field for U.S. companies.</span>
===Prizes CP=== 
**Text:** The National Aeronautics and Space Administration should establish a substantial monetary prize for the first private entity that successfully develops technology necessary for investment in Space Elevators.


**Solves the case** 
**Kalil, 2006** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Thomas, Special Assistant to the Chancellor for Science and Technology at UC Berkeley, Senior Fellow with the Center for American Progress & Former Deputy Assistant to President Clinton for Technology and Economic Policy), “</span><span style="color: #282425; font-size: 8pt;">Prizes for Technological Innovation,” The Hamilton Project, The Brookings Institution, Discussion Paper 2006-08, December]</span>
<span style="color: #282425; font-size: 8pt;">Among all federal agencies, </span>__<span style="color: #282425;">NASA has shown </span>____<span style="color: #282425;">…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> before making them a mainstream tool. </span>

===Ex-Im CP=== 
**Text: US Export-Import bank will direct its current investments towards domestic infrastructure projects. Congress will authorize this shift in its portfolio.** 


**Only the CP solves and avoids politics** 
**Schweitzer ’11** (9-29 Howard,- first chief operating officer of the Treasury Department’s Troubled Assets Relief Program, was senior vice president and general counsel of the Export-Import Bank of the United States from 2005 to 2008 “We already have the infrastructure bank we need” http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/we-already-have-the-infrastructure-bank-we-need/2011/09/27/gIQA59TI8K_story.html)
Despite its name, as a matter of policy … rebuilding America and creating jobs.
===Cybersecurity Condition CP=== 

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The United States federal government should </span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 9pt;">invest in the construction of two new polar icebreakers</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> and </span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 9pt;">ensure that the POLAR SEA remains mission capable and that the POLAR STAR remains available for reactivation</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> if, and only if, providers contracted to provide two new polar icebreakers agree to expanded cybersecurity data provisions under the Defense Industrial Base Initiative allowing the federal government to share sanitized data regarding intrusions to agencies other than the Department of Defense and other parties to the DIBI. </span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The condition is key to solve cybersecurity --- but incentives are key </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Fisher ’09</span> (Dennis,- editor of Threat Post “Defense Industrial Base information-sharing program a good start”)
The recent flood of<span class="Underline"> stories on </span>attacks against the electrical grid<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, … </span>//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">but it needs to be expanded</span>//<span class="Underline"> as broadly as possible</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The CPs linkage gets contractors on board </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">ISA ‘08</span> (Internet Security Alliance,- multi-sector trade association “The Cyber Security Social Contract”)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Government needs to embrace the idea that cyber … own and operate the vast majority of what we call the Internet.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This is vital to secure critical infrastructure --- impact is hege, the economy, food prices, energy shocks, and chemical industry</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Sebastian ’09 </span>(Rohan,- research for the office of Virginia Senator Mark Warner CS Computer Science from UVA, 6-24 “The Federal Government’s Role in Preserving Cybersecurity for Critical Infrastructure”)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The intersection of critical infrastructure and cyberspace …</span><span class="Underline"> tied to political feasibility and industry acceptance</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


**Great power escalation**
**Fritz, 2009** 
[Jason, researcher for International Commission on Nuclear Nonproliferation and Disarmament, former Army officer and consultant, and has a master of international relations at Bond University, “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control,” July, http://www.icnnd.org/latest/research/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.pdf]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This paper will analyse the threat of cyber terrorism in …</span> __for compromising command and control centres directly.__

==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Disads</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Elections</span>=== 

====**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1NC </span>**==== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Obama winning now but unpopular policies can reverse this trend</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Reuters 10-21 (John Whitesides, “Mitt Romney Gaining, But Obama Still Leads: Reuters Analysis,” 2012,[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/10/21/mitt-romney-obama-election-2012_n_1996271.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Suddenly, Republican Mitt Romney has ….before he's a safe bet to win."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Government spending swings critical independents</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Galston 12 (Walliam A., Ezra Zilkha Chair in the Brookings Institution’s Governance Studies Program, where he serves as a senior fellow. A former policy advisor to President Clinton “Six Months To Go: Where the Presidential Contest Stands as the General Election Begins” 5/10/12[[http://www.brookings.edu/research/papers/2012/05/~/media/Research/Files/Papers/2012/5/10%20obama%20campaign%20galston/Where%20the%20Presidential%20Contest%20Stands.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">According to the 2008 exit polls, Obama … wealthy don’t pay their fair share of taxes.</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Russia Impact</span>**==== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Obama reelection maintains the US/Russian reset --- Romney will collapse relations</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Weir, 3/27/2012 (Fred, Obama asks Russia to cut him slack until reelection, Minnesota Post, p. [[http://www.minnpost.com/christian-science-monitor/2012/03/obama-asks-russia-cut-him-slack-until-reelection]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Russian experts say there's little … wins the election, it seems likely the reset will continue."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Relations key to solve accidental nuclear war</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Cohen 10—prof, Russian Studies and History, NYU. Prof emeritus, Princeton (Stephen, US-Russian Relations in an Age of American Triumphalism: An Interview with Stephen F. Cohen, 25 May 2010, http://www.thenation.com/article/us-russian-relations-age-american-triumphalism-interview-stephen-f-cohen, AMiles)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Cohen: The real concern I have with this "… media, or, I should add in the think tanks, can connect these dots.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Tester DA</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Sportsman Bill didn’t pass because Congress ran out of time</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Dayen 9-20 (David,- “Reid Calls Out Scott Brown for Trying to Duck MA-Sen Debate With Elizabeth Warren Tonight”)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">There’s a debate scheduled tonight in Massachusetts between Sen. Scott Brown and Elizabeth Warren, in that hotly contested Senate race (C-SPAN will cover it at 7pm ET). But it may not have come off all, if you believe Harry Reid’s statement just now on the Senate floor.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">There’s a debate scheduled tonight in … and then miss the debate with Warren tonight. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The plan requires another session of Congress, triggers passage and Tester’s reelection</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Great Falls Tribune 9-21 (“Tester's bill delays Senate recess”)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">A victory on the sportsman’s bill would … still would need to hold a vote on final passage.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Prevents Dodd-Frank repeal</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">American Banker ’12 (Neil Weinberg, editor in chief Kevin Wack, Capital Hill Reporter “Tester Re-election bid has big stakes for banks”)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Neil Weinberg: Obviously in the end there will … industry cares about will be harder if John Tester loses.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Key to the economy</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Wallison ’12 (Peter J,- writer for The American, part of the American Enterprise Institute “Dodd-Frank: The Economic Case for Repeal”)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">It is rare that a single law can have a … are only a few examples of the uncertainties created by the Dodd-Frank Act. There are many—perhaps hundreds—more. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Economic collapse causes global nuclear war</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Harris and Burrows 9 – PhD in European History @ Cambridge and Counselor of the US National Intelligence Council AND Member of the National Intelligence Council’s Long Range Analysis Unit (Mathew J. and Jennifer, “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis,” April, Washington Quarterly, [[http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf]], EMM)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and indeed … water resources is likely to be increasingly difficult both within and between states in amore dog-eat-dog world.</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2NC ICBM Impact</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Tester win blocks ICBM cuts</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Stone ’12 (Andrea,- writer for the Huffington Post “ICBM Coalition Of Rural Senators Fights Nuclear Weapons Cuts”)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Far from world capitals where international … to protect Malmstrom and jobs in Great Falls that date back at least to 2008. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Marvin ’11 (Taylor,- writer for Prospect Journal of International Affairs “Why the US Should Unilaterally Eliminate ICBMs”)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">While the US and Russia are no longer at each other’s … triad can explain how much marginal safety ICMBs contribute to the US nuclear deterrence and whether this marginal gains outweighs their costs, this isn’t a serious argument. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">*we do not endorse the trivialization of the holocaust</span>

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Senate DA</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Dems will keep the Senate now --- but it’s close</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The Hill 9-17 (“The Hill's Senate ratings: Democrats likely to keep upper chamber”)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Democrats are better poised to keep control … four they need to take control of the chamber if President Obama wins reelection.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The plan causes Democrats to lose</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Cohen 9-6 (Michael.- writer and commentator on American politics and U.S. foreign policy for the Century Foundation “How the Republicans' scorched-earth anti-Obama strategy has backfired”)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">But obstruction is not opposition, and this is where … four more years toiling in the political wilderness. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Key to LOST</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Pitcher ’12 (Whitney,- contributor for Conservatives4Palin.com and is the Illinois coordinator for Organize4Palin.com “Why Senate Races Are the Most Important Races of 2012”)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">One of the reasons our Founders created this three branch … administration were to advocate for its approval.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Solves a a host of impacts</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Borgeson ’09 (Scott,- visiting fellow for ocean governance at the Council on Foreign Relations “The National Interest and the Law of the Sea”)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Oceans and National Interests Oceans cover … U.S. force projection abroad and the legal armor for safeguard- ing America at home. </span>
===Immigration Politics DA=== 
====**1NC**==== 
**Immigration reform is top of the docket and will pass but political capital is key** 
**Associated Press 1/28**/13 (“Senators reach agreement on immigration reform” http://www.scnow.com/news/politics/article_a4645bba-6943-11e2-b881-001a4bcf6878.html)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON — </span>__A bipartisan group of … has become a political imperative__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**CIR key to economic growth** 
//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">C</span>//enter for //<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A</span>//merican //<span style="font-size: 10pt;">P</span>//rogress, 1/14/<span class="Heading4Char">2010 </span>(How Immigration Reform Would Help the Economy, p. http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/immigration/news/2010/01/14/7130/how-immigration-reform-would-help-the-economy/)
<span class="Underline">A new report, “Raising the Floor for American …</span>//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the overall economy</span>//<span class="Underline"> and </span>//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">lowering worker productivity</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Economic decline triggers nuclear war</span>
Harris and Burrows 9<span class="TitleChar"> (</span>Mathew, PhD European History at Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” [[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]], AM)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and … to manage changing water resources </span>__is__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> likely to be increasingly </span>__difficult__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">both within and between states</span> __in a__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">more </span>__dog-eat-dog world.__
====__NIB Link__==== 
**Plans unpopular – saps capital** 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">DRUTMAN ‘10</span> - senior fellow and the managing editor for the Progressive Policy Institute (Lee, “Financing Future Growth: How Do We Pay For New Projects?”, October 4, http://progressivepolicy.org/financing-future-growth-how-do-we-pay-for-new-projects)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">And yet, Rep. </span><span class="Underline">DeLauro’s bill to create … </span>were not hearing this.

====Space Elevators==== 
**Congress backlashes** 
**Anderson ’11** (Gregory Anderson 5/28/2011 “The Way Out” http://thewayoutspace.blogspot.com/2011/05/scrap-nasa.html)
Former Apollo astronaut and Moonwalker … what advantage a new agency would have over a rejuvenated NASA.
====US-Indian Relations Impact==== 

**Immigration reform expands skilled labor --- spurs relations and economic growth in China and India.**
//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">L</span>//os //<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A</span>//ngeles **Times**, 11/9/**2012** (Other countries eagerly await U.S. immigration reform, p. http://latimesblogs.latimes.com/world_now/2012/11/us-immigration-reform-eagerly-awaited-by-source-countries.html)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"</span>C<span class="Underline">omprehensive </span>i<span class="Underline">mmigration </span>r<span class="Underline">eform </span>… opportunity as a //<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt;">bigger plus</span>////<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> than not</span>//<span class="Underline">," he said</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**US/India relations averts South Asian nuclear war.**
**Schaffer**, Spring **2002** (Teresita – Director of the South Asia Program at the Center for Strategic and International Security, Washington Quarterly, p. Lexis)
Washington<span class="Underline">'s increased interest in India</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … world and to maintain an economy that lifts its people out of poverty depends critically on good relations with the United States.</span>
===VOWA Politics DA=== 

VAWA will pass but it’s close
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Benen 2-1</span> (Steve,- writer on U.S. Politics for Washington Monthly “Violence Against Women Act set for Senate approval”)
It was just last week that Senate proponents of the Violence Against Women Act re-introduced the measure that died in the last Congress, and supporters already … of inexplicable decisions in recent memory, but <span class="Underline">I'm cautiously optimistic. </span>

**Plan costs capital --- massively unpopular.**
**Puentes, 10** - senior fellow with the Brookings Institution’s Metropolitan Policy Program where he also directs the Program's Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative (Robert, “Moving Past Gridlock: A Proposal for a Two<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‐</span>Year Transportation Law,” [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2010/12/14%20transportation%20puentes/1214_transportation_puentes.pdf]]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yet </span><span class="Underline">the nation’s surface </span>transportation<span class="Underline"> … source of revenue</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for the program. 2</span>


Capital is key
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">ICTMN ’12</span> (Indian County Today Media Network,- 11-7 “http://nativestrength.com/tag/vawa/)
This subject matter has resonated through …<span class="Underline"> a “big win”</span> for Indian country.

Key to solve organized crime
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nawyn ’12</span> (Stephanie et al,- Assistant Professor, Department of Sociology, Michigan State University http://www.freep.com/article/20120515/OPINION05/120514092/Guest-commentary-Why-the-House-bill-to-reauthorize-the-Violence-Against-Women-Act-is-bad-for-women)
One of VAWA’s original provisions offered… rather than perpetrators of violence.

Global War
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">UNODC ‘09</span> (February, Preventing organized crime from spoiling peace, Commission on Narcotic Drugs, http://www.unodc.org/unodc/en/frontpage/preventing-organized-crime-from-spoiling-peace.html)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Look</span> at <span style="font-size: 8pt;">almost</span> any conflict <span style="font-size: 8pt;">zone in the world, …</span> this Model Code is for".






==<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Strategy Info</span>== 

===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Meadows</span>=== 
====**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Round 1 vs. Juan Diego (DAR)</span>**==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1NC: T military, EIS, Cap K, elections, case</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Block: T, Elections, case, EIS</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2NR: T</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Round 4 vs. Brophy (Remove Dams/Salmon aff)</span>**==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1NC: T everything, EIS, animal pic, case</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Block: T, animal pic, case, EIS</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2nr: EIS</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Round 6 vs. Damien (Icebreakers)</span>**==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1NC: T vehicles, EIS, Leasing CP, Trade off DA, Cap K, case</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Block: Leasing Cp, Trade off, case, EIS</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2nr: EIS</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Semis vs. CPS (Mayport)</span>**==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1NC: T military, T in= throughout, Cap K, Consult Cp, Tester Riders DA, case</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Block: T military, case, Tester DA</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2nr: Tester DA, case</span>
==== ==== 
====**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Finals vs. Sage Ridge (PPSP)</span>**==== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">1NC: T military, Cap K, Consult Cp, Tester Riders DA, Senate DA, case</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Block: Cap K, case, T</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2nr: Cap K</span>

===Golden Desert=== 
====Round 1 vs. Notre Dame (Space Elevators)==== 

1NC: T, immigration politics, prizes, cap k, case

Block : prizes, case, immigration politics

2nr : immigration politics and case 


====Round 3 vs. Leland (NIB)==== 

1NC : T, immigration politics, Ex-Im Cp, cap K, case

Block : T, case, politics 

2nr : T


====Round 6 vs. CK McClatchy (Icebreakers)==== 

1NC: T vehicles, immigration politics, cap k, cybersecurity conditions cp, case

Block : cybersecurity conditions cp, case, politics

2nr: cp


====Octos vs. Leland (NIB)==== 

1NC: T, VOWA politics, cybersecurity conditions cp, cap k, case

Block: Cybersecurity conditions cp, case, politics

2nr: cp