<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[toc]]
</span>
=TOC AFF ROUND II= 
==**Act 1: A Love Story**== 

**It was many and many a year ago,**
**In a kingdom by the sea,**
**That a maiden there lived whom you may know**
**By the name of ANNABEL LEE;**
**And this maiden she lived with no other thought**
**Than to love and be loved by me.**

**I was a child and she was a child,**
**In this kingdom by the sea;**
**But we loved with a love that was more than love-**
**I and my Annabel Lee;**
**With a love that the winged seraphs of heaven**
**Coveted her and me.**

**And this was the reason that, long ago,**
**In this kingdom by the sea,**
**A wind blew out of a cloud, chilling**
**My beautiful Annabel Lee;**
**So that her highborn kinsman came**
**And bore her away from me,**
**To shut her up in a sepulchre**
**In this kingdom by the sea.**

**The angels, not half so happy in heaven,**
**Went envying her and me-**
**Yes!- that was the reason (as all men know,**
**In this kingdom by the sea)**
**That the wind came out of the cloud by night,**
**Chilling and killing my Annabel Lee.**

**But our love it was stronger by far than the love**
**Of those who were older than we-**
**Of many far wiser than we-**
**And neither the angels in heaven above,**
**Nor the demons down under the sea,**
**Can ever dissever my soul from the soul**
**Of the beautiful Annabel Lee.**

**For the moon never beams without bringing me dreams**
**Of the beautiful Annabel Lee;**
**And the stars never rise but I feel the bright eyes**
**Of the beautiful Annabel Lee;**
**And so, all the night-tide, I lie down by the side**
**Of my darling- my darling- my life and my bride,**
**In the sepulchre there by the sea,**
**In her tomb by the sounding sea.** 
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**We must use the present state of debate as a platform for value creation. Our injection of poetry into the round is an affirmation of the corpse of the resolution as site upon which an infinite number of possibilities of engagement are seeded. We pry open the equivalence of meaning and substitute it with an ontology that is dynamic and unintelligible. Your ballot is a yes to our methodology.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Baudrillard 07** (Jean, Professor at EGS, PhD in Pornography, The intelligence of evil or the lucidity pact pg 207-211)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">We have all been everywhere in some past life. This suprasensory reminiscence, this Journey of the soul' through places, bodies and successive lives, this fantasy ubiquity, has nothing to do with the ubiquity that is ours through the networks, through telepresence and telereality. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">Though </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">we</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;"> might </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">imagine the Virtual …truth merely makes things worse.</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
==**Act 2: Death and Chocolate**== 

**The poem is one of expenditure; a confrontation with nothingness, making peace with our own annihilation. Mystical literature about death is a unique advantage to the 1AC. Inner experience cannot be pre-scripted into inter-changeable code. Instead it rejects the totalizing discourse that seeks to saturate everything with meaning.** 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Irwin 2002</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">(From Alexander Irwin, in Saints of the Impossible, “Exercises in Inutility,” 2002, p. 162-165) [m leap]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This parti pris of </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">responding to a brutal political and military situation…</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">the singularity by </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">which constitutes an event</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, just like the singularity of the world, the singularity by which it too constitutes an event.</span>

**Simulation is death. It is also endless nihilism and totalitarianism** 
**Antonio 1995** [Robert; Professor of Sociology at the University of Kansas; Nietzsche’s Antisociology: Subjectified Culture and the End of History; American Journal of Sociology; Volume 101, No. 1; July 1995]
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">While modern theorists saw differentiated roles and professions as a matrix of autonomy and reflexivity, …</span>The deadly combination of desperate conforming and overreaching and untrammeled ressentiment paves the way for a new type of tyrant<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Nietzsche 1986, pp. 137, 168; 1974, pp. 117-18, 213, 288-89, 303-4).</span>

**Knowledge gathering and security planning only acts to further catalogue the grand meaninglessness of our civilization. Buried under mountains of information all the worlds have become a museum; a great zombie-archive which eternally preserves frozen life which is itself already dead.**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Baudrillard 76</span>(Jean, __Symbolic Exchange and Death__ p 185-187, Sage publications) [m leap]
Pursued and censured everywhere, death springs up everywhere again…<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">If political economy is the most rigorous attempt to put an end to death, it is clear that only death can put an end to political economy.</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**We are an act of terrorism against the system which attempts to maintain a universal hegemonic order. Against this system of meaning we revolt. Any attempt to erase us from the debate space leads to an internal implosion and produces worse forms of terrorist action**</span>
**Baudrillard 2001** <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">(Jean Baudrillard, “The Spirit of Terrorism,” Le Monde, 11/2/2001, trans. Rachel Bloul, </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[[http://www.egs.edu/faculty/jean-baudrillard/articles/the-spirit-of-terrorism/]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">) [m leap]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">All the speeches and commentaries betray a gigantic abreaction to the event itself and to the fascination that it exerts…</span>by this terrorist situational transfer.

**We reject their assumption that it is somehow desirable to be disciplined and obedient participants in reformist capitalism, laboring and lurching towards the apocalypse – we should stop numbing ourselves to the lacerated communication of poetry that is excluded by their humanist discourse – opening yourself to the impossible is a pre-requisite to any constructive engagement or construction of meaning**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Land 92</span> ( Nick, Lecturer in Continental Philosophy at the University of Warwick, Thirst for Annihilation, Georges Bataille and Virulent Nihilism, pg 140-141)
//<span style="text-decoration: none;">Fascism is</span>// not so much //<span style="text-decoration: none;">a symptom of</span>//political desperation, as of //<span style="text-decoration: none;">libidino-religious numbness, a kind of anti-poetry on the streets</span>//<span style="text-decoration: none;">. ..when each word is nothing for as long as it has not attained the beyond of words[?]</span>

=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC – Berkeley (Cyborgs)</span>= 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">I remember taking the train</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">At a bus stop in the rain</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">At O’hare waiting for my plane</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">To take me to the next debate tournament</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">With my earphones in place</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Listening to that Superbass</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Or that Aerosmith rift</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And JB and TSwift</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And wherever I went</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">I saw that same gendered poster</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Of a woman posing next to a car</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A picture perfect femininity</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Angelic divinity, absent masculinity</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Because male is mobile</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And male is global</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And male is noble</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And female is frail</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And ignoble and immobile</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Transportation was built on gender oppression</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We begin our speech with a genealogical tracing of how historical modes of transportation infrastructure have excluded, objectified, and exploited women </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kuswa 09** (Kevin Douglas Kuswa, Driving Ourselves and the Rise of Maternal Auto/mobility Wright’s (1939) The Car Belongs to Mother, PhD July, 2009, CP)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> In Pettifer and Turner’s (1984) history of drivers in America, Automania, … as well as destructive and restrictive.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Status quo systems of transportation infrastructure are rooted in the conception of the Mobile Mother, which associates women with disempowerment and excludes their voices from the political. Our criticism of automobility and gender is critical to challenging patriarchal systems of oppression that dominate public policy</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kuswa 9** (Kevin Douglas Kuswa, Driving Ourselves and the Rise of Maternal Auto/mobility Wright’s (1939) The Car Belongs to Mother, PhD July, 2009, CP)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> In one way, Priscilla Wright (1939) and her interrogation of the … it is the deployment of particular types of mechanization.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our critical interrogation of the intersection between gender and technology is capable of reclaiming the political sphere from the dichotomous construction of subject and object. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kuswa 9** (Kevin Douglas Kuswa, Driving Ourselves and the Rise of Maternal Auto/mobility Wright’s (1939) The Car Belongs to Mother, PhD July, 2009, CP)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">An example of the second persona in Wright’s work is … deployed to promote or suppress feminism within the home. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Thus the advocacy: Infuse cyborg pedagogy into transportation policy as a method by which to combat the hierarchal norms of the status quo.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The 1AC is not a claim to universal knowledge. Rather it examines the multiplicity of differences that proliferate our transportation networks - failure to examine these questions leads to marginalization of women</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Hamilton 1**, (Kerry Hamilton, Professor of Transport Studies @ University of East London, “Gender and Transport in Developed Countries,”January 10, 2012. Date Accessed: July 2, 2012, http://www.cityshelter.org/13_mobil/03tend.htm, LG)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We do not believe or assume that … the originally literate mother who teaches survival.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This allows accepting the other without an essentialist, stable ideology</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Haraway 91** [ Donna. "A Cyborg Manifesto: Science, Technology, and Socialist-Feminism in the Late Twentieth Century," in Simians, Cyborgs and Women: The Reinvention of Nature (New York; Routledge, 1991), pp.149-181.]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The rituals of poetry, … fail us in the task to build effective affinities.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our presentation of case, in-round language, and discussion all work to break distinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Haraway 91** (Donna. "A Cyborg Manifesto: Science, Technology, and Socialist-Feminism in the Late Twentieth Century," in Simians, Cyborgs and Women: The Reinvention of Nature (New York; Routledge, 1991), pp.149-181.)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Contrary to orientalist stereotypes of the 'oral primidve'… intelligence to subvert command and control.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Framework hacks take the bench for this one. Only cyborg pedagogy is capable of subverting the metanarratives of oppression in educational spaces like debate. We need a fundamental revamping of the way in which academic institutions shape and produce knowledge as well as traditional technology. This is the only possible method for resistance and authentic engagement </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Garoian and Gaudelius 1** (Charles R. Garoian and Yvonne M. Gaudelius, Cyborg Pedagogy: Performing Resistance in the Digital Age, Source: Studies in Art Education, Vol. 42, No. 4 (Summer, 2001), pp. 343-347, DA: 1/16/12, CP)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">As cyborg pedagogy, this reflexive interplay … and intervene in the ways that technology is conceived. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Put your kritiks away – Our pedagogical performance enables us to use the cyborg to interrogate the ways in which social and political identity is created. Only this fosters authentic political resistance and is a prerequisite to your criticism</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Garoian and Gaudelius, 1** (Charles R. Garoian and Yvonne M. Gaudelius, Cyborg Pedagogy: Performing Resistance in the Digital Age, Source: Studies in Art Education, Vol. 42, No. 4 (Summer, 2001), pp. 333-347, DA: 1/16/12, CP)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The authors of this article argue that … pedagogical machinations on the body. </span>

=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC – Blake (Death)</span>= 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention 1 is our advocacy</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The author is dead</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We are death and we have looked you in the face</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We are death and this starts now</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">They will flee from us</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">But we have a meeting with the negative in rebuttals</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And death always has the last word</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">“I am become death, the destroyer of worlds”</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The problem is not that there is no value to life</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">But that there is no value to death</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And that means something this time because Christian and I are death</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Thus we present the following plan:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Of all the Gods, Death only craves not gifts:</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nor sacrifice, nor yet drink-offering poured</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Avails; no alters hath he, nor is soothed</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">By hums of praise. From him alone of all</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The powers of Heaven Persuasion holds aloof</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Borges, 64** (Jorge Luis Borges, Translated By J.E.I. [[http://esunbeams.com/sunrise_poetry/misc/ragnarok.htm]], CP)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> In our dreams (writes Coleridge) images … and joyfully killed the Gods. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We have a plan advocate.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Irwin 02** (From Alexander Irwin in Saints of the Impossible “Exercises in Inutility” p. 151-153, 2002)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">i. Inner experience is a form of sacrifice … isanalogous to torture”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention 2: death (aka: infrastructure is death, death is infrastructure, and infrastructure is coming now)</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">How hot is Twilight? Death is seducing you</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Land 92** – lecturer in Continental Philosophy at Warwick University (Nick, “The Thirst for Annihilation” pg. 136)[rkezios]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bataille’s obsession is … ‘The truth of eroticism is treason’ [X 170]. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Information is death: Debate’s information habit is a synonym for death. Death cab for cuties is death. Social death is death. Information itself only serves as a testimony to the grand meaninglessness of our civilization. Buried under mountains of information all the worlds have become a museum, which is dead.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baudrillard 76** (Jean, Symbolic Exchange and Death p 185-187, Sage publications) [m leap]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Pursued and censured everywhere, … death can put an end to political economy.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The topic is dying and we will kill it on Monday, not to worry. Bauldrillard debates are death, framework is death, switch sides is death and at a minimum justifies trying death once: how can we learn about the other side without doing so?</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The topical version of the aff is dead. This topic is dead, and so was the last space topic, which makes this topic a dead horse.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Death is the only impact we can come back from, I got 99 problems but my death ain’t one</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Land 1992** [Nick, “The Thirst for Annihilation: Georges Bataille and Virulent Nihilism”, 180-181]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">How much dying can a body do? At least one dose… that it has so little attachment to them?</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention 3: your ground (AKA six feet under, aka death)</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We specified death so that means you get life,</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Simulation is death. It is also nihilism.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Antonio 1995** [Robert; Professor of Sociology at the University of Kansas; Nietzsche’s Antisociology: Subjectified Culture and the End of History; American Journal of Sociology; Volume 101, No. 1; July 1995]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">While modern theorists saw differentiated roles … paves the way for a new type of tyrant.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Fairness and predictability are death</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Fernando 10** (Jeremy, The Suicide Bomberl and her gift of death, Atropos Press, New York p 32-34)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">When one searches for a beginning… life, against the movement that is life.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We have shot-gunned monism, you must be able to prove that there are two things, but binaries are death, life is death is death is life, which is ultimately death </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baudrillard 76** (Jean, Symbolic Exchange and Death p. 188, Sage)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">There is therefore no distinction … the dead and the living.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">THUMPER! Saying stuff isn’t death is death </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baudrillard 76** (Jean, Symbolic Exchange and Death p. 147-148)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our whole culture is just one huge effort to … reversibility of death in exchange.</span>


=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC – Glenbrooks (Bataille)</span>= 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">These empty words</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Void of any meaning</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Are a mutilation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">An affirmation of transportation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A cremation of the god of utility</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Of agility and mobility</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">So that we may spread his ashes</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Across a landscape of shadows</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The very substance of excess</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">To transgress</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The hidden taboo</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">To pass through</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The valley of the shadow of death</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We dance in the night of nonknowledge</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">To the songs of Dionysius</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">For we are the children of chaos</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A convening of nonmeaning</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Intervening in a politics or rationalization</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A fixation on causation, accumulation, and salvation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">My eyes are black, My heart is ink</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Planes, trains and highway lanes aren’t as fast</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">As you might think</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">They fly into the jowls of a crimson sky</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A single story of one bloodshot eye</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The railways turn green with rust</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Lined with a thick layer of brown dust</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And all the while the architecture of life remains in ruins</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">I am not a philosopher, perhaps a Saint... or a madman</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Here to spread my word</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Current economic practices are based primarily on utility and utilitarian functions. However architecture and literature both have the capacity to combat these practices. Poetry is the embodiment of sacrificial expenditure.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Blood 2** (Susan Blood, The Poetics of Expenditure, (2002), DA: 8/17/12, CP) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">"La Notion de dépense" … Fleurs du mal. 12 [End Page 845]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Thus Kat and I affirm that the United States Federal Government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States through glorious expenditure, breaking down the limits that bind the current economic modes of production.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our Affirmation of the Resolution allows for a moment of transgression that is the opens up space for the celebration of life, and denying the endless accumulation of wealth that sustains the capitalistic world of objects. It is through industry that we open up endless possibilities of growth and wasteful consumption</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Bataille 88** (Georges Bataille, The Accursed Share' An Essay on General Economy Volume I Consumption, 1988, 180-183, DA: 8/17/12, CP)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It is easy to make … destroy (consume) a surplus of energy. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Capitalism is the unreserved surrender to the world of things, which seeks to destroy all forms of becoming and instead locks us all into static tools to be used to mechanically move the Satanic engines of a restricted economy. This pure will to power forfeits the very tenants of freedom and value that make life worth living</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Bataille 88** (Georges Bataille, The Accursed Share' An Essay on General Economy Volume I Consumption, 1988, 136-138, DA: 8/17/12, CP)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Capitalism in a sense is an … ),consented to be only a thing.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our 1AC is not a claim to universal knowledge. Instead the judge should affirm non-knowledge: the world is a boundless play of aesthetic forces, ever changing – we try to know about things like different modes of economic analysis, hegemony, and transportation, but we can’t know everything – there’s always an accursed share of non-knowledge: something that is in excess of our ability to completely understand it, something that we can’t know because it is excluded in the very process of systematic thinking. Making a cut in the fabric of utility is a pre-requisite to good communication and policy making about transportation infrastructure.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Yusoff ‘10** Kathryn (Professor of Geography at the University of Exeter, “Biopolitical Economies and the Political Aesthetics of Climate Change,” Theory Culture Society 2010 27: 73 [[http://history.ucsd.edu/_files/base-folder1/Biopolitical%20Economies%20and%20the%20Political%20Aesthetics%20of%20Climate%20Change.pdf]]) [m leap]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The ‘Play of the World’: … the archive that I now turn.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Reject the Negatives Catastrophe Framing. Decision calculus based on anxiety is a flawed form of decision calculus in which we cease to take pleasure in the flux that is life</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Shapiro 11** – an interdisciplinary thinker who studied science-technology at MIT and philosophy-history-literature at Cornell University (Alan N., 8/25/11, Jean Baudrillard and Doomsday: On Louis Arnoux’s “Catastrophe Warning” Discourse, http://www.alan-shapiro.com/baudrillard-and-doomsday-on-louis-arnoux%E2%80%99s-%E2%80%9Ccatastrophe-warning%E2%80%9D-discourse/)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In the second essay of … , it is here and now.” (119) </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Humanism, progress, and knowledge are death—we should surrender</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Land 92** ( Nick, Lecturer in Continental Philosophy at the University of Warwick, Thirst for Annihilation, Georges Bataille and Virulent Nihilism, pg 149-150)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Humanism (capitalist patriarchy) is the … , nor are words about words.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The unconditional affirmation of human life is a violent form of oppression. We become slaves, shackled to the tautological cycle of positivity</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baudrillard 2** (Jean, “The Spirit of Terrorism: Hypotheses on Terrorism”, Verso 2002, translated by Chris Turner, pp. 68-70)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">All the same, we should … occupy the position of master.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">No impact to death </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Lanza, 11** professor at Wake Forest, 11/26/11 – considered one of the leading cell scientists in the world. He is currently Chief Scientific Officer at Advanced Cell Technology, and a professor at Wake Forest University School of Medicine (Robert, Why Do You Exist?, http://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/biocentrism/201111/why-do-you-exist</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We're more than we've been … meaning is in the lyrics.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We have internalized the blackmail of security, encasing ourselves in cellophane to ensure our shelf lives. This view reduces the body to a diseased object in need of protection and insurance, making life nothing more than a process of continual mortification.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baudrillard 76** (Jean, smart Frenchy, Symbolic Exchange and Death, pp. 177-180, Sage Publications)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Security is another form of … every risk into its sarcophagus.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The philosophical musings of the 1AC are simply masked utility – we must disintegrate philosophy as a means of destroying the servile nature of knowledge</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**DeBoer 99** (Jason, “Bataille versus Theory”, [[http://www.absintheliteraryreview.com/archives/fierce2.htm%29//RK|http://www.absintheliteraryreview.com/archives/fierce2.htm)[rkezios]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The writings of Georges Bataille … a great, "silent" theorist -- Georges Bataille.</span>

=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC – New Trier (Structural Violence)</span>= 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We begin our discussion our transportation infrastructure as follows...</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">They ask for investment</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In the status quo</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A type of assessment </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">To make products grow </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">To the great resolution</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That states RESOLVED</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Propose a solution</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">To help us all solve</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hegemony, the Economy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our dwindling resource store</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jobs, warming, disease</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Global nuclear war</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">To the security apparatus </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That’s the U.S.F.G</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">To those with government status</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">With PhD’s and degrees</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">To all those corporations</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That sit back content</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">While some people struggle</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">To eat and pay rent </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">To the debate community </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Whose unity depends </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">On suppressing opportunity </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">For descent </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We have a message...</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Here in this room </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We all are debating</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">I wait to give my next speech</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">While others stand waiting</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Wondering if they’ll have a next meal</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Suffocating </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In broken New Deal promises </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And yet our discussions</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Revolve around Russians</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And Chinese miscalculation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The sensation we get when</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We say that U.S readiness</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Outweighs proliferation</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">But where are the people whose policies our discussion actually affects?</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">They can’t hear us calling from Capitol Hill</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">They don’t read Senator X and Y’s proposed Bill</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">They’re too busy working and working long hours</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">So to those that scream down from their white ivory towers</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">You’ll have to scream louder </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">You want transportation infrastructure, we’ll give you some historical examples </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Europeans came on ships</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And they made several trips</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Killing off the oppressed </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">They were hell bent obsessed </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">On profit </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Investment was based off</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The impressment of natives</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Transportation was a mutilation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A creation of Western objectivity</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Productivity preceded all other action</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The extraction of natural resources </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Was the only thing worth investing… </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The English Royal Fleet</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Spanish Crusade</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And way before that it was based off the slave trade</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**- Palcios 12** (Christian, student at Whitney Young High school, certified poet, romantic, and terrorist amongst other things, CP) </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Have the discussions of the oppressed ever permeated the thick fabric of fiat </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That we use to keep ourselves insulated, secured against any meaningful exchange</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That we can have with those that are less fortunate than us?</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We begin with a narrative from Adam Burke</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Burke 8**, Adam, Writer for NPR) December 4, 2008 “Sucked into the tunnels underneath Las Vegas” [[http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=97800190]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It would be easy to … ." No reason to doubt him.</span>


**This year the resolution calls us to address the policies of Transportation infrastructure in the United States. H owever , our affirmation of infrastructure requires an investment not in fiatted monetary terms but instead an investment in what lies beneath the streets, beneath the flickering pulse of the bright lights and big cities we’re taught to see as centers of American liberty and freedom**
**Abu-Jamal 98** (Mumia Abu-Jamal 1998 “A QUIET AND DEADLY VIOLENCE,” 9/19/98, http://www.mumia.nl/TCCDMAJ/quietdv.htm )

It has often been observed … decade, throughout the world." [Gilligan, p. 196]
__[REMOVED FROM 1AC AS OF GLENBROOKS]__

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND - We need to challenge the current invisibility of structural violence amongst our communities. The normal functioning of debate, much like our current functioning of modern American society, constructs a methodological distinction between groups of people, deeming them a part of the in crowd or the out crowd...Discussions are either “topical” or “not-topical” – relevant or irrelevant. This constant issue excludes the oppressed from our discussions, further distancing the oppressed from ourselves, contributing to the systematic violence present in the status-quo. This is what leads an invisible genocide committed against the weak and poor throughout the world. We propose an inclusionary approach through our relationships within our debate community, debate's discursive potential, and the appreciation and acceptance of diverse ways of viewing the world, including the world in which we live in and the world in which we debate in, in order to discontinue the invisibility of structural violence.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Winter and Leighton in 1999** (Deborah DuNann Winter and Dana C. Leighton. Winter: Psychologist that specializes in Social Psych, Counseling Psych, Historical and Contemporary Issues, Peace Psychology. Leighton: PhD graduate student in the Psychology Department at the University of Arkansas. Knowledgable in the fields of social psychology, peace psychology, and ustice and intergroup responses to transgressions of justice) (Peace, conflict, and violence: Peace psychology in the 21st century. Pg 4-5)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Finally, to recognize the operation … to empower citizens to reduce it.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Therefore the Role of The Ballot for this debate is to endorse a political discussion emphasizing the voices of the oppressed people affected by transportation infrastructure as we debate this year’s resolution. Resolved: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States. Your ballot acts as an endorsement of a brand of politics capable of challenging the violent norms of the status quo, voting aff is the act pressing down on the elevator taking a look at what goes down underneath the streets.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The failure to incorporate the lives of those who are oppressed by our politics can only lead to more oppressive politics… and eventually the failure of our politics. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Friere 70** (Paulo Friere, Pedagogy of the Oppressed, Chapter 1, educator and director of the Department of Cultural Extension of Recife University,1970)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">For the truly humanist educator … cultural invasion,[11]good intentions notwithstanding</span>

**Our affirmation of the resolution escapes the politics of business as usual - opening up agency that resists the sovereigns command over all life and beauty. We resist that which robs our political projects of agency and commitment.**
**Wadiwel 2** (Dinesh Joesph, “Cows and Sovereignty: Biopower and Animal Life” Borderlands E-Journal Vol.1 #2)
But such a political program has … life shared by both entities.
__[REMOVED FROM 1AC AS OF GLENBROOKS]__

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Only by recognizing the ways in which we are negatively affected by transportation infrastructure while simultaneously acknowledging the ways in which our advancement in such spaces are at the expense of others can we purposefully and effectively challenge the systems that have created and allows structural violence both in the past and the status quo.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Henze 2000** (Brent R.Henze 2000 “Who Says Who Says?: The Epistemological Grounds for Agency in Liberatory Political Projects.” Found in Reclaiming Identity: Realist theory and the predicament of postmodernism. Edited by Paula Moya and Michael Hames-Garcia)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Though I argue against efforts… yet particular effect of power.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Before we start cross-x we wish to return ourselves to the discussion of the poor. Help for one another goes beyond any material condition in the world. Voting affirmative understands our advocacy as not only a call of material responsibility but also that of spiritual responsibility. Politics minus an understanding of non-material conditions lead to psychic genocide.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**hooks 2000** (TY COLLEGE OF NEW YORK, PROFESSOR, THEN DISTINGUISHED PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH, 1995–2004; BEREA COLLEGE, BEREA, KY, DISTINGUISHED PROFESSOR-IN-RESIDENCE, BEGINNING 2004. CO-FOUNDER, HAMBONE LITERARY MAGAZINE. 2000[bELL,WHERE WE STAND: CLASS MATTERS, P. 129-130)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The poor may be with … as needs of the spirit.</span>

=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Structural Violence 1AC Updates (Glenbrooks)</span>= 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">Status quo systems of transportation have failed precisely because we don’t start from the perspective of the oppressed. Any benefits from investment instead go to the elite</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Setboonsarng, 2006.**[ Sununtar , 18 Apr. "Transport Infrastructure and Poverty Reduction." Adbi.org. Asian Development Bank Institute, 18 Apr. 2006. Web. <[[@http://www.adbi.org/research-policy-brief/2006/04/18/1791.transport.infrastructure.poverty/|__http://www.adbi.org/files/2006.04.rpb21.transport.infrastructure.poverty_000.pdf__]]>.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In many instances, transport investments have failed to provide benefits for the ... responsive to the prevailing conditions faced by the poor.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We must interrogate both objective and subjective forms of structural violence. Any other method of communication fails to identify the root of the problem and makes error replication inevitable. The invisibility of structural violence has justified the ruthless expansion of Western ideology, the invasion of Iraq, torture chambers and is the root of exploitation and oppression</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Howie 11** (Luke, Department of Behavioral Studies, Monash University, member of the Global Terrorism Research Centre, International Journal of Zizek Studies Volume 5 Number 2, “They Were Created by Man … and They Have a Plan: Subjective and Objective Violence in Battlestar Galactica and the War on Terror” pg. 2-4)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Žižek’s descriptions of the distinction between … identifying objective violence can have consequences. Yet, identifying objective violence may also play an important role in preventing terrorism.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Don’t buy the negatives images of catastrophe. Their forms of fear mongering political discourse only reinscribe systems of status quo domination. Our 1AC acts as a way of reclaiming the debate space from the zombified forms of scholarship that proliferate our information networks.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Giroux 11** (Henry A. Giroux, Global TV Network Chair in English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, 1 June 2011, “Zombie Politics, Democracy, and the Threat of Authoritarianism - Part I”, [[@http://www.truth-out.org/zombie-politics-democracy-and-threat-authoritarianism-part-i/1306932037]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In the world of popular culture, zombies seem to be everywhere, … military violence and is a far cry from any semblance of a claim to democracy.</span>

=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC - Investment Specification</span>= 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This was the 2NR of round 5 of Homewood Flossmoor. I swear.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Substantial is meaningful</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**WordNet, 6** (WordNet® 3.0, © 2006 by Princeton University.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/substantial|Dictionary.reference.com/ browse/substantial]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Substantial, adjective¶ 2. having a firm basis in reality and being therefore important, meaningful, or considerable; "substantial equivalents"</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Increase requires specification</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**OED, 89** (Oxford English Dictionary, 2nd edition, Online through Emory)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">increase, v.¶ 3. To become greater in some specified quality or respect; to grow or advance in.¶ .</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Violation: they’re not topical because they don’t specify the investments they provide</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Investments require specification</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Johnson 10** [Lana, “The specification of investment policy”, EzineMark]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">THE SPECIFICATION OF … for controlling him and evaluating his performance.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2. Kills topic education, generic investments don’t exist, they’re too ambiguous</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Mortenson 10** [VOLUME 51, NUMBER 1, WINTER 2010, “The Meaning of “Investment”: ICSID’s Travaux¶ and the Domain of International¶ Investment Law”, Julian Davis Mortenson*, Assistant Professor, Michigan Law School]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The analysis outlined above is neither purely … practice analysis.</span>

=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Absurdity K</span>= 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">FIRST OFF: IQ TEST</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">SUBPOINT A: DEBATE SHOULD CONSIST OF SOME LEVEL OF READING AND EDUCATION</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">SUBPOINT B: IF YOU ANSWER THIS ARGUMENT YOU SHOULD LOSE.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">THE ROLE OF THE BALLOT IS TO VOTE FOR THE TEAM THAT PROVIDES THE BEST DEBATING EXPERIENCE.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">SECOND OFF: THE POETRY</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We have some poetry. This is Bataille in 1950…</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">“Immensite criminelle…” Bataille</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Criminal immensity</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Break vase of immensity</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ruin without boundaries</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Immensity that down and whelms me</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">I am fleece</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The universe is felon</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Madness alar my insanity</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Talons to immensity</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Immensity to talons me</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">I am alone</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">About the blind will read these lines</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In that of interminable tunnels</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">I down in deep immensity</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Immensity devolves to she</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">She’s blacker than demise</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The sun is black</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The beaut of to be is bottom hollows of a cry</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Definitive of night</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This that loves in light</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The shudder sheet of which she’s glazed</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Is desire of the night</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">“je mens….”</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">I lie</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The universe is tacked</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">To my dememnt mendacities</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Immensity</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And I</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Dement mendacities from one the next</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The truth dies</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">I cry</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The way truth lies</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">My confectionary head</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That draws the cup of fever</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Is the suicide of truth</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">NEXT OFF: THE K</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(NOTE: these cards are actually not real. They were found here: http://www.elsewhere.org/pomo/)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Affirmative’s Affirmation of sexuality is not neutral. Instead it is a process of desublimination through which we feed into a system of hyperreality and allows our agency to be appropriated by capitalist modes of devaluation. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Sargeant 12’** [Hans. A.J.Department of Future Studies, University of Oregon “Textual Postdialectic theory in the works of Fellini” November 11, 2012]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Textual postdialectic theory …..the primary theme of the works of Eco is a self-justifying reality.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">More evidence on this question. Our criticism is a decision rule.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Smith in 1971** (Pickett, J. H. (1971) Dialectic dematerialism and postsemiotic situationism, DA: 10/27/94, CP)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">If one examines dialectic dematerialism, ….Ulysses, Joyce reiterates the neotextual paradigm of reality; in A Portrait of the Artist As a Young Man, however, he analyses dialectic dematerialism.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">LAST OFF: THE SONG</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Dead Prez, Hell yeah</span>

=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Death (Baudrillard)</span>= 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We have internalized the blackmail of security, encasing ourselves in cellophane to ensure our shelf lives. This view reduces the body to a diseased object in need of protection and insurance, making life nothing more than a process of continual mortification.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baudrillard 76** (Jean, smart Frenchy, Symbolic Exchange and Death, pp. 177-180, Sage Publications)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Security is another form of … every risk into its sarcophagus.</span>

=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Ecology</span>= 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">They treat the natural world as an experiment to be managed, a sphere in which human life must be preserved eternally, which paradoxically removes the value of life itself. We need the accident and randomness of the natural world to smash their simplified construction in order to escape.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baudrillard in 94** [Jean, “The Illusion … euphoria sustained by drip-feed.</span>


=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Economic Rationality</span>= 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their reliance on economic rationality presupposes a neoliberal form of subjectivity that they superimpose upon the world in order to justify mass violence and homogenization. This also makes transition wars and economic collapse inevitable, as it fails to understand how the crucial problem today is one of symbolic exchange.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Bernadri 11** – (Franco Bifo Bernardi, “After the Future,” ed. Genesko & Thoburn, AKPress, p. 141-7, CP)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">More than ever, economic rationality … the way to self-organization</span>

=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Nuclearizm</span>= 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The simulation of nuclear war as a constant game of survival means we are constantly being obliterated in our hyper-real world over and over again. When we engage in the hyperreality created by the system then our reality is being security instead of being ourselves. The world becomes nothing but deterrence and war and peace become indistinct</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Jean Baudrillard 1994**. (simulacra and simulation pg 32-39)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The apotheosis of simulation: the … meticulous operation of the social.</span>

=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Death – (Schopenhauer)</span>= 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our lives exist perpetually in the middle – subjects in the middle of becoming objects – people in the middle living – people in the middle of becoming corpses. Life is an a-subjective current of folded consciousness, a stream of life, and we slip on and on through the middle of it – never seeing the forest for the trees. The truth is that the river runs through us too – united in pure immanence. However, the restrictive identity of “self” survival imprisons us in the ego and the body, preventing any lines of flight or becoming.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Mark ’98** (John, Gilles Deleuze: Vitalism and Multiplicity, p. 29-33)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It's organisms that die, not … , becomings evolve, revolutions take shape. (N,45)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The affirmative approaches the world with the tautological rationality of viviocentrism – that is life-centeredness. Viviocentrism is a noble lie that informs all aspects of their advocacy and it is the same binary logic of natural mastery that justifies racism, sexism, anthropomorphism, etc. Opening our minds to death allows a transcendence of the tyranny of life and creates the conditions for the ultimate erosion of all borders and conceptions of the natural – put the burden on them to justify physical existence as a roll for the ballot</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Heisman 10** (Mitchell Heisman (The opposite of a bullshitter, suicide practitioner, & University at Albany bachelor's degree in psychology) 2010</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[Suicide Note, online @ … http://www.suicidenote.info/, loghry]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">There is a very popular opinion … not dictate a bias towards life.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Linearity is a myth – time and space are constructions of perception. Death doesn’t really exist because the physical world is an illusion—immortal life is consciousness and it exists outside of time.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Lanza 2009** (Robert Lanza is considered one of the leading scientists in the world. He is currently Chief Scientific Officer at Advanced Cell Technology, and a professor at Wake Forest University School of Medicine. "Does Death Exist? New Theory Says 'No'", [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/robert-lanza/does-death-exist-new-theo_b_384515.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Consider an experiment that was … resides outside of time altogether.</span>

=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Bataille</span>= 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Action mutilates the totality of our existence, tapering it off in subordination to a goal. The only way to avoid such slavery, to totalize our freedom, is to immanently dissolve into the moment, to burn with desire for desire’s sake, to laugh to death</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Bataille 45** (Georges Bataille, The Dark Lord amongst other things, philosopher, On Nietzche, 1945, Pantheon Books, pg xxvi-xxvii)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nonetheless, I don’t want my Inclination … lacks further tasks to fulfill.)</span>

=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Difference</span>= 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It is only the attempt to know the other from the self that creates a dualism and the condition for oppression.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baudrillard 1993** (Jean, certified badass, Transparency of Evil, pg. 127-129)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">These days everything is described in terms of difference …These are the vicissitudes of a logic of difference.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The fetish of play with the other and its well being only reconstructs the other as exhaustible object bringing on its mutilation.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baudrillard 1993** (Jean, certified badass, Transparency of Evil, pg. 124-126)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">So what became of otherness? …. Homeostasis between one and the same: all otherness has been confiscated by the machine.</span>


=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Terrorism</span>= 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The hostages: Your leaders! Your system! Your 1AC! We demand a 3-0 decision for the Negative from Whitney Young as well as a right to future demands. If these are not met by the 2AC more hostages may be killed, and initial demands may follow. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The alternative: affirm the terrorist spectacle. Voting negative is symbolically affirming terrorism and the potency of terrorists against the system.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The only way to challenge the dominant order is to trigger a symbolic trap to render the system incapable of responding without losing face. All responses signal nothing more than impotence in the face of symbolic violence. Our action is the only way to be political, to rupture dominant political forces. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baudrillard 76** [Jean, brilliant French philosopher, professor of sociology and philosophy at Université de Paris-IX Dauphine, Symbolic Exchange and Death, p. 36-38]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We will not destroy the system by a direct, dialectical revolution… , the only violence it cannot exert: its own death.</span>

=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Wilderson</span>= 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The only ethical demand available to modern politics is that of the Slave and the Savage, the demand for the end of America itself. This cry, born out of the belly of slave ships and the churning vertigo of constitutive genocide, exposes the grammar of the Affirmative’s calls for larger institutional access as a fundamental fortification of White Settler and Slave Master civil society by its diversionary focus on the ethicality of the policies and practices of the United States as opposed to the a priori question its very existence. This silence of the Affirmative’s assumptive logic renders them unaccountable to the revolutionary political ontology of Redness and Blackness and thereby sets the stage for the various dramas of conflictual relationships i.e. class struggle, gender conflict, etc. that are made possible by the antagonism between Settler and Savage, Master and Slave.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Wilderson 2010** [Frank B., killed apartheid officials in South Africa, nuff said, Red, White & Black: Cinema and the Structure of U.S. Antagonisms, pages 1-5]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">When I was a young student at Columbia … political theory that follows.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">While the afterlife of slavery is far from an abstraction in the lived reality of blackness, recourse to the sociological empirics of suffering already codifies the category of “exploitation” as the base grammar of suffering, ignoring the gratuitousness of anti-black violence and enshrining the call for more public policy as the limit point of our revolutionary demands. This elides the way in which civil society is parasitic on The Middle Passage and thus how Humanity itself can only be constituted in opposition to the fundamentally anti-Human position of the slave. It is this libidinal economy of anti-blackness which exists as the condition of possibility for the violence of the world.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Wilderson 2010** [Frank B., again, dude straight up MURKED white supremacists like buk buk, Red, White & Black: Cinema and the Structure of U.S. Antagonisms, pages 10-11]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Regarding the Black position, some might ask why … at the gates of Columbia University awaits an answer.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The battle for the public sphere is over—we lost. Radical Conservatives and Radical Liberals are now two sides of the same coin, and any movement that actually promises radical change will be destroyed as soon as it becomes visible. An invisible movement has the most subversive potential—rejecting politics and institutions steeped in white privilege is the only political act</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**The Invisible Committee, ‘7** [an anonymous group of French professors, phd candidates, and intellectuals, in the book “The Coming Insurrection” published by Semiotext(e) (attributed to the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tarnac_Nine|Tarnac Nine]] by the French police),[[http://tarnac9.noblogs.org/gallery/5188/insurrection_english.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Whatever angle you look at it from … see and not avoid the conclusions to be drawn from it.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">To make micropolitics visible is to coopt it by giving resistance an object – this understanding allows resistance to be framed, to be declared a failure and prevents the immanence of imperceptible politics from coalescing around mundane particles and habitudes of existence</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Tsianos et al. ‘8** Vassilis, teaches sociology at the University of Hamburg, Germany, Dimitris Papadopoulos teaches social theory at Cardiff University, Niamh Stephenson teaches social science at the University of New South Wales. “Escape Routes: Control and Subversion in the 21st Century” Pluto Press</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In this sense imperceptible politics does … the vital force for imperceptible politics.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The aff is an ethical double-turn – violence against Otherness is not a product of misaligned subjectivities but a process underwritten into the political foundations of modern society – this means that they cannot solve because the United States federal government is an unethical actor who is only capable of oppression</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Wilderson 10** – dude straight up shot racists in South Africa</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Frank, Red, White & Black: Cinema and the Structure of U.S. Antagonisms pg 2-5, dml)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">What are we to make of a world that responds to the most lucid … (political) discourse, that is, as unspoken grammars. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Vote neg – freedom is an illusion created by the shackles of civil society – there is no radical Party organization that can emerge out of – we must burn the 1AC to the ground</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Farley 5** – Boston College [gender-modified words denoted by brackets]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Anthony, “Perfecting Slavery”, [[http://lawdigitalcommons.bc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1028&context=lsfp]], dml)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">What is to be done?Two hundred years ago … is what the slave must become to pursue its calling that is not a calling.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their concepts of freedom and inclusion are parasitic on the exclusion of the black body – inclusion of this position is structurally impossible within their framework</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Wilderson 10** – dude straight up shot racists in South Africa</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Frank, Red, White & Black: Cinema and the Structure of U.S. Antagonisms pg 9-11, dml)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Regarding the Black position, some might ask … at the gates of Columbia University awaits an answer.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Policy is only going to come after our radical abolitionist pedagogy starts to go into effect, fw hacks take the bench for this round</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Rodriguez 10** (Dylan Rodriguez, D Rod Will Make Ya Jump, “Disorientation of the Teaching Act: Abolition as Pedagogical Position”, Radical Teacher, Number 88, Summer 2010, p. 7-19)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Perhaps, then, there is no viable or defensible …this form of pedagogical audacity</span>

=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Simulation</span>= 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We now live in a world of simulation—the political is dead and with it goes its ideas. The game has fundamentally changed: policy elites manipulate us with dead, simulated power. In this way, liberal-democratic fascism uses consumerism and propaganda to complete the masking of oppression and the fabrication of image-capitalism.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Hegarty 04** (Paul Hegarty 2004 7/30 Jean Baudrillard: Live Theory P. 91-93 MRL)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The era of simulation, or hyperreality, brings serious … and ceremonial edifice of former societies' (p. 65;69).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Debate is Disneyland—the ridiculous simulation games we play naturalize nuclear policy-making in the real world. Conceals the inherent unreality of the world outside the round—the terminal impact is limitless nihilism.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baudrillard 94** (Jean Baudrillard 1994 Simulacra and Simulation p. 12-13 MRL)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Disneyland is a perfect model of all the entangled orders … materialization of life and to undiscoverable contradictions.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We need to refuse the demand of constituting ourselves as subjects of the political. When the masses do nothing, we can be liberated. (Prefer this evidence's specificity to speech and voting when determining the role of the ballot.)</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baudrillard, ‘81** (Jean, Simulacra and Simulation, p. 84-86 MRL)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> With one caution. We are face to face with this system … of meaning and of speech.</span>

=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Horror Story</span>= 
**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">We now turn to HP Lovecraft, to continue the story:</span>**
**Lovecraft, 31**
(HP Lovecraft, “Weird Tales,” November 1931)
They say foul beings of Old Times … lurk in the dark places of the world?

**Voting negative is a ballot to retell the aff as a horror story – weirdly horrific fiction is a form of narration that attempts to respond to harm by understanding the compounding duality of fear and fascination – the narrative of the 1ac clings to ordinary external events and presents opportunities for progress and resolution of harms – their story is dominated by an idealistic materialism and optimism that either captures and distorts or destroys any literary recognition of horror – our alternative method of narration through horror story rejects the optimistic humanist elements of the aff story in order to recognize the inevitable dread of human knowledge in its attempt to understand the mystery of the unknown and unpredictable – the supernatural condition of horror is primordial and must be accepted.**
**Lovecraft ’27** (H.P. Lovecraft, “Supernatural Horror In Literature,” 1927, pg 1-3) [m leap]
THE OLDEST and strongest emotion of … dead and the moonstruck can glimpse.

=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Past 2NRs</span>= 
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LEdqn-Gtg-s

Everything on the wiki has been a 2NR at some point.