[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**1AC - Newman Smith**</span>== 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Observation One is Topic Education:**</span>== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">First, transportation infrastructure is financed in one of two ways – through the general fund, or through increased revenue – Stimulus Programs finance through the general fund while failing to repair the Highway Trust Fund </span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">ARTBA 2k10</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(American Road and Transportation Builders Association to the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform “The Contribution of the Federal Transportation Investment Programs to Fiscal Responsibility and Deficit Reduction,” pg online @[[http://www.fiscalcommission.gov/sites/fiscalcommission.gov/files/documents/ARTBA.pdf]] //um-ef)//</span>

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Transportation Investment and ... expanded transportation improvements.</span>//


//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">S</span>**</span>//**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">econd, Congress just passed a MASSIVE transportation bill – it should have triggered your disads, but didn’t fix the Highway Trust Fund</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Snyder 6/26</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Tanya Snyder became Streetsblog's Capitol Hill editor in September 2010 after covering Congress for Pacifica and public radio. She lives car-free in a transit-oriented and bike-friendly neighborhood of Washington, DC., pg online @ [[http://dc.streetsblog.org/2012/06/26/where-did-the-senate-get-the-extra-money-to-pay-for-its-bill/]] </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">um-ef)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Congressional leaders announced… raising the gas tax</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">.</span>


==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Plant Text]]__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Plant Text</span>__</span>== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">**The United States Federal Government should increase the federal excise tax rate and phase-in a price floor and vairable tax on gasoline for transportation infrastructure in the United States.** </span>



==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Observation Two is the Deficit]]Observation Two is the Deficit</span>== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">First, the deficit is on an unsustainable path – now is the CRITICAL time to re-orient policies to stave-off a new debt tragedy</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Council on Foreign Relations 3/2/12</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(“U.S. Deficits and the National Debt,” pg online @ [[http://www.cfr.org/united-states/us-deficits-national-debt/p27400]] //um-ef)//</span>

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">At some point… policy," he says.</span>//


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">And, Congress has two options for the future – increased revenue generation, or deficit spending – only NEW REVENUE ensures Fiscal Responsibility</span>**


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">ARTBA 2k10</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(American Road and Transportation Builders Association to the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform “The Contribution of the Federal Transportation Investment Programs to Fiscal Responsibility and Deficit Reduction,” pg online @[[http://www.fiscalcommission.gov/sites/fiscalcommission.gov/files/documents/ARTBA.pdf]] </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">um-ef)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">For more than 50 years… user taxes and levies.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">And, the plan is a KEY TEST for future budget debates – increasing revenue ensures a sustainable fiscal path</span>**


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Washington Post 3/7</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(“A fiscal test for Congress,” pg lexis//um-ef)//</span>


//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Over the past year,…crisis in history"?</span>//


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">And, Failure to Reign-In Deficits and Establish Fiscal Discipline Guts U.S.-China Relations they’ll be over-aggressive, gutting cooperation</span>**


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Prasad 2/25</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Eswar, Eswar Prasad holds the New Century Chair in International Economics. He is the Tolani Senior Professor of Trade Policy at Cornell University and a Research Associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research. He was previously head of the Financial Studies Division and the China Division at the IMF, “The U.S.-China Economic Relationship: Shifts and Twists in the Balance of Power,” pg online @ [[http://www.brookings.edu/testimony/2010/0225_us_china_debt_prasad.aspx]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">um-ef)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The lopsided nature… tackling climate change</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Extinction</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Zhou, 8, Assistant Professor in the Department of Asian Languages and Cultures at Hobart and William Smith Colleges – NY -- Dr. Jinghao, Does China’s Rise Threaten the United States? Asian Perspective, Vol. 32, No. 3, 2008, pp. 171-1</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Third, there are… promoting world peace.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Deficit Spending Collapses the Economy – deficits outweigh EVERY OTHER indicator</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Hunt 2k12</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Lacy H. Hunt, Master of Business Administration from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, and a doctorate in economics from Temple University, is executive vice president of Hoisington Investment Management Company (HIMCO), a Texas-based registered investment adviser specializing in the management of fixed-income portfolios for large institutional clients. The firm has more than $4.5 billion under management, with a client base of corporate and public funds, foundations, endowments, Taft-Hartley funds and insurance companies. An internationally known economist, Hunt joined HIMCO in 1996. His background includes roles as chief U.S. economist for the HSBC Group, one of the world's largest banks, executive vice president and chief economist for Fidelity Bank, vice president for monetary economics at Chase Econometrics Associates, Inc. and senior economist for the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, “Economic Recovery Via Shared Sacrifice, Cutting Government Spending, Deficit and Debts,” pg online @ [[http://www.marketoracle.co.uk/Article34706.html]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">LH: It may occur… cannot do that.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Extinction</span>**
<span class="CitesChar2" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Auslin 9</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Michael, Resident Scholar – American Enterprise Institute, and Desmond Lachman – Resident Fellow – American Enterprise Institute, “The Global Economy Unravels”, Forbes, 3-6, [[http://www.aei.org/article/100187]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">What do these trends… into a big bang.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Observation Three is Manufacturing]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Observation Three is Manufacturing</span></span>== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">First, U.S. Manufacturing is low now – lack of sales and demand</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Reuters 7/3</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(“U.S. manufacturing shrinks, 1st time in nearly 3 yrs,” pg online @ [[http://in.reuters.com/article/2012/07/02/usa-economy-idINDEE8610EU20120702]] //um-ef)//</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">U.S. manufacturing shrank… rate in 18 months.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">**And, surface transportation investment is __CRITICAL__ to U.S. Manufacturing – props up dependent industrie**s</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Hermann 2k11</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Andrew Herrmann, P.E. SECB, F.ASCE President American Society of Civil Engineers, Impact Of Infrastructure Investment On The Manufacturing Sector, pg lexis</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">um-ef)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">ASCE commends the Joint…federal leadership in infrastructure;</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">And, investment in HIGHWAY transportation infrastructure is particularly critical – ensures long-term growth of Steel and the Manufacturing base</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">AISI 2k12</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(American Iron and Steel Institute, “AISI Public Policy Priorities – Promoting a Pro-Manufacturing Agenda,” pg online @[[http://www.steel.org/en/Public%20Policy/~/media/Files/AISI/Public%20Policy/Agenda/AISI2012PublicPolicyAgenda%20_%20Final%20020212.ashx]] //um-ef)//</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Transportation and Water Infrastructure…on improved gas mileage;</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">And, manufacturing capabilities key to technology necessary for U.S. deterrence</span>**
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">O’Hanlon et al 2k12</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Mackenzie Eaglen, American Enterprise Institute Rebecca Grant, IRIS Research Robert P. Haffa, Haffa Defense Consulting Michael O'Hanlon, The Brookings Institution Peter W. Singer, The Brookings Institution Martin Sullivan, Commonwealth Consulting Barry Watts, Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments “The Arsenal of Democracy and How to Preserve It: Key Issues in Defense Industrial Policy January 2012,” pg online @[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/26%20defense%20industrial%20base/0126_defense_industrial_base_ohanlon]]</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">um-ef)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The current wave of defense…</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> in a globalized marketplace</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Defense industrial base deters war with Russia, China, and terrorists</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Watts 2k8</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Senior Fellow @ The Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments (Barry D, “The US Defense Industrial Base, Past, Present and Future,” CBA,__[[http://www.csbaonline.org/4Publications/PubLibrary/R.20081015._The_US_Defense_In/R.20081015._The_US_Defense_In.pdf]]__)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Since the 1950s,…</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> since the 1950s</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Extinction</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14pt;">Bostrum ‘02</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[Dr. Nick, Dept. Phil @ yale, “Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards,” [[http://www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html/]|www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html/]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">A much greater…the 21st century.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">All levels of manufacturing and R&D are interconnected – a sustainable manufacturing base in the U.S. is critical to Advanced Manufacturing and R&D</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Lind 2k12</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Michael Lind is policy director of New America’s Economic Growth Program and a co-founder of the New America Foundation. Joshua Freedman is a program associate in New America’s Economic Growth Program. “Value Added: America’s Manufacturing Future,” pg online @[[http://growth.newamerica.net/sites/newamerica.net/files/policydocs/Lind,%20Michael%20and%20Freedman,%20Joshua%20-%20NAF%20-%20Value%20Added%20America%27s%20Manufacturing%20Future.pdf]] //um-ef)//</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Manufacturing, R&D and the…to 50 percent by 2020.33</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Independently, that innovation solves great power wars</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Taylor 2k4</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Mark, Professor of Political Science – Massachusetts Institute of Technology, “The Politics of Technological Change: International Relations versus Domestic Institutions”, 4-1, [[http://www.scribd.com/doc/46554792/Taylor]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Technological innovation… exist in the first place</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">And, U.S. Rate of Innovation, Technological Development and R&D MUST Keep Pace to Develop Technology and Solutions to Solve Collapse of the Global Biosphere</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Barker 2k</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(BRENT is manager of corporate communications, having earlier served as manager of strategic and executive communications and for12 years as the Journal's editor-in-chief, Technology and the Quest for Sustainability, EPRI Journal, pg nexis</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">ghs-ef)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Sustainability has been…That future begins now.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Observation Four is Legitimacy]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Observation Four is </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">US Energy Policy</span></span>== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Current Energy strategies gut U.S. Foreign Policy strategy – they ensure ineffective diplomatic leverage and lack of U.S. legitimacy</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Turgeon 2k10</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Evan N. Turgeon, Legal Associate at the Cato Institute; J.D.University of Virginia School of Law 2009; B.A. Tufts University 2004, “Triple-Dividends: Toward Pigovian Gasoline Taxation,” Journal of Land, Resources, & Envir onmental Law 2010, pg lexis//um-ef)//</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">C. Foreign Policy Detriment…interests may result</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;">.</span></span>//


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">That lack of legitimacy ensures Nuclear and CBW War</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Dr. Barlow 2k2</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Jeffrey, March, Director of the Berglund Center for Internet Studies, holds the Matsushita Chair of Asian Studies at Pacific University, Ph.D. in history from UC Berkeley, 2K2, “American Power, Globalism, and the Internet: Editorial Essay”, The Journal of Education, Community and Values,[[http://bcis.pacificu.edu/journal/2002/03/editorial.php#6|http://bcis.pacificu.edu/journal/2002/03/editorial.php#6]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Much of Nye’s analysis…. both domestic and international</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">But effective Multilateralism – led by the United States Solves – prevents multiple triggers for conflict and destruction</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Dr. Zakaria 2k8</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Fareed, Ph.D. in Government from Harvard University, & editor of Foreign Affairs magazine & Newsweek Internationa & professor of IR and political philosophy at Harvard and Columbia University, “Wanted: A New Grand Strategy”, 12/8/08, [[http://www.newsweek.com/id/171249]] )</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The "Global Trends… should seize it.</span>//

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Finally, an increased gas tax is the transition method – it transforms U.S. foreign policy and re-energizes U.S. Diplomacy</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Turgeon 2k10</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Evan N. Turgeon, Legal Associate at the Cato Institute; J.D.University of Virginia School of Law 2009; B.A. Tufts University 2004, “Triple-Dividends: Toward Pigovian Gasoline Taxation,” Journal of Land, Resources, & Envir onmental Law 2010, pg lexis</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">um-ef)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Significantly increasing federal…; it is cheaper to use.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Observation Five is Solvency]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Observation Five is Solvency</span></span>== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The plan solves – establishing a price floor sends a signal for renewable energy development, while increasing revenue for transportation infrastructure</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Abelkop 2k9</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Adam, J.D., University of Iowa College of Law, 2010; B.A., Wake Forest University, PHd Student @ Univ of Indiana, “Why the Government Should Drink Your Milkshake: The Case for Restructuring the Federal Gas Tax,” The Journal of Corporation Law Winter, 2009, 35 Iowa J. Corp. L. 393 pg lexis//um-ef)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Congress should enact… government deems appropriate.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">2AC T-Investment</span>== 

**BY LAW – increasing the Gas Tax increases Transportation Infrastructure Investment**


Richardson 8/1/11

(“New CAFE standards will result in $65B in lost revenue for road projects,” pg lexis//um-ef)




=Negative= 

* Investment PIC

Email Nikhil.rangathan@gmail.com or lim@greenhill.org if there are any questions.
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]