[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC - Icebreakers - AHS KK (Milton)== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The United States federal government should develop and deploy single purpose polar class icebreakers.</span>
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Solvency</span></span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">We have a couple icebreakers but it’s not enough – we need additional funding.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">PopMechanics 12-7 [Popular Mechanics, By Kalee Thompson; “Where Are America's Badly Needed Icebreakers?”; 12/7/2012;</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://www.popularmechanics.com/technology/military/navy-ships/where-are-americas-badly-needed-icebreakers-14829862?click=pm_latest]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">; Boyce]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">When the heavy-duty icebreaker AND, is due to enter service in 2014.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The plan is key – icebreaking capabilities are a prerequisite to polar presence</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">National Research Council 7 (NRC, Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Roles and Future Needs, National Research Council. “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs. Washington, 2007,[[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=2)moxley]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The committee finds that both operations and maintenance of the polar icebreaker fleet have been</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND reimburse incremental costs associated with directed mission tasking.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The usfg is key</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">National Research Council 7 (NRC, Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Roles and Future Needs, National Research Council. “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs. Washington, 2007,[[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=2)moxley]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The committee was asked AND operated by the U.S. Coast Guard.”</span>
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">North Advantage - Arctic Scenario</span>=== 



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Advantage 1 is the North</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Scenario 1 is Russia</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Risk of conflict high—most recent evidence</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Tassinari 9/7 Fabrizio Tassinari is a non-resident Senior Fellow at the German Marshall Fund and the Head of Foreign Policy and EU Studies at the Danish Institute for International Studies, September 7, 2012, “Avoiding a Scramble for the High North”,[[http://blog.gmfus.org/2012/09/07/avoiding-a-scramble-for-the-high-north/]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The geopolitics of the Arctic are stuck in a paradox: The more regional players</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">not hard to conjure up the prospect of an Arctic race building up.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The plan reverses this trend – a clear signal is key to avert Arctic war.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Dowd 11– MA from Indiana University, Senior Fellow of the Fraser Institute</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Alan, “The Big Chill: Energy Needs Fueling Tensions in the Arctic,” [[https://www.fraserinstitute.org/research-news/news/display.aspx?id=2147483979]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">One reason a military presence will be necessary is the possibility of accidents caused by</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Arctic is not to trigger a military confrontation, but to prevent one.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Russia won’t abide by treaties – only an offensive posture solves</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Dawkins 11 (Peter, E-International Relations, November 2011, “Securitisation and the Arctic Circle, [[http://www.e-ir.info/2011/11/11/securitisation-of-the-arctic-circle/]])//moxley</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Russia, as it stands could make the largest territorial gain from the Arctic,</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Russian export market and fundamentally the Russian itself, may depend on it.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Those go nuclear</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Wallace, 10 (Professor Emeritus at the University of British Columbia, March, “Ridding the Arctic of Nuclear Weapons A Task Long Overdue”,[[http://www.arcticsecurity.org/docs/arctic-nuclear-report-web.pdf]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The fact is, the Arctic is becoming a zone of increased military competition.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">geo-political/economic significance of the Arctic because of climate change.”</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Best scholarship proves our impact</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Murray 12(Professor of Political Science @ Alberta, “Arctic politics in the emerging multipolar system: challenges and consequences,” The Polar Journal, 2.1)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It is no overstatement to say that the end of the Cold War was one</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">the structure are very likely to translate into changes to state security strategies.</span>



===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Icebreakers-North Advantage - Methane Scenario]]<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">North Advantage - Methane Scenario</span></span>=== 



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Scenario 2 is Spills</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">First, drilling is inevitable</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Llanos 12 (Miguel, “US claims 'unprecedented' success in test for new fuel source,” May 5th, 2012,[[http://usnews.msnbc.msn.com/_news/2012/05/05/11522433-us-claims-unprecedented-success-in-test-for-new-fuel-source?lite]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Could the future of cleaner fossil fuel really be frozen crystals now trapped in ocean</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">in developing production technology to access this potential resource while sequestering carbon dioxide."</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Icebreaking prevents drilling accidents</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jones et al 7 (Professor @ UVA, Ph.D. in computer science from Carnegie-Mellon University, member of the Defense Science Board, the Charles Stark Draper Laboratory Corporation, the National Research Council Advisory Council for Policy and Global Affairs, and the MIT Corporation</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The U S Coast Guard seeks to protect the nation's natural resources by eliminating environmental</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">new polar icebreakers to be equipped wilh the latest technology for oil spill response</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Prevents oil spills that cause methane pollution</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Schneider 12 (Conrad, Advocacy Director, Clean Air Task Force “Curb Methane Emissions,” [[http://energy.nationaljournal.com/2012/07/is-arctic-oil-drilling-ready-f.php?comments=expandall]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">With Shell’s imminent entrance into Arctic waters, the debate is turning from “if</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">associated with oil and natural gas, in some cases by almost 100%.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Extinction</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">WWF 10 (“Drilling for Oil in the Arctic Too Soon Too Risky” [[http://worldwildlife.org/publications/drilling-for-oil-in-the-arctic-too-soon-too-risky]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Arctic and the subarctic regions surrounding it are important for many reasons. One</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">of any credible and tested means of responding effectively to a major spill.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">South Advantage - Science Diplomacy</span>=== 



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Advantage 2 is the South</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Antarctic Treaty is being undermined now.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">VOXY 9-19-12(Voxy News, “Antarctica may come under threat – UC” expert, The expert is Brian Storev of the University of Canterbury, September 19th, 2012, [[http://www.voxy.co.nz/national/antarctica-may-come-under-threat-uc-expert/5/135147]])//moxley</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The near pristine environment of Antarctica will in time come under a threat in future</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">being extracted from Antarctica within the next 36 years? Dr Storey said.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The plan is key – US presence prevents maintains the treaty</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">National Research Council 7 (NRC, Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Roles and Future Needs, National Research Council. “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs. Washington, 2007,[[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=2)//moxley]] *figure 2 excluded</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">With the increased interest in Antarctica, human presence has increased over the years as</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">to the continued existence of these stations and their associated outlying field sites.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That’s key to solve science diplomacy</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Collins 11(Terry, associate editor of Green Chemistry, prof @ Auckland U, “Founded on science, world cooperation in Antarctica a model for meeting climate, other challenges”, 6/16/11,</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[http://www.eurekalert.org/pub_releases/2011-06/cfgs-fos061011.php]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The success of world co-operation based on science and practiced since the Cold</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">and people to work together in decision-making on shared global interests."</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Solves a laundry list of impacts.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Federoff 8 – ina Fedoroff 8, Science and Technology Adviser to the Secretary of State and the Administrator of USAID, Testimony Before the House Science Subcommittee on Research and Science Education, 4/2, [[@http://www.state.gov/g/oes/rls/rm/102996.htm]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Chairman Baird, Ranking Member Ehlers, and distinguished members of the Subcommittee, thank</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">a means to enhance security, increase global partnerships, and create sustainability.</span>


==1AC - NextGen - AHS KK== 
===Economy=== 
Contention 1 is the Economy

~~[Economy down—- Preferably No jobs or growth now~~] - Economy on the brink of recession- 7 warrants
**Presstv.com 10/11** (Oct 11; [[http://www.presstv.ir/usdetail/266163.html-http://www.presstv.ir/usdetail/266163.html]]; Abhishek)
The U.S. is heading towards fiscal disaster and no one in Washington
AND
are now at least partially financially dependent on the government. The economic Collapse

Econ Decline leads to extinction
**Kemp 10 (Geoffrey, Director of Regional Strategic Programs – Nixon Center and Former Director of the Middle East Arms Control Project – Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, The East Moves West: India, China, and Asia~’s Growing Presence in the Middle East, p. 233-234)**
The second scenario, called Mayhem and Chaos, is the opposite of the first
AND
expected, with dire consequences for two-thirds of the planet~’s population.


Updating NextGen would spur economic growth and avoid an inevitable future collapse
**BLAKEY 11 President and CEO of Aerospace Industries Association ~~[Marion C. Blakey, The future of NextGen, 02/15/11, http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/economy-a-budget/144119-the-future-of-nextgen~~]**
The House and Senate have each declared passage of a new FAA Authorization bill a
AND
give FAA the tools to keep our nation the leader in civil aviation.

We have multiple internal links

1st is stimulus:
Infrastructure Investments sustain and save the economy in a cycle.
STIGLITZ, Nobel Prize Winner and Professor at Columbia in 12
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">~~[Joseph E. Stiglitz, Stimulating the Economy in an Era of Debt and Deficit, The Economists~’ Voice http://www.degruyter.com/view/j/ev March, 2012~~]</span>
Any diagnosis of the current economic situation should focus on the fact that the shortfall
AND
decline and that future incomes will rise as a result of these measures.

Second is the aviation industry:


Plan injects money into the economy
NEXA 11 (Nexa Advisors, A Private Aerospace Consultant Company "NextGen Equipage Fund" April) *NextGen Equipage Fund is loan guarantees fund requesting federal backing [[http://www.nextgenfund.com/files/downloads/NEF_Economic_Study.pdf-http://www.nextgenfund.com/files/downloads/NEF_Economic_Study.pdf]] (Pitman)
In an important recent study, "The Economic Impact of Civil Aviation on the
AND
and many of the economic and job benefits identified herein will be lost permanently


Nextgen solves: Even the pessimistic numbers show there will be a major economic boost
**Bin Salam 12**

**Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation ~~[Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation~~]**
Based on these estimates, the total cost of accidents to the general aviation community
AND
- ing incidents in general aviation, the potential benefits are substantial.28
Summary of NextGen Benefits
Table 6 summarizes the potential annual NextGen benefits to the aviation community, assuming complete
AND
can be reduced by up to %242.83 million/year.

Third is jobs:

NextGen generates recovery through jobs and business efficiency
Calio 11
~~[Nicholas Calio, President and CEO of the Air Transport Association of America, 2/9/11, "Aviation infrastructure is vital to winning the future," http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/technology/143033-aviation-infrastructure-is-vital-to-winning-the-future~~]
With broad consensus in the business community and organized labor that Congress should work with
AND
successfully and support the U.S. in our national ambition to win

Next is congestion:



NextGen ends airport congestion – boosting America~’s economy
Schank 6/23
~~[Joshua L. Schank, President and CEO Eno Center for Transportation, 6/23/12, http://www.enotrans.org/eno-brief/the-federal-role-in-transportation-four-ideas-for-greater-federal-involvement~~]
We often think of airports as local economic generators, and they are that,
AND
interest at play here and the federal government needs to be more involved.


===Hegemony=== 

Contention 2 is Hegemony

Airline Industry Doing Bad Now, Tech old
**Kelly ~’11 (**Gary Kelly-CEO and executive of Southwest Airlines. "We Need 21st Century Air Traffic Control" April 27, 2011. [[http://money.cnn.com/2011/04/27/news/companies/air-traffic-control-modernization/index.htm-http://money.cnn.com/2011/04/27/news/companies/air-traffic-control-modernization/index.htm]]) Rajiv

It~’s been a tough decade for the U.S. airline industry. Over
AND
along with the entire domestic airline industry, is ready for NextGen now.

Airline growth directly boosts Aerospace industry sales
**GOMEZ et al 12 ~~[Ben Hur Gomez, John Simon, Alan Ibrahim, undergraduate at Harvard University pursuing a degree in quantitative finance through the statistics department, and an economics degree 2. Zachs Analyst 3. worked at Wikinvest for 3.5 years as a content writer, industry analyst, and summer intern. Graduated from Harvard with a degree in economics and a secondary field in environmental science and public policy "Dependence on key customers", http://www.wikinvest.com/stock/Precision_Castparts_(PCP)~~]**
Demand in the aerospace market PCP~’s commercial sales depend substantially on the production rates of
AND
the course of the recovery in the aerospace cycle and likely impact PCP.

Strong aerospace is critical to overall US military power – sustains heg
**National Aerospace Week 10** (September 18, "Aerospace and Defense: The Strength to Lift America," [[http://www.nationalaerospaceweek.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/whitepaper.pdf-http://www.nationalaerospaceweek.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/whitepaper.pdf]]) National Aerospace Week
The beginning of a new decade presents the defense industry with challenges that aren~’t
AND
to ensure that a technology and manufacturing base exists to develop new ones.


Hegemony solves nuke war and extinction
**Barnett 11** (Thomas P.M, Former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis %26 Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies, U.S. Naval War College American military geostrategist and Chief Analyst at Wikistrat., worked as the Assistant for Strategic Futures in the Office of Force Transformation in the Department of Defense, "The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads," March 7 [[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads-http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads]]
It is worth first examining the larger picture: We live in a time of
AND
the 20th century, setting the stage for the Pacific Century now unfolding.

And, US pursuit of hegemony is inevitable – only a question of effectiveness
Calleo, Director – European Studies Program and Professor @ SAIS, ~’10
(David P, "American Decline Revisited," Survival, 52:4, 215 – 227)
The history of the past two decades suggests that adjusting to a plural world is
AND
turns the dollar into an imperial instrument that threatens the world with inflation.

The transition away from heg independently causes extinction
Brzezinski 12<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Zbigniew, Prof of US Foreign Policy at School of Advanced International Studies – Johns Hopkins University, Counselor – CSIS and Trustee and Co-Chair – CSIS Advisory Board, Former National Security Advisor – Carter, "After America", Foreign Policy, January / February, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/artic-http://www.foreignpolicy.com/artic]] les/2012/01/03/after_america?page=full)</span>
For if America falters, the world is unlikely to be dominated by a single
AND
policy — or start bracing itself for a dangerous slide into global turmoil.

===Plan=== 

PLAN: The United States federal government should invest in upgrading air traffic control infrastructure to NextGen.

===Solvency=== 

Contention 3 is Solvency

Federal investment spurs industry adoption and overcomes all current stalemates
**Bin Salam 12 Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation ~~[Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation~~]**
The aviation system that is part of the life-blood of our economy is
AND
that NextGen benefits can be delivered in a timely manner if at all.



The USFG should do the plan – only a strong federal signal will get the system in place and operational.
**ALPA 12 Air Line Pilots Association International. ~~[June 2012 White Paper, Leveling the Playing Field for U.S. Airlines and Their Employees, [[http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html~~%23top-http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html]]~~]**
Invest in NextGen to Improve Safety and Increase Efficiencies While Decreasing Costs to Airlines To
AND
planning are all needed in establishing standards and requiring minimum levels of equipage.

Building the infrastructure will incentivize users to pay for the equipage – overcomes all private investment barriers
**Bin Salam 12 Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation ~~[Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation~~]**
Most US operators have been less than enthusiastic about paying for NextGen equipage because the
AND
not been enough to counter the continuing risk across the larger industry.37


====Plan overcomes 4 hurdles to implementation – Uncertainty, FAA delivery, getting money, and equipage. IT fiats or incentivizes all of those

**Bin Salam 12 Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation ~~[Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation~~]====**
Conclusion
NextGen is faced with four major hurdles:
Uncertainty Regarding NextGen~’s Benefits. These is still disagreement among industry experts regarding to what extent NextGen can improve aviation. This is one of the reasons behind the failure to make a sufficient business case for operators to invest in on-board equipage.
Uncertainty Regarding the FAA~’s Ability to Deliver. Even though a lack of strong political
AND
This uncertainty exacerbates the lack of incentives for operators to invest in equipage.
Securing funding for infrastructure. The AATF has relied on increasing general fund contributions in
AND
equitable long term funding mechanism for FAA~’s portion of NextGen~’s capital investment needs.
Equipage. Operators have shown little progress towards equipping their aircraft. This is primarily
AND
will eventually have to invest in equipage particularly if there are benefits involved.



==1AC - NextGen - AHS AW== 
===Plan=== 
The United States federal government should invest in upgrading air traffic control infrastructure to NextGen.
===Econ=== 
Consumer confidence has brought the US econ to a 2% growth rate but that won~’t be enough to solve for the unemployed and the rest of the econ
AP 11/1/12 <span style="font-size: 13pt;">~~[Associated Press through CBS News; November 1, 2012; Consumer confidence, spending lift U.S. economy; [[</span>http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-505145_162-57543962/consumer-confidence-spending-lift-u.s-economy/-http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-505145_162-57543962/consumer-confidence-spending-lift-u.s-economy/]]<span style="font-size: 13pt;">; AG~~]</span>
WASHINGTON A flurry of reports Thursday showed that U.S. consumers are growing
AND
than 3 percent is generally needed to create a sufficient number of jobs.

That leads to nuclear war and extinction
**Kemp 10 (Geoffrey, Director of Regional Strategic Programs – Nixon Center and Former Director of the Middle East Arms Control Project – Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, The East Moves West: India, China, and Asia~’s Growing Presence in the Middle East, p. 233-234)**
The second scenario, called Mayhem and Chaos, is the opposite of the first
AND
expected, with dire consequences for two-thirds of the planet~’s population.


We isolate two internal links.

First, plan injects money into the economy
NEXA 11 (Nexa Advisors, A Private Aerospace Consultant Company "NextGen Equipage Fund" April) *NextGen Equipage Fund is loan guarantees fund requesting federal backing [[http://www.nextgenfund.com/files/downloads/NEF_Economic_Study.pdf-http://www.nextgenfund.com/files/downloads/NEF_Economic_Study.pdf]] (Pitman)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In an important recent study, "The Economic Impact of Civil Aviation on the U.S. Economy"i, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) estimated that civil aviation accounted for 12 million U.S. jobs and %241.3 trillion in economic activity annually. FAA also estimated that implementing the Next Generation Air Transportation System ("NextGen")</span>
Infrastructure and procedures through 2018 would reduce total flight delays by 21 percent and provide
AND
and many of the economic and job benefits identified herein will be lost permanently
Infrastructure Investments sustain and save the economy in a cycle.
STIGLITZ, Nobel Prize Winner and Professor at Columbia in 12
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">~~[Joseph E. Stiglitz, Stimulating the Economy in an Era of Debt and Deficit, The Economists~’ Voice http://www.degruyter.com/view/j/ev March, 2012~~]</span>
Any diagnosis of the current economic situation should focus on the fact that the shortfall
AND
decline and that future incomes will rise as a result of these measures.


Second, the 1.3 trillion aviation industry will benefit from next gen
**HUERTA 12 Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration ~~[Michael P. Huerta; March 2012; "NextGen Implementation Plan~~]**
WHy NextGeN MatteRS NextGen benefits everyone from frequent flyers to those who rarely travel by
AND
operate more efficiently and competitively, NextGen is intended to do just that.


The U.S. aviation industry is key to the economy
**Trupo 6/21**
Mary Trupo, <span style="color: #222222;"> International Trade Administration~’s Director of the Office of Public Affairs, International Trade Administration, "Aerospace Industry is Critical Contributor to U.S. Economy According to Obama Trade Official at Paris Air Show," 6/21/12.</span>
PARIS – Francisco Sánchez, Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade, addressed national and international groups at the 2011 Paris Air Show to reinforce the President~’s National Export Initiative (NEI) and support the U.S. aerospace industry.
"The U.S. aerospace industry is a strategic contributor to the economy
AND
S. exporters of aerospace products are small and medium-sized firms.

===Heg=== 
Chinese aviation is growing now – It~’s indicative of greater trends of maturity
Dawson. 2012.
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Kelly Dawson. Went to Columbia, and graduated from school of journalism Carnegie Mellon 2012-06-01. http://usa.chinadaily.com.cn/weekly/2012-06/01/content_15441620.htm</span>

Beyond standard economic indicators of prosperity, certain industries can be seen as a microcosm
AND
in the US, with a target of 4,500 by 2016.

Aggression escalates —- miscalculation leads to nuclear war.
Fisher, 10/31/2011 (Max – associate editor at the Atlantic, 5 Most Likely Ways the U.S. and China Could Spark Accidental Nuclear War, The Atlantic, p. http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2011/10/5-most-likely-ways-the-us-and-china-could-spark-accidental-nuclear-war/247616/~~%23slide1)
After 10 years of close but unproductive talks, the U.S. and
AND
with China happens to have a defense treaty with the U.S.?

Second is aerospace,


Implementing NextGen on a priority basis is necessary to ensure airline growth, US leadership, and economic stability
Aerospace Industries Associations 12 (WHITE PAPER ON ENSURING JPDO SUCCESS, 4/09/12 [[http://www.aia-aerospace.org/assets/wp_ensure-jpdo.pdf-http://www.aia-aerospace.org/assets/wp_ensure-jpdo.pdf]])
The administration must move forward quickly with the investment necessary to implement the next generation
AND
broad scale will grow, resulting in significant negative impacts on the economy.

Airline growth directly boosts Aerospace industry sales
**GOMEZ et al 12 ~~[Ben Hur Gomez, John Simon, Alan Ibrahim, undergraduate at Harvard University pursuing a degree in quantitative finance through the statistics department, and an economics degree 2. Zachs Analyst 3. worked at Wikinvest for 3.5 years as a content writer, industry analyst, and summer intern. Graduated from Harvard with a degree in economics and a secondary field in environmental science and public policy "Dependence on key customers", http://www.wikinvest.com/stock/Precision_Castparts_(PCP)~~]**
Demand in the aerospace market PCP~’s commercial sales depend substantially on the production rates of
AND
the course of the recovery in the aerospace cycle and likely impact PCP.

We isolate two impact scenarios.

First, strong aerospace is critical to overall US military power – sustains heg
**National Aerospace Week 10** (September 18, "Aerospace and Defense: The Strength to Lift America," [[http://www.nationalaerospaceweek.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/whitepaper.pdf-http://www.nationalaerospaceweek.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/whitepaper.pdf]]) National Aerospace Week
The beginning of a new decade presents the defense industry with challenges that aren~’t
AND
to ensure that a technology and manufacturing base exists to develop new ones.


Hegemony solves nuke war and extinction
**Barnett 11** (Thomas P.M, Former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis %26 Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies, U.S. Naval War College American military geostrategist and Chief Analyst at Wikistrat., worked as the Assistant for Strategic Futures in the Office of Force Transformation in the Department of Defense, "The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads," March 7 [[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads-http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads]]
It is worth first examining the larger picture: We live in a time of
AND
the 20th century, setting the stage for the Pacific Century now unfolding.

And, US pursuit of hegemony is inevitable – only a question of effectiveness
Calleo, Director – European Studies Program and Professor @ SAIS, ~’10
(David P, "American Decline Revisited," Survival, 52:4, 215 – 227)
The history of the past two decades suggests that adjusting to a plural world is
AND
turns the dollar into an imperial instrument that threatens the world with inflation.

Second, the transition away from heg independently causes extinction
Brzezinski 12<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Zbigniew, Prof of US Foreign Policy at School of Advanced International Studies – Johns Hopkins University, Counselor – CSIS and Trustee and Co-Chair – CSIS Advisory Board, Former National Security Advisor – Carter, "After America", Foreign Policy, January / February, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/artic-http://www.foreignpolicy.com/artic]] les/2012/01/03/after_america?page=full)</span>
For if America falters, the world is unlikely to be dominated by a single
AND
policy — or start bracing itself for a dangerous slide into global turmoil.

===Solvency=== 
JetBlue is doing NextGen but no other airline company is; Non-uniques all Das Proven Wrong
Flier 12(article from Cranky Flier, Jet Blue has already implemented the plan and is saving billions of dollars on fuel) June 21, 2012. [[http://crankyflier.com/2012/06/21/jetblue-will-save-fuel-shorten-flight-times-at-jfk-thanks-to-nextgen/////Sufiyan-http://crankyflier.com/2012/06/21/jetblue-will-save-fuel-shorten-flight-times-at-jfk-thanks-to-nextgen/////Sufiyan]]
You always hear people talking about NextGen when it comes to air traffic control.
AND
capacity in the system. We need more of this to happen yesterday.

====Plan overcomes 4 hurdles to implementation – Uncertainty, FAA delivery, getting money, and equipage. IT fiats or incentivizes all of those

**Bin Salam 12 Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation ~~[Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation~~]====**
Conclusion
NextGen is faced with four major hurdles<span style="font-size: 8pt;">:</span>
Uncertainty Regarding NextGen~’s Benefits<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> These is still disagreement among industry experts regarding to what extent NextGen can improve aviation. This is one of the reasons behind the failure to make a sufficient business case for operators to invest in on-board equipage.</span>
Uncertainty Regarding the FAA~’s Ability to Deliver Even though a lack of strong political stimulus
AND
This uncertainty exacerbates the lack of incentives for operators to invest in equipage.
Securing funding for infrastructure The AATF has relied on increasing general fund contributions in recent
AND
equitable long term funding mechanism for FAA~’s portion of NextGen~’s capital investment needs.
Equipage Operators have shown little progress towards equipping their aircraft. This is primarily due
AND
will eventually have to invest in equipage particularly if there are benefits involved.


The USFG should do the plan – only a strong federal signal will get the system in place and operational.
**ALPA 12 Air Line Pilots Association International. ~~[June 2012 White Paper, Leveling the Playing Field for U.S. Airlines and Their Employees, [[http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html~~%23top-http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html]]~~]**
Invest in NextGen to Improve Safety and Increase Efficiencies While Decreasing Costs to Airlines To
AND
planning are all needed in establishing standards and requiring minimum levels of equipage.

Federal investment spurs industry adoption and overcomes all current stalemates
**Bin Salam 12** Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation ~~[Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation~~]
The aviation system that is part of the life-blood of our economy is
AND
that NextGen benefits can be delivered in a timely manner if at all.

Building the infrastructure will incentivize users to pay for the equipage – overcomes all private investment barriers
**Bin Salam 12 Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation ~~[Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation~~]**
Most US operators have been less than enthusiastic about paying for NextGen equipage because the
AND
not been enough to counter the continuing risk across the larger industry.37


=Negative= 

**Refer to other AHS wikis for common Negative arguments.**

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]