=Affirmative= 
===1AC Valley=== 

Life in the city is defined by density and by heterogeneity. Urban space, more so than any other mode of community, forces individuals to coexist continuously with others in dense and limited space. These aspects of urban life demand a unique approach to the production of urban space. We call this approach The Right To The City.
Don **__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Mitchelle</span>__**, Geography Prof @ Syracuse, The Right To The City, New York: Guilford Press, 20**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">03</span>__**, P.17-18

“There are several...<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> to the city</span>” (Lefebvre 1996 [1968], 174).

The Right To The City recognizes that urban dwellers, not the state or the market, must have the right to appropriate and dictate the production of urban space in a way that addresses their daily needs and experience.
Mark **__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Purcell</span>__**, Geography Prof @ U of Washington, Citizenship and the Right to the Global City: Reimagining the Capitalist World Order, International Journal of Urban and Regional Research, September 20**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">03</span>__**

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“Everyday life...</span>political community.”



Unfortunately, the vast majority of urban public space serves one purpose: the orderly and convenient use of an automobile.
Ainsley **__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Judge</span>__**, Twin Cities Bike Activist, Honor’s Thesis Submitted To The Macalester Geography Department, "Designing More Inclusive Streets: the Bicycle, Gender, and Infrastructure" , 20**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">11, </span>__**http://digitalcommons.macalester.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1028&context=geography_honors

““Share the Road”...<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> function democratically</span> (Mitchell 2003, 132).”

By cutting off each motorist from others and from the space, automobile dominated space becomes a space of isolation from others and from the city space. This destroys the social nature of most of the city’s public space, rendering it depoliticized.
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Matthew Wietse **__Talsma__**</span>, Geography Prof @ U Toronto, Technologies of the City and Technologies of the Self: Lessons from the Road, 2010, Google It

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“The</span> freedom... against traffic.”

The elimination of space for interaction and experience is part of a larger transition toward more isolating and less public cities.
David **__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Harvey</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">,</span>__<span style="font-size: 12.6667px;">Professor of Anthropology at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York</span>__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">,</span>__ Right To The City, New Left Review 53, September-October 20**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">08</span>__**

“As in all the... state apparatus.”
This transition away from the city as a sight of vibrant public social spaces forces urban dwellers to cede control over the production of urban space. Only public space can provide the forum for the formation and expression of demands on urban space that are essential for exercising Right to the City.
Simon __Springe____r__, Geography Prog @ University of Victoria, Public Space as Emancipation: Meditations on Anarchism, Radical Democracy, Neoliberalism and Violence, Antipode Vol. 43 No. 2, 20__10__
“Such <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">spatialized notions...</span>recurring performances ([[home#b137|Valentine 1996]]).”

The result is the violent disenfranchisement of countless urban populations. Ceding control of the production of urban space to the external forces renders whole populations disposable.
David **__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Harvey</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">,</span>__<span style="font-size: 12.6667px;">Professor of Anthropology at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York</span>__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">,</span>__ Right To The City, New Left Review 53, September-October 20**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">08</span>__**

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“Surplus absorption...its production</span>.”

Thus my partner and I, as an act of reclaiming right to the city, demand federal investment in bicycle infrastructure along urban roads.

Contention 2 is Solvency

Cycling, as an alternative mode of transportation, repoliticizes the streets as a public space by allowing individuals to interact with both other’s and the urban environment.
Zach **__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Furness</span>__**, Prof of Cultural Studies @ Columbia College, One Less Car: Bicycling And The Politics’ Of Automobilist, Temple University Press, 20**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">10</span>__**

“At the most basic level,...<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> my lovely bicycle”</span>

This in turn makes the promotion of the bicycle a key step in the actualization of the Right To The City. By forcing the individual to actively engage with space during transportation, bicycling produces the type of urban subjects necessary to shift the production of urban space back to the urban dwellers themselves.
Jen **__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Petersen</span>__**, Ph.D. in Sociology from New York University, “Pedaling Hope,” Magazine for Urban Documentation, Opinion and Theory, no. 6, 20**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">07</span>__**, http://www.monumagazine.com/monu6/Petersen_final.pdf

“This and other experiences...seeing and knowing.”

Federal investment in in bike infrastructure drastically increases biking. Test programs prove.
PRI (Public Radio International), “New study shows federal investment in bike infrastructure paying off”, 22 May, 20**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">12, </span>__**[[http://www.pri.org/stories/business/the-bright-side-of-biking9962.html]]

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“Across the..</span>the future."

Infrastructure investment is the key starting point. Everything else follows.
Ainsley **__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Judge</span>__**, Twin Cities Bike Activist, Honor’s Thesis Submitted To The Macalester Geography Department, "Designing More Inclusive Streets: the Bicycle, Gender, and Infrastructure" , 20**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">11, </span>__**[[http://digitalcommons.macalester.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1028&context=geography_honors]]

“While the...<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">of transportation</span>. “

We ask that you use your ballot to affirm our vision of urban space by joining us in our demand for federal investment in bicycle infrastructure. No one here controls the state and we think that’s fine, the production of urban space must begin with deliberation and politics among the people.
Mark **__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Purcell</span>__**, Geography Prof @ U of Washington, Excavating Lefebvre: The right to the city and its urban politics of the inhabitant, GeoJournal 58: 99–108, 20**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">02</span>__**

“Lefebvre’s notion...<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">citizen enfranchisement</span>.”
=Negative= 

===<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**Apocalyptic Rhetoric K**</span>=== 

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**Apocalyptic rhetoric forecloses on civil society based discussions of politics, economics, and the environment.** </span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 11pt;">__**Kurasawa ‘4,**__</span> (Fuyuki, Assistant Prof. of Sociology @ York University, Cautionary Tales, Constellations Vol. 11, No. 4, Blackwell Synergy)

“Moreover, I would ...global justice. “


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**This makes every impact more likely. A vibrant public sphere and cultures of foresight are key to solve future trends towards extinction** </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**<span style="color: #000000;">__Kurasawa ‘4__</span>, (Fuyuki, Assistant Prof. of Sociology @ York University, Cautionary Tales, Constellations Vol. 11, No. 4, Blackwell Synergy)**</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">“In the first...</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 11pt;">via strong publics</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**Apocalyptic representations ensures biopolitical control over populations – genocide is ongoing and extinction is inevitable** </span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 11pt;">__**Coviello 00**__</span> - Assistant Professor of English @ the Bowdoin College
[Peter, Queer Frontiers: Millennial Geographies, Genders, and Generations. "Apocalypse from Now On."]

<span style="color: #000000;">__<span style="text-decoration: none;">“</span><span style="font-family: Arial,serif; font-size: 9pt;">Apocalypse</span>__</span><span style="color: #00000a; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">,</span><span style="font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;"> as I ...</span><span style="font-family: Arial,serif; font-size: 9pt;">__<span style="font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">done without</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**The Alternative is to vote negative to reject the rhetorical justifications of the 1AC.** </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**A focus on rhetoric is critical to crafting effective responses to crisis.** </span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 11pt;">__**Doremus**__</span>, 20<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 11pt;">__**00**__</span>-The Rhetoric and Reality of Nature Protection: Toward a New Discourse , Professor of Law, University of California at Davis. J.D., 57 Wash & Lee L. Rev. 11, * Washington & Lee Law Review Winter, 2000

<span style="text-decoration: none;">“Rhetoric matters....</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">is interpreted.”</span>


===<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**Anthropocentrism K**</span>=== 

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**Attempts to make humane society more equitable ignore the continuous violence against the natural world that that society is built off of. This not only outweighs the case, but makes their solvency impossible because they don’t challenge the anthropocentric roots of oppression.** </span>
Tarik <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 11pt;">__**Kochi**__</span>, Prof @Sussex Law School, Species War: Law, Violence and Animals, Law, Culture and the Humanities 20<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 11pt;">__**09**__</span>; 5: 353–369

<span style="text-decoration: none;">“</span><span style="font-family: Arial,serif; font-size: 9pt;">Grotius and Hobbes are...</span><span style="font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">ordering of war.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**Anthropocentrism underscores all other modes of oppression. Our critique needs to be the starting point for emancipatory politics**</span>
Tarik <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 11pt;">__**Kochi**__</span>, Prof @Sussex Law School, Species War: Law, Violence and Animals, Law, Culture and the Humanities 20<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 11pt;">__**09**__</span>; 5: 353–369


<span style="text-decoration: none;">“</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">This reflection need...</span><span style="color: #000000;">non-human animals</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">.” </span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**Impact is unending genocidal violence demened politically unqualified.**</span>
Tarik <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 11pt;">__**Kochi and**__ </span>Noam <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 11pt;">__**Ordan**__</span>, Prof @Sussex Law School and Prof at Bar Llan University, boarderlands, An Argument for the Global Suicide of Humanity, Volume 7 Number 3, 20<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 11pt;">__**08**__</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">“</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Within the picture...</span><span style="color: #000000;">an eternal Treblinka</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">” (Singer, 1968, p.750).”</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**The alternative is to vote negative to reject the humanism if the 1AC. This is rejection enables an understanding of the species-being that solves the ethical exceptionalism of their survival politics.**</span>
Laura <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 11pt;">__**Hudson**__</span>, Cultural Studies PhD UC-Davis, The Political Animal: Species-Being and Bare life, Mediations: Journal of Marxist Literary Group 20<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 11pt;">__**04**__</span>

“We are all….truly separable.”