[[toc]]
**we'll upload 2nrs and changes to the 1ac after every tournament. for tips on how to double turn yourself in octas of the DDI tournament, smoothie recipes (I make a mean smoothie), or anything else, email vishruth.reddy@gmail.com**

=**Affs By Tournament**= 
**GEORGETOWN ---**
**Guam Road Network (Rds. 1, 4, 6, Octafinals/Bid Round vs. BCC GM)**

**BRONX RR ---**
**Guam Road Network (Rds. 2, 4)**

**BRONX ---**
**Guam Road Network (Rds. 2, 3, 5, Doubleoctafinals vs. Kinkaid BY, Octafinals vs. Bishop Guertin RV)**
**Carps (Quarters/Bid Round vs. National Cathedral HS)**

**GLENBROOKS ---**
**Guam Road Network (Rds. 2, 4, 6)**

**BLAKE ---**
**Guam Road Network (Rds. 2, 4, 5, 7)**
**NIB Race (Doubles/Bid Round vs. College Prep BG)**

**BARKLEY FORUM ---**
**Guam Road Network (Rds. 2, 5)**
**Apra Harbor (Rd. 4)**

=Affirmative= 
==Guam Aff== 
===1AC Georgetown - Round 6=== 
====1AC Deterrence==== 
Contention 1 is Deterrence –
Conflict is emerging in the South China Sea – __escalating tensions__ and __competing resource claims__ make miscalculation likely
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Westhead 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Rick Westhead, writer for Foreign Affairs, staff writer/South Asia Bureau Chief for the __[[#|Toronto Star]]__, The Star, 7/14/12, “Battle for the Pacific: Naval arms race in the China Sea”, [[http://www.thestar.com/news/world/article/1225396--battle-for-the-pacific-naval-arms-race-in-the-china-sea]])</span>

A 21st-century Great Game …<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as its first aircraft carrier.</span>

Realignment to Guam prevents war – geography ensures __effective de-escalation__ and __robust deterrence__
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kamiya 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Matake Kamiya, is Professor of International Relations at the National Defense Academy of Japan. He was a main author of the report Strategic Implications of an Ongoing Buildup of the US Bases in Guam for Japan, which the __[[#|Research Institute]]__ for Peace and Security published in 2007, ASIANZ Online, 6/20/12, “The __[[#|Relocation]]__ of __[[#|US Marines]]__ from Okinawa to Guam: Strategic Implications for Japan”, [[http://www.asianz.org.nz/our-work/track-2/opinions-essays/matake-kamiya]] | AK)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Since the announcement of the …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> the alliance with the United States</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

And, Guam is the __foundation__ of U.S. deterrence – solves all Asian conflict
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Barton 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Paul C. Barton, Gannett Washington Bureau, Marine Corps Times, 10/19/11, “Guam central to Pacific military operations”, [[http://www.marinecorpstimes.com/news/2011/10/gannett-guam-central-to-pacific-military-operations-101911/]] | AK)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON — Among the news media …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> we are here and we mean to stay</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.’“</span>

South China Sea disputes snowball into __nuclear conflict__
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chakraborty 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Tuhin Subhro Chakraborty, Research Associate at Rajiv Gandhi Institute for Contemporary Studies (RGICS), his primary area of work is centered on East Asia and International Relations. His recent work includes finding an alternative to the existing security dilemma in East Asia and the Pacific and Geo Political implications of the ‘Rise of China’. Prior to joining RGICS, he was associated with the Centre for Strategic Studies and Simulation, United Service Institution of India (USI) where he examined the role of India in securing Asia Pacific. He has coordinated conferences and workshops on United Nation Peacekeeping Visions and on China’s Quest for Global Dominance. He has written commentaries on issues relating to ASEAN, Asia Pacific Security Dilemma and US China relations. He also contributed in carrying out simulation exercise on the ‘Afghanistan Scenario’ for the Foreign Service Institute (FSI). Tuhin interned at the Indian Council of World Affairs (ICWA), Sapru House, wherein he worked on the Rise of People’s Liberation Army (PLA) military budget and its impact on India. He graduated from St. Stephen’s College, Delhi and thereafter he undertook his masters in East Asian Studies from University of Delhi. His areas of interest include China, India-Japan bilateral relations, ASEAN, Asia Pacific security dynamics and Nuclear Issues, The United States Service Institution of India, 2010, “The Initiation & Outlook of ASEAN Defence Ministers Meeting (ADMM) Plus Eight”, [[http://www.usiofindia.org/Article/?pub=Strategic%20Perspective&pubno=20&ano=739]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The first ASEAN Defence Ministers … </span>into a nuclear conflict<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Draws in __great powers__ and escalates to __World War III__
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Waldron 97</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Arthur Waldron, is professor of strategy and policy at the U.S. Naval War __[[#|College and]]__ an AEI adjunct scholar. His most recent book is From War to Nationalism: China's Turning Point, 1924-1925 (Cambridge, 1996), American Enterprise Institute, 3/1/97, “How Not to Deal with China”, [[http://www.aei.org/issue/foreign-and-defense-policy/regional/asia/how-not-to-deal-with-china-issue/]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Then there is Southeast Asia, …</span> or Japan--or the United States<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Guam is vital to all aspects of U.S. primacy – power projection, readiness, and deterrence
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Caryl 7</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Christian Caryl, is a senior fellow at the Legatum Institute, a contributing editor at Foreign Policy, and a senior fellow at the MIT Center for International Studies, The Daily Beast, 2/25/07, “America's Unsinkable Fleet”, [[http://www.thedailybeast.com/newsweek/2007/02/25/america-s-unsinkable-fleet.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So why all the fuss over a tropical …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> to being in the headlines.</span>

Readiness is key to hegemony
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Perry 6</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (William J. “The US Military: Under Strain and at Risk”, January, [[http://globalsecurity.org/military/library/report/2006/us-military_nsag-report_01252006.htm]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the meantime, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the United States …</span> deter and respond <span class="UnderlineChar">to some contingencies</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Heg solves every scenario for nuclear war
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kagan 7</span>__ -** senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally, there is the United States </span><span class="UnderlineChar">…. global involvement will provide an easier path.</span>

====1AC Alliance==== 
Contention 2 is the Alliance -

Relations are at a __defining moment__ – negotiations are pushing Japan to shoulder the cost of realignment
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Japan Times 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Japan Times, 3/25/12, “Japan asked to shell out extra $1 billion over marines’ transfer to Guam, [[http://www.japantimes.co.jp/text/nn20120325b2.html]])</span>

Washington is pushing Tokyo to <span class="UnderlineChar">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> be slashed to jFust 4,700 marines.</span>

Perception is __key__ – the plan __eases__ the financial burden on Japan and sends a strong signal of __commitment__ to the buildup
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Calvo 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Eddie Calvo, Governor of the United States territory of Guam, former Senator within the Legislature of Guam, Office of Governor Eddie Baza Calvo, 5/23/12, “NEWS: Calvo Fights for Federal Action on Guam So Buildup Can Start”, [[http://governor.guam.gov/2012/05/23/news-calvo-fights-federal-action-guam-buildup-start/]] | AK)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Governor’s main point – </span>it’s important for<span class="UnderlineChar"> …</span> the U.S. government is serious about this commitment<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

The plan is vital to relations – realignment overhauls the alliance and ensures robust cooperation on future issues
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Xinhua 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Xinhua News, 4/27/12, “U.S. pleased by agreement to relocate 9,000 Marines off Okinawa”, [[http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/world/2012-04/27/c_131555911.htm]] | AK)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON, April 26 (Xinhua) -- U.S. Defense Secretary … continued to grow on the island.</span>

And, it resolves the __greatest impediment__ to effective bilateral cooperation
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Barnes 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Julian E. Barnes, Pentagon reporter at the Wall Street Journal, Yuka Hayashi, staff writer for the Wall Street Journal, Wall Street Journal, 4/27/12, “U.S. and Japan Agree on Deal To Move Forces”, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052702303990604577368563724460628.html]] | AK)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">The U.S. and Japan reached agreement</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Thursday </span><span class="UnderlineChar">… and fiscally sustainable agreement."</span>

Cooperation over the plan is key to an __effective alliance__ – solves __conflict over Taiwan__ and __every transnational threat__
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nye 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Joseph, Joseph S. Nye, Jr., assistant secretary of defense under Clinton. Currently, Sultan of Oman Professor of International Relations and dean at the Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, Father of Soft Power, “The Future of the Japan-U.S. Alliance,” 5/21, http://www.policyinnovations.org/ideas/commentary/data/000057)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">Many analysts currently detect </span>malaise <span class="UnderlineChar">… </span>alliance look more promising than ever

Draws in great powers and causes __extinction__
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheong 2K</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ching Cheong, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">THE high-intensity scenario postulates </span>a … the destruction of civilization.

====1AC Plan Text==== 
Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in the Guam Road Network.

====1AC Solvency==== 
Contention 3 is Solvency –
The Guam Road Network is __crucial__ – absent new road infrastructure, traffic congestion will destroy the relocation
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">DoN 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (The United States Department of the Navy, on behalf of the Department of Defense, Guam and CNMI Military Relocation – Final Environmental Impact Statement, July 2010, Volume Six: Related Actions – Utilities and Roadway Projects, “CHAPTER 1. PURPOSE OF AND NEED FOR ACTIONS”, [[http://www.guambuildupeis.us/documents/final/volume_6/Vol_06_Ch01_Purpose_Of_and_Need_For_Actions.pdf]] | AK)</span>

The Guam Road Network<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (GRN) </span>is proposed to become <span class="UnderlineChar">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> proposed action is explained in further detail in Section 2.5.1. </span>

Guam is essential – only location that ensures __freedom of action__ and __readiness__
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">DoN 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (The United States Department of the Navy, on behalf of the Department of Defense, Guam and CNMI Military Relocation – Final Environmental Impact Statement, July 2010, Volume Two: Marine Corps Relocation – Guam, “CHAPTER 1. PURPOSE OF AND NEED FOR ACTION”, [[http://www.guambuildupeis.us/documents/final/volume_2/Vol_02_Ch01_Purpose-Of_and_Need_For_Actions.pdf]] | AK)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Response Time Basing locations in the Pacific Region …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> for the realignment of forces </span>that meets all criteria<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Realignment will fail without the plan – road infrastructure is key
<span style="text-align: start;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">GAO 8</span> (Government Accountability Office, “DEFENSE INFRASTRUCTURE Planning Efforts for the Proposed Military Buildup on Guam Are in Their Initial Stages, with Many Challenges Yet to Be Addressed” [[@http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a481050.pdf)]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In addition, DOD and government of Guam officials recognize …</span> to increase significantly with the military buildup<span class="UnderlineChar">.</span>

Absent the plan, relocation is __impossible__
<span style="text-align: start;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">ADC 12</span> (Association of Defense Communities, 5/23/12, “Guam Needs Guarantee for Infrastructure Funding, Governor Says”, [[@http://www.defensecommunities.org/headlines/guam-needs-guarantee-for-infrastructure-funding-governor-says/|http://www.defensecommunities.org/headlines/guam-needs-guarantee-for-infrastructure-funding-governor-says/#]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Despite a reduction in the number of Marines … mandates in last year’s defense authorization bill, reported [[@http://kuam.com/|kuam.com]].</span>

===1AC Bronx Octas=== 
====1AC Alliance==== 
Contention 1 is the Alliance -

Relations are at a __defining moment__ – negotiations are pushing Japan to shoulder the cost of realignment
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Japan Times 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Japan Times, 3/25/12, “Japan asked to shell out extra $1 billion over marines’ transfer to Guam, [[http://www.japantimes.co.jp/text/nn20120325b2.html]])</span>

Washington is pushing Tokyo to <span class="UnderlineChar">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> be slashed to jFust 4,700 marines.</span>

Perception is __key__ – the plan __eases__ the financial burden on Japan and sends a strong signal of __commitment__ to the buildup
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Calvo 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Eddie Calvo, Governor of the United States territory of Guam, former Senator within the Legislature of Guam, Office of Governor Eddie Baza Calvo, 5/23/12, “NEWS: Calvo Fights for Federal Action on Guam So Buildup Can Start”, [[http://governor.guam.gov/2012/05/23/news-calvo-fights-federal-action-guam-buildup-start/]] | AK)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Governor’s main point – </span>it’s important for<span class="UnderlineChar"> …</span> the U.S. government is serious about this commitment<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

The plan is vital to relations – realignment overhauls the alliance and ensures robust cooperation on future issues
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Xinhua 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Xinhua News, 4/27/12, “U.S. pleased by agreement to relocate 9,000 Marines off Okinawa”, [[http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/world/2012-04/27/c_131555911.htm]] | AK)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON, April 26 (Xinhua) -- U.S. Defense Secretary … continued to grow on the island.</span>

And, it resolves the __greatest impediment__ to effective bilateral cooperation
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Barnes 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Julian E. Barnes, Pentagon reporter at the Wall Street Journal, Yuka Hayashi, staff writer for the Wall Street Journal, Wall Street Journal, 4/27/12, “U.S. and Japan Agree on Deal To Move Forces”, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052702303990604577368563724460628.html]] | AK)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">The U.S. and Japan reached agreement</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Thursday </span><span class="UnderlineChar">… and fiscally sustainable agreement."</span>

Cooperation over the plan is key to an __effective alliance__ – solves __conflict over Taiwan__ and __every transnational threat__
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nye 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Joseph, Joseph S. Nye, Jr., assistant secretary of defense under Clinton. Currently, Sultan of Oman Professor of International Relations and dean at the Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, Father of Soft Power, “The Future of the Japan-U.S. Alliance,” 5/21, http://www.policyinnovations.org/ideas/commentary/data/000057)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">Many analysts currently detect </span>malaise <span class="UnderlineChar">… </span>alliance look more promising than ever

Draws in great powers and causes __extinction__
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheong 2K</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ching Cheong, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">THE high-intensity scenario postulates </span>a … the destruction of civilization.

====1AC Plan Text==== 
<span style="font-size: 13.513513565063477px;">Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in the Guam Road Network.</span>

====1AC Malacca==== 
Contention 2 is Malacca –
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">First—the Guam buildup is essential to check __Chinese expansionism__ and __disruption in the Malaccan Strait__ – that prevents a crippling __naval blockade__</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Halloran 11</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Richard, “Pacific Push”, January 2011. New York Times Foreign Correspondent[[http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2011/January%202011/0111pacific.aspx]]</span>

__A force buildup on Guam anchors …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that the schedule will be maintained.)</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Absent deterrence, Chinese economic and resource interests lead to seizure of __shipping lanes__ and the __Strait of Malacca__ – that crashes the Japanese and South Korean economies</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Spinetta 6</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Major Lawrence, “The Malacca Dilemma-Countering China’s String of Pearls with Land Based Air Power”, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA476931]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With regard to Japan, </span>__China has …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Asia, it will probably act prudently.”55 </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Even a temporary shut-down triggers the impact</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chatterjee 10</span>__** Neil Chatterjee, Reuters, Security raised in Malacca Strait after terror warning, SINGAPORE | Thu Mar 4, 20106:36pm EST, http://www.reuters.com/article/2010/03/04/us-malacca-threat-idUSTRE62335120100304

__The__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 900-km long (550 miles) </span>__Malacca …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Ministry of Defense declined to comment.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">South Korean economic decline causes global nuclear war</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Richardson 6</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Corey, Asia Times writer, “South Korea Must Choose Sides,” 9/9/06 [[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/HI09Dg02.html]])</span>

__A Korea faced with an economic …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Koguryo dispute between Korea and China.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Japanese economic decline causes hyper-nationalism and nuclear war with China</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> __Elliott 2__</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (Larry, the Guardian writer, “Finance: Defenceless Japan awaits Typhoon,” 2/11/02</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/money/2002/feb/11/business.globalrecession]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Even so, the west cannot afford to …</span> __bigger (and nuclear) neighbour__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Realignment solves Southeast Asian terrorism – key to fast response and cooperative security arrangements</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Japan Times 5</span>__**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> (11/9/05, “U.S. general calls Guam better base for dealing with Islamist radicals”, http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nn20051109a4.html)</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">A top U.S. Marine Corps general said …</span> __transport marines significant distances at low cost__<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Infrastructure buildup is key to Guam’s telecom industry – that’s critical to the entire network
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Starosielski ’11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Nicole, Assistant Professor in the Department of Media, Culture, and Communication at New York University, conducting research for a book project, "Media under Water: Friction, Flow, and the Cultural Geographies of Undersea Cables,” which traces the social and cultural dimensions of undersea communications cables and their relationships with other infrastructures in the Pacific Rim, “Critical Nodes, Cultural Networks: Re-mapping Guam’s Cable Infrastructure,” Amerasia Journal 37:3, 18-27, </span>[[http://nyu.academia.edu/NicoleStarosielski/Papers/1396927/Critical_Nodes_Cultural_Networks_Re-mapping_Guams_Cable_Infrastructure]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">Undersea communication cables …</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> negotiated at the nodes in between America and Asia. </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Key to technological leadership</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Prestowitz ‘06 (</span>Clyde, President – Economic Strategy Institute, “America’s Technology Future At Risk: Broadband and Investment Strategies to Refire Innovation”, http://serv01.clev17.com/~econstra/ images/ESI_Research_Reports_PDF/americas_technology_future_at_risk.pdf|)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Both </span>as the developer of innovations<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …and computer </span>technology<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="cite0">Tech leadership prevents great power war</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Taylor ‘05</span> (Mark, Professor of Political Science – Massachusetts Institute of Technology, “The Politics of Technological Change: International Relations versus Domestic Institutions”, 4-1, [[http://www.scribd.com/doc/46554792/Taylor]])

<span class="UnderlineChar">Tech</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nological </span><span class="UnderlineChar">innovation is of central …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> would not exist in the first place.'9</span>

====1AC Solvency==== 
Contention 3 is Solvency –
The Guam Road Network is __crucial__ – absent new road infrastructure, traffic congestion will destroy the relocation
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">DoN 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (The United States Department of the Navy, on behalf of the Department of Defense, Guam and CNMI Military Relocation – Final Environmental Impact Statement, July 2010, Volume Six: Related Actions – Utilities and Roadway Projects, “CHAPTER 1. PURPOSE OF AND NEED FOR ACTIONS”, [[http://www.guambuildupeis.us/documents/final/volume_6/Vol_06_Ch01_Purpose_Of_and_Need_For_Actions.pdf]] | AK)</span>

The Guam Road Network<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (GRN) </span>is proposed to become <span class="UnderlineChar">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> proposed action is explained in further detail in Section 2.5.1.</span>

Guam is essential – only location that ensures __freedom of action__ and __readiness__
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">DoN 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (The United States Department of the Navy, on behalf of the Department of Defense, Guam and CNMI Military Relocation – Final Environmental Impact Statement, July 2010, Volume Two: Marine Corps Relocation – Guam, “CHAPTER 1. PURPOSE OF AND NEED FOR ACTION”, [[http://www.guambuildupeis.us/documents/final/volume_2/Vol_02_Ch01_Purpose-Of_and_Need_For_Actions.pdf]] | AK)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Response Time Basing locations in the Pacific Region …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> for the realignment of forces </span>that meets all criteria<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Realignment will fail without the plan – road infrastructure is key
<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-align: start;">GAO 8</span><span style="text-align: start;"> (Government Accountability Office, “DEFENSE INFRASTRUCTURE Planning Efforts for the Proposed Military Buildup on Guam Are in Their Initial Stages, with Many Challenges Yet to Be Addressed” [[@http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a481050.pdf)]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In addition, DOD and government of Guam officials recognize …</span> to increase significantly with the military buildup<span class="UnderlineChar">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Status quo politics makes it __try or die__ – __several factors__ erode effective transportation policy – in round discussion of effective __pragmatic solutions__ are __vital__ to __reverse trends__ and __jumpstart beneficial reform__</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lewis and Williams, 99</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David, Ph.D., President, Hickling Lewis Brod Economics, Inc., and Fred Laurence, Ph.D., United States Department of Transportation, “Policy and Planning as Public Choice Mass Transit in the United States,” Ashgate Publishing Company, pg. 27-33, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fta.dot.gov/documents/Policy_and_Planning_as_Public_Choice.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">A primary goal</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of the research reported … </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">transportation infrastructure</span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;">, policymakers have been impatient</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> with difficult measurement. </span>

**Debate about apocalyptic impacts is crucial to activism and effective policy education**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Blain 91</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michael Blain **–** professor of Sociology, RHETORICAL PRACTICE IN AN ANTI-NUCLEAR WEAPONS CAMPAIGN, Peace & Change]</span>

**__Peace activism can be … obtain a sense of personal power__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.(n6)</span>

===2AC Elections DA [Georgetown]=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Uniqueness overwhelms the link – polls show Romney isn’t closing the gap – assumes Democratic skew. </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stirewalt 9/26</span>__** (Chris, digital politics editor for Fox News, “Romney Stops Pulling Punches,” Fox News, 9/26/2012, http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2012/09/26/romney-stops-pulling-punches/#ixzz27iBSGp3d)

__Whatever Democratic skew may exist__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in …</span> __sure not where he needs to be.__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Romney won’t win – even his advisors are conceding Obama will win</span>**
NRO Online 9/28/2012 (http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/328758/pretty-resigned-denis-boyles)

That, apparently, is the long-held view … a Glo-Stick on a bus, maybe.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Romney losing Iowa because of the economy – polls prove. </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AP 9/27</span>__** (“Obama ahead of Romney in Iowa polls as vote starts,” The Associated Press, NBC, 9/27/2012, http://nbcpolitics.nbcnews.com/news/2012/09/27/14127101-obama-ahead-of-romney-in-iowa-polls-as-vote-starts?lite)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Republican Mitt </span>__Romney is struggling__ __…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for the White House in 2008.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">That makes an Obama win inevitable – won’t win Wisconsin and can’t win Nevada. </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Silver 9/26 </span>__**(Nate, writer of FiveThirtyEight, “Sept. 25: Romney’s Narrow Path Without Ohio,” FiveThirtyEight, NYT, 9/26/2012, http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/26/sept-25-romneys-narrow-path-without-ohio/)

__The combination that should perhaps … **never held the lead in a public poll**.__

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">No link uniqueness – transportation spending now</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">CMAP 7/5 – </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning 7/5/12- CMAP is the official regional planning organization for the northeastern Illinois counties region's addressing transportation, housing, economic development, open space, the environment, and other quality-of-life (MAP-21 -- Major Programmatic and Policy Changes) [[http://www.cmap.illinois.gov/policy-updates/-/blogs/map-21-major-programmatic-and-policy-changes]]</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Total Funding Levels</span>__** __and the Highway …__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> 83 percent under SAFETEA-LU. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The plan generates __strong public support__</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">McNinch 12</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ron McNinch, Associate Professor of Public Administration, University of Guam, 8/15/12, [[http://www.kuam.com/story/19289278/2012/08/15/mcninch-on-media-messages]] | AK)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For the last seven years, </span>__public opinion on ..__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">and local leaders can address concerns.</span>

**Independents aren’t key and no link – the election is highly polarized, not enough people are willing to switch votes**
**Blake 7/23** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Aaron, covers national politics at the Washington Post, where he writes regularly for the Fix, summa cum laude graduate of the University of Minnesota “The incredible shrinking — and increasingly valuable — undecided voter,” July 23, 2012, The Fix from the Washington Post, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/the-fix/post/the-incredible-shrinking--and-increasingly-valuable--undecided-voter/2012/07/23/gJQAcRMH4W_blog.html?wprss=rss_the-fix]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President Obama, Mitt Romney and a slew of … to capture those voters as we speak.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Obama reelection doesn’t solve anything – Republican Super PACs will create a GOP-led Senate – that destroys all of Obama’s second-term agenda</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lerner 9/24</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Howard Lerner, Executive Director, Environmental Law & Policy Center, 9/24/2012, “Watch Out for the Republican Super PACs Moving Away from Romney to Rain Even More Millions on Swing Senate Races”, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/howard-learner/watch-out-for-the-republi_b_1908343.html]] | JJ)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">By most polling analysts' accounts, </span>**__if__** **__…__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> how and if it makes a difference.</span>

===1AR U O/W L [Georgetown]=== 
Romney is getting destroyed in Ohio and Florida now – multiple warrants - __no one__ will vote for him
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rutenberg 9/26</span> (Jim, reporter for NYT, “Polls Show Obama Is Widening His Lead in Ohio and Florida,” NYT, 9/26/2012, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/26/us/politics/polls-show-obama-widening-lead-in-ohio-and-florida.html?_r=0]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">COLUMBUS, Ohio — For weeks, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Republicans in Ohio have … sapping the optimism of some of his supporters</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Inevitable Obama win – losing one is bad enough
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Silver 9/26 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nate, writer of FiveThirtyEight, “Sept. 25: Romney’s Narrow Path Without Ohio,” FiveThirtyEight, NYT, 9/26/2012, http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/26/sept-25-romneys-narrow-path-without-ohio/)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So </span><span class="UnderlineChar">can Mr. Romney win the election …</span> Electoral College despite losing both states<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Romney losing Florida and Ohio – polls – not likely to change.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Falcone 9/26</span> (Michael, writer for ABC, “Ohio Slipping Out of Romney's Reach?,” ABC, 9/26/2012 http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/OTUS/analysis-ohio-slipping-romneys-reach/story?id=17327764#.UGTPmq472xZ)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mitt </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Romney's road to the White House … of a second term for Mr. Obama.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">"</span>


===2AC Guam CP=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Can’t solve alone – labor needs and coordination</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">GAO 9</span>__** (Government Accountability Office, 11/13/09, “Defense Infrastructure: Guam Needs Timely Information from DOD to Meet Challenges in Planning and Financing Off-Base Projects and Programs to Support a Larger Military Presence” http://www.gao.gov/assets/100/96469.html)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Following the record of decision on …</span> __to meet all__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> life and safety </span>__requirements__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Federal funding is key to a signal of commitment and for construction</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Taitano 12</span>__** (Zita, Guam reporter, 5/11/12, “Guam asks US Congress to authorize buildup funding” http://www.mvariety.com/cnmi/cnmi-news/local/46359-guam-asks-us-congress-to-authorize-buildup-funding.php)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At least $33 million of that … after his meeting with JGPO and DOD officials.</span>

===1AC Glenbrooks=== 
http://wiki.debatecoaches.org/2012-2013+-+Lexington+%28MA%29+-+Katie+Fraser+%26+Arjun+Krishnan#Affirmative-Glenbrooks

Except with our regular plan text.

===1AC Blake=== 
Same as above, except with their plan text. We read a different combination of the Deterrence + North Korea advantage, the Alliance advantage, and the Malacca advantage, depending on the round.

==NIB Race Aff== 
===1AC Blake Doubles=== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">Plan</span>==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">The United States federal government should substantially increase urban transportation infrastructure investment in the United States issued by an independent government-owned National Infrastructure Bank.</span>

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">1AC Race</span>==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Current transportation policy fuels racial exclusion – only gives access those in the suburbs</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">EJRC 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Environmental Justice Resource Center, leading research experts on transportation in urban areas, “Suburban Sprawl and Transportation Racism”, 2012, The Black Commentator, </span><span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://www.blackcommentator.com/106/106_transportation_racism.html]]</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;"> CHayes)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">In the U<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>S<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates, all </span>communities … Atlanta’s urban center is worlds apart from its suburbs."[[#13be31e475f6d6a5_LastEdit]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Discrimination in transportation excludes urban minorities from access to jobs and other essential services - culminates in a new apartheid</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">EJRC 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Environmental Justice Resource Center, leading research experts on transportation in urban areas, “Suburban Sprawl and Transportation Racism”, 2012, The Black Commentator, </span><span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://www.blackcommentator.com/106/106_transportation_racism.html]]</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;"> CHayes)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The cash-strapped Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority (</span>MARTA) is .., health care, and other public services.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Improving transportation infrastructure would help to solve for health-based race inequalities</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bullard 04</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Robert D. Bullard, Director for Environmental Justice Resource at Center Clark Atlanta University, “How are Communities of Color Impacted by the $300 Billion TEA-21 Reauthorization” before The Congressional Black Caucus Transportation Hearing March 11, 2004, </span><span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://www.ejrc.cau.edu/Bullard_CBC_Trans.pdf]]</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;"> //Accessed July 19th 2012// BP]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Improvements in transportation investments … Americans are three times more likely than whites to die from asthma<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">.21</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">An NIB would systematically dismantle the supports of racism and inequality by engaging in a stringent selection process focused on alleviating conditions in urban areas and promoting equality</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">HoR 9</span> (House of Representatives, “H.R. 2521 (111th): National Infrastructure Development Bank Act of 2009,” May 20, 2009, <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://www.govtrack.us/congress/bills/111/hr2521/text]]</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;"> ||DK)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">(a) In General- No financial assistance … road, and bridge projects. (G) Public health benefits.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Transportation policy is the root of transportation inequality – this lies at the heart of racial, environmental inequality, and classism.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pastor et al. 06</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Manuel Pastor is codirector of the Center for Justice, Tolerance, and Community at the University of California, Santa Cruz. Robert D. Bullard is Ware Professor of Sociology and director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University. James K. Boyce is professor of economics at the Political Economy Research Institute of the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. Alice Fothergill is assistant professor of sociology at the University of Vermont. Rachel Morello-Frosch is Carney Assistant Professor in the School of Medicine at Brown University. Beverly Wright is professor of sociology and director of the Deep South Center for Environmental Justice at Dillard University.] “Environment, Disaster and Race After Katrina” <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://urbanhabitat.org/files/Pastor.Bullard.etc.Env.Katrina.pdf]]</span></span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">How consequential is racial inequality …other social characteristics that we now turn.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Investment in urban communities ends social injustices</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Nieutvenhuis 10 <span style="font-size: 14pt;">– </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Professor of Management and Policy Studies- Jan, “Social Justice in Education Today, Acta Academica, 43.1</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Accept the geo-historical context of the … respects and </span><span style="background-color: yellow;">enhances the freedom of others</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">.</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Justice comes first-a shift is key</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Kumar 9 <span style="font-size: 14pt;">– </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">PhD, Professor and Head of the Department of Physical Planning at the School of Planning and Architecture, New Delhi Ashok, “Technical Rationality, Equity and Transport Planning: Future Agenda for Research and Practice,” December, </span><span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://itpi.org.in/pdfs/oct6_09.pdf]]</span></span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">In this paper, the author argues that transport planning …or roundabouts could never achieve these moral ends.</span>
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: start;">1AC Debate Space</span>==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Discussion of transportation policy uniquely important for deliberation---key to spillover and effectuating change</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lewis and Williams, 99</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David, Ph.D., President, Hickling Lewis Brod Economics, Inc., and Fred Laurence, Ph.D., United States Department of Transportation, “Policy and Planning as Public Choice Mass Transit in the United States,” Ashgate Publishing Company, pg. 27-33, </span><span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://www.fta.dot.gov/documents/Policy_and_Planning_as_Public_Choice.pdf]]</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">, Tashma)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">**__<span style="background-color: yellow;">A primary goal</span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> of the research reported in this book </span>**__<span style="background-color: yellow;">…</span>__**<span style="background-color: yellow;">, policymakers have been </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">impatient</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> with difficult measurement.</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">The 1ac facilitates a //__training ground__// for meaningful public participation in transportation planning – it’s a necessary counter to //__big businesses__// and//__wealthy lobbies__// that perpetuate anti-poor policies</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Barter 98</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – PhD, Coordinator, Sustainable Transport Action Network for Asia and the Pacific</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">A Rahman, UNCHS (Habitat) Regional Symposium on Urban Poverty in Asia, Transport and Urban Poverty in Asia: A Brief Introduction to the Key Issues, <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://www.fukuoka.unhabitat.org/docs/occasional_papers/project_a/06/transport-barter-e.html]]</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">The Recife Declaration includes a strong emphasis … is a serious obstacle to a gender-aware approach.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Students discussion of transportation infrastructure encourages proactive learning</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Krezmien-Funk 12</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(</span><span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://blogs.cofc.edu/sb/author/krezmienfunks/|Sandra Krezmien-Funk]]</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">is the director of external relations for the School of Business at the College of Charleston, “Students Learn Business Impact of Transportation Infrastructure Projects,” 1/20/12,</span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">[[@http://blogs.cofc.edu/sb/2012/01/20/1172/]]</span></span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">__Students__ __in__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> John </span>__Martin’s__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> business law </span>__classes are__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">…</span> __students learn about through dialogue__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in my class.”</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Scenario planning is the best method for transportation policy – it’s not exclusive, and can successfully account for diverse stakeholder interests</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Beal et al 4</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Executive Director of Chicago Metropolis 2020, and a former executive with Ryerson International Inc. and Inland Steel ***Report from the Federal Highway Administration and Federal Transit Administration (Frank, 2002004, “Scenario Planning: A Framework for Developing a Shared Vision for the Future,” Department of Transportation,<span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://transportation.ky.gov/Congestion-Toolbox/Documents/Scenario%20Planning%20Brochure.pdf]]</span>)**</span></span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Scenario planning is a process in which transportation professionals and …</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, which are summarized at the end of this report.</span></span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Our model of debate is process, not product – decision-making is learned in this space of competing thought experiments</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hanghoj 8 </span><span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://static.sdu.dk/mediafiles/Files/Information_til/Studerende_ved_SDU/Din_uddannelse/phd_hum/afhandlinger/2009/ThorkilHanghoej.pdf]]</span>Thorkild Hanghøj, Copenhagen, 2008 Since this PhD project began in 2004, the present author has been affiliated with DREAM (Danish Research Centre on Education and Advanced Media Materials), which is located at the Institute of Literature, Media and Cultural Studies at the University of Southern Denmark. Research visits have taken place at the Centre for Learning, Knowledge, and Interactive Technologies (L-KIT), the Institute of Education at the University of Bristol and the institute formerly known as Learning Lab Denmark at the School of Education, University of Aarhus, where I currently work as an assistant professor.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Joas’ re-interpretation of Dewey’s pragmatism as a “theory …</span><span style="background-color: yellow;">and domain-specific processes of problem-based scenarios</span>. </span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Decision-making is a trump impact—it improves all aspects of life __regardless__ of its specific goals</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shulman 9</span>, president emeritus – Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching (Lee S, __Education and a Civil Society: Teaching Evidence-Based Decision Making__, p. ix-x)</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">These are the kinds of </span><span style="background-color: yellow;">questions</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> that </span>…<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> play a significant role in the lives of citizens.</span></span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Simulation allows us to __influence state policy__ AND is key to __agency__</span>**
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Eijkman 12</span>__**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The role of simulations in the authentic learning for national security policy development: Implications for Practice / Dr. Henk Simon Eijkman. [electronic resource]</span><span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://nsc.anu.edu.au/test/documents/Sims_in_authentic_learning_report.pdf]]</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">. Dr Henk Eijkman is currently an independent consultant as well as visiting fellow at the University of New South Wales at the Australian Defence Force Academy and is Visiting Professor of Academic Development, Annasaheb Dange College of Engineering and Technology in India. As a sociologist he developed an active interest in tertiary learning and teaching with a focus on socially inclusive innovation and culture change. He has taught at various institutions in the social sciences and his work as an adult learning specialist has taken him to South Africa, Malaysia, Palestine, and India. He publishes widely in international journals, serves on Conference Committees and editorial boards of edited books and international journal</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">However, whether as an approach to learning, innovation… table format, of the synopsis below.</span>
==Carps Aff== 
===1AC Bronx Quarters=== 
====1AC Inherency==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 1 is Inherency –</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Asian Carps poised to invade the Great Lakes now, most recent peer reviewed study </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">JS Online 8/16/</span>12 (“Where are their solutions to the Asian carp threat?,” [[http://www.jsonline.com/news/opinion/where-are-their-solutions-to-the-asian-carp-threat-m26h4sh-166471876.html]])

The seriousness of that threat was … and silver carp above the barrier.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, there is insufficient federal funding and no control mechanism to halt Asian Carps</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reeves 8/15</span>/12 (Andrew, This Magazine, citing Becky Cudmore who is manager of the Centre of Expertise for Aquatic Risk Assessment (CEARA) at the Department of Fisheries and Oceans’ Canada, and spent the last 8 years studying Asian Carp, “Attack of the killer carp,” [[http://this.org/magazine/2012/08/15/attack-of-the-killer-carp/]])

In the past sixty years,<span style="font-size: 11pt;">efforts to control … enter the Great Lakes?’ is ‘Not much.’”</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">More spending slashes to invasive species programs forthcoming</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Freshwater Future ’12</span> (“House Funding Bill Cuts Great Lakes Programs,” [[http://www.freshwaterfuture.org/news-announcements.html/71/]])

Freshwater Future, along with the Healing …<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> in federal</span>__[[#|Clean Water]]__ State Revolving __[[#|Loan]]__ <span style="font-size: 11pt;">funds</span>.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">New Army Corps legislation doesn’t solve </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">WSJ 7/5/</span>12 (“5 states to continue suit demanding Asian carp fix,” [[http://online.wsj.com/article/APd6e216cfe7e5496086151576aeb34bb7.html]])

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Five states are moving forward …</span> June in waters beyond the barrier.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Action now is key</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Buffalo News 7/13</span>/12 (“New alarm sounded about Asian carp threat to Great Lakes,” [[http://www.buffalonews.com/city/capital-connection/washington/article946166.ece]])

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The report underscores the …</span>. Kirsten E. Gillibrand, D-N.Y.

====1AC Environment==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 2 is the Environment: </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Asian Carps are moving towards the Chicago Area Waterway System, risks invasion of the Great Lakes</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CRS 7/12</span>/12 (Congressional Research Service, Eugene H. Buck, Specialist in Natural Resources Policy, Harold F. Upton, Analyst in Natural Resources Policy, Charles V. Stern, Specialist in Natural Resources Policy, Cynthia Brougher, Legislative Attorney, “Asian Carp and the Great Lakes Region,” [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R41082.pdf]])

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Four species of non-indigenous …</span> area shipping industry and Great Lakes.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Asian Carps will thrive in the Great Lakes – perfect climate and habitat, and ideal for spawning </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hansen 2/9</span>/10 (Dr. Michael Hansen, Professor of Fisheries, College of Natural Resources, University of Wisconsin, Stevens Point; Commissioner, U.S. Section, Great Lakes Fishery Commission, Ann Arbor; Great Lakes Fishery Commission's vice chairman, holds a Ph.D. of Fisheries & Wildlife, Michigan State University, 1994, M.S. Fishery Science, Cornell University, 1983, B.S. Fisheries, University of Wisconsin Stevens Point, 1979, testimony to the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources & Environment Honorable Eddie Bernice Johnson, Chair, “Asian carp and the Great Lakes,” [[http://www.glfc.org/fishmgmt/Hansen_testimony_aisancarp.pdf]])

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Risk assessments carried out … ample habitat for spawning and feeding.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Once they invade the Great Lakes, the global ecosystem is at risk</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">DFP 11/23</span>/09 (Detroit Free Press, “Asian carp invasion: Prepare for the worst,” [[http://www.glu.org/en/asiancarp/headlines/asian-carp-invasion-prepare-worst]])

Here’s something else to think …<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> mixed in with bait minnows.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Asian Carps will unleash incalculable and irreversible damage to the ecosystem - depletes nutrients in water, worse than Zebra Mussels, and will outcompete all other native species</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reeves 8/15</span>/12 (Andrew, This Magazine, citing Becky Cudmore who is manager of the Centre of Expertise for Aquatic Risk Assessment (CEARA) at the Department of Fisheries and Oceans’ Canada, and spent the last 8 years studying Asian Carp, “Attack of the killer carp,” [[http://this.org/magazine/2012/08/15/attack-of-the-killer-carp/]])

Four fish lay motionless on … Ecosystem Services Project, which studies the services.

Environmental destruction causes extinction
Paul <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Warner</span>, American University, Dept of International Politics and Foreign Policy, August, Politics and Life Sciences, 19<span style="font-size: 12pt;">94</span>, p 177
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Massive extinction of species is …</span> with our collective future as the stakes<span class="underline">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Even 10 mating pairs in the Great Lakes trigger our impact</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">WUWM News 7/12/</span>12 (“Just a Small Number of Asian Carp Could Lead to an Established Great Lakes Population,” http://www.wuwm.com/news/wuwm_news.php?articleid=10773)
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">A report</span> released Thursday <span style="font-size: 11pt;">says … report confirms the organization’s “worst fears.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Independently, Carps will move to Canada</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">DFO Science ‘06</span> (Citing Dr. Nick Mandrak, of the Great Lakes Laboratory for Fisheries and Aquatic Sciences, the Executive Director of the CEARA, and chair of the National Executive Committee of Fisheries and Aquatic Sciences, “Will Asian Carp Invade Canada?,” 1/1/06, [[http://www.dfo-mpo.gc.ca/science/Publications/article/2006/01-01-2006-eng.htm]])

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">A thin, underwater “electric fence” … they can do great damage.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">High chance they move to Canada, which distorts the entire food web</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">DFO Science ‘06</span> (Citing Dr. Nick Mandrak, of the Great Lakes Laboratory for Fisheries and Aquatic Sciences, the Executive Director of the CEARA, and chair of the National Executive Committee of Fisheries and Aquatic Sciences, “Will Asian Carp Invade Canada?,” 1/1/06, [[http://www.dfo-mpo.gc.ca/science/Publications/article/2006/01-01-2006-eng.htm]])

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Dr. Mandrak and colleagues …</span> can provide a pathway for new parasites and diseases.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">That alone collapses overall biodiversity </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">DFO ‘05 </span>(“Asian Carp Status Report,” Canadian Science Advisory Secretariat Science Advisory Report 2005/001, [[http://www.dfo-mpo.gc.ca/csas/Csas/status/2005/SAR-AS2005_001_e.pdf]])

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The</span> intentional or accidental <span style="font-size: 11pt;">release of … </span>established, particularly in the Mississippi drainage.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Loss of biodiversity causes human extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Diner ‘94</span>(Judge Advocate’s General’s Corps of US Army, David N., Military Law Review, Winter, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161,)

No species has ever dominated its …<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> edging closer to the abyss.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The impact is not inevitable, but action now is key</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sutley ‘10</span> (Nancy, Statement of Nancy Sutley, Chair of the White House Council on Environmental Quality, Testimony to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, “Invasive Species,” July 14, 2012, http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-111shrg62181/html/CHRG-111shrg62181.htm)

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Invasive species pose serious …</span> are working urgently to do so.

====1AC Economy==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 3 is the Economy: </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Multiple internal links</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">First, Asian Carp invasion jacks the GL tourism and Fishing industries</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Committee on Energy and Natural Resources ’12 </span> (Hearing before the Subcommittee on Water and Power of the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources to the United States Senate, One Hundred Eleventh Congress and Second Session to Examine the Federal response to the discovery of the Aquatic Invasive Species Asian Carp in Lake Calumet Illinois, “Invasive Species,” July 14, 2012, [[http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-111shrg62181/html/CHRG-111shrg62181.htm]])

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The Great Lakes are a national … Michigan should be a national priority.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Second, Carps decimate the commercial and sport fish populations, net loss of 7 billion annually</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Asian Carp Regional Coordinating Committee ’11</span> (“Asian Carp- The Problem,” [[http://www.asiancarp.us/documents/AsianCarp-TheProblem.pdf]])

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The health of the Great … at more **than $7 billion annually**.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Anglers and Fish populations Key to overall Economic Growth</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Southwick Associates ‘7</span> (“Sportfishing in America: An Economic Engine and Conservation Powerhouse,” [[http://www.southwickassociates.com/portfolio-view/u-s-2007-sportfishing-in-america-an-economic-engine-and-conservation-powerhouse/]])

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Although Ed certainly isn’t … **driving force in this nation’s economy.**</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Third is jobs, 1.5 million will be lost, which collapses the GL and regional economy</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Hinderer and Murray ‘11</span>(Julie Mida, Great Lakes Commission’s Sea Grant Fellow, B.S. degree in environmental science, and an M.S. degree in aquatic sciences, both from the University of Michigan, and Michael W., Staff Scientist for the Great Lakes Natural Resource Center, PhD in environmental chemistry at the University of Wisconsin, “Feast and Famine in the Great Lakes: How Nutrients and Invasive Species Interact to Overwhelm the Coasts and Starve Offshore Waters,” National Wildlife Federation, October 2011, [[http://www.nwf.org/~/media/PDFs/Regional/Great-Lakes/GreatLakes-Feast-and-Famine-Nutrient-Report.ashx]])

The abundant freshwater resources and …<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> of economic benefit are produced.</span>14

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Great Lakes Economy key to US economy – 27% of GDP</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Vaccaro and Read ‘11</span>(Lynn, B.S. in Geology-Biology, Brown University M.S. in Natural Resources, Cornell University M.A.T. Science Education, Cornell University, Coastal Research Specialist for Sea Grant Michigan, Jennifer, Assistant Director and Research Coordinator for Sea Grant Michigan, executive director of Great Lakes Observing System, former research associate at the Great Lakes Institute for Environmental Research, University of Windsor, former program specialist at the Great Lakes Commission, former Fulbright Doctoral Fellow at the University of Michigan, Ph.D., University of Western Ontario (London, Ontario) M.A., McMaster University (Hamilton, Ontario) B.A., King’s College, University of Western Ontario (London, Ontario), “Vital to Our Nation’s Economy: GREAT LAKES JOBS,” Sea Grant Michigan, 2011, [[http://www.fws.gov/glri/documents/11-203-Great-Lakes-Jobs-report%5B1%5D.pdf]])

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Water is huge draw for …</span> for innovation and entrepreneurship.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Independently, Carp invasion of the GL’s will destroy the economy; long-term savings outweigh short term spending</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reeves 8/15</span>/12 (Andrew, This Magazine, citing Becky Cudmore who is manager of the Centre of Expertise for Aquatic Risk Assessment (CEARA) at the Department of Fisheries and Oceans’ Canada, and spent the last 8 years studying Asian Carp, “Attack of the killer carp,” [[http://this.org/magazine/2012/08/15/attack-of-the-killer-carp/]])

Indeed, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">it’s worth examining the … not survive such a monumental blow.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Now the impacts:</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">First, decline causes isolationism and miscalculation – creates multiple scenarios for nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harris and Burrows ‘9</span>(Mathew, Ph.D. European History at Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]</span>)

Increased Potential for Global Conflict Of …<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world. </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Even absent a recession, slow growth leads to global wars</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Khalilzad ‘11 </span>(Zalmay Khalilzad, Ph.D., Former Professor of Political Science @ Columbia, Former ambassador to Iraq and Afghanistan. Zalmay Khalilzad was the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992. "The Economy and National Security" Feb 8 [[http://www.nationalreview.com/blogs/print/259024|www.nationalreview.com/blogs/print/259024]])

Today,<span style="font-size: 11pt;">economic and fiscal trends … to make aggressive moves in their regions. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, slow growth makes the US un-cooperative and desperate – triggers a hegemonic transition and great power conflict</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Goldstein ‘7 </span>(Avery Goldstein, Professor of Global Politics and International Relations @ University of Pennsylvania, “Power transitions, institutions, and China's rise in East Asia: Theoretical expectations and evidence,” [[@http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/title~db=all~content=t713636064|Journal of Strategic Studies]], Volume[[@http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/title~db=all~content=t713636064~tab=issueslist~branches=30#v30|30]], Issue [[@http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/title~db=all~content=g780703608|4 & 5 ]]August 2007, pages 639 – 682)

Two closely related, though distinct, theoretical …<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> prior to the possible crossover</span>.19 pg. 647-650

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Growth eliminates the only rational incentives for war </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gartzke ‘11</span> (Erik Gartzke, associate Professor of political science at the University of California, San Diego PhD from Iowa and B.A. from UCSF, "SECURITY IN AN INSECURE WORLD" [[@http://www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/|www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/]])

Almost as informative as the decline in … prosperity prevail, that <span style="font-size: 11pt;">war becomes a durable anachronism</span>.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">GL Economy key to global economy and overall US competitiveness </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Austin et al ‘7</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John C., directs the Great Lakes Economic Initiative, Nonresident Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institute, Metropolitan Policy Program, and Soren Anderson, Assistant Professor of Economics, and Agricultural, Food, and Resource Economics at Michigan State University, doctoral candidate in economics at the University of Michigan, and Paul N. Courant, Professor of Economics and of Information, director of the Center for State, Local and Urban Policy at the University of Michigan, Harold T. Shapiro Collegiate Professor of Public Policy, Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, Faculty Associate in the Institute for Social Research at the University of Michigan, former Associate Provost for Academic and Budgetary Affairs, Chair of the Department of Economics and Director of the Institute of Public Policy Studies, former Senior Staff Economist at the Council of Economic Advisers, MA and PhD in Economics from Princeton University, Robert E. Litan senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and vice president for research and policy at the Kauffman Foundation, “Healthy Waters, Strong Economy: The Benefits of Restoring the Great Lakes Ecosystem,” The Brookings Institute, September 2007, [[http://www.brookings.edu/metro/pubs/20070904_gleiecosystem.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The 12-state Great Lakes economic …</span> can happen in two major ways.

====1AC Plan Text==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The United States Army Corps of Engineers should construct permanent hydrological separation barriers in the Chicago Area Waterway System.</span>

====<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1AC Solvency</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan is the Army Corps and Congressional Authority</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sutley ‘10</span> (Nancy, Statement of Nancy Sutley, Chair of the White House Council on Environmental Quality, Testimony to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, “Invasive Species,” July 14, 2012, [[http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-111shrg62181/html/CHRG-111shrg62181.htm]])

The <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Army Corps of Engineers</span> has also … the emergency actions to battle the Asian carp.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Army Corps of Engineers key, and hydrological separation solves</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hughes 7/19</span>/12 (Holly, Rep. Holly Hughes, R-White River Twp., represents Muskegon County in the 91st State House District. “Viewpoint: More science, less politics needed on Asian carp issue,” The Muskegon Chronicles, [[http://www.mlive.com/opinion/muskegon/index.ssf/2012/07/viewpoint_asian_carp_by_holly.html]])

Stakeholders have been working … crucial component of our region’s economy.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Electrical Barrier solves, but action now is critical</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hansen ‘10</span> [Dr. Michael, Great Lakes Fishery Commission, House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources & Environment Honorable Eddie Bernice Johnson, Chair, “Asian carp and the Great Lakes,” 2/9/10, [[http://www.glfc.org/fishmgmt/Hansen_testimony_aisancarp.pdf]]]

The short __[[#|answer]]__ to the question … understanding ultimate policy solutions.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">More evidence, Hydrological Separation key</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Committee on Energy and Natural Resources ’12 </span>(Hearing before the Subcommittee on Water and Power of the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources to the United States Senate, One Hundred Eleventh Congress and Second Session to Examine the Federal response to the discovery of the Aquatic Invasive Species Asian Carp in Lake Calumet Illinois, “Invasive Species,” July 14, 2012, http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-111shrg62181/html/CHRG-111shrg62181.htm)

A few weeks ago, Chairwoman Stabenow … an estimate for construction time.

=Negative= 
==AFRICOM Neg== 
===1NC Africa Adv=== 
**Empirics and studies are conclusive – resource wars don’t happen**
**Salehyan 07**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Idean Salehyan Professor of Political Science at the University of North Texas. “The New Myth About Climate Change Corrupt, tyrannical governments—not changes in the Earth’s climate—will be to blame for the coming resource wars.” By Idean Salehyan | August 14, 2007 [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2007/08/13/the_new_myth_about_climate_change]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First, aside from a few anecdotes, </span>__there is__ __…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> resource scarcity and natural disasters. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">African escalation is empirically denied by dozens of conflicts</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Docking 07</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Tim Docking, African Affairs Specialist with the United States Institute of Peace, 2007, Taking Sides Clashing Views on African Issues, p. 372)</span>

__Nowhere was the scope and__ __…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> new hardship and bloodshed to the continent. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Outside powers won’t intervene in African conflicts</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Docking 07</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Tim Docking, African Affairs Specialist with the United States Institute of Peace, 2007, Taking Sides Clashing Views on African Issues, p. 372)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Since the tragedy in Somalia, </span>__the …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> highlighted by conference participants).</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Studies prove the plan causes backlash – AFRICOM creates resentment that crushes legitimacy</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Putman 08</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Diana B. Putman (United States Agency for International Development) March 2008 “COMBATING AFRICAN QUESTIONS ABOUT THE LEGITIMACY OF AFRICOM” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA479332]])</span>

__From a review of over three … resources than enhancing security in the region.__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AFRICOM’s focus on the military crushes legitimacy – flips the advantage</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Seib 11</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Phillip Seib (Professor of Journalism and Public Diplomacy and Professor of International Relations at the University of Southern California, and is director of USC’s Center on Public Diplomacy) December 6, 2011 “AFRICOM’S STILL UNDEFINED FUTURE” [[http://uscpublicdiplomacy.org/index.php/newswire/media_monitor_reports_detail/africoms_still_undefined_future/]])</span>

__When the United States Africa Command – AFRICOM____<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – </span>____… door remains open to this kind of change____.__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No risk of great power conflict over Africa</span>**
Robert **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Barrett</span>__**, PhD student Centre for Military and Strategic Studies, University of Calgary, June 1, **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2005</span>__**, [[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/Delivery.cfm/SSRN_ID726162_code327511.pdf?abstractid=726162&mirid=1]]

Westerners eager to promote … __intervening nation has very little interest.__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No impact to readiness</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedman 10</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ben Friedman, research fellow in defense and homeland security, Cato. PhD candidate in pol sci, MIT, Military Restraint and Defense Savings, 20 July 2010, http://www.cato.org/testimony/ct-bf-07202010.html)</span>

__A__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nother </span>__argument__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for high military … </span>__, while providing no obvious benefit.__

===1NC Relations Adv=== 
**The threat is just smoke-and-mirrors – there’s no evidence of an Iranian nuclear weapons program**
**Hersh, 6/6** – Pulitzer Prize-winning investigative journalist, uncovered My Lai and Abu Ghraib [Seymour, “Iran and the Bomb; Annals of National Security”, The New Yorker, Volume 87, Issue 16, p. 3, proquest, AL]

__Is Iran actively trying to … diverted to an illicit weapons program.__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No Iranian escalation – capabilities are limited and Iranian self-interest</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bronner 12</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (</span>Ethan, NYT staff reporter, 1/26/12, “Israel Senses Bluffing in Iran’s Threats of Retaliation,” http://www.nytimes.com/2012/01/27/world/middleeast/israelis-see-irans-threats-of-retaliation-as-bluff.html?_r=1&hp)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“</span>__A war is no picnic__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,” Defense Minister Ehud …</span> __would be able to inflict only limited physical damage.__

**Be skeptical of their evidence – powerful lobbyists overblow the threat of proliferation**
**Kidd, 10** – Director of Strategy & Research at the World Nuclear Association [7/23, “Nuclear proliferation risk – is it vastly overrated?”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.neimagazine.com/story.asp?storyCode=2056931]]</span>, AL]

__The__ __real problem is that nuclear … additional costs on the industry.__

**Empirics disprove the cascade effect**
**Beljac, 4/14** – PhD from Monash University [Marko, “Have We Really Reached a Nuclear Tipping Point?”, Nuclear Resonances, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://scisec.net/?p=338]]</span>, AL]

__The image invokes what in … proliferation has not led to a localised cascade.__

**Nukes bestow rationality – their creation prevents aggressiveness**
**Waltz, 10** – Emeritus Ford Professor of Political Science at the University of California at Berkeley and senior research associate at Columbia University's Saltzman Institute of Wat and Peace Studies [Kenneth, “Is Nuclear Zero the Best Option?”, The National Interest, Sep/Oct Issue 109, p. 88, AL]

__With the dawn of the … the frightful decade of the Cultural Revolution.__


**The chance of a successful terrorist attack are 1 in 3 billion – too many obstacles**
**Mueller, 10** – Professor and Woody Hayes Chair of National Security Studies at the Mershon Center for International Security Studies and Department of Political Science at Ohio State University [John, “Calming Our Nuclear Jitters”, Issues in Science and Technology, Winter, Volume 26, Issue 2; pg. 58, proquest, AL]

__The most plausible route for … **one in well over three billion.**__

==Climate Adaptation Neg== 
===**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1NC Economy Adv</span>**=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Warming wont collapse trade – Economic policies – increased agriculture exports – and technology solves</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1AC WTO and UNEP ’09</span>__** (World Trade Organization and United Nations Environment Programme WTO and UNEP, “Trade and Climate Change” [[http://www.wto.org/english/res_e/booksp_e/trade_climate_change_e.pdf]])

There appear to be two … important means of adapation.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No war from economic decline – financial crisis disproves</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Barnett 9</span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Thomas P.M. Barnett (senior managing director of Enterra Solutions LLC and a contributing editor/online columnist for Esquire magazine) August 2009 “The New Rules: Security Remains Stable Amid Financial Crisis” [[http://www.aprodex.com/the-new-rules--security-remains-stable-amid-financial-crisis-398-bl.aspx]]</span>

__When the global financial crisis …__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> to proceed apace. That's what the Internet is for.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US and global economy is resilient – Flexibility</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Behravesh 6 </span>**(Nariman, most accurate economist tracked by USA Today and chief global economist and executive vice president for Global Insight, Newsweek, “The Great Shock Absorber; Good macroeconomic policies and improved microeconomic flexibility have strengthened the global economy's 'immune system.'” 10-15-2006, www.newsweek.com/id/47483)

__The__ __U.S. and global economies were able to__ __…__ __have an even smaller impact on overall GDP growth.__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Trade leadership not key – free trade regulates itself</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Preble 10 </span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Preble, Christopher, VP for Defense and Foreign Policy Studies at Cato with a PhD in history, August 3, 2010, “US Military Power: Preeminence For What Purpose?”, Cato Institute, http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/u-s-military-power-preeminence-for-what-purpose/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Most in Washington still embraces … the security of their respective regions. </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Trade doesn’t solve war—they conflate correlation with causation</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Van de Haar 10</span>__****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">( Edwin van de Haar, PhD in political science and MSc from the London School of Economics in IR, June 2010, “The Liberal Divide over Trade, Peace and War”, International Relations 24: 132, [[http://ire.sagepub.com/content/24/2/132]])</span>**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A second point for further elaboration is … be found in combined research into risk factors and context.143 </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Free trade increases vulnerability and asymmetry making conflict more likely</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Denney and Gleason, 5/31</span>__** – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Steven Denney, master’s candidate at the Graduate School of International Studies, Yonsei University. He received his BA in Political Science from Harding University; Brian Gleason, master’s candidate at the Gradate School of International Studies, Yonsei University. He received his BA in Political Science from the University of Wisconsin-Madison (“ The Political Economy of Trade Policy: A Realist Perspective,” Yonsei University, 5/31/12, [[http://sinonk.files.wordpress.com/2012/05/the-political-economy-of-trade-policy-steven_c_denney-brian_d_gleason.pdf]], //JPL)</span>

__Realists differ from liberal understanding …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> will once again be brought to center stage </span>

====**2NC Economy - Econ Defense**==== 
Economic decline ends rivalries, resources are reallocated
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bennett and Nordstrom 2K</span> – department of political science at Penn State

(D Scott and Timothy, The Journal of Conflict Resolution, 44:1, “Foreign policy substitutability and internal economic problems in enduring rivalries”, ProQuest,)

Conflict settlement is also a …with the United States.

No causal relationship – ignores other variables
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ferguson 6</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Niall Ferguson (Laurence A. Tisch Professor of History at Harvard University and a Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University) 2006 Foreign Affairs, September/October, Vol. 85, Issue 5</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">Nor can economic crises …</span> were not followed by wars<span class="UnderlineChar">.</span>

And, contrary historical examples don’t matter—modern economies are different and their theories are wrong
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">DEUDNEY 1991</span>(Daniel, Hewlett Fellow in Science, Technology, and Society at the Center for Energy and Environmental Studies, Princeton University, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, April)

Poverty wars. In a second scenario, __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">declining … spending will exacerbate the problem.</span>__

__More recent__ examples disprove their impacts
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Blackwill</span>, Senior Fellow @ RAND, frmr Belfer Lecturer in International Security @ Harvard JFK School, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">‘9</span>
(Robert D, “The Geopolitical Consequences of the World Economic Recession—A Caution,” [[http://rand.org/pubs/occasional_papers/2009/RAND_OP275.pdf]])

<span class="UnderlineChar">Earlier slumps that have …</span> Reserve, a U.S. recession.

====__2NC Economy - Protectionism Defense__==== 
Protectionism is inevitable and benign—results in cooperation
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hines,12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- co-director of Finance for the Future, Associate of the International Forum on Globalisation, former Co-ordinator of Greenpeace International's Economics, contributing reporter for The Guardian (Colin, “Localization, A Global Manifesto, An Intemperate Introduction,” Progressive Protectionism, 2012, [[http://www.progressiveprotectionism.com/lgm.php]], //JPL)</span>

The<span class="UnderlineChar"> clarion </span>call to be <span class="UnderlineChar">… better-your–neighbour </span>localization<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

Protectionism won’t escalate—multiple institutional and internal checks
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Garten 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Garten, Jefferey E., professor of finance and international trade at the Yale School of Management, February 6, 2009,“Is Protectionism Unavoidable?”, [[http://yaleglobal.yale.edu/content/protectionism-unavoidable]]) FS</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">Our best hope is that … much as realistically possible.</span>

===**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1NC Hegemony Adv</span>**=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Steel industry is recovering </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shore 12</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Sandy [Ap business writer]. April 25. “US steel industry in a slow recovery from recession” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.seattlepi.com/business/article/US-steel-industry-in-slow-recovery-from-recession-3506780.php]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

__U.S. Steel posted a first-quarter …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> slipped 14 cents to $7.20.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Status quo protectionism means the plan destroys the steel industry</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ikenson 2</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – is a policy analyst at Cato's Center for Trade Policy Studies (Daniel J. Ikenson, “Steel Trap: How Subsidies and Protectionism Weaken the U.S. Steel Industry”, Cato Institute, 3/1/02, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cato.org/publications/trade-briefing-paper/steel-trap-how-subsidies-protectionism-weaken-us-steel-industry]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> | AK)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Protectionism, Subsidies, and Overcapacity The verdict of the … </span>__could enjoy with larger market shares__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Domestic steel industry isn’t key to heg – the DoD says foreign suppliers are comparatively better </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">McCormack 9 (</span>__**Richard A. McCormack, Richard McCormack is editor and publisher of Manufacturing & Technology News , April 17, 2009, Manufacturing and technology news volume 16, no. 9 “Defense Department To The U.S. Specialty Metals Industry: We Don’t Need You”)

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The health and wellbeing of the U</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">.S. … domestic supply of these specialty metals</span>__.”

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No impact to hegemony</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedman 10</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ben Friedman, research fellow in defense and homeland security, Cato. PhD candidate in pol sci, MIT, Military Restraint and Defense Savings, 20 July 2010, http://www.cato.org/testimony/ct-bf-07202010.html)</span>

__A__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nother </span>__argument__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for high military spending </span>__…__ __us into wars____, while providing no obvious benefit.__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No transition wars – even if the U.S. declines, liberal norms and institutions check the impact</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ikenberry 11</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (G. John, PhD, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University in the Department of Politics and the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, “The Future of the Liberal World Order,” May/June issue of Foreign Affairs, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/ articles/67730/g-john-ikenberry/the-future-of-the-liberal-world-order?page=show)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For all these reasons, </span>__many observers …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> middle of the twentieth century. </span>

**America will never decline – Every indicator flows neg**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kagan 12</span>__** (Robert, Not Fade Away The myth of American decline. Robert Kagan, January 11, 2012, http://www.tnr.com/article/politics/magazine/99521/america-world-power-declinism?page=0,4)

But how real is it**__? Much of the …__** __remains predominant in every region of the world.__

====**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2NC Hegemony - Inevitable</span>**==== 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">First – </span>__no challengers__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – nothing short of a magical asteroid could end hegemony</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brooks 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Stephen Brooks, Assoc. Prof. of Gov't @ Dartmouth, B.A., Economics and Politics, UC Santa Cruz, M.A., M.Phil., Ph.D., Political Science, Yale University, “Stephen Brooks on Hegemony,” July 21, lecture at the Dartmouth Debate Institute, [[http://www.planetdebate.com/blogs/view/1043]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So, when we ask: </span>is the U.S. <span class="UnderlineChar">… China or Japan, or whoever else</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Second – </span>__structural foundations__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – the American market and dollar make heg inevitable</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Norrlof 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – an Associate Professor in the Department of Political Science at the University of Toronto (Carla, “ America’s Global Advantage US Hegemony and International Cooperation” p. 1-2)</span>

The United States has been<span class="UnderlineChar"> …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> sustained deficit policy would otherwise have. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Third – </span>__innovation__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – the U.S. is technologically superior relative to competitors</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zakaria 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Fareed Zakaria, editor of newsweek and considered one of the most influential writers in the world “Is America Losing Its Mojo?,” 11/14/09 http://www.newsweek.com/id/222836]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">By most measures, </span>America remains the <span class="UnderlineChar">…</span> always comes first by a large margin<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Fourth – </span>__cultural influence__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – American primacy is resilient</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jones 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jonathan, 2011, “Stars and stripes in our eyes: what's so special about the American way?”, [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/artanddesign/jonathanjonesblog/2011/mar/03/stars-stripes-american-cultural-influence]], AV)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">It is hard to read a … and the pursuit of happiness.</span>

===**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1NC Manufacturing Adv</span>**=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1) 12 percent of the plan goes into manufacturing</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">DoT and CEA 10</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (The Department of the Treasure and The Council of Economic Advisors, October 21st, “AN ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT”, http://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/economic-policy/Documents/infrastructure_investment_report.pdf)</span>

__Investing in transportation infrastructure__ __…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the national distribution of wages.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2) </span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Alt causes—federal policy and congestion</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1AC Author </span>__****__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hermann</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Andrew Herrmann, P.E. SECB, F.ASCE President American Society of Civil Engineers, Impact Of Infrastructure Investment On The Manufacturing Sector, pg lexis//chm)//</span>

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The job-creation potential of </span>__infrastructure__ __… lose ground in a global economy.__//

//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">3) </span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Manufacturing collapse is inevitable</span>**//
//**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fingleton 7/30</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—Forbes and the Financial Times (Eamonn, “American Decline: More Wishful Thinking from the Naysayers”, 2012, http://www.forbes.com/sites/eamonnfingleton/2012/07/30/american-decline-more-wishful-thinking-from-the-naysayers/)</span>//chm

__Bleeker suggests that the U__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>**__S__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>**__will …__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> American conglomerate, are all separately listed.</span>**

====**2NC Manufacturing - Alt Cause**==== 
Multiple alt causes outweigh
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reuters 7/2 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“U.S. manufacturing shrinks, 1st time in nearly 3 yrs,” pg online @ http://in.reuters.com/article/2012/07/02/usa-economy-idINDEE8610EU20120702)</span>

Manufacturing will likely stay … begun to stabilize in most markets.

Offshoring’s a massive alt cause
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Johnson 7/30</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—Author of Seeing the Forest, part of Campaign for America’s Future (Dave, “Report: Offshoring Of Manufacturing Capacity Leaves America Vulnerable, Unprepared”, 2012, Seeing the Forest, http://www.seeingtheforest.com/archives/2012/07/report_offshori.htm)//chm</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A new report says </span>American is too <span class="UnderlineChar">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> pandemics and possible bioterrorism attacks.</span>

===**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1NC Solvency</span>**=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Adaptation is impossible – tech and migration can’t solve</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Parkinson 10</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Claire L Parkinson is a climatologist at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center, where she's worked since July 1978, with a research emphasis on sea ice and its role in the global climate system. Claire has a B.A. in mathematics from Wellesley College and a Ph.D. in climatology from Ohio State University. She is a fellow of both the American Meteorological Society and Phi Beta Kappa. 2010 The Coming Climate Crisis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When in the late twentieth century </span>__the standard__ __…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> under today's circumstances. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">100 year timeframe</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1AC Author Schwartz</span>__**, consultant and an National Academy of Engineering member, in ’**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span>__** | Jr, Henry G.” Adaptation to the Impacts of Climate Change on Transportation”, The Bridge, Fall|
Scenario analyses, forexample, can provide “envelopes” of … __damage will already have been done__.
==Elections DA [Georgetown]== 
===1NC=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Obama winning now but it's close – the only way he loses is a policy mistake</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lux 9/26</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mike Lux, Huff Post Politics, “Winning the Election -- And a Successful Second Term,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/mike-lux/democrat-house-campaigns_b_1916069.html?utm_hp_ref=elections-2012)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I have been in politics way too …</span> **__the future of the country.__**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">More deficit spending would swing the election to Romney</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kraushaar, ’12 </span>**(Josh, National Journal writer, 5/14/12, [[http://decoded.nationaljournal.com/2012/05/romneys-targeted-deficit-messa.php]], JD)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If unemployment was the only …</span> __but voter dissatisfaction still runs high.__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Obama is key to effective diplomacy – Romney will first strike</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gharib 8/16</span>__** (Ali Gharib, M.S. in philosophy and public policy from the London School of Economics and national security reporter for ThinkProgress.org covering U.S. foreign policy in the Middle East, particularly Iran, 2012, “Top Romney Adviser Falsely Claims Sanctions Aren’t Slowing Iran’s Nuclear Progress,” [[http://thinkprogress.org/security/2012/08/16/701131/senor-iran-sanctions-slow-progress/]])

As neoconservative analyst Patrick Clawson … most permanent way” to resolve the crisis.

**Iran strikes causes multiple scenarios for extinction.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chossudovsky 6</span>****<span style="font-size: 14pt;">.</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michel Chossudovsky, The Next Phase of the Middle East War, Global Research, [[http://globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=28355]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Bush Administration has embarked upon </span>**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">… conquest of the Russian Federation</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===2NC Link Wall=== 
**Obama is hinging the election on REDUCING spending – the plan causes independents to vote Republican**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kirchgaessner, ’11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Stephanie, “Obama looks to independent voters,” April 15 2011, http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/7dd54d5c-678c-11e0-9138-00144feab49a.html#axzz1T844vB9m</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Barack </span>**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Obama is betting that his</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> … believed </span>__**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">the deficit required immediate actio</span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;">n.</span>__

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Independents are key to Romney</span>**
**Stirewalt, ’12** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Chris, 5/17/12, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2012/05/17/grossed-out-independents-help-obama-in-fox-news-poll/]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">, JD)</span>

__Republicans__<span style="font-size: 9pt;">, invariably a pessimistic bunch … incumbent, voters may simply tune out.</span>

**Infrastructure bills cause deficit fights – that allows GOP to galvanize support**
**Gruenberg, ’12** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Mark, editor of Press Associates Inc. (PAI), a union news service, 1/20/12, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://peoplesworld.org/labor-maps-legislative-battle-for-201/]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">, JD)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In a Jan. 17 interview with Press Associates Union … Terry O'Sullivan called Mica's legislation a "job killer." </span>

==PSGP Reform CP== 
===1NC=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Counterplan text: The United States Federal Government should continue to fund the Port Security Grant Program at current levels and implement the Government Accountability Office’s recommendations for risk management assessment for the Port Security Grant Program. </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Grant Reform is key to solvency– backlogs of unspent funds prove more money isn’t enough</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(1AC) Kimery 12</span>__** (Anthony Kimery, staffwriter for homeland Security today, “Security, Port Authorities Associations Urge DHS To Reconsider Port Allocations,” Homeland Security (HS) Today, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.hstoday.us/focused-topics/counternarcotics-terrorism-intelligence/single-article-page/security-port-authorities-associations-urge-dhs-to-reconsider-port-allocations.html]]</span>)

The two groups said that, “__while we …__ these __projects are scalable and ready to be implemented__ __[[#|now]]__.”

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">GAO reforms solve resource limitations and delays</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">GAO 2011</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“PORT SECURITY GRANT PROGRAM: Risk Model, Grant Management, and Effectiveness Measures Could Be Strengthened” United States Government Accountability Office 11/11 <http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-12-47> 6/22/12)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Port areas have unique characteristics—they are …</span> __in ensuring that critical port infrastructure is protected____.__

===__2NC Solvency__=== 
Only grant distribution reform solves
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1AC AAPA 11</span> (American Association of Port Authorities, represents about 150 of the leading public port authorities in the United States, Canada, Latin America and the Caribbean, “10 Years After 9/11, Security Still a Top Priority of U.S. Ports,” Sept 1, 2011, [[http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/10-years-after-911-security-still-a-top-priority-of-us-ports-128888213.html]])

While federal Port Security __[[#|Grant Program]]__ … streamline their processes and get funding out more quickly.

Increasing __[[#|Investment]]__ can’t solve – reforms are needed
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">GAO 11</span> (United States Government Accountability Office, “PORT SECURITY GRANT PROGRAM,” November 2011, [[http://gao.gov/assets/590/587142.pdf]])

FEMA has faced several challenges in … will be in improving the distribution of grant funds.

The Plan isn’t enough -- State Preparedness Report Program under the PSGP also needs reforms that the plan can’t mandate
GAO 12 (General Accountability Office, “MANAGING PREPAREDNESS GRANTS AND ASSESSING NATIONAL CAPABILITIES Continuing Challenges Impede FEMA’s Progress,” 3/20/12, Testimony before the Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Response, and Communications, Committee on Homeland Security, House of Representatives, [[http://www.gao.gov/assets/590/589446.pdf]])
FEMA officials reported that one of its evaluation … on National Preparedness (PPD-8), was issued on March 30, 2011.

===AT: Perm do CP=== 
A. “Substantial investment” must be an increase of __at least__ 20%
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Traficant 89</span> (“H.R.2489 -- Foreign Subsidiary Tax Equity Act (Introduced in House - IH)”, 5-24, http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/z?c101:H.R.2489.IH:)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">SEC. 2. INCOME FROM RUNAWAY PLANTS OR FROM MANUFACTURING … subparagraph (B)(ii)) on the first day of such period.'</span>

B. Increase must be an immediate net increase
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rogers 5</span> (Judge Rogers, STATE OF NEW YORK, ET AL., 6-24-05, PETITIONERS v. U.S. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY, RESPONDENT, NSR MANUFACTURERS ROUNDTABLE, ET AL., INTERVENORS, 2005 U.S. App.)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [**48] Statutory Interpretation. [[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=1fe428155fdfc9074f3623f0dae9d78a&docnum=14&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVlz-zSkAW&_md5=0ebd338d6a7793de8561db53b915effd&focBudTerms=term%20increase&focBudSel=all#clscc16|HN16]]While the CAA defines a … five or ten years ago when the engine was in perfect condition.</span>

=="Evacuation" Word PIC== 
===1NC=== 
<span style="line-height: 32px;">CP Text obviously changes depending on the round</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The term “evacuation” has negative connotations of force that cause compulsory evacuation – “relocation” solves</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">VBRC 9</span>__** (Victorian Bushfires Royal Commission – Interim Report, Chapter 6: Relocation, 2009, http://www.royalcommission.vic.gov.au/Documents/PF-Chapters/Chapter6_PF.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">THE TERMINOLOGY OF EVACUATION 6.3 ‘Evacuation’ is a word … in cases where evacuation is clearly more appropriate).</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">That turns the case and guts civil rights</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">VBRC 9</span>__** (Victorian Bushfires Royal Commission – Interim Report, Chapter 6: Relocation, 2009, http://www.royalcommission.vic.gov.au/Documents/PF-Chapters/Chapter6_PF.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ARGUMENTS AGAINST COMPULSORY EVACUATION 6.23 </span>__Numerous … effect in other ways__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, such as assisting others who do wish to leave.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">D-Rule</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">PCCR 47</span>__** (The Report of the President’s Committee on Civil Rights, established by Harry S. Truman, “To Secure These Rights”, Chapter 3, “Government’s Responsibility: Securing the Rights”, 1947, http://www.trumanlibrary.org/civilrights/srights3.htm)

**__The National Government of the United States__** **__…__** __protection of the people by the Government.__

===__2NC OV__=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Even if they win util you still vote negative</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Levinson 2K</span>__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Daryl, professor of law at the University of Virginia, “Making Government Pay: Markets, Politics, and the Allocation of Constitutional Costs”, University of Chicago Law Review, Spring 2000, LexisNexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Extending a majority rule analysis of optimal …</span> __constitutional rights were never violated__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And disallowing the right to protect one’s own property is an instance of violation of liberty – that causes tyranny and must be rejected </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Petro 74</span>__**(Sylvester, Professor of Law at NYU, Toledo Law Review, Spring, p. 480, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.ndtceda.com/archives/200304/0783.html]]</span>)

However, one may still insist, echoing … __resisted with undying spirit.__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Turns the case</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rorty 98</span>__** – professor emeritus of comparative literature and philosophy, by courtesy, at Stanford University (Richard, “ACHIEVING OUR COUNTRY: Leftist Thought in Twentieth-Century America”, 1998, pg. 89-94)*WE DO NOT ENDORSE GENDERED LANGUAGE*

__The nonsuburban electorate will … resistance to his evitable rise.__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The word “evacuation” is unclear and unapplicable – that destroys solvency</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fraser 9</span>__** (Allen B., Coordinator of NFPA, National Fire Protection Association, CBI, CPCA, Sr. Building Code Specialist, “What’s on Second!”, http://www.nfpa.org/assets/files/eACCESS/Dec_2009_Single_Column.pdf

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I hope you enjoyed the Who’s …</span> **__not really quite right__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===__2NC Discourse First__=== 
Discourse decides everything – there’s no alternative
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">George 94</span> (Jim**,** Senior lecturer in international relations in the Department of Political Science, Australian National University, “Discourses of Global Politics: A Critical (Re)Introduction to International Relations,” p. 25-26)

<span class="UnderlineChar">The question of reality and …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> knowledge as International Relations.82</span>

===__AT: Butler__=== 
Butler’s theories of reappropriation prevent activism and strengthen evil by propagating myths of inevitability, and her work isn’t credible
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nussbaum 99</span> (Martha, professor of law and ethics, 2/22/99, The Professor of Parody, http://www.akad.se/Nussbaum.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What precisely does </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Butler</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> offer …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> to an amoral anarchist politics.</span>

===__AT: Not Compulsory__=== 
Nope – relocation is voluntary but evacuation is not – “relocation” is a better word
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gledhill and McCreadie No Date </span>(J.B., Chief Officer, Tasmania Fire Service, and R., Commissioner, Tasmania Police, The Gledhill Study, http://www.topangamessenger.com/er.asp)

<span class="UnderlineChar">Reference to the word evacuation …</span> the context of compulsory movement.

==Framework== 
===1NC BF Rd 3 vs. Highland Park WW=== 
we read an interpretation but we scrawled it on a piece of paper and then proceeded to lose it. you could probably guess it i dunno

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">First</span>__****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, effective deliberation requires a forum of discussion that facilitates political agonism and the capacity to substantively engage the topic at hand---in short, a forum of __switch side debate__ where the negative can __predict and respond__ to the aff is the most intellectually effective---this is crucial to affecting productive change in all facets of life---the __process__ in this instance is more important than the substance of their advocacy </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gutmann and Thompson 96</span>__** – Amy Gutmann 96 is the president of Penn and former prof @ Princeton, AND Dennis Thompson is Alfred North Whitehead Professor of Political Philosophy at Harvard University, Democracy and Disagreement, pp 1

__OF THE CHALLENGES__ __that American democracy … also a means for deciding what means are morally required to pursue our common ends__.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Effective deliberation is crucial to personal agency and is only possible in a switch-side debate format where debaters divorce themselves from ideology---this is vital to preventing mass violence and genocide</span>**
Patricia **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Roberts-Miller 3</span>__** is Associate Professor of Rhetoric at the University of Texas "Fighting Without Hatred:Hannah Ar endt ' s Agonistic Rhetoric" JAC 22.2 2003
Totalitarianism and the Competitive Space of Agonism

Arendt is probably most famous for her … __but not expressivist rhetoric.__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Democratic agonism can only successfully operate in a limited forum---it’s not a limitation on the content of argument, but on the form in which it is presented---this is not an appeal to exclusion, but to maximizing the deliberative potential of debate</span>**
Robert W. **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Glover 10</span>__** Prof of Poli Sci @ UConn "Games without Frontiers?: Democratic Engagement, Agonistic Pluralism, and the Question of Exclusion" Philosophy and Social Criticism Vol. 36

__Recent democratic theory has … must operate with limits and frontiers__.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Agreement is a precondition for contestation </span>**
Ruth Lessl **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shively 2K</span>__**, associate professor of political science at Texas A&M, 2000 Political Theory and Partisan Politics p. 181-2

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The requirements given thus far are …</span> **__act of argumentation__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Effective deliberative discourse is the lynchpin to solving all existential problems---switch-side debate is most effective---our K turns the whole case</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Christian O. </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lundberg 10</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Professor of Communications @ University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, “Tradition of Debate in North Carolina” in </span>__Navigating Opportunity: Policy Debate in the 21st Century__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> By Allan D. Louden, p311</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The second major problem with the … democracy [in an] increasingly complex world. </span>

===2NC OV=== 
Democratic deliberation key to effective political engagement
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ian </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sanderson 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> --- DIRECTOR OF RESEARCH AT LEEDS UNIVERSITY --- Director of Research, Faculty of Business and Law, Leeds Metropolitan University, Leighton Hall, Headingley Campus, Leeds “Intelligent Policy Making for a Complex World: Pragmatism, Evidence and Learning,” Political Studies, Volume 57, Issue 4, pages 699–719, December 2009</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">I have argued, therefore, that ideas from …</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> dissemination of their conclusions.</span>

===2NC State T/I Policy Good=== 
**Action through the state doesn’t uphold it, but the claim that we should never debate state politics makes change impossible and essentializes the state**
**KRAUSE AND WILLIAMS 1997** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Keith and Michael, Critical Security Studies, p. xvi)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First,</span> __to stand too far … contemporary world politics__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Specifically, It is try or die for transportation policy – __several factors__ erode effective transportation policy – in round discussion of effective __pragmatic solutions__ are __vital__ to __reverse trends__ and __jumpstart beneficial reform__</span>**
**Lewis and Williams, 99**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David, Ph.D., President, Hickling Lewis Brod Economics, Inc., and Fred Laurence, Ph.D., United States Department of Transportation, “Policy and Planning as Public Choice Mass Transit in the United States,” Ashgate Publishing Company, pg. 27-33, [[http://www.fta.dot.gov/documents/Policy_and_Planning_as_Public_Choice.pdf]], Tashma)</span>
**__A primary goal__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of the research reported …</span> __infrastructure, policymakers have been impatient__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> with difficult measurement. </span>
**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Policy debates on Transportation Infrastructure act as a //__training ground__// for meaningful public participation in transportation planning – it’s a necessary counter to //__big businesses__// and //__wealthy lobbies__// that perpetuate anti-poor policies – that solves the __internal link__ into all of their claims</span>**
**Barter 98**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – PhD, Coordinator, Sustainable Transport Action Network for Asia and the Pacific</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A Rahman, UNCHS (Habitat) Regional Symposium on Urban Poverty in Asia, Transport and Urban Poverty in Asia: A Brief Introduction to the Key Issues, [[http://www.fukuoka.unhabitat.org/docs/occasional_papers/project_a/06/transport-barter-e.html]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Recife Declaration includes a strong … serious obstacle to a gender-aware approach.</span>

===AT: Life Affirmation=== 
There is __no__ opposition between arguing for pragmatic change in the world and affirming life in a Nietzschean sense---their refusal of change and reform is self-delusion that withdraws from the world and denies an important aspect of life
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">May 5</span> (Todd, Professor of Philosophy at Clemson University, September 2005, “To change the world, to celebrate life,” Philosophy & Social Criticism, Vol. 31, No. 5-6)
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">For those</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> among us </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">who seek in philosophy …</span> choose both sides at once<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>
Arguing for pragmatic change to make the world better is life-affirming
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">May 5</span> (Todd, Professor of Philosophy at Clemson University, September 2005, “To change the world, to celebrate life,” Philosophy & Social Criticism, Vol. 31, No. 5-6)
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Freedom liesnot in our distance … of body and world that is the wellspring of both.</span>

===AT: Schlag=== 
**Normative legal thought is effective at creating order, salvation, and progress.**
**Carlson ’99**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David Gray, Professor of Law, Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law, “</span><span class="verdana" style="font-size: 8pt;">Review Essay: Duellism In Modern American Jurisprudence”,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Columbia Law Review, November 1999, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">99 Colum. L. Rev. 1908, LexisNexis) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Perhaps </span><span class="hit">Pierre __Schlag's__</span> __most__ __… of values is in context.__<span class="blue" style="font-size: 8pt;">n209</span>


==Security K== 
===1NC Georgetown=== 
The aff justifies infrastructure creation through security discourse – that authorizes disciplinary control and destructive violence which turns the case
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reid 8</span> (Julian, Lecturer in International Relations at King’s College London, PhD in Politics from the University of Lancaster, Masters in the International Political Economy from the University of Amsterdam, Bachelor’s in War Studies from King’s College London, “Conclusion: The Biopolitics of Critical Infrastructure Protection”, from “Securing ‘the Homeland:’ Critical Infrastructure, Risk and (In)Security”, edited by Myriam Dunn Cavelty and Kristian Soby Kristensen, pgs. 178-182)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Therefore, </span>the contemporary reification of<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> critical </span>infrastructure <span class="UnderlineChar">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> my reading, creates important openings for the further exploration of such a line of questioning.</span>

The pursuit of security locks us into an endless cycle of violence in the name of apocalypse prevention
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Coviello 1</span> (Peter Coviello, Asst Prof of English – Bowdoin, Queer Frontiers, ed. Boone, author’s italics)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Perhaps. But </span><span class="UnderlineChar">to claim that American culture is at present … a civic initiative that can scarcely be done without.</span>

The alternative is to vote negative to critique the aff’s security discourse as a prior question – framing comes first
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheeseman 96</span>__** (Graeme, Senior Lecturer @ New South Wales, and Robert Bruce, Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This goal is pursued in ways which are still … not to understand them, and why?</span>

===1NC BF=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The 1AC’s threats are not real or objective but are filtered through a lens of threat-action discourse – that causes violence</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Grondin 4</span>__** (David, Masters in Political Science & Ph.D. Candidate – University of Ottawa, “(Re)Writing the ‘National Security State,’ Center for United States Studies)

__Approaches that deconstruct theoretical … that the state’s very conditions of existence are generated18__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

The logic of security causes devaluation and extinction
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Burke 7</span> (Anthony, lecturer of IR at U New South Wales, “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason,” December 7, [[http://www.hopkins-debate.com/pdf/Burke.pdf]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bacon thought of the new scientific method not merely as …</span> are reduced to tools<span class="UnderlineChar">, obstacles, useful or obstinate matter.</span>
The alternative is to vote negative to critique the aff’s security discourse as a prior question – framing comes first
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cheeseman 96</span>__** (Graeme, Senior Lecturer @ New South Wales, and Robert Bruce, Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This goal is pursued in ways which are still … not to understand them, and why?</span>

===2NC Overview Georgetown=== 
The logic of security causes devaluation and extinction
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Burke 7</span> (Anthony, lecturer of IR at U New South Wales, “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason,” December 7, [[http://www.hopkins-debate.com/pdf/Burke.pdf]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bacon thought of the new scientific method not merely as …</span> are reduced to tools<span class="UnderlineChar">, obstacles, useful or obstinate matter. </span>

===2NC Overview BF=== 
Their ontology of war is bankrupt – the aff’s crisis-based politics ignore the omnipresence of militarism
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cuomo 96</span> (Chris J., Professor of Philosophy at the University of Cincinnati, “War Is Not Just an Event: Reflections on the Significance of Everyday Violence”, Hypatia, Volume 11, Number 4, Autumn 1996, pgs. 30-31, Fall, accessed via JSTOR, [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/3810390|www.jstor.org/stable/3810390]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Philosophical </span><span class="UnderlineChar">attention to war has …</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"> militaristic agents of the state</span><span class="UnderlineChar">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The 1AC’s worst-case predictions are nonsensical and produce serial policy failure</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schneier 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Bruce, internationally-renowned security technologist, expert and author, Honorary PhD from the University of Westminster, London, Bachelor’s Degree from the University of Rochester and Master’s Degree from American University, March 13th, 2010, http://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2010/05/worst-case_thin.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At a security conference recently, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the …no point in listening to them.</span>

===2NC Framework=== 
Policy focus is bad – it crowds out critical questioning which makes it impossible for us to structure advocacies
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Biswas 7</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> (Shampa Biswas, Politics @ Whitman, “Empire and Global Public Intellectuals: Reading Edward Said as an International Relations Theorist” //Millennium// 36 (1) p. 117-125)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The recent resuscitation of the project of Empire should … the most fundamental and important senses of the vocation.21</span>

The impact is serial policy failure
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dillon and Reid 2k</span> (Michael**,** Lecturer at __[[#|the University of]]__ Lancaster and Julian, Lecturer on International Politics at University of London, Alternatives: Social Transformation and Humane Governance, Vol. 25 Iss. 1, January-March)

<span class="DebateUnderline">As a precursor to global …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> in terms of policy failure.</span>

Roleplaying is bad – it destroys individual agency via mental deputy politics
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kappeler 95</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> (Susanne, former lecturer in English at the University of East Anglia, former Associate Professor at the School of Humanities and Social Sciences at Al Akhawayn University, “The Will to Violence: The Politics of Personal Behaviour”, 1995, pgs. 10-11)</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">We are the war' does not mean …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and therefore subject to human control.</span>

===2NC Alternative=== 
We don’t have to defend an action – rejection solves
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Vasterling 99</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Veronica Associate Professor in Philosophy at U of Nijimegen, Butler's Sophisticated Constructivism: A Critical Assessment, Hypatia 14.3, 1999, pg. 17-38)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is important to distinguish between …</span> it challenges oppressive norms<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that regulate the intelligibility of the body.</span>

===2NC AT: Experts Good=== 
Monkeys throwing darts are make more __[[#|accurate predictions]]__ than experts – psychology and studies prove
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Menand 5</span> (Louis, PhD from Columbia University, “Everybody’s An Expert”, The New Yorker, December 5th, 2005, http://www.newyorker.com/archive/2005/12/05/051205crbo_books1?printable=true)

<span class="UnderlineChar">It is the somewhat gratifying lesson of Philip …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> separate events to occur. </span>They were seduced by the detail.

===2NC AT: Permutation=== 
The permutation’s focus on pragmatic action destroys solvency through exclusive focus on method over criticism
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Burke 6</span> (Anthony, Lecturer of International Relations at the University of New South Wales, Beyond Security, Ethics And Violence: War Against the Other, pgs. 21-22)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A further argument of the CSS thinkers, one …</span> __**badly needed buttress** for its structure?__

Any acceptance of security destroys the criticism
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Neocleous 8</span> (Mark, Professor of the Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History Brunel Univ, Critique of Security, 185-6)

The only way out<span class="UnderlineChar"> of such a dilemma, to escape …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to be brave enough to return the gift."'</span>

===2NC AT: Schmitt=== 
Schmitt is __dead wrong__ - friend/enemy dichotomy guarantees war
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wolfe 4</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Alan, director of the Boisi Center for Religion and American Public Life and professor of political science at Boston College, April 2. Chronicle of Higher Education: The Chronicle Review. “A Fascist Philosopher Helps Us Understand Contemporary Politics” Volume 50, Issue 30, Page B16. [[http://chronicle.com/weekly/v50/i30/30b01601.htm]])</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">In The Concept of the Political, Schmitt …</span> to vanquish him if necessary.

Schmitt’s crazy and fascist – his philosophies justify totalitarian violence – lezbehonest he was a Nazi
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rejali 3</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Darius, Associate Professor of Political Science at Reed College, “Friend and Enemy, East or West: Political Realism in the work of Usama bin Ladin, Carl Schmitt, Niccolo Machiavelli and Kai-Ka’us ibn Iskandar” January 2003)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is tempting to put Schmitt’s answer like … be explained but not second-guessed.</span>

===2NC AT: Threats Real=== 
Not responsive – their impact scenarios are products of paranoia
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mack 88</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (John E., Doctor of Psychiatry, Professor of Psychiatry at Harvard University, “The Enemy System (short version)”, John E. Mack institute, Originally published in the Lancet, August 13th, 1988, <span style="color: black;">[[http://johnemackinstitute.org/1988/08/the-enemy-system-short-version/]]</span>, we don’t endorse the card’s gendered discourse)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">The threat of nuclear annihilation has stimulated …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from the leadership, contribute powerfully to the process.</span>

==2NRs== 
===Georgetown=== 
**Rd. 2 - Climate Adaptation**
2NR: Elections DA + Case

**Rd. 3 - Climate Adaptation**
2NR: Conditionality Good

**Rd. 5 - Port Security**
2NR: Grant Reform CP + Elections DA

**Doubles - TRANSCOM**
2NR: Security K

**Quarters - Climate Adaptation**
2NR: Elections DA + Case

===Bronx RR=== 
**Rd. 1 - Climate Adaptation**
2NR: Security K

**Rd. 3 - Gas Tax**
2NR: Elections DA + Case

**Rd. 5 - HSR**
2NR: Security K

===Bronx=== 
**Rd. 1 - Methanol Fueling Stations**
2NR: XO CP + Prez Powers NB

**Rd. 3 - Port Dredging**
2NR: XO CP + Prez Powers NB + Elections DA

**Rd. 6 - Alaskan Ports**
2NR: Security K

===Glenbrooks=== 
**Rd. 1 - Relational Planning/Deterritorialization**
2NR: PIC out of the Plan Text

**Rd. 3 - Fix-It First**
2NR: Fiscal Cliff DA + Case

**Rd. 5 - Critical Bering Strait**
2NR: F-Word K + Red Spread

**Rd. 7 - Evacuation Transportation Infrastructure**
2NR: Fiscal Cliff DA + Case

===Blake=== 
**Rd. 1 - Port Dredging**
2NR: Anthropocentricism K

**Rd. 3 - Inland Waterways**
2NR: T-Maintenance

**Rd. 6 - Icebreakers**
2NR: Investor Confidence DA + Case

===Barkley Forum=== 
**Rd. 2 - Climate Adaptation**
2NR: "Evacuation" Word PIC

**Rd. 3 - Chaos [Highland Park]**
2NR: Framework

**Rd. 6 - Port Dredging**
2NR: Security K