[[toc]]
==Affirmative== 
=Biofuels=

Captured carbon key to algae production
AIM 10 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">("Honeywell~’s UOP Awarded Funding for CO2 Capture," Algae Industry Magazine, 2010, [[</span>http://www.algaeindustrymagazine.com/honeywells-uop-awarded-funding-for-co2-capture/-http://www.algaeindustrymagazine.com/honeywells-uop-awarded-funding-for-co2-capture/]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">)//Jaxey</span>
PRNewswire….UOP, a Honeywell company, has been awarded a %241.
AND
Honeywell~’s Specialty Materials strategic business group. —A.I.M.

Pipelines solve CO2 transportation
BDM 9 ("Examining CO2 Sources for Algae," Biodiesel Magazine, 10/14/09, http://www.biodieselmagazine.com/articles/3786/examining-co2-sources-for-algae/)//Jaxey
CO2 is typically piped, trucked or railed in liquid form and purified for merchant
AND
containing, sequestering, or fixing CO2 via algae is an extraordinary opportunity.

Algae key to produce biofuels – CO2 key
Forbes 12 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">("Will Algae Biofuels Hit the Highway?," Forbes, 5/20/12, http://www.forbes.com/sites/kensilverstein/2012/05/20/will-algae-biofuels-hit-the-highway/2/)//Jaxey</span>
An Arizona-based algae technology company says it~’s on to something big: harnessing
AND
. Of that, the United States uses about 18 million a day.

Algae biofuel production is comparatively better than other crops
BI 12 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">("This Little Green Plant Could Be The Biofuel Of The Future," Business Insider, 7/27/12, http://www.businessinsider.com/how-algae-could-be-the-biofuel-of-the-future-2012-7?op=1)//Jaxey</span>
These algae are a huge group of microorganisms that grow naturally over the world,
AND
center grows algae to show how commercially viable and revolutionary the process is.

Biofuels solve military oil dependence – gives options and investment makes them cost competitive
Burke 12 – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Patrick, Truman Advocacy Intern ("Oil Dependence: Don~’t Put a Band-Aid on a Gaping Wound," Truman Project, 7/27/12, http://trumanproject.org/doctrine-blog/oil-dependence-dont-put-a-band-aid-on-a-gaping-wound/)//Jaxey</span>
In a recent study, James Bartis of the RAND Corporation claimed that "DoD
AND
American produced fuel source, reducing our reliance on other countries for fuel.

Oil dependence will hamstring naval effectiveness – increased cost and vulnerability
AP 12<span style="color: #030303; font-size: 8pt;">("Navy energy leader warns of oil dependency danger," Associated Press, 4/10/12, http://hamptonroads.com/2012/04/navy-energy-leader-warns-oil-dependency-danger)//Jaxey</span>
The director of the Navy~’s energy coordination office invoked the bombing of the USS Cole
AND
political trick. It~’s about combat capability, combat capability and more capability."

The brink is now – even minor decreases trigger our impacts
Eaglen and McGrath, ~’11 <span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">– *Mackenzie Eaglen, research fellow for national security studies, a policy expert attached to Heritage~’s Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, served as a staff member of the QDR Independent Panel, a bipartisan, blue-ribbon commission established to assess the Pentagon~’s major defense strategy, commentary and analysis have appeared in major newspapers and in journals such as Armed Forces Journal, Proceedings, National Defense, Ripon Society Forum and Military Technology, principal defense adviser to Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine), a senior member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and ranking member of the Homeland Security Committee, lectured at the Army War College, National Defense University, American University, Georgetown University, George Washington University, University of Georgia, Indiana University and Hofstra University, received her master~’s degree in national security studies in 2001 from Georgetown University; **Bryan McGrath the Founding Director of Delex Consulting, Studies and Analysis (CSA), retired Naval Officer, earned a BA in History and an MA in Political Science </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(5/16/11, </span>Thinking About a Day Without Sea Power: Implications for U.S. Defense Policy<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, [[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/05/thinking-about-a-day-without-sea-power-implications-for-us-defense-policy-http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/05/thinking-about-a-day-without-sea-power-implications-for-us-defense-policy]])</span>

Today~’s Navy is experiencing extreme levels of stress. ~~[6~~] While the fleet
AND
its military power would then continue to decline to second-rate status.

Collapse triggers every impact imaginable
Eaglen and McGrath, ~’11 <span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">– *Mackenzie Eaglen, research fellow for national security studies, a policy expert attached to Heritage~’s Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, served as a staff member of the QDR Independent Panel, a bipartisan, blue-ribbon commission established to assess the Pentagon~’s major defense strategy, commentary and analysis have appeared in major newspapers and in journals such as Armed Forces Journal, Proceedings, National Defense, Ripon Society Forum and Military Technology, principal defense adviser to Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine), a senior member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and ranking member of the Homeland Security Committee, lectured at the Army War College, National Defense University, American University, Georgetown University, George Washington University, University of Georgia, Indiana University and Hofstra University, received her master~’s degree in national security studies in 2001 from Georgetown University; **Bryan McGrath the Founding Director of Delex Consulting, Studies and Analysis (CSA), retired Naval Officer, earned a BA in History and an MA in Political Science </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(5/16/11, </span>Thinking About a Day Without Sea Power: Implications for U.S. Defense Policy<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, [[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/05/thinking-about-a-day-without-sea-power-implications-for-us-defense-policy-http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/05/thinking-about-a-day-without-sea-power-implications-for-us-defense-policy]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Korea Nuclerization</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Japan Nuclearization</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Iran Nuclearization</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Piracy</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Indo-Pak War</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Natural Disaster (no response)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Disease</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-China Rise</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Russia Rise</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Middle East War</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-NATO Collapse</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Nuclear Proliferation</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Global Collapse of Trade = protectionism </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-European Instability</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Oil Shocks</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Economic Instability</span>

Under a scenario of dramatically reduced naval power, the United States would cease to
AND
standard of living. Some domestic manufacturing improves, but at significant cost.

Reliance on the Navy is inevitable

Whiteneck<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">20</span>10<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 7pt;"> (Daniel Whiteneck • Michael Price • Neil Jenkins •Peter Swartz, CNA Analysis %26 Solutions, "The Navy at a Tipping Point: Maritime Dominance at Stake?" March,[[http://www.public.navy.mil/usff/documents/navy_at_tipping_point.pdf-http://www.public.navy.mil/usff/documents/navy_at_tipping_point.pdf]])</span>
In the future, the demand for the Navy will continue to be part of
AND
diplomacy to support administration priorities and to support security cooperation activities by COCOMs.
No other country can fill in for US naval power
Whiteneck<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">20</span>10<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 7pt;"> (Daniel Whiteneck • Michael Price • Neil Jenkins •Peter Swartz, CNA Analysis %26 Solutions, "The Navy at a Tipping Point: Maritime Dominance at Stake?" March,[[</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">http://www.public.navy.mil/usff/documents/navy_at_tipping_point.pdf-http://www.public.navy.mil/usff/documents/navy_at_tipping_point.pdf]])</span>
Second, no other country (or combination of countries) will create the forces
AND
of assets) would quickly deplete their resources and political support at home.

Independently, US green tech leadership is key to peaceful primacy world-wide – transitions US away from aggressive to progressive power
Klaveras 09 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Louis Klaveras, Professor, Center for Global Affairs, New York University, 15 December 2009, Securing American Primacy While Tackling Climate Change: Toward a National Strategy of Greengemony, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/louis-klarevas/securing-american-primacy_b_393223.html) </span>

By not addressing climate change more aggressively and creatively, the United States is squandering
AND
best approach for achieving this is to promote a national strategy of greengemony. 

==Emory 1ac CCS== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">Plan</span></span>

Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in a liquid carbon backbone pipeline infrastructure in the United States.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">Warming</span></span>
Contention 1: Warming


Warming is real, anthropogenic, and happening now.
Braganza 11 (Karl, Manager, Climate Monitor at the Bureau of Meteorology in
AND
and has no relevant affiliations "The greenhouse effect is real: here~’s why
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," http://theconversation.edu.au/the-greenhouse-effect-is-real-heres-why-1515, AM)</span>
In public discussions of climate change, the full range and weight of evidence underpinning
AND
That continued rapid increases in greenhouse gases will cause rapid future warming is irrefutable

Consensus among climate researchers
Anderegg et al 10 –<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> PhD Candidate @ Stanford in Biology</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">William, "Expert credibility in climate change," National Academy of Sciences, p. 12107-12109</span>
Preliminary reviews of scientific literature and surveys of cli- mate scientists indicate striking agreement
AND
discussions in media, policy, and public forums regarding anthropogenic climate change.

Positive feedbacks outweigh negative feedbacks – we control uniqueness, we are at the tipping point now
Speth 08 – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dean of Yale school of Forestry (James, dean of the Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies at Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, currently he serves the school as the Carl W. Knobloch, Jr. Dean and Sara Shallenberger Brown Professor in the Practice of Environmental Policy, The Bridge @ the Edge of the World, pg. 26)</span>
The possibility of abrupt climate change is linked to what may be the most problematic
AND
and the trip will exterminate a large fraction of species on the planet.

Warming is an existential threat
Mazo 10 – PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, "Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it," pg. 122</span>
The best estimates for global warming to the end of the century range from 2
AND
adaptation to these extremes would mean profound social, cultural and political changes.


Emissions cause ocean acidification, leads to extinction
Sify 2010<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Sydney newspaper citing </span>Ove Hoegh-Guldberg, professor at University of Queensland and Director of the Global Change Institute, and John Bruno, associate professor of Marine Science at UNC<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Sify News, </span>"Could unbridled climate changes lead to human extinction?", [[<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.sify.com/news/could-unbridled-climate-changes-lead-to-human-extinction-news-international-kgtrOhdaahc.html-http://www.sify.com/news/could-unbridled-climate-changes-lead-to-human-extinction-news-international-kgtrOhdaahc.html]]</span>, WEA)
The findings of the comprehensive report: ~’The impact of climate change on the world~’s
AND
warned, according to a GCI release. These findings were published in Science

Co2 collapses ag independently kills 5.5 bil
Strom, 7 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">University of Arizona planetary science emeritus professor, studied climate change for 15 years, the former Director of the Space Imagery Center at NASA Regional Planetary Image Facility (Robert, , "Hot House", SpringerLink, p.<211-216>) H. Kenner</span>
The future consequences of global warming are the least known aspect of the problem.
AND
, Russia, and to the coast of South Africa along the Indian Ocean

Climate change is comparatively the only existential threat
Doebbler 11. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Curtis, International Human Rights Lawyer. Two threats to our existence. Ahram Weekly. July 2011. [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2011/1055/envrnmnt.htm-http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2011/1055/envrnmnt.htm]]</span>
Climate change is widely acknowledged to be the greatest threat facing humanity. It will
AND
and marginalise their neighbours in developing countries. They continue in this vein.

Catastrophic climate change should be measured as the highest priority – do not discount the unpredictable impact it will have on future generations. This is distinctly different from impacts that do not threaten human survival
Scorse 8 – Professor of International Studies
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jason, Assistant Professor @ Monterey Institute of International Studies @ Middlebury College, What Environmentalists Need to Know About Economics, Online Book</span>
Even though the science now confirms that human activity is contributing to global warming and
AND
should revert back to the basic arguments for choosing the proper discount rate.
Short term focus fails to address real problems – need to look at longer timescales

Tonn 04<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– (2004, Bruce, PhD, Urban and Regional Planning, Northwestern University, Program Leader, ISSE Environmental Sustainability, Professor, UT~’s Department of Political Science, Director, UT~’s Urban and Regional Planning Program, Senior Researcher, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, "Integrated 1000-year planning," Futures 36 (2004) 91–108)</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>
Why tackle 1000 years and not shorter, more imaginable and manageable time horizons?
AND
some very disturbing and dangerous potential states-of-the-world.
Carbon sequestration is key
Mack and Endemann 10 - *partner in the Houston office and global Chair of
AND
environmental counseling on energy and infrastructure projects, and represents clients in related litigation
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Joel and Buck, "Making carbon dioxide sequestration feasible: Toward federal regulation of CO2 sequestration pipelines," Energy Policy, http://lw.com/upload/pubContent/_pdf/pub3385_1.pdf</span>
At present, approximately 50% of the United States~’ base load electrical energy requirements
AND
reducing near- to medium-term impacts from global climate change. 8

CCS creates the ultimate backstop against runaway warming – allows for indirect air removal
Mills 11 - <span style="font-size: 8pt;">*MSc in Geological Sciences @ Cambridge</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Robin, "Capturing Carbon: The New Weapon in the War Against Climate Change," Google Book</span>
Indirect capture is therefore the ultimate backstop for climate policy. Storage capacity permitting,
AND
~’additional~’, reductions. I will return to this issue in Chapter 6.

CCS is a critical bridge to a broader portfolio of sustainable energy
Forbes et al 8 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- senior associate at the World Resources Institute, former member of the National Energy Technology Laboratory</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Sarah, CCS Guidelines: Guidelines for Carbon Dioxide Capture, Transport, and Storage, World Resources Institute, http://pdf.wri.org/ccs_guidelines.pdf</span>
Scenarios for stabilizing climate-forcing emissions suggest atmospheric CO2 stabilization can only be accomplished
AND
enabling it to be used as a bridge to a sustainable energy future.

Only the plan is modeled – BRIC countries won~’t cut emissions unless they can avoid economic cost
Apt et al 7 – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">PhD in Physics @ MIT, Professor of Technology, Tepper School of Business and Engineering and Public Policy</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jay, "Incentives for Near-Term Carbon Dioxide Geological Sequestration," Carnegie Mellon, http://wpweb2.tepper.cmu.edu/ceic/pdfs_other/Incentives_for_Near-Term_Carbon_Dioxide_Geological_Sequestration.pdf</span>
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Fourth Assessment Report projects that if
AND
the 2005 U.S. economy are shown in figure 28 below.

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">Solvency</span></span>
Contention 2: solvency

Carbon regulation is coming and CCS technology is advancing – facilitating regulated transportation infrastructure is key to jump-starting the commercial industry
**Zarraby 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- chemical engineer for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, JD expected from GWU in 2012</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cyrus, "Note: Regulating Carbon Capture and Sequestration: A Federal Regulatory Regime to Promote the Construction of a National Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Network," 80 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 950, Lexis</span>
Rising food prices, 1 mass migration, 2 new endangered species, 3 severe
AND
legislation that promotes the construction of new CO<2> pipelines. 17

The federal government is key
-eminent domain, single regulator, encourages broader CCS investment and guarantees uniformity
**Horne 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– JD @ U of Utah</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jennifer, "Getting from Here to There: Devising an Optimal Regulatory Model for CO<2> Transport in a New Carbon Capture and Sequestration Industry," 30 J. Land Resources %26 Envtl. L. 357, Lexis</span>
Siting regulations affect companies~’ ability to build where pipelines are needed, or wanted.
AND
, a uniform set of requirements for access will be far more workable.

CCS decrease electricity costs
Mills 11 - <span style="font-size: 8pt;">*MSc in Geological Sciences @ Cambridge</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Robin, "Capturing Carbon: The New Weapon in the War Against Climate Change," Google Book</span>
Countries that implement CCS successfully should see lower energy prices, a boon for the
AND
opinion may revolt against becoming a ~’dumping ground* for other people~’s waste.

Tech is ready now – plants already have scrubbers available
**Mathieu 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Stevie, June 25, "How Our State~’s Members Of Congress Voted Last Week", [[http://www.columbian.com/weblogs/political-beat/2012/jun/25/how-our-states-members-of-congress-voted-last-week/-http://www.columbian.com/weblogs/political-beat/2012/jun/25/how-our-states-members-of-congress-voted-last-week/]])</span>
CLEAN-AIR REGULATIONS: Voting 46 for and 53 against, the Senate on
AND
cities … and Nashville is not competing to be in the top 10."

Laundry list of legal checks on environmental impacts
**Shortino 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – journalist at the Philadelphia Inquirer (John, "Types of Coal Mining Restrictions" eHow.com, June 29 2011 [[http://www.ehow.com/info_8665548_types-coal-mining-restrictions.html-http://www.ehow.com/info_8665548_types-coal-mining-restrictions.html]]) MLR</span>
Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 The second major act that directly regulates
AND
Act restricts mining in locations where it could harm an endangered animal population.

No leaks or spikes
**Reisinger 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – JD, Attorney @ Ohio Environmental Council</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Will, "RECONCILING KING COAL AND CLIMATE CHANGE: A REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOR CARBON CAPTURE AND STORAGE," Vermont Journal of Environmental Law, http://vjel.org/journal/pdf/VJEL10107.pdf</span>
Because CO2 is toxic at high concentrations, some fear that escaping CO2 from a
AND
, and it is unlikely that a massive cloud of CO2 could escape.






===Pre-empts=== 

Contention 3: No War

Multiple factors prove great power war is dead
Goldstein and Pinker 12/17/11 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Joshua S. Goldstein, </span>professor emeritus of international relations at American University<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, is the </span>author of "Winning the War on War: The Decline of Armed Conflict Worldwide<span style="font-size: 8pt;">." Steven Pinker, a </span>psychology professor at Harvard<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, is the </span>author of "The Better Angels of Our Nature: Why Violence Has Declined<span style="font-size: 8pt;">." 2011, "War Really Is Going Out of Style," http://www.nytimes.com/2011/12/18/opinion/sunday/war-really-is-going-out-of-style.html?_r=1%26scp=4%26sq=steven%20pinker%26st=cse)</span>
THE departure of the last American troops from Iraq brings relief to a nation that
AND
we can safeguard the norms and institutions that have made war increasingly repugnant.

No chance of major interstate war
Deudney and Ikenberry 2009 – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">*political science professor at Johns Hopkins, **Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton (Daniel and John, Foreign Affairs, "The myth of the autocratic revival", WEA)</span>
This bleak outlook is based on an exaggeration of recent developments and ignores powerful countervailing
AND
-first century point to the renewed value of international integration and cooperation.

We control uniqueness – global calamities on the decline now
Fettweis 11<span style="color: #4d4d4d; font-size: 8pt;">—political science professor @ Tulane</span>
<span style="color: #4d4d4d; font-size: 8pt;">Christopher, Professor of Political Science @ Tulane, Dangerous Times?: The International Politics of Great Power Peace, pg. 85-86</span>
The evidence supports the latter. Major wars tend to be rather memorable,
AND
that the rules by which international politics are run may indeed be changing.


Err on our side- the burden of proof is on them to prove global wars can still happen
Fettweis 6<span style="color: #4d4d4d; font-size: 8pt;">—political science professor @ Tulane</span>
<span style="color: #4d4d4d; font-size: 8pt;">(Christopher, professor of political science @ Tulane, International Studies Review, 8, 677-697, EBSCO)</span>
However, one need not be convinced about the potential for ideas to transform international
AND
, perhaps scholars should ask why anyone should believe that it could not.


Nuclear war doesn~’t cause extinction:

A) Counterforce targeting
Mueller, 09 – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Woody Hayes Chair of National Security Studies and Professor of Political Science at Ohio State University (John, "Atomic Obsession: Nuclear Alarmism from Hiroshima to Al-Qaeda" p. 8, Google Books)</span>
To begin to approach a condition that can credibly justify applying such extreme characterizations as
AND
, weather, and sheltering, would perish during the first month.15

B) Nuclear war is survivable
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Harvard physicists </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- natural disasters produce more dust</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- karkatoa volcano = bigger blast than 10,000 megaton bombs</span>
Nyquist 1999 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– patriot, IR expert quoting more experts (5/20, J.R., WorldNetDaily, "Is nuclear war survivable", http://www.worldnetdaily.com/news/printer-friendly.asp?ARTICLE_ID=19722)</span>
I patiently reply to these correspondents that nuclear war would not be the end of
AND
winter hypothesis can now be relegated to a vanishingly low level of probability."

C) Most recent testing proves
Cook 10 – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nigel B. PhD Computer Programming, BA Physics, "Rescue of trapped survivors in megaton equivalent World War II attacks, and a review of Bolsover~’s CND "Civil Defence, The Cruellest Confidence Trick"" http://glasstone.blogspot.com/2010/02/rescue-of-trapped-survivors-in-world.html 2/16/10)</span>
Ignoring practical limitations like anti-Civil Defence propaganda, you would find that it~’s
AND
twice the total yield of all the nuclear bombs tested in the atmosphere.


Large impacts should always outweigh small ones—other arguments are examples of illogical scope neglect
YUDKOWSKY 2006 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Eliezer, Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence</span>,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> "Cognitive biases potentially affecting judgment of global risks," forthcoming in </span>Global Catastrophic Risks<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, August 31)</span>
Three groups of subjects considered three versions of the above question, asking them how
AND
one must usually jump several orders of magnitude to detect the difference experimentally.


==NIB Aff== 



**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in transportation infrastructure though incorporation of an independently governed National Infrastructure Bank, exclusively for transportation infrastructure investment in the United States, into the Export-Import Bank of the United States.</span>**


**Contention 1: Export – Import bank**


**Reauthorization of the import export bank isn’t enough – a substantial increase in loan authority is key to maintain US competitiveness**
**McDermott 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Hon. Jim McDermott, U.S. House of Representatives, “In Support of the Export-Import Bank,” Congressional Record Volume 158, Number 63, Extensions of Remarks, p.E713, 5-7-2012, [[http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CREC-2012-05-07/html/CREC-2012-05-07-pt1-PgE713-3.htm]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Mr. McDERMOTT. Mr. Speaker, …………….here at home.</span>

**Only the export import bank achieves an immediate effect.**
**Schweitzer, et al 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Howard Schweitzer, former chief operating officer of the Treasury Department’s Troubled Assets Relief Program, former senior vice president and general counsel of the Export-Import Bank of the United States from 2005 to 2008, principal in Cozen O’Connor Public Strategies; Mark L. Alderman, member of the Obama-Biden presidential transition team, principal in Cozen O’Connor Public Strategies; Evan Bayh, former U.S. senator from Indiana, senior adviser to Apollo Global Management; “We already have the infrastructure bank we need,” Washington Post, 9-29-2011, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/we-already-have-the-infrastructure-bank-we-need/2011/09/27/gIQA59TI8K_story.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In the [[@http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/omb/legislative/reports/american-jobs-act.pdf|American Jobs Act]], …………………….</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> America and creating jobs.</span>

**New transportation infrastructure investment is key – congestion and failing infrastructure hamstring US exports**
**Ehl 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Larry Ehl, “Congress Reauthorizes Export-Import Bank, Will It Reauthorize Freight Transportation Funding?” Transportation Issues Daily, 5-15-2012, [[http://www.transportationissuesdaily.com/congress-reauthorizes-export-import-bank-will-it-reauthorize-freight-transportation-funding/]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Earlier today the Senate ……………….. quickly, safely and cleanly.</span>

**National coordination of infrastructure investments is key to exports and supply chain competitiveness**
**Lamb-Hale 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Nicole Y., Assistant Secretary for Manufacturing and Services International Trade Administration for the U.S. Department of Commerce , “Testimony before the Senate Committee on Finance, Subcommittee on International Trade, Customs, and Global Competitiveness for ‘Doubling U.S. Exports: Are U.S> Sea Ports Ready for the Challenge?’” U.S. Senate, April 29, 2010,[[http://www.finance.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/042910nltest.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The Obama Administration is deeply ……………… as competitive as the road, rail, and air networks to which it is connected. </span>


**Two impacts:**

**First – manufacturing**

**Infrastructure systems are key to the domestic manufacturing base and export competitiveness.**
**Long, 12** Director, Office of Service Industries, U.S. Department of Commerce (David, “Advisory Committee on Supply Chain Competitiveness,” http://ita.doc.gov/td/sif/DSCT/ACSCC/about.html)//mils//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Advisory Committee on ………………</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> costs by 1%.</span>//


//**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bioterrorism is developing rapidly --- overcoming past barriers --- only manufacturing solves</span>**//
//**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Maurer, 7</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Stephen M. Maurer, J.D. Director of the Goldman School Project at the University of California, Berkeley on Information Technology and Homeland Security Lifeboat Foundation BioShield </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://lifeboat.com/ex/bio.shield]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> 2007)</span>//
//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The new realities of terrorism</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">………………</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Time is running out.</span>//

//**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And is necessary for detection and neutralization </span>**//

//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="background-color: white;">Morgan 03</span>** (Sarah Morgan East Texas Baptist University, Silverio Colon, Arizona State University Department of Bioengineering College of Engineering and Applied Sciences, Judith A. Ruffner and John A. Emerson, Organic Materials Department, “Biomanufacturing: A State of the Technology Review” September 2003, [[http://www.che.ncsu.edu/academics/concentrations/documents/Biomanufacturing-AStateofTechRev.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>//
//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Perhaps </span>the most<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> unique </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">……………… one of these fields.</span>//

//**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Extinction</span>**//

//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **<span style="background-color: white;">Matheny, 7</span>** – former associate at Oxford, MPJ from Hopkins (Jason, published in Risk Analysis 2007; 27(5): 1335-1344, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” [[http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htm]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>//
//Of current extinction <span style="font-size: 8pt;">………………do not seem to be worth the risks.</span>//


//**Second – protectionism**//

//**An effective Import-Export bank is key to sustain political support for free trade**//

//**Richardson 1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (J. David Richardson, visiting fellow at the Institute for International Economics, professor of economics and international relations at Syracuse University, “Exports Matter...And So Does Trade Finance,” Chapter 5, The Ex-Im Bank in the 21st Century: A New Approach?, eds. Gary Clyde Hufbauer and Rita M. Rodriguez, January 2001,[[http://www.piie.com/publications/chapters_preview/323/5iie3004.pdf]])</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> This chapter argues that ………………</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> foreign interests.17</span>//

//**That’s key to prevent protectionism and solidify an international commitment to trade.**//
//**Summers 1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Lawrence H. Summers, 71st Secretary of the U.S. Treasury, “Continuing the Fight against International Trade Finance Subsidies,” Chapter 20, The Ex-Im Bank in the 21st Century: A New Approach?, eds. Gary Clyde Hufbauer and Rita M. Rodriguez, January 2001, [[http://www.piie.com/publications/chapters_preview/323/5iie3004.pdf]])</span>//

//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In the 65 years since the </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">………………development assistance is based.</span>//




//**Without the plan, rising trade conflicts will overwhelm current trade agreements – causes global protectionism**//
//**Xie 10-11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Andy Xie, “The End of the WTO's Golden Era,” Caixin Online, 10-11-2012, [[http://english.caixin.com/2012-10-11/100445876_all.html]])</span>//

//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Globalization has been on a rapid </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">………………. The best scenario is for the two to grow at the same pace. The global economy will probably be stuck around 2 to 2.5 percent. So would trade.</span>//

//**Protectionism causes terrorism and global wars –extinction**//
//**Panzner 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase (Michael, “Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse,” p. 136-138)</span>//
//__Continuing__ __calls for curbs__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">……………… beginnings of a new world war.</span>//


//**Contention 2: Economy**//

//**Slow growth and economic decline now**//
//**Rugaber, 11/21**/12 (Christopher, “Measure of future US economic activity up 0.2 pct.” Seattle Times, http://seattletimes.com/html/businesstechnology/2019731004_apusleadingindicators.html)//mils
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON — </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A measure of the U.S. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">……………… scheduled to take effect Jan. 1.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>


**Plan is key to solve**
**First is employment –**

**Jobs are the key internal link to the economic crisis.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Tyson, 11</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">--- professor at the Haas School of Business at Cal Berkeley and former chair of the Council of Economic Advisers and the head of the National Economic Council under President Clinton (8/18/2011, Laura D’Andrea Tyson, “What it will take for President Obama and big business to bring back American jobs,” [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/on-leadership/for-president-obama-and-american-business-fixing-the-us-jobs-deficit/2011/08/18/gIQAhW8ZNJ_story.html]], JMP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>The //immediate crisis//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">confronting </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">………………</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">of </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Americans who need a job.</span>


**Only a national infrastructure bank can solve and revitalize the economy**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Skidelsky & Martin, 11</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">--- *Emeritus Professor of Political Economy at the University of Warwick, AND **macroeconomist and bond investor(3/30/2011, Robert Skidelsky and Felix Martin, New York Review of Books, “For a National Investment Bank,”** </span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/]], JMP)</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">President </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Obama</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> is in a bind. He </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">………………</span> the//broader economy//<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>**

Second is private sector confidence --

A national bank is key to restore confidence in banking and financial sectors
Skidelsky & Martin, 11 **--- *Emeritus Professor of Political Economy at the University of Warwick, AND** macroeconomist and bond investor (3/30/2011, Robert Skidelsky and Felix Martin, New York Review of Books, “For a National Investment Bank,” [[http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/]], JMP)
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">The creation of a National Investment Bank would also have a </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">………………</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">in banks and in banking itself.</span>


**That’s necessary for recovery and overcoming international contagion fears.**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Rodriguez 12</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> – Rodriguez/Makan, writers for the Globe and Mail New York. (Vivianne and Ajay, “U.S. financial sector holds key to recovery”, The Globe and Mail, Jan 2, 2012, [[http://m.theglobeandmail.com/globe-investor/investment-ideas/us-financial-sector-holds-key-to-recovery/article1357286/?service=mobile]], Callahan)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Euro-zone bank contagion fears, tougher capital rules and looming </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">………………</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">upside for U.S. banks.</span>

**Studies prove the plan is uniquely good**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Tyson, 11</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">--- Chan Chair in Global Management at UC Berkeley's Haas School of Business (Laura D., “A Better Stimulus Plan for the U.S. Economy,” [[http://hbr.org/web/extras/hbr-agenda-2011/laura-d-tyson]], JMP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Although stimulus spending is a politically contentious issue</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">………………</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">The time has come to make it happen.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Without recovery -- decline and slow growth causes re-entrenchment and heg collapse – results in global nuclear war.</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Khalilzad, ’11</span>__**– Bush’s ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the UN and former director policy planning at the DOD (Zalmay, “The Economy and National Security”, National Review, 2-8-11, [[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The current ………………These are promising options</span>


**<span style="color: #222222;">Growth eliminates the only rational incentives for war</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222;">Gartzke 11</span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> – associate Professor of political science at the University of California, San Diego PhD from Iowa and B.A. from UCSF Erik, "SECURITY IN AN INSECURE WORLD" </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[@http://www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/|www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/]]</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">Almost as informative as the </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">………………</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">, that</span> __war becomes a durable anachronism.__

Solvency:

**Infrastructure only bank solves their turns.**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Lovaa, 11</span>--- Federal Transportation Policy Director for NRDC (6/28/2011, Deron, “An Infrastructure Bank for Transportation,” <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">[[http://switchboard.nrdc.org/blogs/dlovaas/an_infrastructure_bank_for_tra.html]]</span>, JMP)
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Another creative funding idea that’s </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">………………</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">limited public funds to vastly improve the status quo.</span>__


Current infrastructure is insufficient —NIB is key and avoids all their turns
Staley, PhD, 10<span style="font-size: 6pt;">—senior research fellow at Reason Foundation and associate director of the DeVoe L. Moore Center at Florida State University in Tallahassee where he teaches graduate and undergraduate courses in urban planning, regulation, and urban economics, was director of urban growth and land-use policy for Reason Foundation where he helped establish its urban policy program in 1997. Staley received his B.A. in Economics and Public Policy from Colby College, M.S. in Social and Applied Economics from Wright State University, and Ph.D. in Public Administration, with concentrations in urban planning and public finance from Ohio State University. (Samuel, A National Infrastructure Bank Can Provide Important Benefits If Mission and Scope Are Defined Narrowly”, http://reason.org/news/show/infrastructure-bank-testimony, chm)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">We are at a crossroads </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">………………, and use the proceeds from these loans to underwrite capital projects.</span>

**Federal action key to ensure cooperation and resources for __large-scale__ projects**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">McConaghy & Kessler, 11</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> --- </span>* Director of the Third Way Economic Program, AND **Vice President for Policy at Third Way (January 2011, Ryan McConaghy and Jim Kessler, “A National Infrastructure Bank,” <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.bernardlschwartz.com/political-initiatives/Third_Way_Idea_Brief_-_A_National_Infrastructure_Bank-1.pdf]]</span>, JMP)**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">America’s economic </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">………………</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">investments.</span>__

Infrastructure is timely --backlogs mean they’re ready to go
CRS 9**-Congression Research Service(“The Role of Public Works Infrastructure in Economic Stimulus, January 6, HeinOnline)//EL**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Advocates of infrastructure spending </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">………………</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> work can begin quickly</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10.5pt;"> (see discussion below, .... Ready to Go" Projects").</span>**


Only federal action solves
HALLEMAN ‘11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Business graduate with analytical and program management experience across a range of transportation and infrastructure issues; Head of Communications & Media Relations at International Road Federation (Brendan, “Establishing a National Infrastructure Bank - examining precedents and potential”, October 2011, [[http://issuu.com/transportgooru/docs/ibank_memo_-_brenden_halleman]])</span>
__The merits of establishing a National__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">………………</span>__no longer taking applications citing “state budget issues__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">”. </span>




==GBX 1ac== 
===Plan=== 
**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment through a liquid carbon backbone pipeline infrastructure investment in the United States.**
===Economy=== 
**Carbon sequestration is key to averting negative economic consequences of carbon regulations**
EPA 10 **–** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">US Environmental Protection Agency</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"Report of the Interagency Task Force on Carbon Capture and Storage," http://www.epa.gov/climatechange/downloads/CCS-Task-Force-Report-2010.pdf</span>
While CCS can be applied to a variety of stationary sources of CO2 , its
AND
(EOR), and assist in the creation of new technologies for export.

**The absence of federal regulations leads to state regulations**
**DeShazo & Freeman, 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (J.R., Professor and Director of the Lewis Center, UCLA School of Public Affairs, and Jody, Professor of Law and Director of the Environmental Law Program, Harvard Law School, "Timing and Form of Federal Regulation: The Case of Climate Change", University of Pennsylvania Law Review, http://www.pennumbra.com/issues/pdfs/155-6/DeShazo-Freeman.pdf, pgs 1503-1506)//AMV//</span>
//Although the environmental federalism literature is primarily concerned with the normative question of the optimal//
//AND//
//-tion prevents any deviation, then industry achieves a double win.17//

//**Having coal as a utility option is key – any alternative drastically increases consumer energy costs**//
//Zarraby 12 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- chemical engineer for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, JD expected from GWU in 2012</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cyrus, "Note: Regulating Carbon Capture and Sequestration: A Federal Regulatory Regime to Promote the Construction of a National Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Network," 80 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 950, Lexis</span>//
//In the United States, coal-fired power generation accounts for approximately forty-//
//AND//
//on foreign sources of energy and increase the costs associated with electricity generation.//

//**Coal is key – other sources will introduce volatility that makes price spikes inevitable**//
//**Fanning 6-8** – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Southern Company CEO</span>//
//Tom, "Tom Fanning: The Natural Gas Skeptic; ’Nobody can sit here//
//AND//
//I’m as excited about renewables as anybody. But they’re a niche play."//

//**Specifically, Dependence on natural gas creates the risk of supply disruptions that negatively impact the economy**//
//**Energy Bulletin, 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Hector Igbikiowubo, "2020 Scenario: OPEC May Be Replaced," 1-12-2004, http://www.energybulletin.net/node/145) </span>// JMP
In a recent article in Foreign Affairs, Yergin, chairman of the Cambridge Energy
AND
will create vulnerability to deliberate machinations, political upheavals, or economic problems."
In a world as uncertain as the one we live in today, with the
AND
gas production that currently amounts to nearly 90 trillion cubic feet a year.

**Coal is key to the economy – 1 trillion in economic output and millions of new jobs.**
Gates 10 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Steve, B.S. in Poli Sci from Saint Vincent College, M.A. in public commncaitons from American University, ACCCE~’s national communcations director, February 03, "Clean coal can create new jobs, preserve existing ones", [[http://behindtheplug.americaspower.org/2010/02/clean-coal-can-create-new-jobs-preserve-existing-ones.html-http://behindtheplug.americaspower.org/2010/02/clean-coal-can-create-new-jobs-preserve-existing-ones.html]])</span>
As President Obama mentioned in his [[State of the Union address-http://behindtheplug.americaspower.org/2010/01/state-of-the-union-and-clean-coal-technology.html]] last week, sources
AND
all while ensuring the many valuable American jobs that coal already has provided.

**Coal is key to economic growth**
Rose and Wei 6 - * Professor of Energy, Environmental and Regional Economics, **Graduate Assistant in the Department of Geography at the Pennsylvania State University**
**Adam and Dan, "The Economic Impacts of Coal Utilization and Displacement in the Continental United States, 2015," http://www.americaspower.org/sites/all/themes/americaspower/images/pdf/penn-state-study.pdf**
**Coal-based electricity generation provides a significant stimulus to the U.S.**
**AND**
**economic benefits associated with coal~’s favorable price differential effect relative to alternative fuels.**

It’s reverse causal
Eugene 7 **– <span style="font-size: 8pt;">JD and MPA @ UT-Austin</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Derrick, "Carbon Capture and Storage and Federal Legislative Proposals," http://txccsa.org/publications/darrick/Eugene_12-07.pdf</span>**
**CCS is important to the economy and the environment. For the foreseeable future,**
**AND**
**of %24400 to %24800 million in a carbon-constrained world.**

The US is the underpinning of the global economy
RAHMAN ’11 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- former Ambassador and Chairman of the Centre for Foreign Affairs Studies. (Ashfaqur . "Another global recession?". August 21. [[</span>http://www.thedailystar.net/newDesign/news-details.php?nid=199461-http://www.thedailystar.net/newDesign/news-details.php?nid=199461]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>**

**Several developments, especially in Europe and the US, fan this fear. First**
**AND**
**, we may be in a new double dip or W-shaped recession**


Continued decline causes global war and protectionism
Green and Schrage 2009 **– <span style="font-size: 8pt;">*Senior Advisor and Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Associate Professor at Georgetown University, </span>** CSIS Scholl Chair in International Business and a former senior official with the US Trade Representative~’s Office, State Department and Ways %26 Means Committee (3/26, Michael and Steven, Asia Times, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Asian_Economy/KC26Dk01.html, WEA)
Facing the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, analysts at the World Bank
AND
. However, protectionism could still unravel the international system through other guises.

**Statistics and empirics prove**
**Royal 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, (Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)</span>
Second, on a dyadic level. Copeland’s (1996. 2000) theory of
AND
popularity, are statistically linked to an increase in the use of force.

**Protectionism causes terrorism and global wars –extinction**
**Panzner 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase (Michael, "Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse," p. 136-138)</span>

Continuing calls for curbs on the flow of finance and trade will inspire the United
AND
between Muslims and Western societies as the beginnings of a new world war.

**Caps make CCS inevitable – having infrastructure in place first is key to avert economic cost**
**EPA 10**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"Report of the Interagency Task Force on Carbon Capture and Storage," http://www.epa.gov/climatechange/downloads/CCS-Task-Force-Report-2010.pdf</span>
The timing and scale of CCS deployment are dependent on a carbon price and any
AND
. Thus, the Administration is committed to addressing these barriers to deployment.

===Warming=== 
**Global warming is real and human induced – top climate scientists agree**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">-97% consensus 908 most qualled </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">-dissenters = 2% most qualled researchers</span>
**Anderegg et al 10** –<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> PhD Candidate @ Stanford in Biology</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">William, "Expert credibility in climate change," National Academy of Sciences, p. 12107-12109</span>
Preliminary reviews of scientific literature and surveys of cli- mate scientists indicate striking agreement
AND
discussions in media, policy, and public forums regarding anthropogenic climate change.

**Warming is an existential threat**
**Mazo 10** – PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, "Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it," pg. 122</span>
The best estimates for global warming to the end of the century range from 2
AND
adaptation to these extremes would mean profound social, cultural and political changes.

**Emissions cause ocean acidification, leads to extinction**
**Sify 2010**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Sydney newspaper citing </span>Ove Hoegh-Guldberg, professor at University of Queensland and Director of the Global Change Institute, and John Bruno, associate professor of Marine Science at UNC<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Sify News, </span>"Could unbridled climate changes lead to human extinction?", [[<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.sify.com/news/could-unbridled-climate-changes-lead-to-human-extinction-news-international-kgtrOhdaahc.html-http://www.sify.com/news/could-unbridled-climate-changes-lead-to-human-extinction-news-international-kgtrOhdaahc.html]]</span>, WEA)
The findings of the comprehensive report: ’The impact of climate change on the world’s
AND
warned, according to a GCI release. These findings were published in Science

**Co2 collapses ag independently kills 5.5 bil**
**Strom, 7** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">University of Arizona planetary science emeritus professor, studied climate change for 15 years, the former Director of the Space Imagery Center at NASA Regional Planetary Image Facility (Robert, , "Hot House", SpringerLink, p.<211-216>) H. Kenner</span>

The future consequences of global warming are the least known aspect of the problem.
AND
Russia, and to the coast of South Africa along the Indian Ocean.

**Catastrophic climate change should be measured as the highest priority – do not discount the unpredictable impact it will have on future generations. This is distinctly different from impacts that do not threaten human survival**
**Scorse 8** – <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Professor of International Studies</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jason, Assistant Professor @ Monterey Institute of International Studies @ Middlebury College, What Environmentalists Need to Know About Economics, Online Book</span>
Even though the science now confirms that human activity is contributing to global warming and
AND
should revert back to the basic arguments for choosing the proper discount rate.

**Carbon sequestration is key**
**Mack and Endemann 10** - *partner in the Houston office and global Chair of
AND
environmental counseling on energy and infrastructure projects, and represents clients in related litigation
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Joel and Buck, "Making carbon dioxide sequestration feasible: Toward federal regulation of CO2 sequestration pipelines," Energy Policy, http://lw.com/upload/pubContent/_pdf/pub3385_1.pdf</span>
At present, approximately 50% of the United States’ base load electrical energy requirements
AND
reducing near- to medium-term impacts from global climate change. 8


**CCS is a critical bridge to a broader portfolio of sustainable energy**
**Forbes et al 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- senior associate at the World Resources Institute, former member of the National Energy Technology Laboratory</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Sarah, CCS Guidelines: Guidelines for Carbon Dioxide Capture, Transport, and Storage, World Resources Institute, http://pdf.wri.org/ccs_guidelines.pdf</span>
Scenarios for stabilizing climate-forcing emissions suggest atmospheric CO2 stabilization can only be accomplished
AND
enabling it to be used as a bridge to a sustainable energy future.

**Even if regulations aren’t likely now, the plan is key to convincing the world that emissions can be cut without economic cost**
**MIT 7** - <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Interdisciplinary Study, The Future of Coal, http://web.mit.edu/coal/</span>
Washington, DC – Leading academics from an interdisciplinary Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT
AND
simulation of the comparative performance of integrated technology systems should be greatly enhanced.

===Solvency=== 
**Carbon regulation is coming and CCS technology is advancing – facilitating regulated transportation infrastructure is key to jump-starting the commercial industry**
Zarraby 12 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- chemical engineer for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, JD expected from GWU in 2012</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cyrus, "Note: Regulating Carbon Capture and Sequestration: A Federal Regulatory Regime to Promote the Construction of a National Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Network," 80 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 950, Lexis</span>
Rising food prices, 1 mass migration, 2 new endangered species, 3 severe
AND
legislation that promotes the construction of new CO<2> pipelines. 17

**The federal government is key**
-eminent domain, single regulator, encourages broader CCS investment and guarantees uniformity
Horne 10 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– JD @ U of Utah</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jennifer, "Getting from Here to There: Devising an Optimal Regulatory Model for CO<2> Transport in a New Carbon Capture and Sequestration Industry," 30 J. Land Resources %26 Envtl. L. 357, Lexis</span>
Siting regulations affect companies’ ability to build where pipelines are needed, or wanted.
AND
, a uniform set of requirements for access will be far more workable.

**Tech is ready now – plants already have scrubbers available**
Mathieu 12<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Stevie, June 25, "How Our State~’s Members Of Congress Voted Last Week", [[http://www.columbian.com/weblogs/political-beat/2012/jun/25/how-our-states-members-of-congress-voted-last-week/-http://www.columbian.com/weblogs/political-beat/2012/jun/25/how-our-states-members-of-congress-voted-last-week/]])</span>
CLEAN-AIR REGULATIONS: Voting 46 for and 53 against, the Senate on
AND
cities … and Nashville is not competing to be in the top 10."

**Laundry list of legal checks on environmental impacts**
Shortino 11<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – journalist at the Philadelphia Inquirer (John, "Types of Coal Mining Restrictions" eHow.com, June 29 2011 [[http://www.ehow.com/info_8665548_types-coal-mining-restrictions.html-http://www.ehow.com/info_8665548_types-coal-mining-restrictions.html]]) MLR</span>
Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 The second major act that directly regulates
AND
Act restricts mining in locations where it could harm an endangered animal population.

**No leaks or spikes**
Reisinger 9<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – JD, Attorney @ Ohio Environmental Council</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Will, "RECONCILING KING COAL AND CLIMATE CHANGE: A REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOR CARBON CAPTURE AND STORAGE," Vermont Journal of Environmental Law, http://vjel.org/journal/pdf/VJEL10107.pdf</span>
Because CO2 is toxic at high concentrations, some fear that escaping CO2 from a
AND
, and it is unlikely that a massive cloud of CO2 could escape.

**CCS decrease electricity costs**
**Mills 11** - <span style="font-size: 8pt;">*MSc in Geological Sciences @ Cambridge</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Robin, "Capturing Carbon: The New Weapon in the War Against Climate Change," Google Book</span>
Countries that implement CCS successfully should see lower energy prices, a boon for the
AND
opinion may revolt against becoming a ~’dumping ground* for other people’s waste.

**There is a tangible impact to any delay**
Zarraby 12<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- chemical engineer for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, JD expected from GWU in 2012</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cyrus, "Note: Regulating Carbon Capture and Sequestration: A Federal Regulatory Regime to Promote the Construction of a National Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Network," 80 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 950, Lexis</span>
In order to mitigate the most drastic effects of climate change while continuing to utilize
AND
States’ natural resources while protecting against the environmental harms caused by climate change.

**No disads – Obama recently increased funding for CCS tech projects**
ENP 6-8
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ENP Newswire, "-Energy Department - Obama Administration Announces Clean Coal Research Awards for Universities across the Country," http://www.power-eng.com/news/2012/06/08/energy-department-obama-administration-announces-clean-coal-research-awards-for-universities-across.html</span>
As part of President Obama’s all-of-the-above approach to American
AND
position the United States as a leader in the global clean energy race.



==WAKE 1ac== 
==Plan== 

**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its liquid carbon backbone pipeline infrastructure investment in the United States.**

===Economy=== 

**Contention one: Economy**

**Carbon sequestration is key to averting negative economic consequences of carbon regulations**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">EPA 10 </span>– <span style="font-size: 8pt;">US Environmental Protection Agency</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Report of the Interagency Task Force on Carbon Capture and Storage,” http://www.epa.gov/climatechange/downloads/CCS-Task-Force-Report-2010.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">While </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">CCS</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> can be applied </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

the creation of new tech<span class="TitleChar">nologies </span>for export.

**There’s no economic alternative to coal and utilities won’t switch – increases consumer costs**
**Doom 6-4**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Justin, “Utilities More Concerned About Carbon Emissions: Survey,” Bloomberg, http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/utilities-more-concerned-about-carbon-emissions-survey.html</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Concern about carbon emissions increased</span>__
__AND__
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">expected rates to increase “slightly,” according to the report.</span>


**Having coal as a utility option is key – any alternative drastically increases consumer energy costs**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Zarraby 12</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- chemical engineer for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, JD expected from GWU in 2012</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cyrus, “Note: Regulating Carbon Capture and Sequestration: A Federal Regulatory Regime to Promote the Construction of a National Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Network,” 80 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 950, Lexis</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In the United States, </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">coal-fired power generation </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>

//costs//<span class="TitleChar"> associated with electricity generation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**Coal is key – other sources will introduce volatility that makes price spikes inevitable**
**Fanning 6-8** – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Southern Company CEO</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Tom, “Tom Fanning: The Natural Gas Skeptic; 'Nobody can sit here and tell me that it's going to be safe forever, safe in terms of economics and reliability,' says the Southern Company CEO,” </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Wall Street Journal, Factiva </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Even as natural gas booms</span>__
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>__
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">But </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">they're a niche</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">play</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">."</span>


**This collapses all major sectors of the economy**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Rose and Wei 6</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - * Professor of Energy, Environmental and Regional Economics, **Graduate Assistant in the Department of Geography at the Pennsylvania State University**</span>

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Adam and Dan, “The Economic Impacts of Coal Utilization and Displacement in the Continental United States, 2015,” http://www.americaspower.org/sites/all/themes/americaspower/images/pdf/penn-state-study.pdf</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">We performed our analysis with the aid of an interindustry</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> generate "</span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">multiplier</span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">" effects throughout the U.S. economy</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**


It’s reverse causal

Eugene 7 **– <span style="font-size: 8pt;">JD and MPA @ UT-Austin</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Derrick, “Carbon Capture and Storage and Federal Legislative Proposals,” http://txccsa.org/publications/darrick/Eugene_12-07.pdf</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">CCS is important to the economy</span>__**
**__AND__**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">$800 million in a carbon-constrained world.</span>**


The US is the underpinning of the global economy

RAHMAN ‘11 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- former Ambassador and Chairman of the Centre for Foreign Affairs Studies. (Ashfaqur . “Another global recession?”. August 21. </span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-size: 8pt;">[[@http://www.thedailystar.net/newDesign/news-details.php?nid=199461]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>**



**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Several developments, especially in Europe </span>**
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>**

**__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">in a new double dip or W-shaped recession</span>__**

Continued decline causes global war and protectionsim
Green and Schrage 2009 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">*Senior Advisor and Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Associate Professor at Georgetown University, </span>** CSIS Scholl Chair in International Business and a former senior official with the US Trade Representative's Office, State Department and Ways & Means Committee (3/26, Michael and Steven, Asia Times, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Asian_Economy/KC26Dk01.html, WEA)
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Facing the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">AND </span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">protectionism could still unravel the international system</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">through other guises. </span>


**Protectionism causes terrorism and global wars –extinction**

**Panzner 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase (Michael, “Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse,” p. 136-138)</span>



__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Continuing calls for curbs on the flow of</span>__
__AND__
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Western societies as the beginnings of a new world war.</span>


**Caps make CCS inevitable – having infrastructure in place //__first__// is key to avert economic cost**

**EPA 10**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Report of the Interagency Task Force on Carbon Capture and Storage,” http://www.epa.gov/climatechange/downloads/CCS-Task-Force-Report-2010.pdf</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The timing</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and scale </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">of CCS deployment </span>__
__AND__
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">the Administration is committed to addressing these barriers to deployment.</span>


===Warming=== 

**Contention two: Warming**



**Global warming is real and human induced – top climate scientists agree**

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">-97% consensus 908 most qualled </span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">-dissenters = 2% most qualled researchers</span>

**Anderegg et al 10** –<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> PhD Candidate @ Stanford in Biology</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">William, “Expert credibility in climate change,” National Academy of Sciences, p. 12107-12109</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Preliminary reviews of scientific literature and surveys </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">forums regarding anthropogenic climate change</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**Warming is an existential threat**

**Mazo 10 – PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The best estimates for global warming to the end of the century range</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND </span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">profound</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> social, cultural and political </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">changes</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**Emissions cause ocean acidification, leads to extinction**

**Sify 2010**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Sydney newspaper citing </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 8pt;">Ove Hoegh-Guldberg, professor at University of Queensland and Director of the Global Change Institute, and John Bruno, associate professor of Marine Science at UNC</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Sify News, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 8pt;">“Could unbridled climate changes lead to human extinction?”, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.sify.com/news/could-unbridled-climate-changes-lead-to-human-extinction-news-international-kgtrOhdaahc.html]], WEA)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The findings of the comprehensive report: </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> These findings were published in Science</span>


**Co2 collapses ag independently kills 5.5 bil**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Strom, 7</span>** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">University of Arizona planetary science emeritus professor, studied climate change for 15 years, the former Director of the Space Imagery Center at NASA Regional Planetary Image Facility (Robert, , “Hot House”, SpringerLink, p.<211-216>) H. Kenner</span>



__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The future consequences of global warming </span>__
__AND__
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">and to the coast of South Africa along the Indian Ocean. </span>


**Carbon sequestration is key**

**Mack and Endemann 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- *partner in the Houston office and global Chair of the Environmental Transactional Support Practice, provides over 25 years of experience advising on the transactional, environmental and regulatory issues associated with all sectors of the oil and gas industry, power (including both fossil and renewable energy), mining and chemical industries in the United States and abroad, in addition to the development, financing and entitlements for telecommunications and other industrial and public infrastructure facilities in the United States and offshore, **JD, Faculty @ USD Law, provides comprehensive environmental counseling on energy and infrastructure projects, and represents clients in related litigation**</span>

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Joel and Buck, “Making carbon dioxide sequestration feasible: Toward federal regulation of CO2 sequestration pipelines,” Energy Policy, http://lw.com/upload/pubContent/_pdf/pub3385_1.pdf</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">At present, approximately 50% of</span>__**
**__AND__**
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">impacts</span>__**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> from global climate change</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. 8</span>**


CCS solves and immediate action is necessary

Rogers 7 **- <span style="font-size: 8pt;">*CEO of Duke Energy, James, “SENATE ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS COMMITTEE,” http://epw.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?FuseAction=Files.View&FileStore_id=96b0a903-32fc-47f8-9a36-b4ddd9805e2b</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Carbon capture and storage (</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">CCS</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">) </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>**

__great deal__ **__more attention and resources__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**


CCS is a //__critical bridge__// to a broader portfolio of sustainable energy

Forbes et al 8 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- senior associate at the World Resources Institute, former member of the National Energy Technology Laboratory</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Sarah, CCS Guidelines: Guidelines for Carbon Dioxide Capture, Transport, and Storage, World Resources Institute, http://pdf.wri.org/ccs_guidelines.pdf</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Scenarios for stabilizing climate-forcing </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>**

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">bridge</span>__**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> to a sustainable energy future</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**


Even if regulations aren’t likely now, the plan is key to convincing the world that emissions can be cut without economic cost

MIT 7 - **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Interdisciplinary Study, The Future of Coal, http://web.mit.edu/coal/</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Washington, DC – Leading </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">academics from </span>__**
**__AND__**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">systems should be greatly enhanced.</span>**


Only the plan is modeled – BRIC countries won’t cut emissions unless they can avoid economic cost

Apt et al 7** – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">PhD in Physics @ MIT, Professor of Technology, Tepper School of Business and Engineering and Public Policy</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jay, “Incentives for Near-Term Carbon Dioxide Geological Sequestration,” Carnegie Mellon, http://wpweb2.tepper.cmu.edu/ceic/pdfs_other/Incentives_for_Near-Term_Carbon_Dioxide_Geological_Sequestration.pdf</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">U.S. economy are shown in figure 28 below.</span>


===Solvency=== 



**Contention three: Solvency**



**Carbon regulation is coming and CCS technology is advancing – facilitating regulated transportation infrastructure is key to jump-starting the commercial industry**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Zarraby 12</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- chemical engineer for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, JD expected from GWU in 2012</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cyrus, “Note: Regulating Carbon Capture and Sequestration: A Federal Regulatory Regime to Promote the Construction of a National Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Network,” 80 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 950, Lexis</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Rising food prices</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, 1 </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">mass migration</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">construction of new CO<2> pipelines</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. 17</span>

**The federal government is key**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">-eminent domain, single regulator, encourages broader CCS investment and //__guarantees__// uniformity</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Horne 10</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– JD @ U of Utah</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jennifer, “Getting from Here to There: Devising an Optimal Regulatory Model for CO<2> Transport in a New Carbon Capture and Sequestration Industry,” 30 J. Land Resources & Envtl. L. 357, Lexis</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Siting regulations affect companies' </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">for access will be far more workable.</span>


**Without federal investment, the private sector will build point-to-point pipelines—drives up cost and delays deployment**

**Chrysostomidis et al. 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Ioannis Chrysostomidis and Paul Zakkour, Environemtal Resources Management; Mark Bohm and Eric Beynon, Suncor Energy; Renato de Filippo, Eni SpA; Arthur Lee, Chevron Corporation (“Assessing issues of financing a CO2 transportation pipeline infrastructure” Energy Procedia Volume 1, Issue 1, Pages 1625–1632, February 2009, http://www.sciencedirect.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/science/article/pii/S1876610209002148)//MR</span>



__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">For carbon dioxide capture and </span>__
__AND__
__the same capacity utilization risk.__

**Laundry list of legal checks on environmental impacts**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Shortino 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – journalist at the Philadelphia Inquirer (John, “Types of Coal Mining Restrictions” eHow.com, June 29 2011 </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ehow.com/info_8665548_types-coal-mining-restrictions.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) MLR</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act</span>
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">harm an endangered animal population</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**No leaks or spikes**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Reisinger 9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – JD, Attorney @ Ohio Environmental Council</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Will, “RECONCILING KING COAL AND CLIMATE CHANGE: A REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOR CARBON CAPTURE AND STORAGE,” Vermont Journal of Environmental Law, http://vjel.org/journal/pdf/VJEL10107.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Because CO2 is toxic at high concentrations</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">massive cloud of CO2 could escape</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**There is a tangible impact to any delay**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Zarraby 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- chemical engineer for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, JD expected from GWU in 2012</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cyrus, “Note: Regulating Carbon Capture and Sequestration: A Federal Regulatory Regime to Promote the Construction of a National Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Network,” 80 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 950, Lexis</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">In order to mitigate the most</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">harms caused by climate change</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**No disads – Obama recently increased funding for CCS tech projects**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">ENP 6-8</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ENP Newswire, “-Energy Department - Obama Administration Announces Clean Coal Research Awards for Universities across the Country,” http://www.power-eng.com/news/2012/06/08/energy-department-obama-administration-announces-clean-coal-research-awards-for-universities-across.html</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">As part of President Obama's all-of-the-above approach</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">the global clean energy race. </span>



=Negative= 
===1nc Lottery CP=== 

**Text: The US states and territories that do not currently have lottery commissions should establish lottery commissions. The state lottery commissions and the lottery commissions of all US territories should provide funds for (the plan).**

**Funds from the state lottery can be used to fund transportation infrastructure**
**Miller 97** (Donald Miller, “Lotteries for Education: Windfall or Hoax?” State and Local Government Review, (1997) Vol. 29, pp.34-42.)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">During the 1980s and into the '90s, </span>__.......................__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> local funds--the property tax.</span>

===Strategies=== 
====Wake==== 
Round 1 v. Alpharetta PK (Icebreakers)
**2nr: T-military**

Round 4 v. St. Vincent de Paul FV (critical bering strait)
**2nr: Case turns**

Round 6 v. McDonough RE (ITS)
**2nr: Privatization CP + Elections DA**

Doubles v. National Cathedral SS (natives)
**2nr: NEPA + Elections DA**

====Georgetown==== 
Round 2 v. Broad Run SW (Inland Waterways)
**2nr: Status Quo (aff double turned)**

Round 3 v. River Hill LC (Climate Adaptation)
**2nr: Case + Elections**

Round 5 v. Pine Crest BG (HSR)
**2nr: Stim bad/Privatization CP**

Octas v. GBN SM (Port Dredging)
**2nr: Privatization CP**


**(I'll be back. I suck at this game. I will share things. Promise. I just...technology...email me. sadler.amelia@gmail.com)**




[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]