[[toc]]
= = 
=Contact Info & Notes:= 
Aff Cites: elliotkovnick@rowlandhall.org
Neg Cites: haroldaaronson@rowlandhall.org

Aff Notes:

Neg Notes:
UQ has been left out, as it will change, but I will update it at each tournament. Links may be changed to specifics and impacts of DA are also subject to change, but this is what has been read so far.
=Affirmative= 
==1AC- Hillman - January 13== 
===**<span style="font-family: Arial;">A Failure of Imagination</span>**=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **A psychological reflection on these absurdities reveals that war is intimately engrained in modern transportation infrastructure.**</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">Hillman 79</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;"> <James. A Founding Fellow of the Dallas Institute of Humanities and Culture, Senior Fellow at the Institute of Philosophic Studies. “Psychological Fantasies in Transportation Problems” Published 1979.></span>



<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">“</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">How about that word 'efficiently?' … more radically, or must a breakdown first occur?</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **It is no surprise that the archetype of war is present even in the within the civilian realm of transportation. War is normal, inevitable, and an integral part of our being but we’ve ignored this part of the psyche by separating war from civilian life and by sanitizing it’s true nature. This suppression of war causes us to erupt violently in our never-ending quest against delusional enemies.**</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">Hillman 87 </span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">(James, A Founding Fellow of the Dallas Institute of Humanities and Culture, “Wars, Arms, Rams, Mars: On the Love of War,” in Facing Apocalypse edited by Valerie Andrews, Robert Bosnak, Karen Goodwin)</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Our immigrant dream of escape</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> from …</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">paranoid defenses against delusional enemies</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **This failure of imagination, the refusal to see war in our everyday, the separation of war from the spiritual, results in dangerous literalism – the impact is making violence and apocalypse more likely.**</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">Hillman 87</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">(James, A Founding Fellow of the Dallas Institute of Humanities and Culture, “Wars, Arms, Rams, Mars: On the Love of War,” in Facing Apocalypse edited by Valerie Andrews, Robert Bosnak, Karen Goodwin)</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">We do not know much nowadays … separate themselves from his dominion.</span>

===**<span style="font-family: Arial;">This is the Place</span>**=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **Current transportation infrastructure pathologizes slowness – our “drive” for speed causes us to lose sense of place in a never ending race for more speed and efficiency**</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">Hillman 79</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;"> <James. A Founding Fellow of the Dallas Institute of Humanities and Culture, Senior Fellow at the Institute of Philosophic Studies. “Psychological Fantasies in Transportation Problems” Published 1979.></span>



<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Our view of transportation in …. burgeoning of optimistic desire.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">impacts-</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **1. Efficiency – when we become too preoccupied with efficiency and it becomes a cause in of it self we lose touch with life and anything become justifiable as long as it is efficient**</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">Hillman 95</span>** <span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">(James, retired Director of the Jung Institute, “Kinds of Power”, Doubleday, pgs 33-44)</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The extermination camp in …, “that for the sake of which" your efficient actions are performed?</span>

===**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Streetcars Named Desire</span>**=== 
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Cars are an archetype of private control – public transportation is antithetical to current transportation values</span>**

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">Hillman 79</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;"> <James. A Founding Fellow of the Dallas Institute of Humanities and Culture, Senior Fellow at the Institute of Philosophic Studies. “Psychological Fantasies in Transportation Problems” Published 1979.></span>



<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Therapeutic precaution dictates …</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">the symbolic psychology of the persons who travel them. </span>



<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **The drive for normalcy, freedom and fixes to the world’s problems splits the psyche and pathologizes all that we associate as not valuable.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Thomas </span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">Moore in 1990</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> (Thomas Moore is the author of the bestselling book Care of the Soul and fifteen other books. He has Ph. D. in religion from Syracuse University and has won several awards for his work, including an honorary doctorate from Lesley University. //The essential James Hillman: a blue fire//, Routledge; 1 edition, 1-3)-mikee</span>



<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 7pt;">Because of its family ties to medicine, </span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">…</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 7pt;"> says, </span>**__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">in our symptoms is our soul.</span>__**



<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **A destroyed psyche is the root of all violence. Genocide and extinction are the end result of a soulless understanding of the world.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Walter A. </span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">Davis 2001</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> (Deracination: Historicity, Hiroshima, and the Tragic Imperative. State Univesrity of New York Press, p. 95-96)</span>

<span style="background-color: white;">It is never enough</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;"> however. Inner …t ghostly articulation in Kant’s struggle with the sublime. </span>

===**<span style="font-family: Arial;">The Role of the Ballot</span>**=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **A) The psyche exists and comes first**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **The psyche shapes our understanding of the world – everything depends on it. The resolution should only be evaluated on its psychological qualities.**</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">Jung 58</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;"> (Carl G., renowned scholar of psychoanalysis and founder of the Jung Institute, __The Undiscovered Self__, New American Library, New York, 81-83)</span>

<span style="background-color: white;">For more than fifty years we … every day and can happen to everyone.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **This is especially true in the context of transportation infrastructure – the psyche is a prerequisite to effective policymaking.**</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">Hillman 79</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;"> <James. A Founding Fellow of the Dallas Institute of Humanities and Culture, Senior Fellow at the Institute of Philosophic Studies. “Psychological Fantasies in Transportation Problems” Published 1979.></span>



<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">The invitation extended so courageously…</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">. I mean that’s where it’s most acute."</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **Refusing to operate on the terrain of the psyche ensures a loss of soul. This state of dehumanization destroys any meaning to life and risks death.**</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">Hillman 1990</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;"> (James, has written dozens of critically acclaimed books, received his PhD from the </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Zurich|University of Zurich]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">, and is a retired Director of the Jung Institute, “A Blue Fire”, //a blue fire//, Routledge; 1 edition p. 17-18)-mikee</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Anthropologists describe a condition among "primitive" …</span><span style="background-color: white;"> "modern man in search of a soul</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">."</span>



**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 14pt;">B) Our interpretation:</span>**



**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 14pt;">The judge should endorse the best psychological approach to the resolution.</span>**



**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 14pt;">This necessarily requires affirmation. It requires saying ‘yes’ to public transportation, ‘yes’ to infrastructure, and ‘yes’ to the archetype of the topic. It entails loving what the soul presents.</span>**



**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 14pt;">Therefore, we psychologically and emphatically affirm the text:</span>**



**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 14pt;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its public transportation infrastructure investment.</span>**



**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 14pt;">All we have in this debate space is our imagination and our relationships. The ballot is the most tangible form of relating and it signifies an endorsement of the best types of relationships. If we win our approach is psychologically beneficial, you should vote aff.</span>**



<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **C) Solvency**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **Public transportation disrupts our damaging relationship with space – working on an individual level is key**</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">Hillman 79</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;"> <James. A Founding Fellow of the Dallas Institute of Humanities and Culture, Senior Fellow at the Institute of Philosophic Studies. “Psychological Fantasies in Transportation Problems” Published 1979.></span>



<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">In conclusion now, …can never truly be in our own hands.</span>





<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **The current relationship to the city fails because it relies on the values of efficiency and speed – the plan solves because it reforms our understanding of cities to place rather than space**</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">Hillman 79</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;"> <James. A Founding Fellow of the Dallas Institute of Humanities and Culture, Senior Fellow at the Institute of Philosophic Studies. “Psychological Fantasies in Transportation Problems” Published 1979.></span>



<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> //We must re-imagine the city and ….//we might then be less eager to get away.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **D) Our Method**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **The negative will attempt to map out the topic and psychologically silence the soul within it by trying to empiricize and literalize it, looking at implementation, and attempting to get the upper hand. The entire ethos of traditional debate is one that tries to fix, control, and cure problems instead of being open to the world as it presents itself. This is the plan of archetypal psychology: to explore our deep psychological commitments and affirm our most terrorizing images of the world**</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">Hillman 1990</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;"> (James, has written dozens of critically acclaimed books, received his PhD from the </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Zurich|University of Zurich]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">, and is a retired Director of the Jung Institute, “A Blue Fire”, //a blue fire//, Routledge; 1 edition p. 10-11)-mikee</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Hillman's later essays flash with the passion …. and provides timely initial response capabilities.</span>



Only affirmation can solve – we need to embrace the world

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hillman 6</span> (James, has written dozens of critically acclaimed books, received his PhD from the University of Zurich, and is a retired Director of the Jung Institute, “City and Soul”, ‘Anima Mundi’ , Spring Journal; p. 27-50; Republished in 2006)



<span style="font-size: 13pt;">To come back ... the world ensouled.</span>



==2AC -- Framework== 
Four Reasons to Prefer –
a. Fiat grasps to fantasy as if it where real – this literalization kills the psyche and results in insanity – an imaginative position that realizes the fiction in everything is key
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hillman 83</span> (Hillman, James; former director of the Jung Institute; Written 1983; “Healing Fiction”; Spring Publications; pg. 46-48)
What is to ... between the lines."

d. critical education is better – we can’t analyze events from the position of fiat.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Foucault, 80</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">. (Michel, French Theorist, "Question of Method," Published in Michel Foucault: Power ed. James D, Faubion, p.235-236)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">But paralysis isn't ... realized their ideas. </span>


5. It’s try or die for the aff- they don’t have uniqueness for their impacts. Our debate profession is suffering from a severe lack of creativity and new ideas. The compulsion to act, the reliance on jargon, and the desire to exclude all doom the psyche. You should vote for the team that encourages more ideas.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hillman 1990</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> (James, has written dozens of critically acclaimed books, received his PhD from the </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Zurich|University of Zurich]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">, and is a retired Director of the Jung Institute, “A Blue Fire”, a blue fire, Routledge; 1 edition p. 52)-mikee</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">There seems to ... enacting our lives.</span>


7. Framework destroys the community – debate is great because it’s founded on difference. The rush for commonality makes people quit and risks violence.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Secomb 2k </span>(Linnell, a lecturer in Gender Studies at the University of Sydney, “Fractured Community,” Hypatia – Volume 15, Number 2, Spring, p. 133-134)

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">The desire for ... of social relation.</span>


8. We’re more political- the only political tool we have is our own thoughts and actions – we need to answer the question ‘what should we do?’ instead of ‘what should they do?’

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kappeler 95</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> (Susanne now works as a freelance writer and teaches in England and Germany. She is also the author of The Pornography of Representation, __The Will to Violence__, ISBN 9780745613055, pgs 18-19)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">The question which ... for a start.'</span>

==<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">2AC -- Case</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">A2: No Psyche</span>=== 

Psyche exists- their authors are unscientific and attack the wrong theory- a wide body of unbiased evidence on memory, affect, and motivation proves

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Western 99 </span>(Drew Western; has his Ph.D. in Clinical Psychology from the University of Michigan, is a professor of psychology at Emory, was Chief Psychologist at Cambridge Hospital, was an Associate Professor at Harvard Medical School, and one of his major fields of study is psychotherapy effectiveness; “The Scientific Status of Unconscious Processes”; Written June 13, 1999; http://www.psychology.sunysb.edu/ewaters/345/1_2009_freud/weston_status_of_unco-nscious.pdf; Accessed October 21, 2012) – he cites 140 studies



Certainly in the … (Westen & Morrison, 1999).]





==<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">2AC -- Ks</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Anthropocentrism</span>=== 

Questions of the psyche are a prerequisite to the K. The aff focuses on the human psyche not to exclude animals but to ensure that we as individuals have the tools to act. In the status quo, our psyches are disconnected from the rest of the world- only solving for the psyche can allow us to have a positive relationship to the environment.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hibbard 03 </span>(Hibbard, Whit. Ecopsychology: a Review Vol. 19 no 2 p. 24)
In his groundbreaking ... our environmental problems.

Psychic concerns are the root cause of Anthropocentrism- entering into a new mode of imagination is the only way to solve
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hillman 91</span> (James Hillman; is the retired director of the Jung Institute; Interviewed by Sy Safransky editor and publisher of The Sun; Written April 1991; http://www.thesunmagazine.org/archives/1032; Accessed October 19, 2012)
Now, in a ... That's psychology's job.


Turn – we can only solve anthropocentrism through the psyche – through a deliteralizing view of self – we can come to see that there is no cut between us and world – everything is part of the collective unconcious
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hillman 95</span> (James, has written dozens of critically acclaimed books, received his PhD from the University of Zurich, and is a retired Director of the Jung Institute; Written 1995; “Ecopsychology”; http://www.ecobuddhism.org/wisdom/psyche_and_spirit/james_hillman/ ; Accessed November 11, 2012)
In The Voice, ... had its home.

Dubbing people “anthropocentric” because they didn’t talk about animals makes the creation of an effective environmental movement impossible, and isn’t accurate
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lewsi 92 – Professor of Environment </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Martin Lewis professor in the School of the Environment and the Center for International Studies at Duke University. Green Delusions, 1992 p17-18</span>
Nature for Nature's ... <span style="font-size: 8pt;">1987, chapter ir.)</span>

No link – Everything has a psyche – we can’t view only things only subjectively
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hillman 81</span> (Hillman, James; former director of the Zurich Institute; Given October 1981; Anima Mundi: Return of the Soul to the World)

Then we realize ... so, too, psychopathology.


The environment plays a fundamental role in warfare – battlefields are glorious because they demarcate our love of war – spilling blood for our homeland is the only way to form a true relationship with the environment
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hillman 04</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;"> (James, retired Director of the Jung Institute, “A Terrible Love of War”, The Penguin Press, ISBN 1-59420-011-4, pgs 92-95)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Could the land ... to your advantage."</span>


===Butler K=== 

Turn- a failure to preserve the psyche makes the destruction of the natural world inevitable
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Adams 6 </span>(Will W. Adams. //The Ivory-Billed Woodpecker, Ecopsychology, and the Crisis of Extinction: On Annihilating and Nurturing Other Beings, Relationships, and Ourselves.// The Human Psychologist 34(2), Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Inc. P. 120-121)

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Because these relational ... become less human.</span>


Everything has a psyche – the psyche is manifested outside social relations – their concept that it isn’t kill the soul of the world
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hillman 81</span> (Hillman, James; former director of the Zurich Institute; Given October 1981; Anima Mundi: Return of the Soul to the World)

Then we realize … so, too, psychopathology.


Failure to breath life back into the world – results in imaginative apocalypse – the world is as good as dead because we imagine it as dead
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hillman 81</span> (Hillman, James; former director of the Zurich Institute; Given October 1981; Anima Mundi: Return of the Soul to the World)

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Catastrophe fantasies haunt …</span> renaissance of psychology.


Turn – psychologically approaching efficiency challenges institutions
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hillman 95 </span>(James, retired Director of the Jung Institute, “Kinds of Power”, Doubleday, pgs 33-44)

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">It is well … ever more efficiency.</span>


===Cap K=== 

Perm do the plan and non-competitive parts of the alternative - Embracing war removes our notions of apocalypse, of positivism, and of the future- allowing us to deconstruct materialism
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hillman 87 </span>(James, A Founding Fellow of the Dallas Institute of Humanities and Culture, “Wars, Arms, Rams, Mars: On the Love of War,” in Facing Apocalypse edited by Valerie Andrews, Robert Bosnak, Karen Goodwin)
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The Damocles sword … continuity of life.</span>

Link Turn- Capitalism is addicted to efficiency- modern digital technologies allow faster and faster production, in an exponential drive to push stocks upward
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Babe 6</span> (Robert E. Babe; Ph.D. in Economics Michigan State University, teaches a class on Communication Thought at MIT and, Former Chair in Media Studies at the University of Western Ontario; Writtten 2006; “The Political Economy of Knowledge: Neglecting Political Economy in the Age of Fast Capitalism (as Before)”; ‘Fast Capitalism: Issue 2.1; http://www.uta.edu/huma/agger/fast-capitalism/2_1/babe.htm; Accessed October 31, 2012)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In some ways … political-corporate elite.</span>

Capitalism isn’t only perpetuated through the political- rather questions of the psyche and rhetorical agency are labor
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Greene 04</span> (Ronald Walter Greene, January 2004, “Rhetoric and Capitalism: Rhetorical Agency as Communicative Labor,” http://works.bepress.com/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1019&context=ronaldwaltergreene)
The purpose of …<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> creation of value.</span>

Capitalism is as inevitable as we make it—breaking its hegemonic domination by denying its psychological naturalness is the first step.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gibson-Graham, 06</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> (Julie Graham and Katherine Gibson, Graham is Professor of Geography, Associate Department Head for Geography, B.A., Smith College, Ph.D., Clark University, 1984, Gibson has a BSc (Hons) (Sydney), MA, PhD (Clark), (Pen Name is J.K. Gibson-Graham), ,“A Postcapitalist Politics”, p. 53- 56) </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Politics involves the …</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;"> of other options</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">.</span>
Link Turn- capitalism’s worst effects are grounded in it’s drive for efficiency
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hillman 95</span>(James, retired Director of the Jung Institute, “Kinds of Power”, Doubleday, pgs 33-44)

Gitta Sereny pressed …<span style="font-size: 13pt;">its property lines.</span>

==Impacts== 
===Apocalypse=== 
They paint the world as dead – this kills the soul of the world
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hillman 81</span> (Hillman, James; former director of the Zurich Institute; Given October 1981; Anima Mundi: Return of the Soul to the World)

Catastrophe fantasies haunt ... a renaissance of psychology.

===War=== 
This rejection of war has pushed the martial into the nuclear- we cannot think of war without thinking about the bomb
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hillman 87 </span>(James, A Founding Fellow of the Dallas Institute of Humanities and Culture, “Wars, Arms, Rams, Mars: On the Love of War,” in Facing Apocalypse edited by Valerie Andrews, Robert Bosnak, Karen Goodwin)
So far <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">I ... bad weather, impedimenta</span>.

===Death=== 
Turn – death is inevitable and good – only death can teach us the metaphor of our existence – that we are not real – to die is to enter into image, whereas to live is to be stuck in blunt literalism
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Avens 80</span> (“James Hillman: Toward a Poetic Psychology”; ‘Journal of Religion and Health Vol. 19 No.3’; http://www.scribd.com/doc/23953790/Roberts-Avens-James-Hillman-Toward-a-Poetic-Psychology Robert Avens; PhD in religious studies; Written Fall 1980; ; Accessed November 8, 2012) *we don’t endorse the use of gendered language
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The closeness of ...</span> the Narcissus myth.

==1AC - CCS - January 13== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Warming</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Global warming is real and human induced – top climate scientists agree</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Anderegg et al 10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – PhD Candidate @ Stanford in Biology</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">William, “Expert credibility in climate change,” National Academy of Sciences, p. 12107-12109</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Preliminary reviews of scientific literature and surveys of cli- mate scientists indicate striking agreement with the primary conclusions of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC): </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">….forums regarding anthropogenic climate change</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Warming causes extinction – we’re at the tipping point</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Archer et al, ‘8</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Cambria;"> – Archer lead the study and is a Professor of Geophysical Sciences @ U Chicago, Dozens of other participants, including NASA scientists, professors of Biology, etc. “Anthropogenic Climate Destabilization: A Worst-case Scenario,” Foundation for the Future, September,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext; font-family: Cambria;">[[http://www.futurefoundation.org/documents/HUM_ExecSum_ClimateDestabilization.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Cambria;">.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">This summary intends – rather than to duplicate</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Cambria;"> … in which climate change is only one of the problems.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Climate change is comparatively the only existential threat</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Doebbler 11. Curtis, International Human Rights Lawyer. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Two threats to our existence. Ahram Weekly. July 2011.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2011/1055/envrnmnt.htm]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Climate change is </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__widely …<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> They continue in this vein.</span>__</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Warming turns every impact</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Burke 8 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Sharon, sr fellow and dir of the energy security project at the Center for a New American Security, Chapter 6 of Climatic Cataclysm: The Foreign Policy and National Security Implications of Climate Change, edited by Kurt Campbell, p 157-165)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">At the same time, however, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">the implications</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> …which will compromise agricultural productivity.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Climate change leads to drought and flooding</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Muawya Ahmed </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Hussein 2011</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Dhofar University Bureau of Applied Economics & Statistics The Economic, Social and Political Elements of Climate Change</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Arguably, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">one of the most</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> widespread and potentially </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">…</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> of this region’s resources, which hosts an estimated 3.7 million people.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Drought results in the death of millions</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Aiguo </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Dai 2010</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> Ph.D. Atmospheric Science, Columbia University, New York CityM.S. Atmospheric Science, Inst. for Atmos. Phys., Chinese Academy of Sci., Beijing, China Drought Under Global Warming: A review </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/wcc.81/pdf]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Few extreme events are as economically </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">….mitigate the negative impact of climate change.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Adaptation is only possible for rich countries, assumes linear climate change and ignores biodiversity loss</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Hamilton 10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – Professor of Public Ethics @ ANU</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Clive Hamilton, Professor of Public Ethics in Australia, 2010, “Requiem for a Species: Why We Resist the Truth About Climate Change,” pg 29-30</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Underlying the discussion of adaptation …. I have described, </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">mass extinctions are likely.</span>//


Climate change is linear and not inevitable
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pew Center 11</span>
(The Pew Center on Global Climate Change is as a non-profit, non-partisan, and independent organization dedicated to providing credible information, straight answers, and innovative solutions in the effort to address global climate change, "Climate Change 101: Understanding and Responding to Global Climate Change,")

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">CLIMATE CHANGE SCIENCE ... of climate Change.</span>



Adaptation is only possible for rich countries, assumes no positive feedbacks and ignores biodiversity loss

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hamilton 10</span> – Professor of Public Ethics @ ANU

Clive Hamilton, Professor of Public Ethics in Australia, 2010, “Requiem for a Species: Why We Resist the Truth About Climate Change,” pg 29-30


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Coal is inevitable - CCS is the only viable way to solve for its carbon dioxide emissions</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Richard K. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Morse</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> 20</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">12</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – leads research in global coal markets and global carbon markets at the Stanford Program on Energy and Sustainable Development, BA in philosophy from Rice University, has worked in commodities markets for oil and natural gas as an energy analyst and in markets for renewable energy and emissions as an energy trader(“Cleaning Up Coal,” Foreign Affairs, Jul/Aug2012, Vol. 91, Issue 4, Academic Search Premier)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">From Climate Culprit to Solution</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">COAL</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, THE rock that fueled the industrial …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> fight against global warming.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">CCS allows for coal with zero emissions – government investment is key to commercial adaptation</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Richard K. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Morse</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> 20</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">12</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – leads research in global coal markets and global carbon markets at the Stanford Program on Energy and Sustainable Development, BA in philosophy from Rice University, has worked in commodities markets for oil and natural gas as an energy analyst and in markets for renewable energy and emissions as an energy trader(“Cleaning Up Coal,” Foreign Affairs, Jul/Aug2012, Vol. 91, Issue 4, Academic Search Premier)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">EVENTUALLY, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">as the world's coal plants reach the …. that would make the economics of CCS more attractive.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Prioritizing carbon infrastructure ends the shift to natural gas</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Frank et al 9</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> - research associate in the CSIS Energy and National Security Program</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Matthew, “Crossing the Natural Gas Bridge,” CSIS, [[http://csis.org/files/attachments/090624_Crossing_Bridge.pdf]]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Aggressive action on</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> renewables, efficiency, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">…</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> for and effectiveness of energy R&D spending.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">CCS trades off with natural gas extraction</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Scientific American 12</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Science Magazine, “Can Fracking and Carbon Sequestration Coexist,” 3/16/12, [[http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=can-fracking-and-carbon-sequestration-co-exist]]</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">SH</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Natural gas production and carbon sequestration may be headed … blocking upper migration of injected CO2, the researchers said.</span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Natural gas accelerates warming – studies prove</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Robert W. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Howarth et al</span> 11/12/<span style="font-size: 13pt;">10</span> - Howarth is the David R. Atkinson Professor of Ecology & Environmental Biology at Cornell University, Renee Santoro is a research aide at Cornell University, Anthony Ingraffea is a professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering at Cornell University (“Methane and the greenhouse-gas footprint of natural<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>gas from shale formations,”[[http://www.sustainablefuture.cornell.edu/news/attachments/Howarth-EtAl-2011.pdf]])</span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">6 Shale gas versus other fossil fuels… evidence that efficiencies are<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>superior to diesel oil.</span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Natural gas speeds up warming—twice as fast as coal</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mims 11</span>Environmental News and Commentary Reporter(Christopher, April 21, 2011, “Natural gas from fracking is worse for climate than coal, says new study,” <span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://grist.org/list/2011-04-11-natural-gas-from-fracking-is-worse-for-climate-than-coal-says-ne/)//DR]]</span>. H</span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Natural gas obtained through … business-as-usual coal-fired power.</span></span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Natural gas destroys the environment—air pollution and water contamination</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Brune 3/25</span>Executive Director of the Sierra Club, the nation's largest environmental group (Michael, March 25, 2012, “Sierra Club: Natural gas isn't a 'kinder, gentler' energy,” <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.usatoday.com/news/opinion/editorials/story/2012-03-25/natural-gas-Sierra-Club/53775746/1)//DR]]</span>. H</span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The natural gas industry<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> that we … a clean energy future as soon as possible.</span></span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Only the plan is modeled – China, India, Brazil, and other countries won’t cut emissions unless they can avoid economic cost</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Apt et al 7</span> – PhD in Physics @ MIT, Professor of Technology, Tepper School of Business and Engineering and Public Policy</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Jay, “Incentives for Near-Term Carbon Dioxide Geological Sequestration,” Carnegie Mellon,[[http://wpweb2.tepper.cmu.edu/ceic/pdfs_other/Incentives_for_Near-Term_Carbon_Dioxide_Geological_Sequestration.pdf]]</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">The</span> Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change … gases in the 2005 U.S. economy are shown in figure 28 below.</span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Developing countries will “wait and see” until CCS is proven</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Global CCS Institute 12</span> (“Funding Carbon Capture and Storage in Developing Countries,”<span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://cdn.globalccsinstitute.com/sites/default/files/publications/37906/fundingccsindevelopingcountriesfinal.pdf]]</span>)</span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Given the significant, but manageable, challenges ..earnings from CCS <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>technology exports” (Meadowcroft and Langhelle 2009).</span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Specifically, China is moving towards CCS now – clean coal technology development is key to reconciling continued growth</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Richard K. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Morse</span> 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span> – leads research in global coal markets and global carbon markets at the Stanford Program on Energy and Sustainable Development, BA in philosophy from Rice University, has worked in commodities markets for oil and natural gas as an energy analyst and in markets for renewable energy and emissions as an energy trader(“Cleaning Up Coal,” Foreign Affairs, Jul/Aug2012, Vol. 91, Issue 4, Academic Search Premier)</span>//

//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The case of <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">China</span>, the world's biggest …emerging Asian economies<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> for quite some time</span>.</span>//



//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">US R&D and demonstration is key to adoption of CCS in India</span>//
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Mudit <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Narain</span> 6/20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">07</span> - B.E., Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of Delhi, 2005, dissertation submitted for a Masters of Science in Technology and Policy and Masters of Science in Civil and Environmental Engineering at MIT (“Pathways to Adoption of Carbon Capture and Sequestration in India: <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Technologies and Policies,” [[http://sequestration.mit.edu/pdf/MuditNarain_Thesis.pdf]])</span>//

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cooperative R&D on </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Indian coal<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> – </span>A common …</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> effective and ready to adopt CCS. ¶//</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Greenhill - CCS Aff-No War]]No War</span>=== 


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Democracy precludes war</span>

Bruno <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Tertais</span> 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span> - a Senior Research Fellow at the Foundation for Strategic Research and a TWQ editorial board member, former Director of the Civilian Affairs Committee at Assembly of NATO, Ph.D in political science from Institut d'Etudes Politiques de Paris (Summer 2012, The Demise of Ares: The End of War as We Know It?, Center for Strategic and International Studies, The Washington Quarterly, [[http://csis.org/files/publication/twq12SummerTertrais.pdf]])

Even with all ... due to genocide.


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">War declining – demographic patterns</span>
Bruno <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Tertais</span> 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span> - a Senior Research Fellow at the Foundation for Strategic Research and a TWQ editorial board member, former Director of the Civilian Affairs Committee at Assembly of NATO, Ph.D in political science from Institut d'Etudes Politiques de Paris (Summer 2012, The Demise of Ares: The End of War as We Know It?, Center for Strategic and International Studies, The Washington Quarterly, [[http://csis.org/files/publication/twq12SummerTertrais.pdf]])

A third related ... a Demographic Peace.


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Prefer broad analysis of international relations – specificity is a logical fallacy</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Kanwisher 89</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Nancy Kanwisher; is a professor of cognitive neuroscience at MIT, was a professor at Harvard, and has a Ph.D. in cognitive sciences; Written December 1989; “Cognitive Heuristics and American Security Policy”; [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/pdfplus/173995]]; Accessed September 14, 2012)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In a study of heuristics used in probability judgments, …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> most likely scenarios for the initiation of conflict.</span>


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its fiscal investment in pipeline transportation infrastructure for captured supercritical carbon dioxide in the United States.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative-Greenhill - CCS Aff-Solvency]]**Solvency**</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Carbon capture is tested and feasible</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Anthony et. al '10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [May 2010, Lauren Anthony, Brendon Baatz, Nicholas Bahnken, McKenzie Beverage, Jie Cui, Rose Galer, Devin Hartmaan, Colin Highlands, Howon Kang, Jacob Keating, Meghan Keefer, Kyungwoo Kim, Ashleigh Klingman, Keum Hoo Lee, Katie Mauldin, Richy Palmer, Laura Paradise, Arif Sayik, Burak Uyan, Kelly Wedell, Hasan Qildirin, Ibrahim Yigit, Yonghua Zou are top scholars from multiple disciplines to conduct innovative, timely and relevant research in the broad area of energy, focusing specifically on: • Advanced fossil fuels and nuclear power; • Alternative or renewable energy resources; • Local and regional carbon cycle dynamics; • Environmental and economic consequences of energy production and distribution assembled under the Center for Research in Energy and the Environment of Indiana University, "Carbon Capture and Storage",[[http://www.indiana.edu/~cree/pdf/2010%20V600%20Capstone%20Report%20on%20Carbon%20Capture%20and%20Storage.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Removing CO2 from a pre-combustion stream is … of air pollutants and volatile mercury.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">CCS storage is technologically available and empirically proven</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Dooley and Davidson 10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – leader of the Joint Global Change Research Institute's and the Global Energy Technology Strategy Project's research related to carbon dioxide capture and storage and senior member of the Joint Global Change Research Institute's Integrated Assessment modeling team; Senior Research Scientist. Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, Richland, Washington (JJ and CL, “A Brief Technical Critique of Ehlig-Economides and Economides 2010: ‘Sequestering Carbon Dioxide in a Closed Underground Volume’” US Department of Energy April 2010 [[http://www.pnl.gov/main/publications/external/technical_reports/PNNL-19249.pdf]]) MLR</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The technical feasibility of storing </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">…</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">potential benefits and challenges </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> associated with CCS.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Pipelines are the missing link – a national network is needed</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">IRGC 8</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">International Risk Governance Council, “Regulation of Carbon Capture and Storage,” [[http://www.irgc.org/IMG/pdf/Policy_Brief_CCS.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">Large-scale CCS deployment </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">cannot proceed</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">….</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> the ultimate organisational structure of</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">the CCS industry</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>

__Federal__ action on the __transportation__ side of CCS is critical to adoption.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Uchitel, </span>a Research Associate at the Stegner Center and a RoHo Debate parent,<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> in 2011</span> <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Kirsten, J.D., NYU Law School 1992; LLM, S.J. Quinney College of Law, University of Utah 2005. Other authors include Lincoln Davies, John Ruple, Heather Tanana. “Carbon Capture and Sequestration: A Regulatory Gap Assessment,” Topical Report; DOE Award Number DE-NT0005015, July 2011)-mikee</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">The report examines ... widespread CCS deployment.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Significant and immediate government investment is key</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Insight Economics 11</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“Building Essential Infrastructure for Carbon Capture and Storage,” Report to the Global Carbon Capture and Storage Institute,[[http://cdn.globalccsinstitute.com/sites/default/files/publications/13361/development-carbon-capture-and-storage-infrastructure.pdf]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">This has ramifications for investment in CCS infrastructure. … incorporating a </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__substantial contribution from the public sector__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Tons of room for storage</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">EPA 10</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">“Report of the Interagency Task Force on Carbon Capture and Storage,” [[http://www.epa.gov/climatechange/downloads/CCS-Task-Force-Report-2010.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">CO2 storage potential is estimated … sector in the United States for over </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">1,000 years</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">. 47</span>

==2AC -- Case== 
===A2: Irreversible=== 
Warming is reversible – the tipping point is 450 ppm and immediate action is key
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harvey 10/27</span> (November 21, 2012; Fiona Harvey; is an environmental correspondent for the Guardian; “Slow pace of carbon cuts brings catastrophic climate change closer: UN”; http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2012/nov/21/slow-carbon-cuts-climate-change-un; Accessed November 27, 2012)
The explicit goal … governments and societies.

===A2: Leaks=== 
**CCS is safe – no leaks**
**Mills 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - *MSc in Geological Sciences @ Cambridge</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Robin, “Capturing Carbon: The New Weapon in the War Against Climate Change,” Google Book</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">It is often … will be </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">minimal</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===A2: Ice Age=== 
Warming leads to ice age
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gagosian 3 – PhD in Oceanography</span>
Dr. Robert B. Gagosian President and Director of Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution Jan 27th 2003 Abrupt Climate Change should we be worried, Prepared for a panel at the world economic forum http://www.whoi.edu/home/about/whatsnew_abruptclimate.html
Global<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> warming could </span>…<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> mode of operation.</span>

The ice age will come slow – this guarantees adaptability
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Custodio, 11</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> 11/2/11, “Can Humans Survive another Ice Age?” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://leecustodio.hubpages.com/hub/Can-Humans-Survive-another-Ice-Age%20Accessed%206/25/12|http://leecustodio.hubpages.com/hub/Can-Humans-Survive-another-Ice-Age Accessed 6/25/12]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">On today’s modern … Nature would bring. </span>

===**A2: Co2 Ag**=== 
Warming kills agriculture
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shakoor et al 2011</span> - Department of Agri. Economics and Economics, PMAS Arid Agriculture University (Usman, “IMPACT OF CLIMATE CHANGE ON AGRICULTURE: EMPIRICAL EVIDENCE FROM ARID REGION” [[http://pakjas.com.pk/papers%5C1966.pdf]], PZ)
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Climate change is …</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Mendelsohn et al., 2001). </span>

Co2 doesn’t boost yields – any evidence of growth is short-term and hypothetical
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jackson 9 – Research molecular biologist @ USDA</span>
Eric, 2009, “The international food system and the climate crisis,” The Panama News, Lexis
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">A major weakness … reductions in yield</span>.

Turn – pollution leads to ozone erosion – tanks ag
Monbiot 7 – Professor @ Oxford
George, Professor @ Oxford Brookes University, Heat: How to Stop the Planet from Burning, pg. 7
But now, I … <span style="font-size: 13pt;"> carbon dioxide concentrations</span>



==2AC -- DAs== 
===Elections DA (Generic)=== 

__Clean coal__ technology will win him the election – it’s popular with environmentalists, executives, and all Americans who care about energy prices.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Toloczko, ’12</span> (“Obama's Campaign Against Fossil Fuels Driving Energy Prices Higher” by Kerri 8 Jun 2012 15, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.breitbart.com/Big-Government/2012/06/08/obamas-campaign-against-fossil-fuels-driving-energy-prices-higher]]</span>)

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Dinosaurs would be ... </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">will take note.</span>//


The plan is a key pivot – combatting global warming ensures victory.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">CSM, ’12</span> (“In swing states climate change considered critical election issue,” Mark Clayton | The Christian Science Monitor | Sep 09, 2012, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">http://www.alaskadispatch.com/article/swing-states-climate-change-considered-critical-election-issue)-mikee</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Climate change</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">, a ... </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">come from independents</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">."</span>


Their impact is political, not substantive – candidates will moderate if elected.
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Kelemen, ’12</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;"> (Michele, September 10, 2012, “Candidates Criticize China; Presidents Show Caution,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">http://www.npr.org/2012/09/10/160880265/candidates-criticize-china-presidents-show-caution</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">It has become ... </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">number two economy."</span>



===Oil DA=== 

High Russian oil profits cause Dutch disease—they’re especially vulnerable
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wharton 07</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (“Russia: 'Floating on an Enormous Pool of Petrodollars'” Knowledge@Wharton – Upenn April 24, 2007 http://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article.cfm?articleid=1717&specialid=66 ajones)</span>

The "Dutch Disease" ... pursue these matters


Russia is extremely vulnerable to Dutch disease—kills the economy
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Buckley 12</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Neil, “Economy: Oil Dependence Remains a Fundamental Difference,” 6/20, Financial Times, [[http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/438712b2-b497-11e1-bb2e-00144feabdc0.html#axzz1ypkFB0pH)//mat|http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/438712b2-b497-11e1-bb2e-00144feabdc0.html#axzz1ypkFB0pH)//mat]]</span>

//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Moscow's dollar-dominated ... on attractive industries.</span>//


Drop in oil prices solves Russian economy—key to reform
NEWSWEEK 10-6-2008 (“Russia Hit The Rocks Hardest; The market crash is due in part to Georgia, even if Putin doesn't think so,” Oct 6, Lexis)

In truth the ... Russia's Achilles' heel.


High oil profits allow Russia to avoid diversification—this will crush the economy
Tempera 11 (Michele, “Is Russia Diversifying Its Economy or Once More Strengthening Its Already Strong Sectors?” PECOB, March)//mat

From the Soviet ... International financial crises.

===Inflation DA=== 
Massive inflation by the end of the year – we printed too much money
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kirven, 2012</span> **-** Lubbock Invest, <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Romeyo, PR newswire June 18, 2012 Inflation Soars: Expert Gives Tips on Keeping Money Safe [[http://www.sacbee.com/2012/06/18/4569920/inflation-soars-expert-gives-tips.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> June</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 21, 2012</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Voices across the … the federal budget.</span>
Infrastructure spending is a unique form of stimulus – benefits last longer than the government program, creating a strong multiplier effect
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Derviş, 11</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Director of Global Economy and Development at the Brookings Institution, Ph.D. from Princeton (Kemal, “To Solve the Fiscal Dilemma, Look to the Details,” Financial Times, 9/1/2011, http://www.brookings.edu/research/opinions/2011/09/01-fiscal-dilemma-dervis)//HK//</span>

//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">One should beware, …</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> for both measures.</span>//
//Financial crisis placed us on the brink of deflation – asset and real estate prices are too low//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sinai, 08</span>**,** chief global economist at Decision Economics<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, (allen, strategist and president, decision economics, inc.; “a weakened economy: how to respond?” September 9, 2008, june 21, 2012, hearing before the committee on the budget house of representatives http://www.gpoaccess.gov/congress/house/budget/index.html)</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The financial crisis ..</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> in the future.</span>//

//Turn – inflation is key to head off deflation, which causes a wage price spiral down, crushing the economy//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sentinel & Enterprise, 2009</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [3/20/09, A rare time when rising prices is good economic news, Accessed 6/20/12 through ProQuest, http://proxy.lib.umich.edu/login?url=http:</span>//search.proquest.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/docview/379039222?accountid=14667]
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Prices went up … can get it.</span>
No Impact – Hyperinflation temporary – it won’t collapse the economy
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lira, 2010 </span>**-** Freelance writer for Business Insider [Gonzalo<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, 8/26/2010, “Hyperinflation, Part II: What It Will Look Like”, Gonzalo Lira, accessed 6/21/12, http://gonzalolira.blogspot.com/2010/08/hyperinflation-part-ii-what-it-will.html]</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">What do these … corpus, etc., etc.</span>

Turn- Hyperinflation ultimately good for economy – removes bad debt
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lira, 2010</span>- Freelance writer for Business Insider<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Gonzalo, 8/23/2010, “How Hyperinflation Will Happen”, Gonzalo Lira, accessed 6/21/12, http://gonzalolira.blogspot.com/2010/08/how-hyperinflation-will-happen.html]</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The first thing …</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> But I digress. </span>
====A2: Unions Link==== 
Turn – unions key to the economy – they boost wage and job quality which is critical to the stimulus – their ev is biased
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hoffa 11</span> – president, International Brotherhood of Teamsters [James P, Good Jobs 09/05/11 http://www.huffingtonpost.com/james-p-hoffa/good-jobs_b_948850.html
__Labor unions raise …__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> lessons of the past.</span>
==2AC -- CPs== 
===China Fund CP=== 

The counterplan fails – massive political suspicions and perception of security risks
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rosen and Hanemann, 11</span>– professor at Columbia University, Fellow with the Peterson Institute for International Economics, and Senior Advisor for International Economic Policy at the White House National Economic Council and National Security Council, AND* is Research Director at the Rhodium Group, specializing in China’s macroeconomic development and the implications for global trade and investment flows (Daniel & Thilo, “An American Open Door?: Maximising the Benefits of Chinese Foreign Direct investment”, May 2011, http://www.ogilvypr.com/files/anamericanopendoor_china_fdi_study.pdf)//JKahn
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We conclude that … of El Paso. </span>

Links to politics – congress is inherently protectionist, and opposes Chinese investment at all costs
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">BBC ’10</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">(“Agency urges U.S. not to be ‘over-sensitive’ about Chinese Investments”, BBC Monitoring Asia-Pacific, 7/6/10, Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">As a matter … the international community. </span>

====A2: Bonds Net-Benefit==== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">China won’t sell U.S. treasuries – export hedging and Yuan inflation</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">CBS, 09 (Charles Wallace, staff writer, “Why China Won't Dump the Dollar Any Time Soon”, CBS News, April 9, 2009, http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-505123_162-36740201/why-china-wont-dump-the-dollar-any-time-soon/)//JKahn</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">There's been a … assets in dollars. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">China won’t sell treasuries</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">CRS ’09 – Congressional Research Service, Wayne M. Morrison, specialist in Asian Trade and Finance, Marc Labonte, specialist in macroeconomic Policy, (“China’s Holdings of U.S. Securities: Implications for the U.S. Economy”, July 30, 2009, www.crs.gov)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Other observes counter … the United States.</span>

===Carbon Tax CP=== 
CP causes more emissions from the developing world
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Elliott et al ’12 </span>research scientist and fellow at University of Chicago Computation Institute, Ian Foster, Sam Kortum, Gita Khun Jush, Todd Munson, David Weisbach, February 27, The University of Chicago and Argonne National Laboratory, “Unilateral Carbon Taxes, Border Tax Adjustments and Carbon Leakage”, INSTITUTE FOR LAW AND ECONOMICS WORKING PAPER NO. 600 (2D Series), page 3 http://ssrn.com/abstract=2072696

<span class="TitleChar">While there …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> domestic political challenges. </span>

Absent federal funding, private sector won’t invest in CCS until a carbon price is set and emission regulations take effect
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Element-energy 10</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> (“Co2 Pipeline Infrastructure: An Analysis of Global Challenges and Opportunities”, Final Report International Energy Agency Greenhouse Gas Programme, 4/27/10, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Georgia; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.canadiancleanpowercoalition.com/pdf/CTS16%20-%20IEA_Pipeline_final_report.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">)//MR//</span>

//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">By far </span><span class="TitleChar">the …</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> critical supporting</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> infrastructure.</span>//

//Coupling the tax with infrastructure solves delays and modeling//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hawkins and Peridas 7</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">– David Hawkins and George Peridas, Natural Resources Defense Council (“No Time Like the Present: NRDC’s Response to MIT’s ‘Future of Coal’ Report” March 2007, http://www.nrdc.org/globalwarming/coal/mit.pdf)</span>//MR

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Where a technology … countries like </span><span class="TitleChar">China</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Carbon Tax is publicly and politically unpopular
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Climate Lab, 09</span> Climate Lab is a website that is dedicated to information about climate change, “Carbon Tax” http://climatelab.org/Carbon_tax
Even supporters of … to cheaper locales<span class="TitleChar">.</span>


===SO2 CP=== 

Future emissions will overwhelm SO2’s cooling capability – means its try or die
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">ClimateSight, 5/16</span> – ClimateSight (“ Cumulative Emissions and Climate Models,” 5/16/12, [[http://climatesight.org/2012/05/16/cumulative-emissions-and-climate-models/]], //JPL)//

//Finding that slope ... to temperature change.//


//SO2 causes chemical reactions that make enhance the warming effect of greenhouse gases//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ward, 9</span> - U. S. Geological Survey from 1971 to 1998, playing a lead role in development of the United States National Earthquake Hazards Reduction Program, MA and Ph.D from Columbia University, former Chief in Branch of Seismology at USGS (“ Sulfur Dioxide Initiates Global Climate Change in Four Ways: Notes for Science Writers,” 2/8/9, [[http://www.tetontectonics.org/Climate/Notes%20For%20Science%20Writers.pdf]],// JPL)

The IPCC emphasizes ... every two years


CP unlikely to stabilize climate; laundry list of reasons
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">McCusker et al 2011</span> (The Climate Response to Stratospheric Sulfate Injections and Implications for Addressing Climate Emergencies KELLY E. MCCUSKER, DAVID S. BATTISTI, AND CECILIA M. BITZ University of Washington, Seattle, Washington (Manuscript received 1 April 2011, in final form 28 October 2011)http://www.atmos.washington.edu/~david/mccusker_etal_galley.pdf)

The combination of ... changes in forcing.


CP fails, can’t offset emissions, or climate emergencies
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">ScienceDaily 1/25/12</span> (Injecting Sulfate Particles Into Stratosphere Won't Fully Offset Climate Change, this article cites research from the University of Washington, ScienceDaily (Jan. 25, 2012), http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2012/01/120125142212.htm)

New University of ... National Science Foundation.


===States CP=== 

States can only facilitate a small-scale project
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">ICFI 9</span> (ICF International, a firm that partners with government and commercial clients to deliver professional services and technology solutions, February 2009, “Developing a Pipeline Infrastructure for CO2 Capture and Storage: Issues and Challenges,” http://www.ingaa.org/File.aspx?id=8228)

Pipeline Siting Most ... corridor by DOE.



States don’t have siting expertise
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">EPA 10</span>
“Report of the Interagency Task Force on Carbon Capture and Storage,” http://www.epa.gov/climatechange/downloads/CCS-Task-Force-Report-2010.pdf

Enhanced coordination on ... integrity of sequestration.


Doesn’t solve without federally regulated pipelines
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zarraby 12</span> - chemical engineer for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, JD expected from GWU in 2012
Cyrus, “Note: Regulating Carbon Capture and Sequestration: A Federal Regulatory Regime to Promote the Construction of a National Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Network,” 80 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 950, Lexis

The current lack ... CO<2> transportation costs.


Federal eminent domain is key to a predictable investment climate
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Horne 10</span> – JD @ U of Utah
Jennifer, “Getting from Here to There: Devising an Optimal Regulatory Model for CO<2> Transport in a New Carbon Capture and Sequestration Industry,” 30 J. Land Resources & Envtl. L. 357, Lexis

FERC oversees siting ... fit for CCS.

===Devolution CP=== 

Devolution to the states fails
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Heiligenstein 6</span> [Mike Heiligenstein, Executive Director at the Central Texas Regional Mobility Authority “The Devolution of Transportation Funding

The devolution of ... the gas tax.
==2AC -- Ks== 
===Science K=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 14pt; text-align: left;">Perm solves best – avoids dogmatizing metaphysical issues while providing the informed decisions only science can produce.</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tibbetts 82</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Paul, prof @ U Dayton, Ph.D. on philosophy and sociology, Sociological Inquiry, June 1, p. 184-199, “The Positivism-Humanism Debate in Sociology: A Reconsideration” Ebsco)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Let us now … cognitively opaque </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">character.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 14pt; text-align: left;">The alt causes political stagnation – objective realities and testing hypotheses is necessary for successful social change and improvement.</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sokal 96</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Alan, Prof of Physics @ NYU, “A Physicist Experiments with cultural studies” Lingua Franca May/June JF) </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">What concerns me … of scholarly achievement?</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 14pt; text-align: left;">Critiques of science are outdated and blatantly wrong</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Willower and Uline 1</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Donald, Penn State U, and Cynthia, Ohio State U, Journal of Education Administration Vol. 39.5 Pg. 457-459)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Related </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">criticisms of … static, and settled.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 14pt; text-align: left;">Science is key to stopping genocide – dogma led to Auschwitz, not science itself. Postmodernism locks people into arrogance and ensures a repeat of the Shoah. </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Erickson 93 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(George, Bachelor of Science and a Doctor of Dental Surgery degree from the U of Minnesota, Humanism Today, vol. 8, p. 63-65, http://www.humanismtoday.org/vol8/erickson.pdf, JMB, accessed 6-25-11)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jacob </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bronowski</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Humanist …</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> how they behave</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===Luke K=== 

Liberal government solves—biopower must be combined with a concept of racial sovereignty to cause their impacts
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dean, 04</span> – professor of sociology at the University of Newcastle (Mitchell, “Four Theses on the Powers of Life and Death,” Contretemps 5, December 2004, http://sydney.edu.au/contretemps/5december2004/dean.pdf)//HK

Second Thesis: it ... older police states.


Market forces make capitalism self-sustaining while solving global warming
William J. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Baumol et al</span> 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">07</span> – William J. Baumol is a professor of economics at New York University and is also affiliated with Princeton University, Robert E. Litan was a senior fellow in economics at the Brookings Institution and is now director of research at Bloomberg Government, Carl J. Schramm is an American economist, entrepreneur, and former President and CEO of the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation, a private philanthropic foundation (“Good capitalism, bad capitalism, and the economics of growth and prosperity,” Yale University Press, [[http://ssrn.com/abstract=985843]])

But should growth ... be much accenuated


Capitalism is the only system that can solve warming
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Parenti 11 </span>(Christian, PhD in Sociology from the London School of Economics, visiting fellow at CUNY's Center for Place, Culture and Politics, as well as a Soros Senior Justice Fellow, taught at the New College of California and at St. Mary's College, Tropic of Chaos: Climate Change and the New Geography of Violence, June 28, 2011)

There is one ... it to ourselves.

===Apocalyptic Rhetoric K=== 

Our deployment of risk is enabling – we need to visualize climate change to shake up political apathy
Ulrich **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Beck 10</span>__**, sociology prof at Munich, “Climate for Change, or How to Create a Green Modernity?”, Theory Culture Society 2010 27: 254

Sixth thesis: The ... to repeated failure.


Coupling our rhetoric with a solution solves
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Feinberg and Willer 11</span> - Psychology Dept and Sociology Dept, UC Berkeley (Matthew and Robb, "Apocalypse Soon? Dire Messages Reduce Belief in Global Warming by Contradicting Just-World Beliefs", Psychological Science January 2011 vol. 22 no. 1 34-38)//KL

These results demonstrate ... in field settings.


Apocalyptic rhetoric motivates environmentalism.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Salvador and Norton 11</span> (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.tandfonline.com/action/doSearch?action=runSearch&type=advanced&result=true&prevSearch=%2Bauthorsfield%3A(Salvador%2C+Michael)|Michael Salvador]]</span> - Michael Salvador is an Associate Professor in the Edward R. Murrow College of Communication at Washington State University and <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.tandfonline.com/action/doSearch?action=runSearch&type=advanced&result=true&prevSearch=%2Bauthorsfield%3A(Norton%2C+Todd)|Todd Norton]]</span> - Todd Norton is an Assistant Professor in the Edward R. Murrow College of Communication at Washington State University, “The Flood Myth in the Age of Global Climate Change,” 2/18/11, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/17524032.2010.544749]]</span>) Gangeezy

For Killingsworth and ... 1996, p. 22).


===Focault K=== 

The perm solves best— pluralism allows for a better understanding of solutions
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Schwanen et al., 11</span> – professor of geography and the environment at Oxford (Tim, “Scientific research about climate change mitigation in transport: A critical review,” Transportation Research Part A 45 993–1006, 2011)//HK//

//We do not ... than at present.//


//Environmental management is inevitable - it’s only a question of the effectiveness of the intervention//
//<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 13pt;">Levy 99</span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">- PhD @ Centre for Critical Theory at Monash</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Neil, “Discourses of the Environment,” ed: Eric Darier, p. 215</span>//

//<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">If the 'technological ... will be decided?</span>//


//Liberal government solves—biopower must be combined with a concept of racial sovereignty to cause their impacts//

//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dean, 04</span> – professor of sociology at the University of Newcastle (Mitchell, “Four Theses on the Powers of Life and Death,” Contretemps 5, December 2004, http://sydney.edu.au/contretemps/5december2004/dean.pdf)//HK

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Second Thesis: it ... older police states.</span>



Perm – do the plan and all non-competitive parts of the alternative – the plan is “affirmative biopower” because it universally helps living beings

Matthew G. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hannah</span> 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">10</span> – Professor in the Institute of Geography and Earth Sciences, Aberystwyth University (“Biopower, Life and Left Politics,” Antipode, [[http://kc.jamesmerricks.com/sites/default/files/110222/Antipode%202011%20Hannah.pdf]])

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Biopolitical Life in ... of human security.</span>
==<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">2AC -- T</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">Transportation Infrastructure</span>=== 

We meet – we transport a good – supercritical CO2

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Forbes et al 8</span> - senior associate at the World Resources Institute, former member of the National Energy Technology Laboratory

Sarah, CCS Guidelines: Guidelines for Carbon Dioxide Capture, Transport, and Storage, World Resources Institute, http://pdf.wri.org/ccs_guidelines.pdf


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">CO2 used for …</span> performance or safety.



Counterinterpretation – topical affirmatives must invest in roads, railways, airways, canals, or pipelines

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Campaign for Sensible Transportation 06</span> (The CFST is a group of individuals and organizations focused on promoting a balanced and sustainable transportation system. http://www.cfst.org/transportation.html

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Transportation</span> can be <span style="font-size: 13pt;">…</span> taxes and duties.<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Counter-interp - Pipelines are transportation infrastructure </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Department of Transportation 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10.5pt;">(USDOT 2013 Budget Overview </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10.5pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/omb/budget/fy2013/assets/transportation.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10.5pt;">)</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">A</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> well-functioning </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">…</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> five streamlined ones.</span>



This is distinct from energy infrastructure like oil and natural gas pipelines

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nordhaus & Pitlick 9</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> (JD, Faculty @ Georgetown Law, general council to FERC, ** Associate at Van Ness Feldman Robert and Emily, “CARBON DIOXIDE PIPELINE REGULATION,” Energy Law Journal, http://www.felj.org/docs/elj301/85_-_nordhaus_and_pitlick.pdf)//AMV</span>



<span style="font-size: 13pt;">In addition to</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">… composition, including methane.28 </span>



b) Contextual definitions prove predictability.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reitze, ’11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Arnold W. Research Analyst for the University of Utah Institute for Clean and Secure Energy. “Federal Control of Geological Carbon Sequestration” Topical Report, April 2011, DOE Award Number DE-NT0005015)mikee</span>



<span style="font-size: 13pt;">For the foreseeable …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from existing facilities. </span>

c) Vital aff ground

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">API 12</span>

Energy: American Petroleum Institute, http://oilsandsfactcheck.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/API-Pipeline-Overview.pdf

America depends on … <span style="font-size: 13pt;">throughoutthe U.S</span>.

=Negative= 
==CP's== 
===Commissions=== 
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The United States Congress should establish an independent agency empowered by the executive to submit to Congress recommendations for transportation policy. Congress and the executive will delegate authority to the agency to create recommendations and allow 90 days to pass legislation maintaining existing legislative baselines. If Congress does not pass legislation revising the Commission’s recommendations within the specified period, those recommendations will enter into legal force. The Commission should recommend to Congress that __.</span>**

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The counterplan solves the case</span>**</span></span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MPP 08</span>**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Metropolitan Policy Program.Brookings Institute “A Bridge to Somewhere Rethinking Americas Transportation of the Twentieth Centurywww.brookings.edu/metro)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Congress should authorize...</span>the metropolitan network.

==ADV CP's== 
===Warming=== 
1. Iron Fertilization

===Hegemony=== 
1. Naval Expansion
2. Military Modernization
3. F-35's

Economy


==DA's== 
===Elections=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A. Uniqueness: </span>**Obama will win but its close – election forecasts**
**Silver 10/25** <span style="font-size: 8pt;"><Nate. “Oct. 24: In Polls, Romney’s Momentum Seems to Have Stopped” October 24, 2012. http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/10/25/oct-24-in-polls-romneys-momentum-seems-to-have-stopped/#more-36636></span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">The term “momentum...</span>percent on Tuesday.


**Links: New deficit spending galvanizes conservatives – helps Romney win.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kraushaar, ‘12</span>** (Josh Kraushaar, 5/16/12, National Journal, “Romney's Targeted Deficit Messaging,” http://decoded.nationaljournal.com/2012/05/romneys-targeted-deficit-messa.php)

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">But </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">spending </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">and...or die" sentiment</span>

**Romney will go after China – this collapses relations and ensures war.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jingya, ‘12</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Mei, China political analyst for Sina English, “China bashing good for winning votes, but bad for Sino-US relation,” 8/24/12, http://english.sina.com/china/2012/0824/499676.html)-mikee</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">US presidential hopeful...time and situation.</span>

**2. US-China war goes nuclear – guarantees massive death.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lind, Center for Cultural Conservatism, ‘5</span>** (William, May 18, “War With China?” [[http://www.military.com/Opinions/0,,Lind_051805,00.html]])

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">I regard a...</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">the Chinese vote</span>

=== === 
===Sequestration=== 
=== === 

**A. Uniqueness: Sequestration deal is on track – there is already an established framework and bipartisan cooperation for deficit reduction in the lame duck.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Krawzak, 10/21</span> (Paul M., Congressional Quarterly Staff, “Efforts for Plan to Avoid Fiscal Cliff Pick Up Speed,” CQ TODAY ONLINE NEWS, 2012, [[http://public.cq.com/docs/news/news-000004167600.html]])

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">With the days...</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">emerging Senate proposals</span>


**B. Links: Transportation spending collapses bipartisanship and dooms the deal.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Schank, ‘12</span> (Joshua, President and CEO of the Eno Center for Transportation a neutral, non-partisan think-tank, Is Partisanship the Problem?, April 16, 2012, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.enotrans.org/eno-brief/is-partisanship-the-problem]]</span>)

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">The partisan differences...</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">a better position.</span>


**C. Impacts: Sequestration destroys US global military power – collapses deterrence and triggers multiple scenarios for nuclear war <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Iranian prolif, African instability, terrorism, Korean war, Taiwan war, and Russian military modernization).</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hunter, ’12</span> <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Duncan is a U.S. Representative from Alaska. "SEQUESTRATION SENDS WRONG MESSAGE TO U.S. FRIENDS AND FOES ALIKE," September 30, 2012, http://www.utsandiego.com/news/2012/sep/30/tp-sequestration-sends-wrong-message-to-us/?page=1~~%23article)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">To most Americans...</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">against any threat</span>



==K's== 
===**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Complexity</span>**=== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Prediction is impossible – linear analysis causes policy failure</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Sa, 04 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">– Deug Whan, Dong-U College, South Korea, (“CHAOS, UNCERTA I N T Y, AND POLICY CHOICE: UTILIZING THE ADAPTIVE MODEL,” International Review of Public Administration, vol. 8, no. 2, 2004, scholar)RK</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">In many cases...same causal relationships.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">*Specific Link will be inserted here</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Only moving away from linearity can address multiple extinction level impacts</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Gell-Mann, 97 </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">– Murray, Nobel Laureate in Physics and professor at the Santa Fe Institute and co-chairman of the Science Board (“Chapter 1: The Simple and the Complex,” //Complexity, Global Politics, and National Security//, ed. David S. Alberts and Thomas J. Czerwinski, National Defense University, http://www.dodccrp.org/files/Alberts_Complexity_Global.pdf)RK</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">At this conference...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">about the future.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The alternative to engage in policy analysis of complexity- key to have preferable political results in a chaotic world</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Rosenau, 97</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> – professor emeritus of international affairs at George Washington (James, “Many Damn Things Simultaneously: Complexity Theory and World Affairs”, Complexity, Global Politics, and National Security, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Georgia; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dodccrp.org/html4/bibliography/comch04.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">) //BZ</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">In short, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">there...</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia;">within its limits.</span>__

===Anthropocentrism=== 


**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Anthropocentric ideologies cause ecocide- the alternative is the only __unique__ try or die scenario.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gottlieb 94</span> — Roger S. Gottlieb, Professor of Humanities at Worcester Polytechnic Institute, holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from Brandeis University, 1994 (“Ethics and Trauma: Levinas, Feminism, and Deep Ecology,” Crosscurrents: A Journal of Religion and Intellectual Life, Summer, Available Online at<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.crosscurrents.org/feministecology.htm]]</span>, Accessed 07-26-2011)

Here I will at least begin in […] nor for the other, but for us all.

<span style="font-size: 1.066em; line-height: 1.5;">The alternative is to undergo the thought experiment in order to embrace the global suicide of humanity. The alternative solves the anthropocentric ideology.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kochi and Ordan 8</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">(Queen’s University, Borderlands journal, </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.borderlands.net.au/vol7no3_2008/kochiordan_argument.pdf)JFS]]</span>

For some, guided.. or repress it.

====Policy Aff Links==== 

1. In the face of an accelerating __ecological crisis__, the aff has decided to advocate a strategy of __expansionism__ – increasing infrastructure over the natural world for the sole purpose of __human interest__. This ignores the importance of environmental __ethics__ and is violently __anthropocentric__.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sivil, 2000</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Richard Sivil studied at the University of Durban Westville, and at the University of Natal, Durban. He has been lecturing philosophy since 1996. “WHY WE NEED A NEW ETHIC FOR THE ENVIRONMENT”, 2000, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.crvp.org/book/Series02/II-7/chapter_vii.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Three most significant .. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">an environmental ethic</span>

2. The plan frames transportation infrastructure __anthropocentrically__ – they only care about __efficiency__, __growth__ for humans, and the direct effects on the region. Their plan __directly__ hurts the environment because they __prioritize__ human and ignore the environment.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bennett, ‘11</span> (Victoria J. Bennett is a postdoctoral research associate, Department of Forest Ecosystems and Society, Oregon State University, “Toward Understanding the Ecological Impact of Transportation Corridors,” [[http://www.fs.fed.us/pnw/pubs/pnw_gtr846.pdf|www.fs.fed.us/pnw/pubs/pnw_gtr846.pdf]])

Transportation<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> corridors (notably roads).. and ecosystem function.</span>

====Kritikal Aff Links==== 

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">Non-humans are necessarily __excluded__ from the 1ac movement.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">Bell and Russell 2K</span>**

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">(Anne C. by graduate students in the Faculty of Environmental Studies, York Universi- ty and Constance L. a graduate student at the Ontario Institute for Studies in Educa- tion, University of Toronto, Beyond Human, Beyond Words: Anthropocentrism, Critical Pedagogy, and the Poststructuralist Turn, </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.csse-scee.ca/CJE/Articles/FullText/CJE25-3/CJE25-3-bell.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> [10/24/11])</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">For this reason... </span>anthropocentrism passes unchallenged.

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">The foundation that the affirmatives movement is based on is __profoundly__ anthropocentric in nature. It inherently has a human non-human __distinction__ within it.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">Kochi 09 </span>**
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">(Tarik, Sussex law school, Species war: Law, Violence and Animals, Law Culture and Humanities Oct 5.3)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Grotius and Hobbes are... juridical ordering of war.</span>


===Ontology=== 
A) Framework: Questions of ontology should be evaluated first.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dillon 1999</span>(Dillon, Prof of Politics, University of Lancaster, __Moral Spaces,__ p. 97-98)-mikee

Heirs to all ... of decision making.

B) Links

1. The State – The affirmative theory of politics is rooted in sovereignty. Calling on the state is the ontological foundation of violence.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bartleson 95</span> (Jean, prof. at Dept of Pli Sci at University of Stockholm, //A Genealogy of Sovereignty//, Cambridge U. Press – pp. 22-23
To be sure, __..,__ the international system

2. Cost-benefit analysis overlooks environmental impacts and low-income demographics; local ontology is key.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Næss in 06 </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Petter Næss Aalborg, University, Senior Researcher at Norwegian Institute for Urban and Regional Research in Oslo “Cost-benefit analyses of transportation investments: neither critical nor realistic” Published in Journal of Critical Realism, Vol. 5, No. 1, 2006, pp. 32-60)</span>
The practice of <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">… </span>of the results.

C) Impacts

The static and violent ontologies of the aff may seem benign, but each closure denies humanity and makes destruction of the Earth possible. Ontological damnation outweighs nuclear war.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zimmerman in 1997</span> [Michael, Contesting Earth's Future: Radical Ecology and Postmodernity, Berkeley, Calif. University of California Press, 1997. p.119-120]
George Sessions say … as material paradise.

D) Our alternative text:

Vote negative to refuse the ontology of the affirmative.

This debate is a referendum on the ontology of the affirmative—we must actively think the question of being which is concealed by the affirmative. You should reject their metaphysically grounded call for affirmation in favor of the questioning initiated by the 1NC.

The refusal to draw lines is the only way that sovereign power as a form of violence can be contested
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Edkins and Pin-fat 5</span> (Jenny, Senior Lecturer in International Politics at the University of Wales Aberystwyth., and Veronique, senior lecturer in International Relations in the Centre for International Politics at the University of Manchester., “Through the Wire: Relations of Power and Relations of Violence”, Millennium - Journal of International Studies 2005; 34; 1, pgs 1-26)
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">One potential form … or bare life</span>.
=**Rounds**= 
==**Meadows**== 
**Round 1 vs. Green Valley- ITS**
**1NC**
**1. T**
**2. Elections**
**3.** **Commissions**
**4. Cap**
**5. Case**

**2nr**
**1. Commissions, Elections**

**Round 3 vs. Brophy- Dams**
**1NC**
**1. T- Dams not transportation Infrastructure**
**2. Elections**
**3.** **Sequestration**
**4. Commissions**
**5. ADV CP**
**6. Case**

**2NR**
1. T

Round 5 vs. Notre Dame-Nextgen
**1NC**
**1. T-equipped is not infrastructure**
**2. Elections**
**3. Passengers Fee CP**
**4.** **Sequestration**
**5. Commissions CP**
**6. Case**

**2NR**
**1. Sequestration, Case**

==**Michigan**== 
**Round 1 vs. Niles West- Port Security**
**1NC**
**1.** **Sequestration**
**2. Elections**
**3. Visas terrorism CP**
**4. Commissions CP**
**5. T- Military**
**6. Case**

**2NR**
**1. Sequestration**
**2. Case**

**Round 3 vs. Westminster OS- Port Dredging**
**1NC**
**1. Sequestration**
**2. Commissions**
**3. Elections**
**4. ADV CP**
**5. Case**

**2NR**
**1. Sequestration, Case**

Round 5 vs. Dowling WZ- Alaskan Ports
1NC
**1. Sequestration**
**2. Elections**
**3. Commissions CP**
**4. Hillman K**
**5. Case**

2NR
**1. Hillman K**

==**Alta**== 
**Round 2 vs. VMT**
**1NC**
**1. T (direct investment)**
**2. Sequestration**
**3. Commissions CP**
**4. Capitalism K**
**5. Case**

**2nr**
**1. Sequestration**

**Round 3 vs. Natives**
**1NC**
**1. Commissions CP**
**2. Sequestration**
**3. Cap K**
**4. TTAP CP**
**5. Topicality (substantial)**
**6. Case (Framework, Racism Defense)**

**2nr**
**1.** **Sequestration**
**2. Commissions CP**
**3. Case (just framework)**

**Round 6 vs. Disabilities (Bingham HT)**
**1NC**
**1. Sequestration**
**2. Capitalism**
**3. Hephaestus CP (Efficiency NB)**
**4. Framework**
**5. Case**

**2NR**
**1. Hephaestus CP**
**2. Case**

**Round 7 vs. Reform Whiteness**
**1NC**
**1. Starting Points K**
**2. Cap K**
**3. FW**
**4. Case (Wrong Forum, Racism Defense)**

**2NR**
**1. Starting Points K**
==**Blake**== 
**Round 2 vs. Niles North**
**1NC**
**1. Commissions CP**
**2. Fiscal Cliff**
**3. Ontology**
**4. Case**

**2NR**
**1. Ontology**

**Round 3 vs. Millard South**
**1NC**
**1. FW**
**2. Cap K**
**3. Case**

**2NR**
**1. FW**
**2. Case**

**Round 5 vs. Bronx Science**
**1NC**
**1.**

**Round 7 vs. Wes Des Monies**
**1NC**
**1. Ontology K**
**2. Subs T**
**3. Direct Investment/Plan Flaw**
**4. Sequestration DA**
**5. Commissions CP**
**6. Case**

**2NR**
**1. Plan Flaw**
**2. Sequestration DA**
**3. Case**

==**Copper Classic**== 
**Round 1 vs. HSR**

**2NR**
**1. Anthro K**

**Round 3 vs. Ports of Entries**
**1. Answering 1ar theory**

==**Golden Desert**== 

**Round 2**
**2nr-** **<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Anthro</span>**

**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Round 3</span>**
**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">2nr- Anthro</span>**

**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">round 6 </span>**
**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">2nr- Cap K</span>**

**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Double Octas </span>**
**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">2nr- </span>Commissions<span style="line-height: 1.5;"> CP, Immigration DA, Case</span>**

==**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Berkeley</span>**== 
**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Round 1</span>**
**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Anthro and Mann arguments on case</span>**

**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Round 3</span>**
**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Hillman case turns </span>**