[[toc]]
=Contact Information= 
If you would like any cites not listed on this page, please contact Nicholas White at nrwscigeek@sbcglobal.net or nicholasdebate@gmail.com. He checks his email frequently and will reply as soon as possible. 1ACs will always be posted, as well as any requested neg cites. If you are scouting a tournament and want cites, send an email instead of asking in person because we will likely forget.
=Affirmative= 
==Blake Round 3 1AC== 
===Chapter 1: The Narrative=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Burke 08,</span> <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Adam, Writer for NPR) December 4, 2008 “Sucked into the tunnels underneath Las Vegas” [[http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=97800190]]</span>
__It would be easy to go a whole ...____<span style="line-height: 1.5;"> of the lights.</span>__
===Chapter 2: Advocacy=== 
This year the resolution calls us to address the policies of transportation infrastructure in the United States. The typical affirmative case might include a discussion of US hegemony, the economy, readiness and security all revolved around a discussion of roads. However, our affirmation of infrastructure requires an investment not in fiatted monetary terms but instead an investment in what lies beneath the streets, beneath the flickering pulse of the bright lights and big cities we’re taught to see as centers of American liberty and freedom, however Mumia Abu Jamal reminds us that –
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mumia </span>**Abu-****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Jamal</span>** **1998** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[“A QUIET AND DEADLY VIOLENCE,” 9/19/98, [[http://www.mumia.nl/TCCDMAJ/quietdv.htm]]]</span>

__It has often been observed that America is a truly violent nation, ...__ __thermonuclear war, or genocide on the weak and poor every year of every decade, throughout the world."__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Gilligan, p. 196]</span>
AND - We need to challenge the current invisibility of structural violence amongst our communities. The normal functioning of debate, much like our current functioning of modern American society, constructs a methodological distinction between groups of people, deeming them a part of the in crowd or the out crowd. Discussions are either “topical” or “not-topical” – relevant or irrelevant. This constant issue excludes the oppressed from our discussions, further distancing the oppressed from ourselves, contributing to the systemic violence present in the status-quo. This is what leads to structural violence’s invisibility and inevitability to an invisible genocide committed against the weak and poor throughout the world. We propose an inclusionary approach through our relationships within our debate community, debate's discursive potential, and the appreciation and acceptance of diverse ways of viewing the world, including the world in which we live in and the world in which we debate in, in order to discontinue the invisibility of structural violence.
**Winter and Leighton in 1999** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Deborah DuNann Winter and Dana C. Leighton. Winter: Psychologist that specializes in Social Psych, Counseling Psych, Historical and Contemporary Issues, Peace Psychology. Leighton: PhD graduate student in the Psychology Department at the University of Arkansas. Knowledgable in the fields of social psychology, peace psychology, and ustice and intergroup responses to transgressions of justice) (Peace, conflict, and violence: Peace psychology in the 21st century. Pg 4-5)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally,</span> __to recognize the operation of structural violence ...__ __citizens to reduce it.__
Therefore the Role of the Ballot for this debate is to endorse a political discussion emphasizing the voices of the oppressed people affected by transportation infrastructure as we debate this year’s resolution. We’ll increase investment in a discussion of transportation infrastructure and more specifically the people affected by it. Your ballot acts as an endorsement of a brand of politics capable of challenging the violent norms of the status quo, voting aff is the act pressing down on the elevator taking a look at what goes down underneath the streets.
===Chapter 3: Failed Politics=== 
The failure to incorporate the lives of those who are oppressed by our politics can only lead to more oppressive politics… and eventually the failure of our politics. Paulo Friere gave us insight to why our personalized brand of politics acts as a counter hegemonic means of confronting oppression in the face of such situations when he said -
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; line-height: 1.5;">Paulo </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 1.5;">Friere</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; line-height: 1.5;">, Pedagogy of the Oppressed, Chapter 1, educator and director of the Department of Cultural Extension of Recife University,</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 1.5;">1970</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">For the truly humanist educator and the authentic ... cultural invasion,[11]good intentions notwithstanding</span>

Label this portion as the state – Our affirmation of the resolution escapes the politics of business as usual - opening up agency that resists the sovereigns command over all life and beauty. Our affirmation of the resolution resists that which robs our political projects of agency and commitment.
<span class="CiteChar" style="line-height: 1.5;">Wadiwel</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 1.5;">in</span> <span class="CiteChar" style="line-height: 1.5;">02</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Dinesh Joesph, “Cows and Sovereignty: Biopower and Animal Life” Borderlands E-Journal Vol.1 #2)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But such a political program has far ... which may be found in the animal life shared by both entities.</span>
You can label this final part as The Poor – Before we start cross-x we wish to return ourselves to the discussion of the poor. Help for one another goes beyond any material condition in the world. Voting affirmative understands our advocacy as not only a call of material responsibility but also that of spiritual responsibility. Politics minus an understanding of non-material conditions lead to what bell hooks calls a psychic genocide. She says –
**hooks**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">TY COLLEGE OF NEW YORK, PROFESSOR, THEN DISTINGUISHED PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH, 1995–2004; BEREA COLLEGE, BEREA, KY, DISTINGUISHED PROFESSOR-IN-RESIDENCE, BEGINNING 2004. CO-FOUNDER, HAMBONE LITERARY MAGAZINE</span>. **2000** [<span style="font-size: 8pt;">bELL,WHERE WE STAND: CLASS MATTERS, P. 129-130]</span>
__The poor may be with us always. ...__ __self-actualization__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">that strengthen the self-esteem of the poor</span>.
==GBX 1AC== 
Same as Iowa with these new cards at the bottom of solvency (the 1A usually gets them in)
**Two internal links to China relations**
**1) Protectionism**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Dorn 07</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, James A. Dorn, professor of economics at Towson University, Maryland, vice-president for academic affairs and a China specialist at the Cato Institute in Washington, D.C. , “Engagement or Protectionism? US Policy towards China, Centre for World Dialogue, GLOBAL DIALOGUE Volume 9 </span><span style="font-family: 'MS Mincho'; font-size: 8pt;">●</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Number 1</span><span style="font-family: 'MS Mincho'; font-size: 8pt;">–</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'MS Mincho'; font-size: 8pt;">●</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Winter/Spring 2007</span><span style="font-family: 'MS Mincho'; font-size: 8pt;">—</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Rise of China) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">From a liberal perspective, economic development means ... </span>liberals want hardliners to hear in Beijing<span style="font-size: 8pt;">?</span>

**2) Econ prevents bashing**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Ikenson 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Daniel J. Ikenson, director of Cato's Herbert A. Stiefel Center for Trade Policy Studies, “Trade Policy Priority One: Averting a U.S.-China "Trade War"”, Cato Institute, March 5, 2012, Free Trade Bulletin no. 47, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.cato.org/publications/free-trade-bulletin/trade-policy-priority-one-averting-uschina-trade-war]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">There is no question that some ...</span> a long way toward<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> stopping and </span>reversing<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the recent </span>deterioration of relations<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**Key to solve cyberattacks, those outweigh on magnitude**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Lieberthal & Singer 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Kenneth Lieberthal, PhD in Political Science, director of the John L. Thornton China Center and a senior fellow in Foreign Policy and Global Economy and Development at the Brookings Institution, Special Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and Senior Director for Asia at the U.S. National Security Council during the Clinton Administration, and Peter W. Singer, PhD in Government from Harvard, “Cybersecurity and U.S.-China Relations”, ￼John L. Thornton China Center, 02/2012, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/2/23%20cybersecurity%20china%20us%20singer%20lieberthal/0223_cybersecurity_china_us_lieberthal_singer_pdf_english)</span>
There is<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> perhaps </span>//no relationship as significant//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> to the future ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> relationship over the coming several decades.25</span>

**Status quo makes attacks inevitable, relations key**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Lieberthal & Singer 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Kenneth Lieberthal, PhD in Political Science, director of the John L. Thornton China Center and a senior fellow in Foreign Policy and Global Economy and Development at the Brookings Institution, Special Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and Senior Director for Asia at the U.S. National Security Council during the Clinton Administration, and Peter W. Singer, PhD in Government from Harvard, “Cybersecurity and U.S.-China Relations”, ￼John L. Thornton China Center, 02/2012, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/2/23%20cybersecurity%20china%20us%20singer%20lieberthal/0223_cybersecurity_china_us_lieberthal_singer_pdf_english)</span>
<span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Today, the </span>U.S. and Chinese doctrines in cyber space are... //are not sufficiently focused on at present.//

==Iowa 1AC== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Contention 1: Economy</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A lack of stimulative policies ensures a double dip recession within the next year</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">(</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Rasmus 08/02</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">, Jack Rasmus, teaches economics and politics at St. Mary’s College and Santa Clara University in California “U. S. GDP—Why U.S. Slowdown Will Continue”, 08/02/12, [[http://www.zcommunications.org/u-s-gdp-why-u-s-slowdown-will-continue-by-jack-rasmus]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">On Friday, July 27, 2012 the US Department of Commerce released its report on Gross Domestic Product (GDP) results for the 2nd quarter for the US economy, with GDP revisions for the economy as well from</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">both sides, Republicans and Democrats alike, to agree on reducing the top bracket tax rate on personal and corporate income both, from current 35% to at least 28% (the old Reagan years rate).</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Specifically austerity //now// would cause economic failure. Past models are faulty. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ball et al. 11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Laurence Ball, Professor of Economics at Johns Hopkins University, Daniel Leigh, Economist at the Research Department of IMF, and Prakash Loungani, Advisor in the IMF Research Department, This article draws on research one of the authors conducted jointly with Jaime Guajardo and Andrea Pescatori, Painful Medicine, FINANCE & DEVELOPMENT, September 2011, Vol. 48, No. 3, IMF, [[http://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/fandd/2011/09/Ball.htm#author|http://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/fandd/2011/09/Ball.htm#author]] ) </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Many governments are</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9.33333px;"> already undertaking or </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">planning policies to reduce government </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9.33333px;">were found to be more pronounced for the long-term unemployed.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Prefer our specificity—stimulus spending in //__this fiscal climate__// and on //__infrastructure__// is successful</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">(</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bivens 12</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9.33333px;">, Josh Bivens, Ph.D., Economics, New School for Social Research, Research and Policy Director at the Economic Policy Institute, “Public investment: The next ‘new thing’ for powering economic growth”, Economic Policy Institute, April 18, 2012, [[http://www.epi.org/publication/bp338-public-investments/]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">In recent years, some debate has centered around increasing public investment to provide a near-term boost to the job market, based on research showing that infrastructure investment is about the most efficient fiscal support one can provide to a depressed economy. But there is also an enormous amount of economic evidence demonstrating that public investment is a </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">without increasing interest rates, debt-</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">financed </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">spending</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> in the next couple of years </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">might even “crowd in”</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> private-sector activity</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">, since </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">studies show that a primary determinant of business investment is the current state of the economy</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A national bank would solve by mobilizing a backlog of infrastructure projects and generating the highest rates of return</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">(</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">PERAB 09</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">, The President’s Economic Recovery Advisory Board, Chairman Paul A. Volcker, Professor Emeritus of International Economic Policy at Princeton University, “Infrastructure Investment and the Creation of a National Infrastructure Bank”, December 4, 2009,[[http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/091204-PERAB-Infrastructure-Memo.pdf]]) </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9.33333px;">Many economists believe that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">as our economy begins to recover</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9.33333px;"> from its deep recession, economic growth </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9.33333px;">important infrastructure projects while spurring economic recovery and creating jobs.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Debt isn’t an impact -- deficit spending is //necessary// and manageable in //__this__// kind of recession</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Krugman 12</span></span>****<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">Paul Krugman, Professor of Economics and International Affairs at Princeton University, Nobel Prize in Economics, //End this Depression Now!//, Chapter 8: But What About the Deficit?, April 30th, 2012) </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">The federal government has borrowed around $4 trillion since I wrote that, and interest rates have actually dropped. Where did the money to finance all this borrowing come from? From the U.S. private sector, which r</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">pay enough of the interest on the debt so that the debt¶ grows signiﬁcantly more slowly than the economy</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Economic decline escalates to full scale conflict—impact studies conclude affirmative</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Royal 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">Less intuitive is how </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__periods of economic decline__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;"> may </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__increase__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;"> the </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__likelihood of__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;"> external </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__conflict__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">. Political science </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Specifically, the recent fiscal crisis has put us on the __//brink//__</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Ferguson 09</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Niall Ferguson, Professor of History at Harvard University, “The Axis of Upheaval,” Foreign Policy, February 16th,[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/02/16/the_axis_of_upheaval]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">The bad news for Bush's successor, Barack </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Obama</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">, is that </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">most lethal in geopolitics. We now have all three. The age of upheaval starts now</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">US key to the global economy—data, empirics </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Dees & di Mauro 10 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">– Dees is principal Economist in the External Developments Division at the European Central Bank, Germany. He earned his PhD in 1999 from the University of Bordeaux. He has previously worked for the National Institute for Economic and Social Research. Di Mauro is Senior Adviser in the Research Department of the European Central Bank (Stephane and Filippo, “The Real Impacts of the 2008-09 Financial Crisis: what we Knew and what we have Learned About International Linkages,” prepared for “Contagion and Spillovers – New Insights from the Crisis” conference, 2/12/10,[[http://www.suerf.org/download/vienna10/papers/1dimauro.pdf]])</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">That the </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">United States has to be considered</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">, de facto, </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">in the U.S., the bilateral GDP correlation is lower.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Independently, decline causes trade wars. Protectionism is happening now, another dip pushes us over the edge.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">(</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fundira 12</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">, Taku Fundira, Researcher for the Trade Law Centre, Trade Law Centre, “Rise in protectionism – a repercussion of the global economic crisis?”, June 13th, 2012, [[http://www.tralac.org/2012/06/13/rise-in-protectionism-a-repercussion-of-the-global-economic-crisis/]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">Protectionism discriminates against foreign </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">since 2008</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — now covering almost 3% of world merchandise trade</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">, and almost 4% of G20 trade — </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">can lead to the clogging of trade flows</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">.”</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;">¶</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Multiple scenarios for nuclear escalation and extinction.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Panzer 07</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Michael Panzer, Instructor at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and J.P. Morgan Chase Financial Armageddon, pg. 137-138, 2007)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">Authorities and ordinary citizens will likely scrutinize </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">forcing many Americans to wonder when, or if, it will ever end!</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Growth controls the probability debate—//their// escalation scenarios are eight times more likely in a world without the plan</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hillebrand 10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Evan E. Hillebrand, Senior Economist for the Central Intelligence Agency. “Deglobalization Scenarios: Who Wins? Who Loses?”, Global Economy Journal, Volume 10, Issue 2, Article 3, 2010, [[http://www.ifs.du.edu/assets/documents/hilldeglob.pdf]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">D. Interstate War</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;"> A long line of writers from Cruce (1623) to Kant (</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">great power wars in the deglobalization scenario vs. 2 in the globalization scenario.16</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;"> IV. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Failure to solve now will drain budgets in the future. Only the plan generates long term solvency.</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">ASCE 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (American Society of Civil Engineers, Failure to Act The economic impact of current Investment trends In surface Transportation infrastructure, [[http://www.asce.org/uploadedFiles/Infrastructure/Report_Card/ASCE-FailureToActFinal.pdf]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">The nation’s surface transportation infrastructure includes the critical highways, </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">be avoided if infrastructure were built to sufficient levels. Increased cumulative costs to households will be $482 billion in 2020. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Independently, a growing lack of maintenance destroys growth in the long term- infrastructure is key to //all// sectors of the economy</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cooper et. al 9/5</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Donna Cooper, Senior Fellow with the Economic Policy team at the Center for American Progress and former Secretary of Planning and Policyin Philadelphia, Kristina Costa, Research Assistant in Economic Policy at the Center for American Progress, Keith Miller, intern with the Economic Policy team at the Center for American Progress, Creating a National Infrastructure Bank and Infrastructure Planning Council, Center for American Progress, 9/5/2012, [[http://www.americanprogress.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/InfrastructureBankReport.pdf]])</span>
//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Infrastructure forms the foundation of the U.S. economy</span>//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Without highways</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">, power grids</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">, railroads, dams</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">, levees, and water systems,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">businesses could not transport their goods</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">, homes would be without </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">maintaining existing infrastructure</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;"> and preparing for projected economic and population growth.4</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 17.3333px;">The NIB revolutionizes the infrastructure policymaking process to ensure future costs are manageable </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 17.3333px;">Puentes 2010</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [Robert Puentes, “Hearing on Infrastructure Banks”, House Ways and Means Committee,[[http://www.brookings.edu/research/testimony/2010/05/13-infrastructure-puentes]]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">While most of the attention has been on increasing funding </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">shows that private delivery saves money on infrastructure projects.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;">¶</span>
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative--Plan]]Plan</span>=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase investment in its transportation by establishing a bank to disperse loans and grants for transportation infrastructure in the United States.</span>**

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Affirmative--Contention 2: Solvency]]Contention 2: Solvency</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Status quo methods are dominated by inefficiency and budget shortfalls</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">(</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">McConaghy & Kessler 11,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Ryan McConaghy, Deputy Director of the Third Way Economic Program and Jim Kessler, Vice President for Policy at Third Way, "A National Infrastructure Bank”, The Economic Program Schwartz Initiative on American Economic Policy, January 2011,[[http://content.thirdway.org/publications/365/Third_Way_Idea_Brief_-_A_National_Infrastructure_Bank.pdf]]) </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The current system for funding projects is subject to inefficiency</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">delaying capital investments to cope</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">.34</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The bank would spur recovery in the most vulnerable sectors of the economy</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">US Treasury 10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, The Department of the Treasury with the Council of Economic Advisers, An Economic Analysis of Infrastructure Investment, 10/11/2010, [[http://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/economic-policy/Documents/infrastructure_investment_report.pdf]])</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">There is currently a large pool of unemployed and underemployed </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">funded because o</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">f low bids, or </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">projects being completed under budget</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Leveraging revenue ensures sustainability</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">McConaghy & Kessler 11,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Ryan McConaghy, Deputy Director of the Third Way Economic Program and Jim Kessler, Vice President for Policy at Third Way, "A National Infrastructure Bank”, The Economic Program Schwartz Initiative on American Economic Policy, January 2011, [[http://content.thirdway.org/publications/365/Third_Way_Idea_Brief_-_A_National_Infrastructure_Bank.pdf]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">It’s too expensive.</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Financing the infrastructure upgrades </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the NIB would</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;"> be required to assess repayment prospects and to </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">ensure that it remains</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> a </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">viable</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> entity</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The NIB would create an effective multi-sector approach</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">(</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Cooper et. al 9/5</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">, Donna Cooper, Senior Fellow with the Economic Policy team at the Center for American Progress and former Secretary of Planning and Policyin Philadelphia, Kristina Costa, Research Assistant in Economic Policy at the Center for American Progress, Keith Miller, intern with the Economic Policy team at the Center for American Progress, Creating a National Infrastructure Bank and Infrastructure Planning Council, Center for American Progress, 9/5/2012, [[http://www.americanprogress/|http://www.americanprogress]]. org/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/InfrastructureBankReport.pdf)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">An infrastructure bank could be particularly effective</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">a national infrastructure bank be created</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10.6667px;">, and both have jointly come out in strong support of establishing such a bank.23</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Infrastructure spending is uniquely productive</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 17.3333px;">Boushey, 11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(Heather, Senior Economist at American Progress, 9/22/2011, “Now Is the Time to Fix Our Broken Infrastructure: American Jobs Act Will Put Millions to Work, [[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/09/aja_infrastructure.html]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Analysis</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;"> of</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> all </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">fiscal stimulus policies </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">shows a higher</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">economists Ward Romp and Jakob de Haan conclude that “there is now more consensus than in the past that public capital furthers economic growth.”[10]</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Federal Action is key</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Halleman 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 9.33333px;">– Business graduate with analytical and program management experience across a range of transportation and infrastructure issues; Head of Communications & Media Relations at International Road Federation (Brendan, “Establishing a National Infrastructure Bank - examining precedents and potential”, October 2011, [[http://issuu.com/transportgooru/docs/ibank_memo_-_brenden_halleman]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 9.33333px;">As a percentage of GDP, the United States currently invests 25% less on transportation infrastructure than comparable OECD economies 4 . There is broad agreement that absent a massive and sustained infusion of capital in infrastructure, the backlog of investment in new and existing transportation assets will hurt productivity gains and ripple economy-wide5 </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Cambria,serif;">The establishment of AIFA is predicated on a number of </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Cambria,serif;">Highway Extension and Expansion Loan Program is currently no longer taking applications citing “state budget issues</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 9.33333px;">”.</span>

==Iowa Round 6 Shenanigans== 
===Death=== 
**Death is preferable to life – not only is the purpose of the absurd affliction we call life merely to suffer and die, but the net suffering of the world outweighs the pleasure.**
Schopenhauer in ‘70
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">(Arthur, lecturer at the University of Berlin, philosopher, pessimist, On The Suffering Of The World, Essays and Aphorisms, 1970 edition, originally published in the 19th century, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">[[http://encarta.msn.com/sidebar_762529649/schopenhauer_on_the_suffering_of_the_world.html]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">) </span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">If the immediate and direct purpose of our life is not suffering </span>__**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> existence is suitable other than the one it already possesses.</span>

**Prefer our impact calc, it is always safer to presume someone will regret being brought into existence because no one suffers when someone is mistakenly not brought into existence.**
Benatar in ‘6
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(David, Associate Professor of Philosophy at University of Cape Town, Better Never to Have Been, pg 153-155) </span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">It is not true</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, of course, **__that //everybody// is glad not to have__** </span>
**__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> benefited by being brought into existence</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">.</span>

**The suffering of existence demands that we move towards total annihilation of all life on this planet sooner rather than later.**
Benatar in ‘6
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(David, Associate Professor of Philosophy at University of Cape Town, Better Never to Have Been, Pg 194-195) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">My arguments in this chapter and previous ones imply </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">__this kind of optimism, but some optimists may take a measure of comfort in this observation__</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">.</span>

===Plan=== 
**Thus the plan: The United States Federal Government should increase its investment in transportation infrastructure by 1 quadrillion dollars by investing in high speed rail.**

===Econ=== 

is econ.

**Congressional momentum building fiscal discipline, but the volatile political climate supercharges the link**
(<span class="TitleChar">Grim 10/3</span>, Ryan Grim, Washington bureau chief for The Huffington Post, “Austerity War Revs Up: Peter Peterson Drops Millions On New Budget Campaign”, Huffington Post, 10/3/12, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/10/03/austerity-war-peter-peterson_n_1937089.html)
<span style="color: #262626; font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON -- Billionaire private equity mogul </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> this is something we have to do."</span>

**New infrastructure spending kills fiscal discipline – it undercuts the spirit of “shared sacrifice”**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">O’Hanlon 10</span>
Michael O’Hanlon, senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, 12/22/10, “THE DEFENSE BUDGET AND AMERICAN POWER,” http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/events/2010/1222_defense_budget/20101222_defense_budget.pdf
So the minute that someone says,
a spirit of shared sacrifice.

**Loss of fiscal discipline causes a downgrade**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Mark <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gongloff</span>, Wall Street Journal, 08/2/<span style="font-size: 12pt;">’11</span>, [Moody’s Affirms US AAA Rating, <span style="color: black;">[[http://blogs.wsj.com/marketbeat/2011/08/02/moodys-affirms-us-aaa-rating/]]</span>] VN</span></span>
<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt;">Moody’s</span> just came out and<span style="font-size: 10pt;">said</span>,
above what is currently expected.

**Further downgrades would create a debt spiral,** **collapsing** **the economy**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Rowley 12</span> Charles Rowley, Professor Emeritus of Economics at George Mason University, 10/15/12, “Renewed threats to U.S. credit rating,” Charles Rowley’s blog, http://charlesrowley.wordpress.com/2012/06/15/renewed-threats-to-u-s-credit-rating/
<span style="background-color: yellow;">If Moody’s downgrades </span>
fiscal situation. Greece here we come.
**Economic collapse causes global nuclear war.**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Merlini</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, Senior Fellow – Brookings, </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">11</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Cesare Merlini, nonresident senior fellow at the Center on the United States and Europe and chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Italian Institute for International Affairs (IAI) in Rome. He served as IAI president from 1979 to 2001. Until 2009, he also occupied the position of executive vice chairman of the Council for the United States and Italy, which he co-founded in 1983. His areas of expertise include transatlantic relations, European integration and nuclear non-proliferation, with particular focus on nuclear science and technology. A Post-Secular World? DOI: 10.1080/00396338.2011.571015 Article Requests: Order Reprints : Request Permissions Published in: journal Survival, Volume 53, Issue 2 April 2011 , pages 117 - 130 Publication Frequency: 6 issues per year Download PDF Download PDF (~357 KB) View Related Articles To cite this Article: Merlini, Cesare 'A Post-Secular World?', Survival, 53:2, 117 – 130]</span>
Two neatly opposed scenarios for the future
as unbridled nationalism.

**Economic decline escalates to full scale conflict—impact studies conclude affirmative**
**Royal 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Less intuitive is how </span>**__periods of economic decline__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> may </span>**__increase__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> economic-security debate and deserves more attention. </span>

**Specifically, the recent fiscal crisis has put us on the __//brink//__**
(<span class="TitleChar">Ferguson 09</span>, Niall Ferguson, Professor of History at Harvard University, “The Axis of Upheaval,” Foreign Policy, February 16th, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/02/16/the_axis_of_upheaval)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The bad news for Bush's successor, Barack </span><span class="TitleChar">Obama</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, is that he </span>
<span class="TitleChar"> is about the most lethal in geopolitics. We now have all three. The age of upheaval starts now</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**happening now, but another dip pushes us over the edge.**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(</span><span class="TitleChar">Fundira 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Taku Fundira, Researcher for the Trade Law Centre, Trade Law Centre, “Rise in protectionism – a repercussion of the global economic crisis?”, June 13th, 2012, http://www.tralac.org/2012/06/13/rise-in-protectionism-a-repercussion-of-the-global-economic-crisis/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Protectionism discriminates against foreign goods and services in favour of domestic goods and services. Basic instruments used by governments to protect their economies include among others, tariffs and quotas, industry </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of G20 trade — </span>can lead to the clogging of trade flows<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>


**Multiple scenarios for nuclear escalation and extinction.**
(<span class="TitleChar">Panzer 07</span>, Michael Panzer, Instructor at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and J.P. Morgan Chase Financial Armageddon, pg. 137-138, 2007)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Authorities and ordinary citizens will likely scrutinize the cross-border </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">many Americans to wonder when, or if, it will ever end!</span>

**Protectionism undermines US-China relations**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(</span><span class="TitleChar">Dorn 07</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, James A. Dorn, professor of economics at Towson University, Maryland, vice-president for academic affairs and a China specialist at the Cato Institute in Washington, D.C. , “Engagement or Protectionism? US Policy towards China, Centre for World Dialogue, GLOBAL DIALOGUE Volume 9 </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">●</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Number 1</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">–</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">2 </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">●</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Winter/Spring 2007</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">—</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Rise of China) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">From a liberal perspective, economic development means an increase in “the range of effective alternatives open to people”, as the late economist Lord Bauer was fond of reminding his contemporaries who </span>
China to “fall apart”? Is that the message Chinese liberals want hardliners to hear in Beijing<span style="font-size: 8pt;">?</span>

**It’s the //key internal link// to maintaining them now**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(</span><span class="TitleChar">Ikenson 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Daniel J. Ikenson, director of Cato's Herbert A. Stiefel Center for Trade Policy Studies, “Trade Policy Priority One: Averting a U.S.-China "Trade War"”, Cato Institute, March 5, 2012, Free Trade Bulletin no. 47, [[http://www.cato.org/publications/free-trade-bulletin/trade-policy-priority-one-averting-uschina-trade-war]]) </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">There is no question that some Chinese policies have</span>
<span class="TitleChar">recent </span>deterioration of relations<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**Relations are key to solve cyberattacks—outweigh all of your impacts**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (</span><span class="TitleChar">Lieberthal & Singer 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Kenneth Lieberthal, PhD in Political Science, director of the John L. Thornton China Center and a senior fellow in Foreign Policy and Global Economy and Development at the Brookings Institution, Special Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and Senior Director for Asia at the U.S. National Security Council during the Clinton Administration, and Peter W. Singer, PhD in Government from Harvard, “Cybersecurity and U.S.-China Relations”, ￼John L. Thornton China Center, 02/2012, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/2/23%20cybersecurity%20china%20us%20singer%20lieberthal/0223_cybersecurity_china_us_lieberthal_singer_pdf_english)</span>
There is<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> perhaps </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">no relationship as </span>//
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> or antagonistic relationship over the coming several decades.25</span>

**Current policies make cyberconflict inevitable, only relations solve.**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(</span><span class="TitleChar">Lieberthal & Singer 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Kenneth Lieberthal, PhD in Political Science, director of the John L. Thornton China Center and a senior fellow in Foreign Policy and Global Economy and Development at the Brookings Institution, Special Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and Senior Director for Asia at the U.S. National Security Council during the Clinton Administration, and Peter W. Singer, PhD in Government from Harvard, “Cybersecurity and U.S.-China Relations”, ￼John L. Thornton China Center, 02/2012, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/2/23%20cybersecurity%20china%20us%20singer%20lieberthal/0223_cybersecurity_china_us_lieberthal_singer_pdf_english)</span>
<span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Today, the </span>U.S. and Chinese doctrines in cyber
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">senior policymakers on both sides are not sufficiently focused on at present. </span>//

=Negative= 

=Strategies= 
==Iowa Caucus== 
===Round 2 vs. GBS CC (Inland waterways with sealift and econ)=== 
1NC: Elections, T-TI, dedev, advantage CP out of soft power with an extinction refuge plank, bio-D DA, warming DA, security K
Block: Eelections, dedev, CP, bio-D DA, security K
2NR: CP, bio-D
===Round 4 vs. Niles West AlSc (Port security with terror and econ)=== 
1NC: security K, China CP, elections, vagueness, fiscal discipline
Block: everything
2NR: China, T, fiscal discipline
===Round 5 vs. Blue Valley North ?? (Freight rail with econ, warming, and oil)=== 
1NC: Heidegger, China CP, elections, fiscal discipline
Block: Heidegger, China, elections
2NR: China, elections

==UMich== 
===Round 1 vs. Niles North TY (Port security with energy and NPG)=== 
1NC: elections, China CP, security K, case
Block: everything
2NR: China, elections
===Round 4 vs. Niles West AA (Port security with econ and terror)=== 
1NC: security K, China CP, elections, fiscal discipline DA
Block: China, fiscal discipline, elections
2NR: the disads
===Round 6 vs. Iowa City West KR (Port dredging with competitiveness and LNG)=== 
1NC: South China Sea conflict good, heg bad, elections, Heidegger, LCA CP, T-no private funding, double binds
Block: LCA CP, SCS good, elections
2NR: LCA CP
==GBX== 
===Round 2 vs. Coppell BN (Guam with US-Japan relations and power projection)=== 
1NC: T-substantial, XO CP, fiscal cliff ptix, fiscal discipline DA, US-Japan relations bad, heg bad
Block: T, impact turns, ptix
2NR: T
===Round 3 vs. Chattahoochee KL (Disabilities with aesthetics and mobility)=== 
1NC: T-substantial, DnG K
Block: both
2NR: both
===Round 5 vs. Shawnee Mission East (Port dredging with oil spills and something I forgot)=== 
1NC: T-increase, fiscal discipline DA, LCA CP, environmental apocalyptic rhetoric K
Block: T, disad, case
2NR: T
==Blake== 
===Round 1 vs. Edina SR (NIB with econ and steel)=== 
1NC: Heidegger, T-no private funding, minimum wage CP, fiscal cliff DA, 6 link turns on case (outsourcing, data cooking, inflation, debt, stimulus bad, fiscal discipline)
Block: CP, DA, some of the turns
2NR: CP and data cooking
===Round 4 vs. New Trier NC (Icebreakers with Arctic war, methane burps, and naval power)=== 
1NC: T-vehicles, T-capital investment, ASPEC, XO CP, fiscal cliff DA, transportation rationality K
Block: both T violations and the K
2NR: K
===Round 6 vs. Eden Prairie GH (Port dredging with LNG, competitiveness, and cotton)=== 
1NC: XO CP, China CP, fiscal cliff DA, ASPEC, Qatar turn, heg bad
Block: China, heg bad, ASPEC, DA
2NR: China, DA, heg bad
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]