= = 

[[toc]]
=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Contention 1: Small Business</span>= 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Lack of Universal health care deters small business. Schmitt et al in 09</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Schmitt 09 (John Schmitt and Nathan Lane, August 2009, //Center for Economic and Policy Research//, “An International Comparison of Small Business Employment”)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">One plausible explanation...of self-employment</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Small businesses are key to fixing the economy. Blackwell in 12</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Blackwell 12 (John Reid Blackwell, September 28, 2012, //Hispanic Business//, “Entrepreneurs Can Fix the Economy, Gallup CEO Says”)</span>
<span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 6pt;">__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The U.S. economy ...</span>**____**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">from,</span>**__</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;"> he said.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Increased Employment allows more people to spend money and grow the economy.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Without universal health care, spending is declining, and spending triggers growth. Rouke 12</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Rourke 12 (Matt Rourke, Associated Press, November 30, 2012, //Washington Post, “//US consumer spending fell 0.2 percent in October while income was flat, slowed by Sandy”)</span>
<span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 6pt;">The depressed spending ...__**three years.**__</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">So it’s imperative that we have universal health care so we prevent economic collapse.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Economic Collapse Leads to Nuclear Destruction. Bearden 2000:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">T.E. </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">__**Bearden**__</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">**__,__**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">LTC U.S. Army (Retired), </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">__**2000**__</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">["The Unnecessary Energy Crisis: How to Solve It Quickly," </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.freerepublic.com/forum/a3aaf97f22e23.htm|__http://www.freerepublic.com/forum/a3aaf97f22e23.htm__]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, June 24]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">__**History bears out ...**__</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 5pt;"> least for many decades.</span>

=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Contention 2: </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16pt;">Bioterror</span>= 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The best defense against bioterrorism to ensure that everyone has access to health care. Green 04:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Green 04 ( Shane K. Green, PhD, //American Medical Association Journal of Ethics,// “Bioterrorism and Health Care Reform: No Preparedness Without Access”)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">__**A nation's greatest**__ </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">a bioterrorism attack.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The Institute of National Medicine says universal health care is needed to prepare for a bioterrorist attack. Green 2</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Bioterrorism and Health Care Reform: No Preparedness Without Access</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">In their recent .... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">__**must begin immediately**__</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Bioterrorism causes human extinction. Parson 06</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Parson 06 (Edward A. Parson, Professor of Law at University of Michigan, 2006, //University of Michigan,// “The Big One: A Review of Richard Posner’s Catastrophe: Risk and Response”)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Biological weapons produced .... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">__**dozens of countries.**__</span>


=<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 16pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Contention 3: Native Americans</span>**</span>= 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Racism and cultural barriers means that health care is programmatically and structurally denied to Native Americans in the status quo. Nathalia et al 11</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Jimenez, Nathalia, Eva Garroutte, Anjana Kundu, Leo Morales, and Dedra Buchwald. “A review of the experience, epidemiology, and management of pain among american indian, Alaska native, and aboriginal canadian peoples.” May 2011, J Pain. 511-522.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Since 1955 this .... in the United States (U.S.)</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Instead of the status quo, an a</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: medium;">uthentic approach to Native American health care must reconcile the differences between western and Native American approaches to health care. Goodkind in 11:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Goodkind 11 (Jessica Goodkind, April 4, 2011, Journal of Community Psychology, “Rebuilding trust: a community, multiagency, state, and university partnership to improve behavioral health care for American Indian Youth, their families, and communities”)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">We also approached .... and well-being.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Therefore, I advocate a single payer, multi-list system. Veatch 97 explains:</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Single Payers and Multiple Lists: Must Everyone Get the Same Coverage in a Universal Health Plan? Robert M. Veatch Kennedy Institute of Ethics Journal 7.2 (1997) 153-169</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The idea of .... level of resources.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Such a health care system would promote enculturation of Native Americans in traditional health care practices, which empirically has acted as a protective factor against negative mental health outcomes and substance abuse in American Indian populations. **Goodkind 3:**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Research suggests that.... use of alcohol (Stone, Whitbeck, Chen, Johnson, & Olson, 2006).</span>


=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Contention 4: Nanotech</span>= 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Health care reform spurs nanotechnology. Reinhardt 09</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Reinhardt 9 (Uwe, Professor at Princeton University, “Can Health Care Heal Our Ailing Economy?,” February 3, http://www.fool.com/investing/general/2009/02/03/can-health-care-heal-our-ailing-economy.aspx, AD: 7-31-09)</span>
<span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 6pt;">__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Health care traditionally ....</span>**__</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">more promising deal.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">**Failure to fund nano research ensures planetary destruction from grey goo unleashed by malevolent forces that cannot be controlled. Terra 2000**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Richard **Terra**, Media Watch 43, December 30, **2000**, http://www.foresight.org/Updates/Update43/Update43.5.html, accessed 3/19/03</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">A lengthy article...o__**nes from misbehaving."**__</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Educational activities require the criticism of fundamental ideas, like the ones that are present in the AC. Giroux 04</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">What Might Education Mean After Abu Ghraib: Revisiting Adorno’s Politics of Education1</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Henry A. Giroux Comparative Studies of South Asia, Africa and the Middle East, 24:1 (2004)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">The pedagogical implications .....values, and practices.</span>
== ==