[[toc|flat]]
=Nietzsche= 
**This is the version we read against some straight-up affs. The normal version is the two Deleuze cards and the Land card, with a tag or two changed.**

**The affs constant search for security forces us to live life in a seatbelt – action is discouraged because of fear of the unknown**
**Der Derian 98** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(James, Prof of PoliSci at the U of Massachusetts, "The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard," Cianet, http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz12.html, AD: 7/7/09) jl</span>
The fear of the unknown and the desire for certainty combine to produce a domesticated
AND
true; or a state of consciousness is confused with its causes." [[http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz12.html#note41|41]]

**Their claims of solving the extinction of humanity are the attempts of bad conscience to internalize and disavow the tragic pain of existence**
**Deleuze ’83** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gilles Deleuze, Nietzsche & Philosophy, 2nd ed., 1983, p. 129-130</span>
Such, at least, is the definition of the first aspect of bad conscience
AND
is internalised. But who invents and wills the internal meaning of pain?

**Ressentiment turns life into a constant sickness worse than any death. The joy of existence is inverted into a desire for hate, jealousy, and depression.**
**Deleuze ’83** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gilles Deleuze, Nietzsche & Philosophy, 2nd ed., 1983, p. 114-116 </span>
The first aspect of ressentiment is therefore topological. There is a topology of reactive
AND
cure will be subordinated to the transformation of types (reversal and transmutation).

**Vote negative to sacrifice the 1AC.**
**This affirms our essential condition as excessive waste, revolving infinitely across a meaningless universe. Relinquish the aff’s will to order in favor of a celebration of unproductivity.**
**Land ’92** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nick Land, really weird guy, The Thirst for Annihilation: Georges Bataille and Virulent Nihilism, Routledge: New York, 1992, p. 17-18</span>
Where accumulative reason has instituted ‘truth’ and ‘appearance’ as unsurpassable finalities or pure
AND
unconscious, desires for/as feminizing spasms of remigration are without limit.

=Cap (Rev)= 
**Capitalism has reached its tipping point and now is key – the revolution is coming and will be successful**
**Hunziker 2012**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robert website that posts political articles and has been claimed to be the best political newsletter by Out of Bounds Magazine, ‘12 (CounterPunch.org Robert, 7/11, “Capitalism’s Boundless War”, http://www.counterpunch.org/2012/07/11/capitalisms-boundless-war/) CW </span>
The streets of the world’s capital cities are war zones of hopelessness, but as
AND
end on a sanguine note but often times end in a sanguinary manner.

**The repair of transportation infrastructure is necessary for the perpetuation of capital**
**Bryant, 2011**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dec 1, Levi, Philosophy Professor at Collin, “Onticology and Politics,” [[http://larvalsubjects.wordpress.com/2011/12/01/onticology-and-politics/]])</span>
To get a sense of what I’m talking about, take the example of OWS
AND
the system intact. This is why I’m an object-oriented ontologist.

**Resisting this reliance on economic evaluation is the ultimate ethical responsibility – the current social order guarantees social exclusion on a global scale**
**Zizek & Daly ‘4** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Slavoj, Prof. of European Graduate School, Intl. Director of the Birkbeck Inst. for Humanities, U. of London, and Senior Researcher @ Inst. of Sociology, U. of Ljubljiana, and Glyn, Professor Intl. Studies @ Northampton U., “Risking the Impossible” http://www.lacan.com/zizek-daly.htm)</span>
It is in the light of this more subtle perspective on the real that zizek
AND
abject Other to that of a ‘glitch’ in an otherwise sound matrix.

**The alternative: Vote negative as an act of confrontational refusal.**
**Saying no the affirmative, in face of their truth claims directly impedes the flow of capital, allowing for the creation of new zones of solidarity.**
**Gharavi, 2012** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(May 19, Maryam Monalisa, Ph.D. candidate in Comparative Literature and Film & Visual Studies at Harvard University, “In Defense of Spontaneous Contestation and/or Beauty,” The New Inquiry, http://thenewinquiry.com/blogs/southsouth/in-defense-of-spontaneous-contestation-andor-beauty/)</span>
His starting point: design is a marker and site for neoliberal markets. One
AND
became a foreseeable form of real-body/data-body solidarity.

=Heidegger - Whitman= 
**Transportation technology creates a technological cocoon that locks humanity in a permanent state of alienation - violence and environmental destruction are inevitable**
**Kimbrell, ’00** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Andrew, Executive Director of the International Center for Technology Assessment), 2000, “Cold Evil: Modern Technology and Ethics”, published by the E.F. Schumacher Society, http://www.smallisbeautiful.org/publications/kimbrell_00.html)</span>
In recent years the technological system has engendered the ultimate in psychic distancing. Whether
AND
complete. We are deprived of the very relationships required for our healing.

**This technik approach to the earth constitutes a mode of concealing that pushes us into a spiral of meaninglessness that robs all beings of value**
**McWhorter '92**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Ladell, Prof. of Philosophy @ Univ. of Richmond, Heidegger and the Earth: Essays in Environmental Philosophy, p. vii]</span>
The danger of a managerial approach to the world lies not, then, in
AND
we have not yet dreamed, directions of which we may never dream.

**The alternative is to reject their technological jump to solve problems and open up space for meditative thinking**
**Meditative thought restores truth and puts us in a state of one**
**Thiele ’95**<span style="font-size: 80%;">[Leslie, Professor of Political Science at the University of Florida, Timely Meditations: Martin Heidegger and Postmodern Politics, pg 213-214]</span>
Heidegger offers a hint about the nature of the thinking that might loosen the grip
AND
the capacity to think beyond the criterion of instrumental service. 213-214

=Luke= 
**Identifying an environment separate from nature reduces it to an object to be managed and manipulated for the good of human populations as interpreted through technicist discourse**
**Luke 95** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">‘</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">On Environmentality: Geo-Power and Eco-Knowledge in the Discourses of Contemporary Environmentalism’ Cultural Critique, No. 31, The Politics of Systems and Environments, Part II p.57-81 (Autumn,1995), Phttp://www.jstor.org/stable/1354445 Accessed: 13/07/2012 12:05 BSH</span>
The separation of organisms from their environments is the primary epistemological divide cutting through reality
AND
"environmentality," which embeds instrumental rationalities in the policing of ecological spaces.

**The environment always exceeds human meddling—more intervention only worsens the cycle of crisis, guaranteeing ecological extinction- this turns the case.**
**Luke, 2001** (Educational Philosophy and Theory, Vol. 33, No. 2, 2001 Education, Environment and Sustainability: what are the issues, where to intervene, what must be done? TIMOTHY W. LUKE Department of Political Science, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, Blacksburg, VA, USA, also he blew up the death star)
Commoner also presents these two worlds as being `at war’ . As humans in
AND
overlook how resources are misused, risks are avoidable and recreations are mutable.

**Alternative Text: Reject the affirmatives manipulation to nature and reevaluate our relationship to with it.**
**Reconsidering our relationship to the environment allows us to change the way we view nature**
**Luke, 2001** (Educational Philosophy and Theory, Vol. 33, No. 2, 2001 Education, Environment and Sustainability: what are the issues, where to intervene, what must be done? TIMOTHY W. LUKE Department of Political Science, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, Blacksburg, VA, USA, also he blew up the death star)
By reconsidering how educators and schools discursively construct `the environment’ , one can see
AND
, while the artificial ecologies of society’ s brown zones often are ignored.

=Cap (Reps)= 
**The repair of transportation infrastructure is necessary for the perpetuation of capital**
**Bryant, 2011**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dec 1, Levi, Philosophy Professor at Collin, “Onticology and Politics,” [[http://larvalsubjects.wordpress.com/2011/12/01/onticology-and-politics/]])</span>
To get a sense of what I’m talking about, take the example of OWS
AND
the system intact. This is why I’m an object-oriented ontologist.

**Resisting this reliance on economic evaluation is the ultimate ethical responsibility – the current social order guarantees social exclusion on a global scale**
**Zizek and Daly 2k4** (Slavoj and Glyn, Conversations with Zizek page 14-16)
For Zizek it is imperative that we cut through this Gordian knot of postmodern protocol
AND
abject Other to that of a ‘glitch’ in an otherwise sound matrix.

**Text: Reject the 1AC as it is an ontological endorsement of capitalism**

=**Heidegger - ASU (Econ Link)**= 
**The Affirmative’s use of the economic control, with its use of production and profit, are a prime example of neo-technik mindset set on controlling the world**
**de Beistegui '97** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Professor of Philosophy at the University of Warwick (Miguel, Heidegger and the Political, ed. by K. Ansell-Pearson and S. Critchely, p.71, ASG)JRC]</span>
What monstrousness does Heidegger have in mind here? In what sense can technology be
AND
“experiences” (Erlebnisse), which he flaunts as his “truths.”

**Technological enframing is the root cause of militarism, geopolitics, economic exploitation and ecological destruction**
**Burke '07**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Anthony, Senior Lecturer in Politics and International Relations at UNSW, Sydney. Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason, John Hopkins University Press, Project Muse]</span>
What I take from Heidegger's argument -- one that I have sought to extend by
AND
and violence as necessary policy responses, however ineffective, dysfunctional or chaotic.

**Reject the aff and their technological jump to solve problems and instead open up this debate space for meditative thinking.**

**Our alternative grounds our thinking and dwells-upon the earth. Instead of pursuing the rigid confines of calculative thought, we instead take root to allow the human spirit to flourish and allow thinking about thinking.**
**Heidegger '66**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Martin. The 20th century’s Slavoj. //Discourse on Thinking//. 1966. pp. 47-49]</span>
There are, then, two kinds of thinking, each justified and needed in
AND
fall into the clutches of planning and calculation, of organization and automation?

=Coke K= 
**Their resistance is like trying to satisfy your thirst by drinking Coke – thirst becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy because the nature of Coke is to make you thirsty. Likewise, their resistance is a self-fulfilling prophecy that only traps them in a never-ending loop because the nature of debate is to engender resistance without substantially changing things.**
Slavoj **Zizek**, Professor of Sociology at the Institute for Sociology, Ljubljana University, **2000**, The Fragile Absolute, p. 22-23
The unexpected result of this feature is not that, since Coke does not satisfy
AND
of a property that is in effect merely an envelope of a void.

**Turns the Aff – their protest re-affirms the state’s rejection of their ideology**
Slavoj **Zizek**, Professor of Sociology at the Institute for Sociology, Ljubljana University, **2000**, The Fragile Absolute, p. 23-25
This example brings home the inherent link between three notions: that of Marxist surplus
AND
its shock value and is fully integrated into the established artistic market.”’

**Our alternative is hegemonic emancipation - we can re-formulate the universal such that those excluded from the universal are included. Through our engagement with language we can shatter dominance and ensure that the state is not the primary medium through which the universal is articulated.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Butler 00</span>**Judith, Maxine Elliot Professor of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature at UC-Berkeley, **2000**, Contingency, Hegemony, Universality, p. 177-78
I have been referring to this political dilemma in terms which suggest that what is
AND
human trace that formalism has left behind, the left that is Left.

=Bataille= 
**Transportation infrastructure is the epitome of utility and reservation – it masks the flow of energy while worsening our dependence on fossil fuels**
**Stoekl, 7**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Allan Stoekl is a Professor of French and Comparative Literature at Pennsylvania State University. “Bataille’s Peak: Energy, Religion, and Postsustainability,” pg. 183-185) Henge </span>
Public, organized space, then, can be formulated as commerce, trans -
AND
the hypertensive bodies of people of other colors are happily ignored as well.

**Dependence on scarce resources causes civilization collapse and a return to feudalism**
**Stoekl, 7**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Allan Stoekl is a Professor of French and Comparative Literature at Pennsylvania State University. “Bataille’s Peak: Energy, Religion, and Postsustainability,” pg. 42) Henge </span>
We can argue, then, that solar energy is indeed always produced, always
AND
-distant future, have to be replaced by real, human slaves.

**Status quo fossil fuel production turns life into a standing reserve – energy is wasted under the sign of efficiency making modern warfare and absolute destruction possible**
**Stoekl, 7**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Allan Stoekl is a Professor of French and Comparative Literature at Pennsylvania State University. “Bataille’s Peak: Energy, Religion, and Postsustainability,” pg. 55-57) Henge </span>
The answer, I think, is to be found in the nature of the
AND
which the person has been transformed in and through death, have disappeared.

**The creation of a utopian ideal causes ascetic resentment against the real world – we must embrace a Dionysian and chaotic view of the world**
**Turanli, 03** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(The Journal of Nietzsche Studies 26 (2003) 55-63, Nietzsche and the Later Wittgenstein: An Offense to the Quest for Another World, Aydan Turanli, Professor, Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, Istanbul Technical University). </span>
The craving for absolutely general specifications results in doing metaphysics. Unlike Wittgenstein, Nietzsche
AND
"to show the fly the way out of the fly-bottle"

**Humans are energy – no impact to death**
**Stoekl, 7**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Allan Stoekl is a Professor of French and Comparative Literature at Pennsylvania State University. “Bataille’s Peak: Energy, Religion, and Postsustainability,” pg. 189-191) Henge</span>
“Expenditure without return” is a floating concept, defined in opposition to the
AND
will guarantee the status of a certain act or of a certain politics.

**Vote negative to sacrifice the 1AC.**

**Sacrifice is an act of meaningless and infinite expenditure that forms a connection between the self and death**
**Stoekl, 7**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Allan Stoekl is a Professor of French and Comparative Literature at Pennsylvania State University. “Bataille’s Peak: Energy, Religion, and Postsustainability,” pg. xvi-xvii) Henge</span>
Bataille’s energy is inseparable from that which powers cars and raises elevators, but it
AND
this energy, of this movement of the death or void of God.