[[toc]]
Email chettyboy032@gmail.com for cite requests.

=Affirmative= 
==EV Aff - Valley== 

**Contention One is Warming**

**It’s real and human caused**
Richard Somerville, Distinguished Professor Emeritus at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography and Climate Scientist, PhD in Meteorology, 3/8/11, House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Energy and Power Hearing; "Climate Science and EPA's Greenhouse Gas Regulations”, Congressional Testimony, lexis

Now, in 2011, more [...] near zero well within this century.

**Emission cuts in transportation sector are key**
Electrification Coalition, ELECTRIFICATION ROADMAP: REVOLUTIONIZING TRANSPORTATION AND ACHIEVING ENERGY SECURITY, 11—09, p. 34-35.

Finally, concerns about the environmental [...] hybrids to pure electric vehicles.52

**Electric Vehicles substantially lower emissions**
Electrification Coalition, ELECTRIFICATION ROADMAP: REVOLUTIONIZING TRANSPORTATION AND ACHIEVING ENERGY SECURITY, 11—09, p. 40.

Vehicle miles fueled by electricity emit [...] to perhaps as low as zero.

**EVs reduce GHG emissions by up to 57%**
Ashlee Duncan, “Pulling the Plug on Greenhouse Emissions: The U.S. Power Grid Could Accommodate Plug-in Electric Vehicles,” ENVIRONMENTAL & ENERGY LAW & POLICY JOURNAL v. 3, 2008, p. 160.

2. Emissions. Greenhouse gases [...] emissions would more than double." n15


**Even coal-generated energy is cleaner than gasoline**
USC 12, The Union of Concerned Scientists (UCS) is the leading science-based nonprofit working for a healthy environment and a safer world
http://www.ucsusa.org/clean_vehicles/smart-transportation-solutions/advanced-vehicle-technologies/electric-cars/emissions-and-charging-costs-electric-cars.html, OT

The UCS report, State of [...] produce virtually no global warming emissions.


**Emissions reductions are key to prevent extinction – sea level rise, weather, water scarcity, heat waves and disturbance of biological systems**
Dr. Peter H. Gleick, Director, Pacific Institute, “Not Going Away: America’s Energy Security, Jobs and Climate Challenges,” Testimony before the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming,” 12-1-10, www.pacinst.org/publications/testimony/gleick_testimony_climate_strategies.pdf, accessed 4-2-10.

“Observations throughout the world [...] those impacts that are already unavoidable.”


**Warming causes extinction**
Sify 2010 – Sydney newspaper citing Ove Hoegh-Guldberg, professor at University of Queensland and Director of the Global Change Institute, and John Bruno, associate professor of Marine Science at UNC (Sify News, “Could unbridled climate changes lead to human extinction?”, http://www.sify.com/news/could-unbridled-climate-changes-lead-to-human-extinction-news-international-kgtrOhdaahc.html)

The findings of the comprehensive report [...] These findings were published in Science.

**CO2 doesn’t prevent ice ages**
WORLD NET DAILY, staff, “Study Finds CO2 Didn’t End Ice Age,” 9—29—07, www.worldnetdaily.com/news/article.asp?ARTICLE_ID=57895

A new peer-reviewed scientific [...] not discount the role of CO2.

**And, authors have to meet a standard –**
**Qualifications in the specific field key**
Richard Somerville, Distinguished Professor Emeritus at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography and Climate Scientist, PhD in Meteorology, 3/8/11, House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Energy and Power Hearing; "Climate Science and EPA's Greenhouse Gas Regulations”, Congressional Testimony, lexis

Another warning sign is a lack [...] builds on earlier research by others.


**Peer review is necessary but not sufficient**
Richard Somerville, Distinguished Professor Emeritus at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography and Climate Scientist, PhD in Meteorology, 3/8/11, House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Energy and Power Hearing; "Climate Science and EPA's Greenhouse Gas Regulations”, Congressional Testimony, lexis

In my opinion, many people [...] necessary rather than a sufficient criterion.


**Contention Two is Oil Dependence**

**American dependence on foreign oil rising**
Breen 3/7/12 (Michael, Vice president of the Truman National Security Project)
www.hsdl.org/?view&did=704116

U.S. demand for [...] control of our own energy future.

**Oil demand spike coming**
Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), ELECTRIFICATION OF THE TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM, MIT Energy Initiative Symposium, 4—8—10, p. 26.

The almost exclusive reliance of the [...] of the US power generation system.

**Transportation is the lynchpin of foreign oil dependence**
Eliot L. Engel, U.S. Representative for New York's 17th congressional district, 7/10/12
“THE AMERICAN ENERGY INITIATIVE: A FOCUS ON ALTERNATIVE FUELS AND VEHICLES, BOTH THE CHALLENGES AND THE OPPORTUNITIES”, Testimony before the House of Representatives, Subcommittee on Energy and Power Committee on Energy and Commerce

Thank you very much, Mr [...] in their efforts to harm us.


**Specifically, EVs are key to foreign oil dependence**
Smith, ’10 - FedEx CEO/Member of Electrification Coalition (Frederick, February 23, Hearing Before a Subcommittee on the Committee on Appropriations, United States Senate, “Opportunities and Challenges Presented in Increasing the Number of Electric Vehicles in the Light Duty Automotive Sector,” http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-111shrg56643/pdf/CHRG-111shrg56643.pdf, p. 18-20)

There is a solution. The [...] distribution—is already in place.

**We’ll isolate two impacts –**
**First, hegemony –**
**Oil dependence undermines leadership**
Electrification Coalition, ELECTRIFICATION ROADMAP: REVOLUTIONIZING TRANSPORTATION AND ACHIEVING ENERGY SECURITY, 11—09, p. 30.

The importance of oil in the [...] of foreign policy and humanitarian issues.


**US hegemony is key to prevent nuclear war**
Zhang and Shi, 1/22/2011 Yuhan Zhang, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and Lin Shi, Columbia University, ‘America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry’ http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/

Over the past two decades, [...] be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.

**US pursuit of hegemony inevitable**
Kagan, 1/24/2011, (Robert Kagan, American historian, author and foreign policy commentator at the Brookings Institution) ‘The Price of Power: The benefits of U.S. defense spending far outweigh the costs’, VOL. 16, NO. 18, http://www.weeklystandard.com/articles/price-power_533696.html?page=3

In theory, the United States [...] American power has built and defended.

**Second, war –**
**Scarcity-induced oil wars risk extinction**
Stephen Lendman (Research Associate of the Centre for Research on Globalization) 07 “Resource Wars - Can We Survive Them” http://www.rense.com/general76/resrouce.htm

With the world's energy supplies finite [...] of it, would have survived.


**Plan**

**Text: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in vehicle-to-grid charging infrastructure.**

**Contention Three is Solvency**
**Government re-charging infrastructure is key to spur adoption of EVs**
Ron Minsk, Senior Vice President, Securing America’s Energy Future (SAFE), Sam P. Ori, Director of Policy, SAFE and Sabrina Howell, Senior Policy Analyst, SAFE, “Plugging Cars into the Grid: Why the Government Should Make a Choice,” ENERGY LAW JOURNAL v. 30, 2009, p. 375-376.

Second, recharging infrastructure must be [...] of electrification as a national priority.

**Plan spurs widespread adoption of plug-in hybrids and other EVs**
Richard Lowenthal, CEO, Coulomb Technologies, Testimony before the Senate Appropriations Committee, Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, 2—23—10, lexis.

EV charging stations are designed and [...] chicken-and-egg problem.


**Congress needs to act to catalyze the EV market**
Thad Balkman, General Counsel and VP, External Relations, Phoenix Motorcars, Testimony before the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, CQ CONGRESSIONAL TESTIMONY, 9—18—08, lexis.

After 32 years of hearings and [...] investment in new fuel distribution infrastructure.

**Federal efforts are key to widespread adoption**
Kathleen Hart, “Automakers Object to Senate Bill Aimed at Expanding Electric Car Market,” SNL ELECTRIC UTILITY REPORT, 6—28—10, npg.

Clay argued that for electric drive [...] adoption and remove other market barriers.

**Plan solves any tech problems**
Electrification Coalition, ELECTRIFICATION ROADMAP: REVOLUTIONIZING TRANSPORTATION AND ACHIEVING ENERGY SECURITY, 11—09, p. 66.

The successful deployment of GEVs faces [...] while enhancing the overall consumer experience.



=Negative= 
==Topicality== 
===Must Be Fixed Assets=== 
**A. Interpretation – Transportation infrastructure refers only to fixed assets**
Patricia **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Hu</span>__**, 2-9-**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">2012</span>__**, Director of the Bureau of Transportation Statistics – Research and Innovative Technology Administration, United States Department of Transportation, “Measuring Transportation Investment: Challenges and Opportunities,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.internationaltransportforum.org/Proceedings/InfrastructureInv/HU.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Definition of Transportation Investment [...] </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> of Transportation Statistics…</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">B. Violation – dredged ports refill themselves</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Candy __**Thomson**__, __**9-21**__-12 Port Looks to New Technology to Solve Dredge Disposal, The Baltimore Sun, 9-21-2012, accessed online @ [[http://articles.baltimoresun.com/2012-09-21/business/bs-bz-cement-aggregate-20120706_1_poplar-island-dredge-spoils-hart-miller-island]]</span>

The state is [...] box," Broadwater said.
==Disadvantages== 
===Elections DA=== 
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Obama wins now – lead in key swing states</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Easley 9/28</span>__** (Jonathon, staff writer “Polls: Obama leads in three swing states,” http://thehill.com/blogs/ballot-box/polls/259265-polls-obama-leads-in-three-swing-states)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President </span>**__<span style="background-color: lime;">Obama leads</span>__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[…] on Friday morning. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">But the economy’s close</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">WSJ 9/28</span>__** (“Obama, Romney tied on economy in Fox poll,” http://blogs.marketwatch.com/election/2012/09/28/obama-romney-tied-on-economy-in-fox-poll/)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If Mitt </span>**__<span style="background-color: lime;">Romney</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> needed […] taken Sept. 24 to 26. </span>


**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Independents hate all spending and would flip the election </span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Schoen 2/8</span>__** (Douglas E., political strategist, “The forgotten swing voter,”http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=7ED8592F-2122-4A55-AA3B-C5460134BE4A)

Indeed, <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">recent polling</span> […]the same gridlock.

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Romney kills relations with Russia – missile defense and middle east</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The Economist 9/1</span>__** (“Romney Could Screw Up US Relations With Russia,” http://www.businessinsider.com/mitt-romneys-foreign-policy-chops-come-into-light-2012-9)

**__In the nuclear weapons__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[…] </span>**__<span style="background-color: lime;">damage US-Russian relations.</span>__**

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Accidental nuclear war</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Cirincione ‘7</span>__** (Joseph Cirincione, Center for American Progress expert in nonproliferation, national security, international security, U.S. military, U.S. foreign policy, July 23rd, 2007, “Nuclear summer, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2007/07/nuclear_summer.html/print.html)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Beyond the fact […] negotiated nuclear reductions.</span>

==Case Hits==

===LNG Exports Neg - Rd 3 State===

Counterplan – 
The United States federal government should:
- abandon its security commitments to Taiwan and declare a renewed commitment to other security guarantees in Asia.
- promote a multilateral trade regime that includes a Trans-Pacific Partnership agreement and a transatlantic free trade agreement.

That solves their China scenario – THEIR author 
Charles Glaser, 1AC Author, March/April 2011, “Will China’s Rise lead to War?”, Foreign Affairs, http://web.clas.ufl.edu/users/zselden/coursereading2011/Glaser.pdf, acc. 1/17/13

Such dangers have been around for decades, but ongoing improvements in  China's military capabilities may make Beijing more willing to escalate a Taiwan  crisis. In addition to its improved conventional capabilities, China is modernizing  its nuclear forces to increase their ability to survive and retaliate following a  large-scale U.S. attack. Standard deterrence theory holds that Washington's  current ability to destroy most or all of China's nuclear force enhances its  bargaining position. China's nuclear modernization might remove that check on  Chinese action, leading Beijing to behave more boldly in future crises than it has  in past ones. A U.S. attempt to preserve its ability to defend Taiwan, meanwhile,  could fuel a conventional and nuclear arms race. Enhancements to U.S. offensive  targeting capabilities and strategic ballistic missile defenses might be interpreted  by China as a signal of malign U.S. motives, leading to further Chinese military  efforts and a general poisoning of U.S.-Chinese relations. Given such risks, the United States should consider backing away from its  commitment to Taiwan. This would remove the most obvious and contentious  flash point between the United States and China and smooth the way for better  relations between them in the decades to come. Critics of such a move argue  that it would result in not only direct costs for the United States and Taiwan but  indirect costs as well: Beijing would not be satisfied by such  appeasement;  instead, it would find its appetite whetted and make even greater demands  afterward--spurred by Washington's lost credibility as a defender of its allies. The  critics are wrong, however, because territorial concessions are not always bound  to fail. Not all adversaries are Hitler, and when they are not, accommodation can  be an effective policy tool. When an adversary has limited territorial goals,  granting them can lead not to further demands but rather to satisfaction with the  new status quo and a reduction of tension.

That solves the trade advantage – your author
Kati Suominem, 1AC Author, 7/6/12, “America the Absent”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/07/06/america_the_absent?page=full, acc. 1/18/13

To lead abroad, the United States must reform at home by imposing ironclad fiscal discipline, cutting taxes and red tape for businesses, and locking in long-term policies -- summoning the private sector to reform schools and rebuild infrastructure, for instance -- that harness the productivity of America's future generations.  Abroad, the United States needs to focus on pre-empting instability and integrating the global economy. It should push the IMF to address financial risks before they mushroom into catastrophes, revise the multilateral trade regime to allow for fast deals among a critical mass of members ratherx than agonizing, decade-long talks requiring the consent of the full membership, and work toward unfettered global financial markets -- all the while deepening access to U.S. goods, services, and investment around the world. A Trans-Pacific Partnership agreement and a transatlantic free trade pact are low-hanging fruits that can jump-start global growth without any new stimulus dollars.


4

US gas exports crush Russian econ and influence
Walter Russell Mead, April 25, 2012 (Professor of Foreign Affairs and Humanities at Bard College, Henry A. Kissinger senior fellow for U.S. foreign policy at the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR), and Editor-at-Large of The American Interest magazine), , The American Interest, North American Shale Gas Gives Russia Serious Headache,http://blogs.the-american-interest.com/wrm/2012/04/25/north-american-shale-gas-gives-russia-serious-headache/

North America’s shale gas boom is chipping away at the market for gas producers like Russia.What’s more, if the United States becomes a gas exporter, Russia’s customers (especially in Europe) could decide to cancel expensive contracts with Gazprom in favor of cheaper American natural gas. “If the US starts exporting LNG to Europe and Asia, it gives [customers there] an argument to renegotiate their prices with Gazprom and Qatar, and they willdo it,” says Jean Abiteboul, head of Cheniere supply & marketing. Gazprom supplied 27 percent of Europe’s natural gas in 2011. While American gas is trading below $2 per MMBTU (million British thermal units), Gazprom’s prices are tied to crude oil markets, and its long-term contracts charge customers roughly $13 per MMBTU, says the FT. European customers would love to reduce their dependence on Gazprom and start to import American gas. Already Gazprom has had to make concessions to its three biggest customers, and others are increasingly dissatisfied with their contracts. Worse, from Russia’s point of view: evidence that western and central Europe contain substantial shale gas reserves of their own. Fracking is unpopular in thickly populated, eco-friendly Europe, but so are high gas prices. All this ought to give Russia serious heartburn. Eroding Gazprom’s dominance of the European energy market would be a major check on Russian economic growth and political influence.

Russian econ collapse causes extinction
Filger 9 (Sheldon, Columnist and Founder – Global EconomicCrisis.com, “Russian Economy Faces Disasterous Free Fall Contraction”, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/sheldon-filger/russian-economy-faces-dis_b_201147.html)

In Russia, historically, economic health and political stability are intertwined to a degree that is rarely encountered in other major industrialized economies. It was the economic stagnation of the former Soviet Union that led to its political downfall. Similarly, Medvedev and Putin, both intimately acquainted with their nation's history, are unquestionably alarmed at the prospect that Russia's economic crisis will endanger the nation's political stability, achieved at great cost after years of chaos following the demise of the Soviet Union. Already, strikes and protests are occurring among rank and file workers facing unemployment or non-payment of their salaries. Recent polling demonstrates that the once supreme popularity ratings of Putin and Medvedev are eroding rapidly. Beyond the political elites are the financial oligarchs, who have been forced to deleverage, even unloading their yachts and executive jets in a desperate attempt to raise cash. Should the Russian economy deteriorateto the point where economic collapse is not out of the question, the impact will go far beyond the obvious accelerant such an outcome would be for the Global Economic Crisis. There is a geopolitical dimension that is even more relevant then the economic context. Despite its economic vulnerabilities and perceived decline from superpower status, Russia remains one of only two nations on earth with a nuclear arsenal of sufficient scope and capability to destroy the world as we know it. For that reason, it is not only President Medvedev and Prime Minister Putin who will be lying awake at nights over the prospect that a national economic crisis can transform itself into a virulent and destabilizing social and political upheaval. It just may be possible that U.S. President Barack Obama's national security team has already briefed him about the consequences of a major economic meltdown in Russia for the peace of the world. After all, the most recent national intelligence estimates put out by the U.S. intelligence community have already concluded that the Global Economic Crisis represents the greatest national security threat to the United States, due to its facilitating political instability in the world. During the years Boris Yeltsin ruled Russia, security forces responsible for guarding the nation's nuclear arsenal went without pay for months at a time, leading to fears that desperate personnel would illicitly sell nuclear weapons to terrorist organizations. If the current economic crisis in Russia were to deteriorate much further, how secure would the Russian nuclear arsenal remain? It may be that the financial impact of the Global Economic Crisis is its least dangerous consequence.



1NC Solvency Answers

ONE, they don’t solve - the only cards about transportation infrastructure are the Ebinger cards on Solvency

Their author thinks transportation infrastructure alone is insufficient
Ebinger, senior fellow @ Brookings, 2012,  May, Charles Ebinger is a senior fellow and director of the Energy Security Initiative at Brookings. He has more than 35 years of experience specializing in international and domestic energy markets (oil, gas, coal, and nuclear) and the geopolitics of energy, and has served as an energy policy advisor to over 50 governments. He has served as an adjunct professor in energy economics at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies and Georgetown University’s Walsh School of Foreign Service.“Liquid Markets: Assessing the Case for U.S. Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas,” http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2012/5/02%20lng%20exports%20ebinger/0502_lng_exports_ebinger

Even if there is sufficient transportation infrastructure to handle increased volumes and new ¶regional bases for natural gas production, there¶may be limits on the amount of available equipment and qualified petroleum engineers to develop the gas.To date such a shortage of drilling rig availability in the U.S. natural gas sector ¶ has not materialized, as figure 3 illustrates. The ¶ increased productivity of new drilling rigs has ¶ served to ensure that supply has kept pace with ¶ demand. For example, in the Haynesville Shale ¶ play in Louisiana, the rig count fell from 181 rigs ¶ in July 2010 to 110 rigs in October 2011, yet production increased from 4.65 bcf/day to 7.58 bcf/¶ day over the same period.¶ 34¶A similar trend is ¶occurring in the Barnett Shale in Texas, where ¶production rates have remained flat despite a ¶declining rig count.¶35¶While the supply of drilling rigs remains adequate, the market for other¶ equipment and services used for fracking—particularly high-pressure pumping equipment—is ¶tight and likely to remain so for the near term.¶36¶Tight markets for drilling and completion equipment can result in increases in fracking costs.

TWO, the only reason their evidence gives why we need transportation infrastructure is for port dredging, but the status quo solves that
Barnett, 12 (Ron, USA Today, 5/24, “East Coast ports scramble to dig deep, for supersize ships,” http://www.usatoday.com/money/economy/story/2012-05-24/deepening-harbors/55653540/1)//DH

The big ships are coming, and East Coast ports are scrambling to get ready for them. A growing number of supersize freighters, which up to now have relied mostly on West Coast ports to deliver goods from Asia to the USA because they couldn't fit through the Panama Canal, will be able to make the trip to the East Coast economically when an expansion of the canal is completed in 2014. Ports on the Atlantic and the Gulf of Mexico, whose harbors have been too shallow to accommodate these behemoths, are gearing up to spend more than $40 billion over the next five years to deepen their shipping channels and make other upgrades, according to Aaron Ellis, director of communications for the American Association of Port Authorities. The ports of Norfolk, Va., and Baltimore have completed projects that put them in position to be the first to receive the big ships, some of them 1,110 feet long with the capacity to haul up to 13,000 boxcar-size freight containers, Ellis said. Elsewhere, the work is in varying stages: •The Army Corps of Engineers is expected to finish dredging a 50-foot deep channel to three terminals in New York Harbor by the end of the year and to the mainNew York terminal by 2014, according to New York/New Jersey Port Authority spokesman Hunter Pendarvis. The authority has committed $1 billion to raise the Bayonne Bridge by 64 feet to allow the bigger ships to pass under, he said. •Miami-Dade County reached an agreement in April with environmental groups that had raised concerns about the Port of Miami's Deep Dredge project. It is expected to be able to handle the big ships by 2014 or soon thereafter, according to Ellis. •The Corps of Engineers completed a study in April finding that Savannah, Ga.'s proposed $652-million channel deepening project is viable. •The Corps is in the midst of a study of Charleston harbor, said Jim Newsome, president and CEO of the South Carolina Ports Authority. •Philadelphia and Corpus Christi are currently involved in dredging projects, according to Ellis. Boston, Jacksonville, Canaveral and Freeport, Texas, are among other ports pursuing deeper channels, he said. The association is lobbying Congress for approval, which is required by the Constitution for such projects, and for funding. But, "Because freight doesn't really have as strong a voice as the movement of people, it's going to take a lot of heavy lifting," Ellis said. "We're fighting hard enough in this country just to keep our navigation channels maintained at their authorized depths and widths." South Carolina's Legislature this month designated $300 million to the Charleston project — enough to do the job even if the federal government doesn't come up with its 40% match. "I think everyone is starting to suspect that there may not be enough federal funding for any harbor, basically, today," Newsome said. "So we have to operate under the assumption that we're not going to get held up by a lack of federal funding."

THREE, No LNG Exports—3 reasons
- exchange rates
- foreign supplies
- markets self-correct
Kenneth B. Medlock 12 (August 10, Ph.D., is the James A. Baker, III, and Susan G. Baker Fellow in Energy  and Resource Economics at the Baker Institute and an adjunct professor and lecturer in the  Department of Economics at Rice University. Medlock received his Ph.D. in economics from Rice and held the MD Anderson Fellowship at  the Baker Institute from 2000 to 2001] The Baker Institute Energy Forum is a multifaceted center that promotes original, forwardlooking discussion and research on the energy-related challenges facing our society in the 21st  century. U.S. LNG EXPORTS: TRUTH AND CONSEQUENCE

However, it is important to recognize that the prospect of LNG exports from the U.S. does not  equate to large scale reality. In general, regardless of the number of export licenses granted, U.S. LNG  exporters  face risks associated with exchange rate movements, the development of  alternative foreign supplies, and the relative price impacts of introducing U.S. LNG volumes into  a currently tight international LNG market. In fact, we have presented evidence above that the  apparent profitable export option from the U.S. market based on  current market conditions is  transitory, as current market conditions beget a supply response abroad that erodes current price  differentials. Moreover, data on regional spot prices are supportive of this notion. Aside from the apparent  commercial  risks associated with LNG exports, the more salient  question for  U.S. policymakers regards the  U.S. price response to  U.S. LNG exports. This  question is best answered in understanding the elasticity of the domestic supply curve. In  particular, we estimate that domestic elasticity of supply is roughly 1.52 between a price of $4  and $6 per mcf, which represents a five-fold increase since the emergence of shale gas. In other  words, a one percent increase in price will result in a one-and-a-half percent increase in domestic  production. This means that the export of LNG in any reasonable volume from the U.S. should  not have a significant impact on price at the margin. Rather, the analysis herein indicates that  international market response will ultimately limit the amount of LNG that the U.S. exports as a  matter of commercial rationing.

FOUR, Congress will block LNG exports, and they take forever
Kohl 12 is one of few financial reporters to have visited the Alberta oil sands. His research has helped thousands of investors capitalize from the rapidly changing face of energy. Keith connects with hundreds of thousands of readers as the Managing Editor of Energy & Capital as well as Investment Director of Angel Publishing's Energy Investor. For years, Keith has been providing in-depth coverage of the Bakken, the Haynesville Shale, and the Marcellus natural gas formations3 Reasons U.S. LNG Will Fail Avoid These Doomed LNG Investments By Keith Kohl Tuesday, June 26th, 2012 http://www.energyandcapital.com/articles/us-lng-will-fail/2276

The second reason U.S. LNG exports are doomed is stooped in good old-fashioned political greed.  I've mentioned before how Congress is already coming up with ways to stop U.S. LNG exports... and we haven't even started shipping it yet!  That pressure is led by our industrial sector, which makes up approximately one-third of gas demand and is enjoying the cheap gas more than any other.  I distinctly remember hearing this concern voiced while our Energy Secretary was being grilled during a routine budget committee meeting.  Imagine the kind of lobbying action that would take place if these companies were forced to pay the same $16/Btu LNG prices as China and Japan?  And the third reason is what I call the holy grail in energy investing: the transportation sector.  The potential alone is enough to make most investors salivate...  The president highlighted the transition toward alternative-fueled trucks (natural gas or electric) in his State of the Union address this year.  And Reuters reaffirmed the benefits of switching to natural gas-powered fleets earlier this month: "If all trucks in the United States were converted from gasoline to natural gas, that would save more than $40 billion a year in fuel costs at current price levels in the U.S."  Even the 30% decline in oil prices over the last few months hasn't had the kind of effect on gasoline prices that many had hoped for.  For years, we've discussed some of the most profitable natural gas investments on these pages.  Things have turned out quite well for investors who took our advice:  nat gas companies 6-26  Even the hype over future LNG exports has been fruitful for early investors.  Putting your cash into Cheniere Energy two years ago would have been reason to smile:  LNG Stock Chart  But one word from Congress could put an end to those kinds of gains — especially when people realize keeping our cheap natural gas here in the States is a smarter play than shipping it halfway across the globe.  Let's be clear: They will come to that realization eventually.  And really, what's so bad about keeping our domestic gas production? We haven't had the luxury of cheap energy like this since the Texas oil gushers of days past...  The reality of the situation is we're still years away from Cheniere's first shipments leaving its Sabine Pass LNG Terminal, and the pressure to block exports is building on Capitol Hill all the while.

FIVE, Lack of plants to liquefy and gasify LNG prevent exports – 
Levi, senior fellow @ CFR, 2012, June, Michal, David M. Rubenstein Senior Fellow for Energy and the Environment.Director of the Program on Energy Security and Climate Change Council on Foreign Relations. Michael is a member of the Strategic Advisory Board for NewWorld Capital LLC, a private equity firm focused on environmental opportunities, and a member of the External Advisory Board to the Princeton University Carbon Mitigation Initiative (CMI). He holds a Bachelors of Science in mathematical physics from Queen’s University, an MA in physics from Princeton University and a Ph.D. in war studies from the  University of London. “A Strategy for U.S. Natural Gas Exports,” http://www.hamiltonproject.org/files/downloads_and_links/06_exports_levi.pdf 

There is a real possibility that prices in the United States, ¶ Europe, and Asia will continue to diverge, creating ¶ opportunities for U.S. LNG exports. Yet exporting ¶natural gas overseas is not a straightforward endeavor. Gas must ¶be liquefied before it can be transported in specially built ships ¶and then regasified at its destination. Building liquefaction ¶ facilities in particular can cost as much as $4 billion for each¶ billion cubic feet of daily export capacity—several times the ¶ cost of building an import terminal of similar scale (Ratner ¶ et al. 2011). Investment on this scale can be risky: if natural ¶gas price spreads collapse, multibillion-dollar investments can ¶quickly become worthless. Adding to the dangers involved in ¶ building any terminal is regulatory risk associated with safety ¶and security concerns.


1NC Asia Answers

ONE, they don’t solve the pivot – their “LNG Key” evidence just says that LNG exports allow engagement in Asia, not that it results in us altering our strategy

Both of their impact scenarios are based off deterrence, not just engagement or economic power, none of their internal link evidence says they expand it, which means they don’t solve their advantage

TWO, their impact author concludes that status quo deterrence is sufficient [including miscalc]
Charles Glaser, 1AC Author, March/April 2011, “Will China’s Rise lead to War?”, Foreign Affairs, http://web.clas.ufl.edu/users/zselden/coursereading2011/Glaser.pdf, acc. 1/17/13

What does all this imply about the rise of China? At the broadest level, the news  is good. Current international conditions should enable both the United States  and China to protect their vital interests without posing large threats to each  other. Nuclear weapons make it relatively easy for major powers to maintain  highly effective deterrent forces. Even if Chinese power were to greatly exceed  U.S. power somewhere down the road, the United States would still be able to  maintain nuclear forces that could survive any Chinese attack and threaten  massive damage in retaliation. Large-scale conventional attacks by China against  the U.S. homeland, meanwhile, are virtually impossible because the United  States and China are separated by the vast expanse of the Pacific Ocean, across  which it would be difficult to attack. No foreseeable increase in China's power  would be large enough to overcome these twin advantages of defense for the  United States. The same defensive advantages, moreover, apply to China as  well. Although China is currently much weaker than the United States militarily, it  will soon be able to build a nuclear force that meets its requirements for  deterrence. And China should not find the United States' massive conventional  capabilities especially threatening, because the bulk of U.S. forces, logistics, and  support lie across the Pacific. The overall effect of these conditions is to greatly moderate the security  dilemma. Both the United States and China will be able to maintain high levels of  security now and through any potential rise of China to superpower status. This should help Washington and Beijing avoid truly strained geopolitical relations,  which should in turn help ensure that the security dilemma stays moderate,  thereby facilitating cooperation. The United States, for example, will have the  option to forego responding to China's modernization of its nuclear force. This  restraint will help reassure China that the United States does not want to  threaten its security--and thus help head off a downward political spiral fueled by  nuclear competition.

THREE, the pivot does nothing – their author in a newer article 
Aaron L. Friedberg 12, Professor of Politics and International Affairs at the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton University and the author of A Contest for Supremacy: China, America, and the Struggle for Mastery in Asia. From 2003 to 2005, he served as a Deputy Assistant for National Security Affairs in the Office of the Vice President, “Bucking Beijing”, Foreign Affairs, September / October

The problem with the pivot is that to date it has lacked serious substance. The actions it has entailed either have been merely symbolic, such as the pending deployment of a small number of U.S. marines to Australia, or have involved simply the reallocation of existing air and naval assets from other theaters. Apart from vague references to a new "air-sea battle" concept, which the Pentagon describes, in typical jargon, as "networked, integrated, attack-in-depth to disrupt, destroy and defeat" opposing forces, the administration has not made clear how it actually intends to respond to China's increasing military capabilities. To the contrary, having announced the new approach, Defense Department spokespeople have been at pains to avoid acknowledging the obvious fact that it will be aimed primarily at China. Especially in the current fiscal climate, it is hard to see how any administration could mobilize the public support necessary to maintain a favorable balance of power in Asia if it is not willing to be far more candid about the nature of the challenge posed by China's growing strength.

FOUR, Interdependence checks war with China – [includes Taiwan conflict]
Perry & Scowcroft, 9 – *Professor at Stanford University, **Resident Trustee of the Forum for International Policy (William & Brent, 2009, “US Nuclear Weapons Policy,” Council on Foreign Relations)

Economic interdependence provides an incentive to avoid militaryconflictand nuclear confrontation. Although the United States has expressed concern about the growing trade deficit with China, the economies of the two countries have become increasingly intertwined and interdependent. U.S. consumers have bought massive quantities of cheap Chinese goods, and Beijing has lent huge amounts of money to the UnitedStates. Similarly, Taiwan and the mainland are increasingly bound in a reciprocal economic relationship. These economic relation- ships should reduce the probability of a confrontation between China and Taiwan, and keep the United States and China from approach- ing the nuclear brink, were such a confrontation to occur. On other nuclear issues, China and the United States have generally supported each other, as they did in the six-party talks to dismantle North Korea’s nuclear weapons programs. Here, the supportive Beijing-Washington relationship points toward potentially promising dialogues on larger strategic issues.

FIVE, No Asian prolif and no escalation
China Daily, 2009 (China Daily, “Nuke Arms Race ‘unlikely’ in Northeast Asia.”, Pacific Freeze, June 28, 2009, page 1, http://pacificfreeze.ips-dc.org/2009/06/nuke-arms-race-unlikely-in-northeast-asia-experts/)

TOKYO: The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea’s (DPRK) nuclear test is unlikely to spark a nuclear arms race in Asia, but analysts say Japan and the Republic of Korea (ROK) may seek to beef up their missile defenses and pre-emptive capabilities against Pyongyang. Pyongyang’s second nuclear test came weeks after it fired a long-range rocket that flew over northern Japan, a clear message that the DPRK is developing a nuclear weapon and the means to deliver it. But analysts say the DPRK’s actions are defensive, while its neighbors are already under a US deterrent.“The barriers to developing nuclear weapons are extremely high and both countries come under the US nuclear umbrella, so the chances of them actually developing nuclear weapons are slim,” said Shi Yinhong, an international security expert at Renmin University in Beijing. President Barack Obama was quick to reaffirm the US commitment to the defense of both the ROK and Japan yesterday, perhaps in a sign of Washington’s concern that both countries stay out of the nuclear club.“At the end of the day, what do nuclear weapons buy North Korea (DPRK)?” asked Brad Glosserman of Hawaii-based think tank Pacific Forum CSIS. “It buys them a deterrent. It allows them to say ‘you can’t come after us’. But I don’t see how North Korea can use it to extort anything. It has a limited number of weapons and it has to know that if it uses them, it’s ‘game over’.” Few in neighboring Japan are calling openly for the development of nuclear bombs, though some hawks say the idea should at least be debated. The ROK’s biggest daily Chosun Ilbo yesterday urged the government to go nuclear, but analysts say it, too, is unlikely to risk alienating the US by doing so.

SIX, prolif won’t snowball – means no arms races
Potter 8 William C. Potter is Sam Nunn and Richard Lugar Professor of Nonproliferation Studies and Director of the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies, Summer 2008, Divining Nuclear Intentions, http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/international_security/v033/33.1.potter.pdf

Hymans is keenly aware of the deficiency of past proliferation projections, which he attributes in large part to the “tendency to use the growth of nuclear capabilities, stances toward the non-proliferation regime, and a general ‘roguishness’ of the state as proxies for nuclear weapons intentions” (p. 217). Such intentions, he believes, cannot be discerned without reference to leadership national identity conceptions, a focus that appears to have been absent to date in intelligence analyses devoted to forecasting proliferation.49¶Hymans is equally critical of the popular notion that “the ‘domino theory’ of the twenty-first century may well be nuclear.”50 As he points out, the new domino theory, like its discredited Cold War predecessor, assumes an oversimplified view about why and how decisions to acquire nuclear weapons are taken.51 Leaders’ nuclear preferences, he maintains, “are not highly contingent on what other states decide,” and, therefore, “proliferation tomorrow will probably remain as rare as proliferation today, with no single instance of proliferation causing a cascade of nuclear weapons states” (p. 225). In addition, he argues, the domino thesis embraces “an exceedingly dark picture of world trends by lumping the truly dangerous leaders together with the merely self assertive ones,” and equating interest in nuclear technology with weapons intent (pp. 208209). Dire proliferation forecasts, both past and present, Hymans believes, flow from four myths regarding nuclear decisonmaking: (1) states want the bomb as a deterrent; (2) states seek the bomb as a “ticket to international status”; (3) states go for the bomb because of the interests of domestic groups; and (4) the international regime protects the world from a flood of new nuclear weapons states (pp. 208216). Each of these assumptions is faulty, Hymans contends, because of its fundamental neglect of the decisive role played by individual leaders in nuclear matters.¶ As discussed earlier, Hymans argues that the need for a nuclear deterrent is entirely in the eye of the beholder—a leader with an oppositional nationalist NIC. By the same token, just because some leaders seek to achieveinternationalprestige through acquisition of the bomb, it does not mean that other leaders “necessarily view the bomb as the right ticket to punch”: witness the case of several decades of Argentine leaders, as well as the Indian Nehruvians (pp. 211212). The case of Egypt under Anwar al-Sadat, though not discussed by Hymans, also seems to at this category.¶ Hymans’s focus on the individual level of analysis leads him to discount bureaucratic political explanations for nuclear postures, as well. Central to his argument is the assumption that decisions to acquire nuclear weapons are taken “without the considerable vetting that political scientists typically assume precedes most important states choices” (p. 13). As such, although he is prepared to credit nuclear energy bureaucracies as playing a supporting role in the ef forts by Australia, France, and India to go nuclear, he does not observetheir influence to be a determining factor in root nuclear decisions by national lead ers. Moreover, contrary to a central premise of Solingen’s model of domestic political survival, Hymans ands little evidence in his case studies of leaders pursuing nuclear weapons to advance their political interests (p. 213). For ex ample, he argues, the 1998 nuclear tests in India were as risky domestically for Vajpayee as they were internationally (p. 214).¶ Most provocatively, Hymans invokes an individual-centric mode of analysis to challenge the necessity and utility of a strong international nonproliferation regime. As discussed in a preceding section, he finds no evidencethat the NPT regime prevented anyof the leaders who desired nuclear weapons from pursuing them.

1NC Trade Answers

ONE, they don’t solve trade – their Ebinger evidence doesn’t talk at all about trade or any spillover to other trade policies, it’s all about gas markets
Their Hagel evidence is a joke, it is about energy interdependence, but nowhere mentions LNG exports, or even gas. 

Their evidence lists a bunch of alt causes
Kati Suominem, 1AC Author, 7/6/12, “America the Absent”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/07/06/america_the_absent?page=full, acc. 1/18/13

To lead abroad, the United States must reform at home by imposing ironclad fiscal discipline, cutting taxes and red tape for businesses, and locking in long-term policies -- summoning the private sector to reform schools and rebuild infrastructure, for instance -- that harness the productivity of America's future generations.  Abroad, the United States needs to focus on pre-empting instability and integrating the global economy. It should push the IMF to address financial risks before they mushroom into catastrophes, revise the multilateral trade regime to allow for fast deals among a critical mass of members rather than agonizing, decade-long talks requiring the consent of the full membership, and work toward unfettered global financial markets -- all the while deepening access to U.S. goods, services, and investment around the world. A Trans-Pacific Partnership agreement and a transatlantic free trade pact are low-hanging fruits that can jump-start global growth without any new stimulus dollars.

TWO, trade is resilient
Rodrik ‘9 Dani Rodrik, Rafiq Hariri Professor of International Political Economy at the John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University. “The Myth of Rising Protectionism”. 2009. http://relooney.fatcow.com/0_New_5973.pdf

The reality is that the international trade regime has passed its greatest test since the Great Depression with flying colors. Trade economists who complain about minor instances of protectionism sound like a child whining about a damaged toy in the wake of an earthquake that killed thousands. Three things explain this remarkable resilience : ideas, politics , and institutions . Economists have been extraordinarily successful in conveying their message to policymakers – even if ordinary people still regard imports with considerable suspicion. Nothing reflects this better than how “protection” and “protectionists” have become terms of derision. After all, governments are generally expected to provide protection to its citizens. But if you say that you favor protection from imports , you are painted into a corner with Reed Smoot and Willis C. Hawley, authors of the infamous 1930 US tariff bill. But economists’ ideas would not have gone very far without significant changes in the underlying configuration of political interests in favor of open trade. For every worker and firm affected adversely by import competition, there is one or more worker and firm expecting to reap the benefits of access to markets abroad. The latter have become increasingly vocal and powerful, often represented by large multinational corporations. In his latest book, Paul Blustein recounts how a former Indian trade minister once asked his American counterpart to bring him a picture of an American farmer: “I have never actually seen one,” the minister quipped. “I have only seen US conglomerates masquerading as farmers.” But the relative docility of rank-and-file workers on trade issues must ultimately be attributed to something else altogether: the safety nets erected by the welfare state. Modern industrial societies now have a wide array of social protections – unemployment compensation, adjustment assistance, and other labor-market tools, as well as health insurance and family support – that mitigate demand for cruder forms of protection. The welfare state is the flip side of the open economy. If the world has not fallen off the protectionist precipice during the crisis, as it did during the 1930’s, much of the credit must go the social programs that conservatives and market fundamentalists would like to see scrapped. The battle against trade protection has been won – so far. But, before we relax, let’s remember that we still have not addressed the central challenge the world economy will face as the crisis eases: the inevitable clash between China’s need to produce an ever-growing quantity of manufactured goods and America’s need to maintain a smaller current-account deficit. Unfortunately, there is little to suggest that policymakers are yet ready to confront this genuine threat. 

THREE, trade doesn’t stop war
Parlow and Chakrabati 9 Does trade promote peace? A new window in Economics Anton Parlow and Prof. Avik Chakrabati University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee Department of Economics November 24, 2009 https://pantherfile.uwm.edu/aparlow/www/papers/conflict_2.pdf

The regression results for the unrestricted bivariate VAR-model including one lag are presented in table 5. The main result is that conflict does not explain trade and trade does not explain current level of conflicts. Meaning there is no relationship between past values trade and conflict on current values of the two variables using the sample chosen here. Both variables are only explained by their own past realizations. Furthermore the conflict equation is hardly valid as a model (very low R2 and F-value). The coefficients of the past realizations of conflict on trade and trade on conflict are unusual in magnitude and not significant at all. There is no comparable approach so far in the literature which means we need further research to con_rm these results. Furthermore a longer time pe- riod is needed and maybe more variables for the VAR-model e.g. GDP as a measurement for economic size. A problem with adding more variables to a VAR-system is that it gets less tractable and needs some structure to make useful interpretations of the parameter estimates.

FOUR, alt cause – anti-dumping laws
Ikenson 10/6/05 CATO Free Trade Institute since 1990, Co-founded the Library of International Trade Resources (Daniel, Co-author of Antidumping Exposed: The Devilish Details of Unfair Trade Law, “Abuse of Discretion: Time to Fix the Administration of the US Antidumping Law,” Trade Policy Analysis No. 31, http://www.freetrade.org/node/30, EA)

Administration of the U.S. antidumping law has been a significant source of friction in international trade in recent years. Since the establishment of the World Trade Organization in 1995, various aspects of U.S. antidumping practice have been subject to dispute settlement in 26 different cases. Most of the issues raised in those cases concern the discretionary practices of the U.S. Import Administration, an agency within the Department of Commerce that administers part of the antidumping law.  At present, the United States remains noncompliant with several WTO determinations that certain U.S. antidumping methodologies violate the rules established by WTO members. Compliance in some of those cases could be achieved simply by changing the offending discretionary practices and would require no actions by the U.S. Congress.  IA routinely exploits gray areas in the law to favor the domestic interests that seek protection--and, according to the verdicts of U.S. courts, sometimes violates the law in the process. In the 18-month period ending in June 2005, IA published 19 antidumping redeterminations pursuant to court orders to revise its assumptions or calculations to become compliant with the law. In 14 of those redeterminations, the revised antidumping rates were lower than those originally calculated. The imposition of antidumping orders and the inflation of antidumping duty rates based on erroneous judgments have profound adverse effects on trade and trade relations.  It is time for U.S. antidumping policy to be brought into the fold of broader U.S. trade policy objectives. Its administration must be disciplined and calibrated with the efforts of other U.S. agencies to open markets abroad and to demonstrate that the United States believes in the merits of free trade. Accordingly, policymakers should consider the merits of establishing an oversight board, comprising representatives from various agencies with jurisdiction over trade policy, to review IA's antidumping determinations before they are published. Such a body could help buffer antidumping decisions from the results orientation and politicization to which they are currently so prone.  

FIVE, Food insecurity won’t cause war
Allouche 11 The sustainability and resilience of global water and food systems: Political analysis of the interplay between security, resource scarcity, political systems and global trade      Jeremy Allouche       Institute of Development Studies, Brighton, UK      Available online 22 January 2011. 

At sub-national scales (i.e. the intra-state level and the local level), the link between scarcity and conflict is more complex. At the intra-state level, recent research on civil wars shows that countries suffering from environmental degradation (soil degradation, deforestation and freshwater supply linked to high population density) were indeed more likely to experiance civil war, but that the magnitude of the effects was secondary to political and economic factors (see for example [Urdal, 2005] and [Hauge and Ellingsen, 1998]). The same is true for hunger and food insecurity as a cause of conflict. The work of Collier and the US State Failure Task Force seems to suggest a possible correlation between food insecurity and civil wars. Collier found a strong relationship between indicators of deprivation (such as low per capita income; economic stagnation and decline; high income inequality; and slow growth in food production per capita) and violent civil strife (Collier, 1999). The US State Failure Task Force found that infant mortality, a surrogate measure of food insecurity and standard of living, was one of three variables most highly correlated with civil war (Goldstone et al., 2003). However, a number of specialists have challenged the notion that food insecurity is a proximate cause of conflict and prefer to emphasize ethnic and political rivalry (Paalberg, 1999). Nonetheless, most analysts would agree that structural conditions of inequality and hunger are among the underlying causes of conflict. But again, ‘physical resource scarcity’ is not in most cases the result of insufficient production or availability but is usually linked to the politics of inequality.

SIX, Tech development solves food scarcity
Thompson 5/13/11 – Dr. Robert L. Thompson is a senior fellow for The Chicago Council on Global Affairs and professor emeritus at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. “Proving Malthus Wrong, Sustainable agriculture in 2050” http://scienceblogs.com/tomorrowstable/2011/05/proving_malthus_wrong_sustaina.php

Tools available today, including plant breeding and biotechnology, can make presently unusable soils productive and increase the genetic potential of individual crops - enhancing drought and stress tolerance, for example - while also producing gains in yields. Existing tools can also internalize plants' resistance to disease, and even improve a plant's nutritional content - meaning consumers can get more nutritional value without increasing their consumption. Furthermore, modern high-productivity agriculture minimizes farmers' impact on the environment. Failure to embrace these technologies will result in further destruction of remaining forests. Adoption of technologies that produce more output from fewer resources has been hugely successful from an economic standpoint: prior to the price spike in 2008, there was a 150-year downward trend in the real price of food. The jury is still out on whether the long-term downward trend will resume, prices will flatten out on a new higher plateau, or they will trend upward in the future. The key is investing in research in the public and private sectors to increase agricultural productivity faster than global demand grows. Long ago, British scholar Thomas Malthus predicted that the human population would eventually outgrow its ability to feed itself. However, Malthus has been proven wrong for more than two centuries precisely because he underestimated the power of agricultural research and technology to increase productivity faster than demand. There is no more reason for Malthus to be right in the 21st century than he was in the 19th or 20th - but only if we work to support, not impede, continued agricultural research and adoption of new technologies around the world. 

SEVEN, econ decline Doesn’t cause war
Miller 2k – Professor of Management, Ottawa (Morris, Poverty As A Cause Of Wars?, http://www.pugwash.org/reports/pac/pac256/WG4draft1.htm, AG)

Thus, these armed conflicts can hardly be said to be caused by poverty as a principal factor when the greed and envy of leaders and their hegemonic ambitions provide sufficient cause. The poor would appear to be more the victims than the perpetrators of armed conflict. It might be alleged that some dramatic event or rapid sequence of those types of events that lead to the exacerbation of poverty might be the catalyst for a violent reaction on the part of the people or on the part of the political leadership who might be tempted to seek a diversion by finding/fabricating an enemy and going to war. According to a study undertaken by Minxin Pei and Ariel Adesnik of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, there would not appear to be any merit in this hypothesis. After studying 93 episodes of economic crisis in 22 countries in Latin America and Asia in the years since World War II they concluded that Much of the conventional wisdom about the political impact of economic crises may be wrong... The severity of economic crisis - as measured in terms of inflation and negative growth - bore no relationship to the collapse of regimes. A more direct role was played by political variables such as ideological polarization, labor radicalism, guerilla insurgencies and an anti-Communist military... (In democratic states) such changes seldom lead to an outbreak of violence (while) in the cases of dictatorships and semi-democracies, the ruling elites responded to crises by increasing repression (thereby using one form of violence to abort another. 

EIGHT, the economy is resilient
Globe and Mail 2010 (5/31/10, BRIAN MILNER, "While gloom says bear, TIGER points to bull", lexis, WEA)

Even at the height of the remarkable rebound of 2009 that brought stocks back from the dead zone, the bears never retreated to their lairs. Negative sentiment among investors remained stubbornly high, no matter how promising the economic indicators looked. And then along came the Greeks and their little sovereign debt problem, the Chinese and their public hand-wringing over asset bubbles and the North Koreans and their latest idiotic sabre-ratting to remind nervous markets just how fragile the nascent global recovery could turn out to be. The latest survey of American investors last week showed bearish sentiment hovering close to 30 per cent, with plenty of room for an uptick in the months ahead, as the optimists come to realize that a V-shaped recovery was never in the cards after the worst global financial and economic crisis since the Great Depression. The world's most overexposed permabear, Nouriel Roubini, is still grabbing headlines with his dire Greece-is-just-the-tip-of-the-iceberg warnings. (Well, he does have a new book to sell.) And such high-profile Canadian bruins as gold-loving money manager Eric Sprott and eminent strategist and data miner David Rosenberg have never veered from their sombre outlooks. The fact that May turned into a particularly brutal month for just about everything but U.S. Treasuries - even after last week's modest rebound, the Dow posted its worst performance for the month in 70 years - only added fuel to arguments that worse, much worse, is yet to come. I mention all this to Eswar Prasad, when I reach the Cornell University economics professor at his hotel in Beijing. Prof. Prasad is a noted China watcher who once headed the IMF's China division and still keeps in close touch with top government finance officials. But on this call, I'm more interested in one of his other hats as a shrewd analyst of global economic and market trends. "My inclination also is to be a bear," the affable academic says. "But the data don't support my bearishness as much as I would like. One has to be a little cautious, because these are based on a variety of indicators. Some of them certainly show more strength than I had realized." The data he's talking about come out of his work on a new composite index derived from a broad set of economic, market and confidence measures in the G20 countries and designed to provide a quarterly snapshot of the global recovery. "All signs are that the recovery has some momentum," says Prof. Prasad, who developed the index at the Brookings Institution, a Washington think tank where he is also a senior fellow. "But I wouldn't call it solid enough momentum that we can consider it 'in the bag.'" The new index, cutely named TIGER (Tracking Indices for the Global Economic Recovery), is a joint effort by Brookings and the Financial Times. And TIGER shows that since the world began climbing out of the deep trough about the middle of last year, big emerging economies have roared ahead, while the developed world has experienced much more uneven results. Industrial production and trade have bounced back handsomely - total exports from the big emerging countries now exceed pre-crisis levels - but the employment picture remains cloudy and consumption has yet to develop a new head of steam. "It's much easier at this stage to list all the things that could derail the recovery," Prof. Prasad says. "But all of those things are still conjectural. The reality, and the data, is that things are looking better."

NINE, the US economy is decoupled from the world
Charles Hugh Smith,Of Two Minds, 1-6-12, p. Lexis

It's possible that the U.S. economy can keep logging positive statistics even as the global economy spiralsinto depression. Never mind that gasoline consumption has plummeted or that savings have dropped or that austerity and higher debt service payments insure a deep recession in Europe; and who cares about China's real estate bubble popping? None of that matters here--or so it seems. Heck, maybe we've entered a new golden era of low volatility; that's possible, too. Everything's fixed, and the U.S. has successfully decoupled from the rest of the global economy. Based on sentiment and volatility readings, those are the consensus views.Reportedly16 out of 16 stock market mavens see nothing but rally ahead--and we all know unanimity is astonishingly accurate in predicting stock prices. The U.S. dollar has traded on a see-saw with equities for years; recently, both equities and the dollar have surged. So either the see-saw has broken or this is the mother of all divergences.


1NC Warming Answers

ONE, Exporting LNG increases emissions and causes catastrophic warming and extinction
Romm 12 (Joe Romm – PhD from MIT, Fellow at American Progress, editor of Climate Progress, previously assistant secretary of energy for energy efficiency and renewable energy. “Exporting Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) Is Bad For The Climate,” Jun 18, 2012 http://thinkprogress.org/climate/2012/06/18/500954/exporting-liquefied-natural-gas-lng-is-bad-for-the-climate/)

The surge in U.S. production of shale gas is creating a surge in permit requests to build liquefied natural gas (LNG) terminals. That’s because the glut of U.S. gas has dropped domestic prices sharply below global price levels. LNG Value ChainBut if avoiding catastrophic climate change is your goal, then spending huge sums on even conventional natural gas infrastructure is not the answer, as a recent International Energy Agency report made clear: The speciﬁc emissions from a gas-ﬁred power plant will be higher than average global CO2 intensity in electricity generation by 2025, raising questions around the long-term viability of some gas infrastructure investment if climate change objectives are to be met. And liquefying natural gas is an energy intensive and leaky process. When you factor in shipping overseas, you get an energy penalty of 20% or more. The extra greenhouse gas emissions can equal 30% or more of combustion emissions, according to a 2009 Reference Report by the Joint Research Centreof the European Commission, Liquefied Natural Gas for Europe – Some Important Issues for Consideration. Such extra emissions all but eliminate whatever small, short-term benefit there might be of building billion-dollar export terminals and other LNG infrastructure, which in any case will last many decades, long after the electric grid will not benefit from replacing coal with gas. Furthermore, the U.S. Energy Information Administration concluded in a 2012 report on natural gas exports done for DOE’s Office of Fossil Energy that such exports would also increase domestic greenhouse gas emissions:[W]hen also accounting for emissionsrelated to natural gas used in the liquefactionprocess, additional exports increase CO2 levels under all cases and export scenarios, particularly in the earlier years of the projection period.Asserting any net benefit for the importer requires assuming the new gas replaces only coal — and isn’t used for, say, natural gas vehicles, which are worse for the climate or that it doesn’t replace new renewables. If even a modest fractionof the imported LNG displaces renewables, it renders the entire expenditure for LNG counterproductive from day one. Remember, a major new 2012 Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences study on “technology warming potentials” (TWPs) found that a big switch from coal to gas would only reduce TWP by about 25% over the first three decades (see “Natural Gas Is A Bridge To Nowhere Absent A Carbon Price AND Strong Standards To Reduce Methane Leakage“). And that is based on “EPA’s latest estimate of the amount of CH4 released because of leaks and venting in the natural gas network between production wells and the local distribution network” of 2.4%. Many experts believe the leakage rate is higher than 2.4%, particularly for shale gas. Also, recent air sampling by NOAA over Colorado found 4% methane leakage, more than double industry claims. A different 2012 study by climatologist Ken Caldeira and tech guru Nathan Myhrvold finds basically no benefit in the switch whatsoever — see You Can’t Slow Projected Warming With Gas, You Need ‘Rapid and Massive Deployment’ of Zero-Carbon Power. So spending vast sums of money to export natural gas from this country is a bad idea for the climate. A new paper published last week by Brooking’s Hamilton Project, “A Strategy for U.S. Natural Gas Exports,” asserts a different conclusion, primarily because it ignores all of the issues discussed above. Indeed, the paper rather amazingly asserts “Natural gas, though, has the same climate consequences whether it is burned in the United States, Europe, or Asia,” which would be true for exported U.S. gas only if we could use magic to take the U.S. shale gas and put it into European or Asian gas-fired power plants. In the real world, it takes a massive amount of energy and greenhouse gas emissions to get gas from here to those markets, as is well known in the climate policy arena. BOTTOM LINE: Investing billions of dollars in new shale gas infrastructure for domestic use is, at best, of limited value for a short period of time if we put in place both a CO2 price and regulations to minimize methane leakage. Exporting gasvitiates even that limited value and so investing billions in LNG infrastructure is, at best, a waste of resources better utilized for deploying truly low-carbon energy. At worst, it helps accelerates the world past the 2°C warming threshold into Terra incognita — a planet of amplifying feedbacks and multiple simultaneous catastrophic impacts.

TWO, Status quo solves – the warrant in their evidence why exports solve is that China and India need to transition from coal. No evidence that exports cause them to switch, and other countries exporting LNG solves this scenario

THREE, Timeframe is 200 years and adaptation solves 
Mendelsohn 9 – Robert O. Mendelsohn 9, the Edwin Weyerhaeuser Davis Professor, Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies, Yale University, June 2009, “Climate Change and Economic Growth,” online: http://www.growthcommission.org/storage/cgdev/documents/gcwp060web.pdf

These statements are largely alarmist and misleading. Although climate change is a serious problem that deserves attention, society’s immediate behavior has anextremely low probabilityof leading tocatastrophic consequences. The science and economics of climate change is quite clear that emissions over the next few decades will lead to only mild consequences. The severe impacts predicted by alarmists require a century (or two in the case of Stern 2006) of no mitigation. Many of the predicted impacts assume there will be no or little adaptation. The net economic impacts from climate change over the next 50 years will be small regardless. Most of the more severe impacts will take more than a century or even a millennium to unfold and many of these “potential” impacts will never occur because people will adapt. It is not at all apparent that immediate and dramatic policies need to be developed to thwart long‐range climate risks. What is needed are long‐run balanced responses.
 
FOUR, It’s too late to solve warming
Andreas Souvaliotis 12 (3-20, “Is It Too Late to Change Climate Change?” http://www.huffingtonpost.ca/andreas-souvaliotis/climate-change_b_1365449.html

The alarm bells were going off 20 years ago at the Rio Summit but few of us were listening. Six years ago, Al Gore raised the volume much higher with his film and we started paying a lot more attention, but we still didn't do much about it. And now the evidence is mounting that we might, in fact, be too far gone already.  Climate change is happening much faster than we anticipated; feedback loops are kicking in everywhere, totally dwarfing any of our own greenhouse gas contributions. Skyrocketing property damage from climate volatility is obliterating livelihoods, panicking insurance companies, and draining government funds. And the OECD just released a frightening study this week, suggesting that our constant debate, dithering, and lack of real response are now setting us up for a severe economic and lifestyle nosedive in the coming decades.  Maybe some of the cynics are right: No matter how much we curb our emissions now, the damage is already done and the climate will continue to destabilize. Maybe that whole "mitigation" concept was pure fantasy and we were a few decades too late. But should we just give up, enjoy the irresponsible partying a little bit longer, and then simply brace ourselves for whatever comes next -- or should we refocus our attention and energy on the things we can still affect?

FIVE, Warming Won’t cause extinction
Hsu 10 (Jeremy, Live Science Staff, July 19, pg. http://www.livescience.com/culture/can-humans-survive-extinction-doomsday-100719.html)

His views deviate sharply from those of most experts, who don't view climate change as the end for humans. Even the worst-case scenariosdiscussed by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change don't foresee human extinction.  "The scenarios that the mainstream climate community are advancing are not end-of-humanity, catastrophic scenarios," said Roger Pielke Jr., a climate policy analyst at the University of Colorado at Boulder.  Humans have the technological tools to begin tackling climate change, if not quite enough yet to solve the problem, Pielke said. He added that doom-mongering did little to encourage people to take action.  "My view of politics is that the long-term, high-risk scenarios are really difficult to use to motivate short-term, incremental action," Pielke explained. "The rhetoric of fear and alarm that some people tend toward is counterproductive."  Searching for solutions  One technological solution to climate change already exists through carbon capture and storage, according to Wallace Broecker, ageochemist and renowned climate scientist at Columbia University's Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory in New York City.  But Broecker remained skeptical that governments or industry would commit the resources needed to slow the rise of carbon dioxide (CO2) levels, and predicted that more drastic geoengineering might become necessary to stabilize the planet.  "The rise in CO2 isn't going to kill many people, and it's not going to kill humanity," Broecker said. "But it's going to change the entire wild ecology of the planet, melt a lot of ice, acidify the ocean, change the availability of water and change crop yields, so we're essentially doing an experiment whose result remains uncertain." 

SIX, No impact to biodiversity 
Boucher 98 (Doug, "Not with a Bang but a Whimper," Science and Society, Fall, http://www.driftline.org/cgi-bin/archive/archive_msg.cgi?file=spoon-archives/marxism-international.archive/marxism-international_1998/marxism-international.9802&msgnum=379&start=32091&end=32412)

The political danger of catastrophism is matched by the weakness of its scientific foundation. Given the prevalence of the idea that the entire biosphere will soon collapse, it is remarkable how few good examples ecology can provide of this happening m even on the scale of an ecosystem, let alone a continent or the whole planet. Hundreds of ecological transformations, due to introductions of alien species, pollution, overexploitation, climate change and even collisions with asteroids, have been documented. They often change the functioning of ecosystems, and the abundance and diversity of their animals and plants, in dramatic ways. The effects on human society can be far-reaching, and often extremely negative for the majority of the population. But one feature has been a constant, nearly everywhere on earth: life goes on. Humans have been able to drive thousands of species to extinction, severely impoverish the soil, alter weather patterns, dramatically lower the biodiversity of natural communities, and incidentally cause great suffering for their posterity. They have not generally been able to prevent nature from growing back. As ecosystems are transformed, species are eliminated -- but opportunities are created for new ones. The natural world is changed, but never totally destroyed. Levins and Lewontin put it well: "The warning not to destroy the environment is empty: environment, like matter, cannot be created or destroyed. What we can do is replace environments we value by those we do not like" (Levins and Lewontin, 1994). Indeed, from a human point of view the most impressive feature of recorded history is that human societies have continued to grow and develop, despite all the terrible things they have done to the earth. Examples of the collapse of civilizations due to their over- exploitation of nature are few and far between. Most tend to be well in the past and poorly documented, and further investigation often shows that the reasons for collapse were fundamentally political.


==Strategies== 
===Valley=== 
**Round 2 vs. East Kentwood (Milliken)**
1NC:
FXT
Elections (Russia Relations)
Kappeler Kritk
States CP
Case
2NR:
Elections
Case

**Round 3 vs. GBN KM (Port Dredging)**
1NC:
Elections (Russia Relations)
States CP
Security Kritik
T-Infrastructure Must Be Permanent/Fixed
Case (With Dedev)

2NR:
Elections
States CP

**Round 5 vs. Iowa City West RK (Port Dredging)**
1NC:
Elections (Russia Relations)
States CP
T-Infrastructure Must Be Permanent/Fixed
Case (With Heg Turns)

2NR:
Elections
States CP





[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]