[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==TOC== 
===Deleuze and Guatarri 1AC. <span style="font-size: 1.1em; line-height: 1.5;">Email averyedge1@gmail.com for cites</span>=== 
==Heritage Hall== 
===**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 17pt;">TUNNEL OF FEAR</span>**=== 

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Contention 1 is Inherency:</span>**==== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Russian construction has been underway – just need the political decision to do the plan</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hicks 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> - </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">President of Angel Publishing and investment director for the income and dividend newsletter The Wealth Advisory. He writes about general investment strategies for Wealth Daily, Energy & Capital and the H & L Market Report. <Brian. “Former Cold War Rivals Shake Hands Across the Bering Strait” June 17th 2012. http://www.wealthdaily.com/articles/infrastructure-investment/3532>//CS//</span>

====//**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Plan:</span>**//==== 


//**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The USFG should construct an underwater rail tunnel under its half of the Bering Strait. We claim fiat and the right to clarification in CX</span>**//

====//**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Contention 2 is Integration:</span>**//==== 

//**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The plan leads to global rail integration—solves all war</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Burroughs 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of NICE, Inc. a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University “The Fast Track to a Better World”, </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, I.P.)</span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">World rail integration is key to global trade, fair economic growth, environmental protection, and international cooperation</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Burroughs 10 </span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of NICE, Inc. a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University “The Fast Track to a Better World”, </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf|http://www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_wo`rld.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, I.P.)</span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Plan leads to global energy connectivity unifying the globe and stabilizing population and preventing environmental catastrophe.</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Fuller 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Buckminster Fuller started the idea of the strait and created a project manifesto which is updated constantly, June 6, 20**12**, </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.geni.org/globalenergy/library/buckminster_fuller/criticalpath.shtml]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, LSV)</span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Overpopulation and wasteful development destroys biodiversity and causes a massive human dieoff</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">CFBD, 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Center for Biological Diversity, “Overpopulation and Extinction,” Date is last modified, May 31, http://www.biologicaldiversity.org/campaigns/overpopulation/extinction/index.html)</span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Loss of biodiversity causes complete extinction</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Diner, 94 </span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Maj. David, Instructor at the US Army JAG School, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161)</span>//

====//**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Contention 3 is Eastern Siberian Development:</span>**//==== 

//**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bering Strait tunnel is key to Russian Far East development—now is key</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">RUSSIAN PRESS DIGEST 2011</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (“Yakutsk dreams of traveling to America by railway,” August 19, lexis)</span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The plan would draw world attention and overcome barriers to investment</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">DALZIEL 2011</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Stephen, executive director of the Russo-British Chamber of Commerce, “From London to New York via Siberia on train;” This online supplement is produced and published by Rossiyskaya Gazeta (Russia), which takes sole responsibility for the content, The Telegraph, Oct 15, lexis)</span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Infrastructure development in the Russian Far East is key to prevent Chinese encroachment</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">BLAGOV 2007 </span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Sergei, Moscow-based analyst for ISN Security Watch, EnerPub, April 2, http://www.energypublisher.com/article.asp?idarticle=8786)</span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The impact is nuclear winter</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">SHARAVIN 2001 </span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Alexander, Director of the Institute for Military and Political Analysis, What the Papers Say, Oct 3)</span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Integrating RFE resources is key to overall Russian stability</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">GARNETT 2000 </span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Sherman, Dean of James Madison College at MSU, Rapprochement or Rivalry? p34)</span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Political instability causes a nuclear strike on the US</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">PRY 1999 </span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Peter Vincent, Former US Intelligence Operative, War Scare: U.S.-Russia on the Nuclear Brink, netlibrary)</span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Far East development solves overall Russian growth</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">ARSENOV 93 </span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(V. I. Arsenov, Ministry of Economics of the Russian Federation, “INTERCONTINENTAL RAILROAD AND TUNNEL</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">THROUGH THE BERING STRAIT,” 05/1993 , Soil Mechanics and Foundation Engineering Vol. 30, Issue 3, Online) Gangeezy</span>//

//**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Transit revenues independently help the economy</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">RAZBEGIN 2007</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">- deputy head of industrial research at Russia's Economic and Trade Development Ministry <Victor. “Eurasia-North America Multimodal Transport” Executive Intelligence Review. LaRouche Publications. 34.38 Pgs 36-42. http://www.larouchepub.com/eiw/public/2007/eirv34n38-20070928/36-42_738.pdf></span>//CS

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Russian growth is key to prevent accidental nuclear launch</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">FORDEN 2001</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Geoffrey, senior research fellow at the Security Studies Program at MIT, Policy Analysis, May 3)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Even a moderate scenario for accidental launch would kill billions and cause global disease spread</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">FORROW ET AL 1998 </span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Lachlan Forrow, Bruce G Blair, Ira Helfand, George Lewis, et al, Author Affiliation: From the Division of Gencral Medicine and Primary Care, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard Medical School, (L.F.); the Brookings Institution, Washington, D.C. (B.G.B.); Physicians for Social Responsibility, (I.H.); Massachusetts Institute of Technology, (G.L., TP); the Department of Epidemiology and Social Medicine, Montefiore Medical Center and Albert Einstein College of Medicine, (VS.); Barry S. Levy Associates and Tufts University School of Medicine, (B.S.L.); the Department of Radiology and the Center for International Security and Arms Control, Stanford University, (H.A.); and Mount Sinai School of Medicine; New England Journal of Medicine, April 30)</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Contention 4 is Solvency:</span>**==== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Russia is already building rail links to complete a Bering Strait tunnel—US infrastructure in Alaska is key</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">ASIAN NEWS INTERNATIONAL 2011</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (“Russia set to complete extension rail network to Siberia by 2030,” August 23, lexis)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The tunnel will be completed by 2019</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">BURROUGHS 2009</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of Northern Inter-Continental Enterprises, Inc., (NICE, Inc.) an Alaska Corporation chartered for the purpose of building the Bering Strait railway tunnels and connecting trackage between the North American and Asian rail systems. He has been CEO of several short-line and regional railroads, and is an officer and a Founding Director of the Interhemispheric Bering Strait Tunnel & Railroad Group, an Alaska not-for-profit educational corporation which has been studying and promoting the trans-Bering Strait rail link for the past 17 years. Mr. Burroughs holds a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University('65) and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University's Kellogg School('70), “THE FAST TRACK TO A BETTER WORLD,” June, www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf)</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Add-On</span>**==== 

**US-Russian relations are deteriorating—the plan is key to overcome other sources of conflict**
**KIRACOFE 6/24/12**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Clifford A. Kiracofe, //teaches political science at Washington and Lee University and history at the Virginia Military Institute. He was formerly a Senior Professional Staff Member of the United States Senate on Foreign Relations and has extensive inside experience of American federal government,// June 24, 2012, “US, Russia need to see their ties grow”, Global Times, [[http://www.globaltimes.cn/content/716731.shtml]], DMintz]</span>


**Relations solve nuclear war, nuke terrorism, prolif, Afghanistan stability, China rise, US econ, and general peace**

**Allison and Blackwill 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Graham Allison, Director, //Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs; Douglas Dillon Professor of Government; Faculty Chair, Dubai Initiative, Harvard Kennedy School,// Robert D. Blackwill, //International Council Member, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs,// October 30, 2011, “10 Reasons Why Russia Still Matters”, Belfer Center, [[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/21469/10_reasons_why_russia_still_matters.html]], DMintz]</span>


**Relations solve accidental nuclear war**

**Cohen 10**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Stephen F. Cohen, //prof, Russian Studies and History, NYU, Prof emeritus, Princeton,// May 25, 2010, “ US-Russian Relations in an Age of American Triumphalism: An Interview with Stephen F. Cohen”, http://www.thenation.com/article/us-russian-relations-age-american-triumphalism-interview-stephen-f-cohen]</span>


**The Bering Strait Tunnel would serve as the foundation to establish a new cooperation framework**

**Petrovskiy 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Vladimir Petrovskiy, Professor, Moscow State University of International Relations, “Bering Strait Project : Towards a New International Cooperation Framework,” 2008, [[http://asianecf.oranc.co.kr/aecf_data/IJAE11.pdf]]) Gangeezy</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Desecuritization through cooperation is crucial to the rethinking of relations between states in order to imagine a non-violent, non-exclusionary politics.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Roe 4 </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Paul Roe, Assistant Professor in the Department of International Relations and European Studies at the Central European University, 2004, Security Dialogue, Vol 35, no 3, 279-294, “Securitization and Minority Rights: Conditions of Desecuritization” DOI: 10.1177/0967010604047527)v</span>**


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Security logic allows for fascism – </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Neocleous '08</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Mark Neocleous, Professor of Critique of Political Economy @ Brunel University (UK), 2008 (“Critique of Security.” Pg. 9. )</span>





===Unshackled 1AC=== 

====**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 18pt;">Admiral Richard B. Byrd's Diary</span>****<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">(Feb. Mar. 1947 )</span>**==== 
**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">The exploration flight over the North Pole</span>**

<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;"> ( The Inner Earth My Secret Diary )</span>

<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;"> I must write this diary in secrecy and obscurity. It con cerns my Arctic flight of the nineteenth day of February in the year of Nineteen and Forty Seven.</span>
<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">There comes a time when the rationality of men must fade into insignificance and one must accept the inevitability of the Truth! I am not at liberty to disclose the following documenta tion at this writing ...perhaps it shall never see the light of public scrutiny, but I must do my duty and record here for all to read one day. In a world of greed and exploitation of certain of mankind can no longer suppress that which is truth.</span>

====<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">PLAN TEXT:</span>==== 
<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">THE USFG SHOULD FOLLOW IN THE PATH OF THE LATE GREAT ADMIRAL RICHARD BYRD TO UNSHACKLE THE SECRETS OF THE HOLLOW EARTH</span>



====<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;"> **FLIGHT LOG:**</span>==== 
<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">**BASE CAMP ARCTIC, 2/19/1947**</span>
**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">0600 Hours</span>**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">- All preparations are complete for our flight north ward and we are airborne with full fuel tanks at 0610 Hours.</span>
**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">0620 Hours</span>**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">- fuel mixture on starboard engine seems too rich, adjustment made and Pratt Whittneys are running smoothly.</span>
**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">0730 Hours</span>**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">- Radio Check with base camp. All is well and radio reception is normal.</span>
**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">0740 Hours</span>**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">- Note slight oil leak in starboard engine, oil pres sure indicator seems normal, however.</span>
**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">0800 Hours</span>**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">- Slight turbulence noted from easterly direction at altitude of 2321 feet, correction to 1700 feet, no further turbu lence, but tail wind increases, slight adjustment in throttle controls, aircraft performing very well now.</span>
**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">0815 Hours</span>**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">- Radio Check with base camp, situation normal.</span>
**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">0830 Hours</span>**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">- Turbulence encountered again, increase altitude to 2900 feet, smooth flight conditions again.</span>
**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">0910 Hours</span>**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">- Vast Ice and snow below, note coloration of yellowish nature, and disperse in a linear pattern. Altering course foe a better examination of this color pattern below, note reddish or purple color also. Circle this area two full turns and return to assigned compass heading. Position check made again to base camp, and relay information concerning colorations in the Ice and snow below.</span>
**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">0910 Hours</span>**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">- Both Magnetic and Gyro compasses beginning to gyrate and wobble, we are unable to hold our heading by instrumentation. Take bearing with Sun compass, yet all seems well. The controls are seemingly slow to respond and have sluggish quality, but there is no indication of Icing!</span>
**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">0915 Hours</span>**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">- In the distance is what appears to be mountains.</span>
**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">0949 Hours</span>**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">- 29 minutes elapsed flight time from the first sight ing of the mountains, it is no illusion. They are mountains and consisting of a small range that I have never seen before!</span>
**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">0955 Hours</span>**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">- Altitude change to 2950 feet, encountering strong turbulence again.</span>
**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">1000 Hours</span>**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">- We are crossing over the small mountain range and still proceeding northward as best as can be ascertained. Beyond the mountain range is what appears to be a valley with a small river or stream running through the center portion. There should be no green valley below! Something is definitely wrong and abnormal here! We should be over Ice and Snow! To the portside are great forests growing on the mountain slopes. Our navigation Instruments are still spinning, the gyroscope is oscillating back and forth!</span>
**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">1005 Hours</span>**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">- I alter altitude to 1400 feet and execute a sharp left turn to better examine the valley below. It is green with either moss or a type of tight knit grass. The Light here seems different. I cannot see the Sun anymore. We make another left turn and we spot what seems to be a large animal of some kind below us. It appears to be an elephant! NO!!! It looks more like a mammoth! This is incredible! Yet, there it is! Decrease altitude to 1000 feet and take binoculars to better examine the animal. It is confirmed - it is definitely a mammoth-like ani mal! Report this to base camp.</span>
**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">1030 Hours</span>**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">- Encountering more rolling green hills now. The external temperature indicator reads 74 degrees Fahrenheit! Continuing on our heading now. Navigation instruments seem normal now. I am puzzled over their actions. Attempt to contact base camp. Radio is not functioning!</span>
**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">1130 Hours</span>**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">- Countryside below is more level and normal (if I may use that word). Ahead we spot what seems to be a city!!!! This is impossible! Aircraft seems light and oddly buoyant. The controls refuse to respond!! My GOD!!! Off our port and star board wings are a strange type of aircraft. They are closing rapidly alongside! They are disc-shaped and have a radiant quality to them. They are close enough now to see the markings on them. It is a type of Swastika!!! This is fantastic. Where are we! What has happened. I tug at the controls again. They will not respond!!!! We are caught in an invisible vice grip of some type!</span>
**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">1135 Hours</span>**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">- Our radio crackles and a voice comes through in English with what perhaps is a slight Nordic or Germanic accent! The message is://'Welcome, Admiral, to our domain. We shall land you in exactly seven minutes! Relax, Admiral, you are in good hands.'// I note the engines of our plane have stopped running! The aircraft is under some strange control and is now turning itself. The controls are useless.</span>
**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">1140 Hours</span>**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">- Another radio message received. We begin the landing process now, and in moments the plane shudders slightly, and begins a descent as though caught in some great unseen elevator! The downward motion is negligible, and we touch down with only a slight jolt!</span>
**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">1145 Hours</span>**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">- I am making a hasty last entry in the flight log. Several men are approaching on foot toward our aircraft. They are tall with blond hair. In the distance is a large shimmering city pulsating with rainbow hues of color. I do not know what is going to happen now, but I see no signs of weapons on those approaching. I hear now a voice ordering me by name to open the cargo door. I comply. </span>**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">END LOG</span>**

====**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;"> From this point I write all the following events here from memory.</span>**==== 
<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">It defies the imagination and would seem all but madness if it had not happened.</span>
<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">The radioman and I are taken from the aircraft and we are re ceived in a most cordial manner. We were then boarded on a small platform-like conveyance with no wheels! It moves us toward the glowing city with great swiftness. As we approach, the city seems to be made of a crystal material. Soon we arrive at a large building that is a type I have never seen before. It appears to be right out of the design board of Frank Lloyd Wright, or perhaps more correctly, out of a Buck Rogers setting!! We are given some type of warm beverage which tasted like nothing I have ever savored before. It is delicious. After about ten minutes, two of our wondrous appearing hosts come to our quarters and announce that I am to accompany them. I have no choice but to comply. I leave my radioman behind and we walk a short dis tance and enter into what seems to be an elevator. We descend downward for some moments, the machine stops, and the door lifts silently upward! We then proceed down a long hallway that is lit by a rose-colored light that seems to be emanating from the very walls themselves! One of the beings motions for us to stop before a great door. Over the door is an inscription that I cannot read. The great door slides noiselessly open and I am beckoned to enter. One of my hosts speaks. </span>//<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">'Have no fear, Admiral, you are to have an audience with the Master...'</span>//
<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">I step inside and my eyes adjust to the beautiful coloration that seems to be filling the room completely. Then I begin to see my sur roundings. What greeted my eyes is the most beautiful sight of my entire existence. It is in fact too beautiful and wondrous to describe. It is exquisite and delicate. I do not think there exists a human term that can describe it in any detail with justice! My thoughts are interrupted in a cordial manner by a warm rich voice of melodious quality, </span>//<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">'I bid you welcome to our domain, Admiral.'</span>//<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;"> I see a man with delicate features and with the etching of years upon his face. He is seated at a long table. He motions me to sit down in one of the chairs. After I am seated, he places his fingertips together and smiles. He speaks softly again, and conveys the following.</span>
//<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">'We have let you enter here because you are of noble character and well-known on the Surface World, Admiral.'</span>//<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;"> Surface World, I half-gasp under my breath! </span>//<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">'Yes," the Master replies with a smile, 'you are in the domain of the Arianni, the Inner World of the Earth. We shall not long delay your mission, and you will be safely escorted back to the surface and for a distance beyond. But now, Admiral, I shall tell you why you have been summoned here. Our interest rightly begins just after your race exploded the first atomic bombs over Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Japan. It was at that alarm ing time we sent our flying machines, the "Flugelrads", to your surface world to investigate what your race had done. That is, of course, past history now, my dear Admiral, but I must continue on. You see, we have never interfered before in your race's wars, and barbarity, but now we must, for you have learned to tamper with a certain power that is not for man, namely, that of atomic energy. Our emissaries have already delivered messages to the powers of your world, and yet they do not heed. Now you have been chosen to be witness here that our world does exist. You see, our Culture and Science is many thousands of years beyond your race, Admiral.' I interrupted, 'But what does this have to do with me, Sir?'</span>//
<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">The Master's eyes seemed to penetrate deeply into my mind, and after studying me for a few moments he replied, </span>//<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">'Your race has now reached the point of no return, for there are those among you who would destroy your very world rather than relinquish their power as they know it...'</span>//<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;"> I nodded, and the Master continued, </span>//<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">'In 1945 and afterward, we tried to contact your race, but our efforts were met with hostility, our Flugelrads were fired upon. Yes, even pursued with malice and animosity by your fighter planes. So, now, I say to you, my son, there is a great storm gathering in your world, a black fury that will not spend itself for many years. There will be no answer in your arms, there will be no safety in your science. It may rage on until every flower of your culture is trampled, and all human things are leveled in vast chaos. Your recent war was only a prelude of what is yet to come for your race. We here see it more clearly with each hour..do you say I am mistaken?'</span>//
//<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">'No,' I answer, 'it happened once before, the dark ages came and they lasted for more than five hundred years.'</span>//
//<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">'Yes, my son,'</span>//<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;"> replied the Master, </span>//<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">'the dark ages that will come now for your race will cover the Earth like a pall, but I believe that some of your race will live through the storm, beyond that, I cannot say. We see at a great distance a new world stirring from the ruins of your race, seeking its lost and legendary treasures, and they will be here, my son, safe in our keeping. When that time arrives, we shall come forward again to help revive your culture and your race. Perhaps, by then, you will have learned the futility of war and its strife...and after that time, certain of your culture and science will be returned for your race to begin anew. You, my son, are to return to the Surface World with this message.....'</span>//
<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">With these closing words, our meeting seemed at an end. I stood for a moment as in a dream....but, yet, I knew this was reality, and for some strange reason I bowed slightly, either out of respect or humility, I do not know which.</span>
<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">Suddenly, I was again aware that the two beautiful hosts who had brought me here were again at my side. 'This way, Admiral,' motioned one. I turned once more before leaving and looked back toward the Master. A gentle smile was etched on his delicate and ancient face. </span>//<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">'Farewell, my son,'</span>//<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;"> he spoke, then he gestured with a lovely, slender hand a motion of peace and our meeting was truly ended.</span>
<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">Quickly, we walked back through the great door of the Master's chamber and once again entered into the elevator. The door slid silently downward and we were at once going upward. One of my hosts spoke again, </span>//<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">'We must now make haste, Admiral, as the Master desires to delay you no longer on your scheduled timetable and you must return with his message to your race.'</span>//
<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">I said nothing. All of this was almost beyond belief, and once again my thoughts were interrupted as we stopped. I entered the room and was again with my radioman. He had an anxious expres sion on his face. As I approached, I said, </span>//<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">'It is all right, Howie, it is all right.'</span>//<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;"> The two beings motioned us toward the awaiting conveyance, we boarded, and soon arrived back at the aircraft. The engines were idling and we boarded immediately. The whole atmosphere seemed charged now with a certain air of urgency. After the cargo door was closed the aircraft was imme diately lifted by that unseen force until we reached an altitude of 2700 feet. Two of the aircraft were alongside for some dis tance guiding us on our return way. I must state here, the airspeed indicator registered no reading, yet we were moving along at a very rapid rate.</span>
**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">215 Hours</span>**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">- A radio message comes through. </span>//<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">'We are leaving you now, Admiral, your controls are free. Auf Wiedersehen!!!!'</span>//<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;"> We watched for a moment as the flugelrads disappeared into the pale blue sky.</span>
<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">The aircraft suddenly felt as though caught in a sharp downdraft for a moment. We quickly recovered her control. We do not speak for some time, each man has his thoughts....</span>

====**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">ENTRY IN FLIGHT LOG CONTINUES:</span>**==== 
**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">220 Hours</span>**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">- We are again over vast areas of ice and snow, and approximately 27 minutes from base camp. We radio them, they respond. We report all conditions normal....normal. Base camp expresses relief at our re-established contact.</span>
**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">300 Hours</span>**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">- We land smoothly at base camp. I have a mission.....</span>
**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">END LOG ENTRIES</span>**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">.</span>
**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">March 11, 1947</span>**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">. I have just attended a staff meeting at the Pentagon. I have stated fully my discovery and the message from the Master. All is duly recorded. The President has been ad vised. I am now detained for several hours (six hours, thirty- nine minutes, to be exact.) I am interviewed intently by Top Security Forces and a medical team. It was an ordeal!!!! I am placed under strict control via the national security provisions of this United States of America. I am ORDERED TO REMAIN SILENT IN REGARD TO ALL THAT I HAVE LEARNED, ON THE BEHALF OF HUMANITY1111 Incredible! I am reminded that I am a military man and I must obey orders.</span>

====**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">30/12/56: FINAL ENTRY:</span>**==== 
<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">These last few years elapsed since 1947 have not been kind...I now make my final entry in this singular diary. In closing, I must state that I have faithfully kept this matter secret as directed all these years. It has been completely against my values of moral right. Now, I seem to sense the long night coming on and this secret will not die with me, but as all truth shall, it will triumph and so it shall.</span>
<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">This can be the only hope for mankind. I have seen the truth and it has quickened my spirit and has set me free! I have done my duty toward the monstrous military industrial complex. Now, the long night begins to approach, but there shall be no end. Just as the long night of the Arctic ends, the brilliant sunshine of Truth shall come again....and those who are of darkness shall fall in it's Light..FOR I HAVE SEEN THAT LAND BEYOND THE POLE, THAT CENTER OF THE GREAT UNKNOWN.</span>
**<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;">Admiral Richard E. Byrd</span>**

<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;"> United States Navy</span>

<span style="color: #201062; font-size: 13.5pt;"> 24 December 1956</span>

==Bentonville 1AC== 

===Transportation Apartheid=== 

====**Contention 1 is Urban Neoliberal Racial Marginalization**==== 

**Transportation constitutes the fundamental element of lived experience in our current age. Public transit especially shapes and constrains who can move where, when, and why. Current federal transportation infrastructure investment is tilted in favor of suburban needs, both subsidizing high-speed rails and highways, leaving the transport-dependent without options.**
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Joe **Grengs, professor of Urban and Regional Planning, University of Michigan 2005** (“The abandoned social goals of public transit in the neoliberal city of the USA” City: analysis of urban trends, culture, theory, policy, action Volume 9, Issue 1, 2005 pages 51-66)</span>

**Perversely, the federal government continues to subsidize dependency on automobiles by favoring parking over mass transit. Such subsidies are more costly than investment in mass transit systems that could end enduring continued inequities that punish the disadvantaged for not owning automobiles.**
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Todd **Litman, founder and executive director of the Victoria Transport Policy Institute, 2007** ([[http://urbanhabitat.org/node/342]] Transportation Solutions, Moving the Movement for Transportation Justice, Vol. 12 No. 1 Spring)</span>

**This federal posture reflects a brand of neoliberal racism, an insidious systemic philosophy that encourages slashing services to those most dependent on public transit in favor of increasing flexibility to an elite consumer class. City developers use transit policy to promote images of urban decadence at the expense of marginalized and poor populations.**
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Stephanie **Farmer, professor of Sociology, Roosevelt University, 2011** (“Uneven public transportation development in neoliberalizing Chicago, USA” Environment and Planning A 2011, volume 43, pages 1154 – 1172)</span>

**Neoliberalism and racism are a deadly double edged sword: As profit takes priority over people’s lives, those lives sacrificed are almost always raced. But transit apartheid is not inevitable; social justice could once again be a central aim of transit policy.**
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Joe **Grengs** professor of Urban and Regional Planning, University of Michigan **2005** (The abandoned social goals of public transit in the neoliberal city of the USA City: analysis of urban trends, culture, theory, policy, action Volume 9, Issue 1, 2005 pages 51-66)</span>

**Space can be designed to promote interaction or competition. A neoliberal agenda destroys places for unique democratic engagement as it takes up whole swathes of the urban landscape, while outer areas become spaces marked for death. While the crises of neoliberal capitalism mount, we must refuse to turn a blind eye and instead confront the degradation and warfare that will become inevitable**
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">David **Harvey, Professor of** </span>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anthropology|**Anthropology**]]**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> at the Graduate Center of the </span>**[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/City_University_of_New_York|**City University of New York**]]**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">, 2010</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> (The Enigma of Capital, and the crises of capitalism 224-228)</span>

**Specifically, 70,000 people will die each year due to the smog produced by the neoliberal engine, more dedicated to car culture than to providing livable communities for the urban poor.**
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Robert D. **Bullard, Professor of Sociology and Director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University, 2005** (All Transit Is Not Created Equal, Moving the Movement for Transportation Justice Vol. 12 No. 1 Winter, [[http://urbanhabitat.org/node/306]])</span>

**We have an obligation to promote an end to this exclusion. Treating poor communities of color as expendable excess in the neoliberal economy risks the worst forms of state violence based upon racism.**
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Duarte– Professor of Philosophy @ Universidade Federal do Paraná,</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> Curitiba, Brazil. **2005** [André Duarte, “Biopolitics and the dissemination of violence: the Arendtian critique of the present,” Final version - 27 April 2005, pg. </span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://hannaharendt.net/research/biopolitics.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">] </span>

====**Thus, the plan**==== 

**The United States federal government should substantially increase its funding of regional transport systems that give priority to fulfilling the needs of transit-dependent users.**

**Funding through end-user market pricing for automobile parking.**

====**Contention 2 is Solvency**==== 

**We must advance the movement for transportation justice by demanding new prioritization in the allocation of federal transportation investment towards those who most depend on public transit. Such a transportation system is a prerequisite to more fundamental political transformations away from environmentally destruction profit-generation, to creating genuine livable relations.**
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Eric </span>**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mann</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> et al, members of the Labor/Community Strategy Center </span>**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2005</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> (Eric Mann, Kikanza Ramsey, Barbara Lott-Holland, and Geoff Ray are members of the Labor/Community Strategy Center. An Environmental Justice Strategy for Urban Transportation, Moving the Movement for Transportation Justice Vol. 12 No. 1 [[http://urbanhabitat.org/node/305]])</span>

**Ending the subsidizing of automobile transit by charging for parking can result in new funding for public transit, removing massive damages to the environment and urban communities.**
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Donald </span>**<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Shoup</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">, professor of urban planning, UCLA </span>**<span style="font-size: 16pt;">2005</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> (The High Cost of Free Parking)</span>

====**Contention 3 is framing**==== 

**The 1AC’s highlighting of the fundamental racialized character of current transportation politicizes infrastructure policy, allowing us to redefine the meaning of urban space and the ideas of belonging and exclusion.**
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Douglas </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">**Young**, professor of political science, York University</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">and</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> Roger </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Keil professor and Director, The City Institute at York University, **2010**</span><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> (Reconnecting the disconnected: The politics of infrastructure in the in-between city, Cities Volume 27, Issue 2, April 2010, Pages 87–95)</span>

**Thus, our affirmative is a call to embrace the ethics of the unoppressive city. By strengthening the capacity for all to meet as strangers in public urban space, embraces difference and opens up new possibilities for radical politics.**
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Iris Marion **Young, professor of political science, University of Chicago, 2010** (“The Ideal of Community and the Politics of Difference” in the Blackwell City Reader)</span>

=Negative= 
==Kritiks== 
===Complexity=== 
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(1/14)</span>==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The future is more like a road network than a linear path from A to B to C to D</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The 1AC paves over the complex interactions between their internal links—but THE WHOLE IS MORE THAN THE SUM OF ITS PARTS—their predictions fail and undermine foresight and sustainable planning. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ramalingam et al 2008</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Ben, Senior Research Associate at the Overseas Development Institute, and Harry jones at ODI, "Exploring the science of complexity" </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.odi.org.uk/resources/docs/833.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ] RJ 10</span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(2/14) </span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The 1AC appeals to a chain of internal-links. This paves over clashes of context and assumptions, transforming 1AC research into vacuous mush.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Berube 2000</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(David M, Associate Professor of Speech Communication and Director of Debate at the University of South Carolina. Contemporary Argumentation and Debate 21: 53-73 http://www.cedadebate.org/CAD/index.php/CAD/article/viewFile/248/232)</span>
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (3/14) </span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This is a Voting Issue.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The method of evidence selection used by the 1AC makes effective debate impossible</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stevens 2007</span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(4/14) </span>==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chaos theory dictates transportation – you have to consider complexity in building and maintaining infrastructure.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kockelman and Frazier, 2004</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Frazier is a graduate student researcher at UT, while Kockelman is an assistant professor of civil engineering at UT (Kara and Christopher, “Chaos Theory and Transportation Systems: An Instructive Example”, 9/17/04, [[http://www.ce.utexas.edu/prof/kockelman/public_html/trb04chaos.pdf]]) //BZ</span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (5/14) </span>==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Only moving away from predictive models can address multiple extinction level impacts</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gell-Mann, 97</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Murray, Nobel Laureate in Physics and professor at the Santa Fe Institute and co-chairman of the Science Board (“Chapter 1: The Simple and the Complex,” //Complexity, Global Politics, and National Security//, ed. David S. Alberts and Thomas J. Czerwinski, National Defense University, http://www.dodccrp.org/files/Alberts_Complexity_Global.pdf)RK</span>


====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(6/14) </span>==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The PARADOX OF RISK makes this issue NOT resolvable by weighing the plan. </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Any probability of an impact irrationally registers as infinite.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">As Oliver Kessler writes, “…even the most absurd scenarios can gain plausibility.” By constructing a chain of potentialities, improbable events are linked</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kessler 2008</span>**

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (7/14) </span>==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Existential risk is systemic, not a flash of instability to be predicted and controlled. The 1AC brackets the full complexity of crisis and the value questions behind their scenarios—Preventing the ADAPTATION and RESILIENCE which is our only own hope for a viable future. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mangalagiu 2011</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Diana Mangalagiu, Prof of Strategy at Smith School of Enterprise and Environment-University of Oxford “Risk and resilience in times of globalization” An emerging research program for Global Systems Science: Assessing the state of the art, 10/4/11, [[http://www.gsdp.eu/]]] Mangalagiu 1</span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(8/14) </span>==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Uncertainty and insecurity are inevitable – chaos is the permanent state of existence. The aff’s attempt to impose order onto a world that is not and cannot be ordered creates and reinforces the existential anxiety of our time, causing totalitarianism and flipping the case</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gordan ‘03</span>**
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Kerry, PHD psychology of philosophy/ director of research center on chaos/uncertainty, “The Impermanence of Being: Toward A Psychology Of Uncertainty” Journal of Humanistic Psychology 2003; 43; 96) </span>
===== ===== 
====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (9/14) </span>==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Complexity theory turns solvency – causal chains are impossible to dictate and disastrous policy effects are inevitable</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jervis, 97</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor of international affairs at Columbia (Robert, “Complex Systems: The Role of Interactions”, Complexity, Global Politics, and National Security, [[http://www.dodccrp.org/html4/bibliography/comch03.html]]) //BZ</span>


====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(10/14) </span>==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The alternative to engage in policy analysis of complexity- key to have preferable political results in a chaotic world</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rosenau, 97</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">professor emeritus of international affairs at George Washington (James, “Many Damn Things Simultaneously: Complexity Theory and World Affairs”, Complexity, Global Politics, and National Security, [[http://www.dodccrp.org/html4/bibliography/comch04.html]]) //BZ</span>


====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(11/14) </span>==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Your ballot should interrupt the 1AC’s communication of risk.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Their reductionist framework backfires, undermining political responsibility in the face of threat. Voting negative constitutes a framework adaptive to the complex interactions between assembled predictive claims.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kinsella 10</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">William J. Kinsella, Assoc Prof Communication at NC State University, 2010</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[“Risk communication, phenomenology, and the limits of representation” Catalan Journal of Communication & Cultural Studies 2 (2) pp. 267–276]</span>

====<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(12/14)</span>==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 1.5;">Furthermore, the role of the ballot is an intellectual engagement in good research practices of policy and predictions. This engages in knowledge production that is good for scholarship and complexity.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sil and Katzenstein, 2010</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Sil is an Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of Pennysylvania while Katzenstein is a Professor of International Studies at Cornell (Rudra and Peter, “Analytic Eclecticism in the Study of World Politics: Reconfiguring Problems and Mechanisms across Research Traditions”, part of UPenn articles collection, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.polisci.upenn.edu/faculty/RSEclectic2010.pdf)/BZ|http://www.polisci.upenn.edu/faculty/RSEclectic2010.pdf)//BZ]]</span>
===<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Capitalism</span>=== 

====Transportation infrastructure allows the transfer of goods and people for the economy to occur—it is critical for the expansion of capitalism==== 

**MIZUOKA 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Fujio, PhD in Economics and Professor of Economic Geography at HitotsubashiUniversity,</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“The Effects of Neo-Liberalism: Politics and Path Dependency in the Provision of Public Transportation,” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.vref.se/download/18.1166db0f120540fe049800012720/Mizuoka+-+Effects+of+Neo+Liberalism.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, spencer]</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Public transportation constitutes an important part of a regulatory regime. … these functions work more properly for the welfare of people and spatial homogenisation. </span>



====**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Capitalism allows for the subjugation of the majority at the hands of the rich, necessitating global poverty, destroying democracy, and creating an ecological crisis that threatens extinction – </span>**==== 

**Kaufman, '09**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">De Anza College Interim Director of the Institute for Community and Civic Engagement, 2009 (Cynthia, //Liberation from Capitalism: Visions of a post-capitalist world and direction for getting there//, p. 12-15)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While few see capitalism as a cause, it is widely understood that we are facing serious problems in the world. 1.37 billion people are living on less than $1.22 per day.... to develop strategies for expanding the non-capitalist realities that many of us already live. </span>

==**<span style="font-size: 1.066em; line-height: 1.5;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Capitalism is the root cause of war.</span></span>**== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Carchedi 06 </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Guglielmo, Senior Researcher in the Department of Economics and Econometrics at the University of Amsterdam, Rethinking Marxism, Volume 18, Number 1, January, “The Fallacies of Keynesian Policies,” p. 77-78, ebsco)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If neither civilian nor military Keynesian policies can jump-start the economy, the alternative is war. ….The Western world has exported (created) countless wars in many dominated countries and has engaged in military Keynesian policies for the above-mentioned reasons.</span>

==== ==== 
====<span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 1.5;">**Scream NO in the face of capitalism - Our negation is a refusal to engage in the bourgeois society the way we’ve been told to. We scream “NO” in this space, in this moment, we are NOT going to do what the capitalist society expects of us. This negation is revolutionary and is embodiment of dignity in the face of oppression. We must start from pure negation if we hope to create new possibilities.**</span>==== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Holloway 2010</span>**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (John, Professor at the Instituto de Ciencias Sociales y Humanidades, Benemérita Universidad Autónoma de Puebla,Mexico, “Crack Capitalism”)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Imagine a sheet of ice covering a dark lake of possibility. … The availability of land made it possible for them to convert their refusal into a decisive rupture and to develop an activity quite different from that planned for them by Mr. Peel.</span>





==Strats== 
===NFL AR Districts=== 
Round 1 vs Heritage (Nuke waste)
1NC Coercion, Complexity, case turns
2NC Coercion
1NR Complexity
2NR both Kritiks
===TOC=== 
Round 1 vs LRC (Constellation)
1NC Communications T, Butterfly effect
2NC Butterfly Effect
1NR T
2NR K

Round 3 vs LRC (MTS)
1NC Butterfly Effect, Cap
2NC K
1NR Cap, case
2NR K
===Searcy=== 
NOTE: Edge went with Taylor Hogue here. Edge was 2N.
Round 2 vs Little Rock Central (Hydrogen)
1NC Cap K, Butterfly Effect K, case
2NC Butterfly Effect
1NR Cap, case
2NR Butterfly Effect
===Ft. Smith=== 
Round 1 vs Bentonville (Freight rail)
1NC Urban sprawl, Cap, complexity turns
2NC Cap
1NR Sprawl, case
2NR Cap, Sprawl
===UCA=== 
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Round 1 vs Hall (Hip Hop)</span>
1NC Cap
2NC Cap
1NR Cap, case
2NR Cap

Round 3 vs Heritage (Osprey)
1NC T-Mil, Fear, Cap, Steel
2NC Cap, Steel
1NR Fear Cap
2NR Cap, Steel, Fear

Finals vs Fayetteville Wang, Hogue (Communism)
1NC D&G Counter Advocacy, Zizek Ideology K
2NC Ideology, D&G, case
1NR Ideology
2NR D&G
===Heritage Hall=== 
Round 1 vs C.E. Byrd GN (Graffiti D&G)
1NC T - Investment, Framework, Deleuze and Guattari counter advocacy
2NC Counter Advocacy
1NR Framework, T
2NR - Counter advocacy

Round 4 vs Charles Page TT (Solar roadways)
1NC Cap, Security
2NC Cap
1NR Security
2NR Cap

Round 5 vs Crossings Christian WT (Port Modernization)
1NC Cap, Beef DA
2NC Cap
1NR Beef DA
2NR Cap

===Rogers Heritage=== 
Round 1 vs Bentonville (Apartheid)
1NC Framework, Counter-kritik, Education CP
2NC Case, CP
1NR Counter Kritik, Framework
2NR CP, Framework

Quarters vs LRC Syed/Siems (NextGen)
1NC T - communications, Cap, Bering Strait CP, case
2NC Cap, case, T(?)
1NR Cap, CP
2NR Cap, CP

===Russleville=== 
Round 1 vs Heritage Reed/Rogel (CO2 Pipelines)
1NC T - not energy, Cap, case
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">2NC Cap</span>
1NR Cap, T
2NR Cap, T

Round 3 vs Heritage (Milliken)
1NC Cap, T, case
2NC
1NR Cap, T
2NR

===Little Rock Central=== 
Round 1 vs Bentonville Prestage/White (Disabilities)
1NC T - substantially invest, Cap, elections
2NC T, Cap
1NR T, Cap
2NR

Round 3 vs Bentonville Brust/Secrest (NextGen)
1NC Cap, Elections
2NC
1NR
2NR

===Bentonville=== 
Round 1 vs Heritage (Space elevators)
1NC T - space not transpo, Complexity
2NC T, Complexity
1NR Complexity
2NR

Round 3 vs LRC (Refueling Stations)
1NC 1 off Complexity
2NC Complexity
1NR all new case lol
2NR Complexity