[[toc]]
=(VBI Camp 2013 Cites)= 
Look to other Northland debaters pages for more.
==Affirmative== 

==Negative== 

Bop to the Top DA

**<span style="color: #1c1c1c; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">A. is the uniqueness </span>****<span style="color: #0e0e0e; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">US soft power is currently on the decline, we need something to stop it from declining , Kagan 12,</span>**
<span style="color: #0e0e0e; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Robert Kagan Jan 11, 2012 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.newrepublic.com/article/politics/magazine/99521/america-world-power-declinism]]</span><span style="color: #0e0e0e; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> “New Republic SH 7/3/13</span>



**<span style="color: #1c1c1c; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">B is the link. A letter from the EU Justice Commissioner Reding to US Attorney General Eric Holder wrote specifically about how there are serious concerns about US data collection receiving data from the EU through US companies, Whittaker, 6/13</span>**
<span style="color: #1c1c1c; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[writes about technology, society, politics and anything in-between, as well as giving the occasional university lecture, and discussing the events of the day on television and radio. He saw his first academic work published at the age of 22 -- then still an undergraduate -- and has since been cited by CNN, BBC News, The Guardian, The Wall Street Journal, and The Washington Post.] “EU 'assessing U.S. relationship' amid PRISM spying claims” </span><span style="color: #596063; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">June 13, 2013 </span><span style="color: #1c1c1c; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.zdnet.com/eu-assessing-u-s-relationship-amid-prism-spying-</span><span style="color: #1c1c1c; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">claims-7000016794/ SH</span>


C. is the internal link.
**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Specifically because of the data mining in general it has caused the attempt at a new trade pact between the US and the EU to halt and has potential to decrease our soft power so much it makes our relations with EU on the brink of destruction. This</span>**<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold';">also means the brink is right now, Traynor 6/30</span>
<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Ian Traynor **__“__**</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Key US-EU trade pact under threat after more NSA spying allegations” </span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">30 June 2013 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2013/jun/30/nsa-spying-europe-claims-us-eu-trade]]</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;"> GS, SH 7/4/13</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">D. If the US were to diminish in soft power, such as losing a major ally in the EU, would cause power conflicts in the Middle East that escalate to nuclear war, Kagan 7,</span>**

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Kagan, 7 (Robert, senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Policy Review, August/Sept, “End of Dreams, Return of History”) SH</span>




E. is the impact. Any use of nuclear weapons would lead to nuclear war and that risks extinction, Nissani,

//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Moti Nissani “</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Chapter 2: CONSEQUENCES OF NUCLEAR WAR” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.is.wayne.edu/MNISSANI/PAGEPUB/CH2.html]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Nissani, M. (1992). //Lives in the Balance: the Cold War and American Politics//, 1945-1991. SH 7/4/13</span>






AT Terror Cards Requested
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1. </span>****Privacy will go out the window if we don’t stand up for it now, DeVries 3,**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Will Thomas DeVries 2003 “ANNUAL REVIEW OF LAW AND TECHNOLOGY: III. CYBER LAW: A. PRIVACY: Protecting Privacy in the Digital Age” Page 1-9 18 Berkeley Tech. L.J. 283, JSTOR, SH</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">When we violate the privacy rights of individual people they are victimized again and again causing infinite rights violations **Judith Butler**[[home#_ftn1|[1]]] ’03 argues:</span>



<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 13pt;">Turn- Data mining increases the chance of missing terrorist plots. Bruce Schneier</span>
<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 13pt;"> [Bruce Schneier is an American cryptographer, computer security specialist, and writer. He is the author of several books on general security topics, computer security and cryptography.]</span>
<span style="color: #103cc0; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.wired.com/politics/security/commentary/securitymatters/2006/03/70357?currentPage=all]]</span><span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 8pt;"> 06</span>




<span style="color: #1a1a1a;">1. These attacks we have “foiled” were not inevitable and we won’t ever know if they will be created and there are other ways to combat terrorist attacks that are perfectly fine and working now,, Miron 13,</span>

<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cato.org/people/jeffrey-miron|Jeffrey A. Miron]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [</span><span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 8pt;">Jeffrey A. Miron is a Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and the Director of Undergraduate Studies in the Department of Economics at Harvard University. ]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">June 13, 2013. </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Do the NSA’s Phone and Internet Monitoring Programs Make Sense?”http://www.cato.org/publications/commentary/do-nsas-phone-internet-monitoring-programs-make-sense?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+CatoRecentOpeds+(Cato+Recent+Op-eds)</span>



**__<span style="color: #1a1a1a;">2.</span>__**The US might have used to stop terrorism but after the leaks from Snowden you might as well try to catch them using mouse traps **Fox News**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fox News Al Qaeda, terrorists changing communication methods after NSA leaks, US officials say </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">June 26, 2013 </span><span style="color: #003399; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.foxnews.com/us/2013/06/26/al-qaida-other-militants-said-to-be-changing-procedures-to-avoid-surveillance/#ixzz2XqSFC4m2|http://www.foxnews.com/us/2013/06/26/al-qaida-other-militants-said-to-be-changing-procedures-to-avoid-surveillance/#ixzz2XqSFC4m2]]</span>


1. No nuclear terror. Tertrais ’10:
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bruno Tertrais (Senior Research Fellow, Fondation pour la Recherche Strategique), “The Illogic of Zero”, THE WASHINGTON QUARTERLY, Center for Strategic and International Studies, APRIL 2010. http://wiki.victorybriefs.com/downloads/0816/Tertrais_10_The_llogic_of_Zero.pdf</span>


<span style="color: #6d6d6d; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2. No big terror, Flank 6.29,</span>
<span style="color: #6d6d6d; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Lenny Flank </span><span style="color: #5d5a48; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">JUN 29, 2013 </span>**__<span style="color: #1b1b1b; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">“</span>__**<span style="color: #1c1c1c; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dailykos.com/story/2013/06/29/1219914/-The-Size-of-the-Terrorist-Threat|The Size of the "Terrorist Threat"]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">”http://www.dailykos.com/story/2013/06/29/1219914/-The-Size-of-the-Terrorist-Threat</span>









----
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref|[1]]]Butler, Judith. “Violence, Mourning, Politics” //Studies in Gender & Sexuality// 4.1 (2003), 20 – 23</span>


=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]