[[2012-2013 - Bishop Guertin (NH) - Steven Canova & Luke Van Seters|Back to main page]]
=Impact Turns= 
[[toc]]
==Dedev== 
===1NC Collapse Inevitable=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Economic collapse is inevitable – now’s better than later</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Deborah **Mackenzie 09** – BBC Correspondant. Quotes Joe Tainter - an archaeologist at the University of Utah, Salt Lake City, and author of the 1988 book The Collapse of Complex Societies, and Yaneer Bar-Yam, head of the New England Complex Systems Institute in Cambridge, Massachusetts 4/5/2008 (“Are WE doomed?” Ebsco)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">DOOMSDAY. The end of civilisation. Literature and film abound … prevent stagnation or collapse, and in the long run this cannot be sustainable.</span>

===1NC No War=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Economic decline doesn’t cause war</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Thomas P.M. **Barnett**, senior managing director of Enterra Solutions LLC, “The New Rules: Security Remains Stable Amid Financial Crisis,” 8/25/**2009**,[[http://www.aprodex.com/the-new-rules--security-remains-stable-amid-financial-crisis-398-bl.aspx]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">When the global financial crisis struck roughly a year ago, the … of America's post-World War II international liberal trade order.</span>

===1NC Environmental Collapse=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Growth makes eco-collapse inevitable</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Speth, law prof, 8**—Served as President Jimmy Carter’s White House environmental adviser and as head of the United Nations’ largest agency for international development Prof at Vermont law school. Former dean of the Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies at Yale University . Former Professor of Law at Georgetown University Law Center, teaching environmental and constitutional law. .Former Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality in the Executive Office of the President. Co-founder of the Natural Resources Defense Council. Was law clerk to U.S. Supreme Court Justice Hugo L. Black JD, Yale. (James Gustave, The Bridge at the Edge of the World: Capitalism, the Environment, and Crossing from Crisis to Sustainability, Gigapedia, 6-9)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">But the much larger and more threatening impacts stem from the … in each case seeking to identify the transformative changes needed. </span>

===1NC War=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Growth makes war inevitable</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Trainer 02** – (Ted, Senior Lecturer of School of Social Work at the University of New South Wales, “If you want affluence, prepare for War,” Democracy & Nature: The International Journal of Inclusive Democracy, July, Vol. 8 Issue 2, p. 281-299)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">If this limits to growth analysis is at all valid the implications for the … that is not possible unless rich countries move to "The Simpler Way."</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Extinction</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Continued growth guarantees extinction—collapse now is our only hope</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Barry 8**—President and Founder of Ecological Internet. Ph.D. in "Land Resources" from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, a Masters of Science in "Conservation Biology and Sustainable Development" also from Madison, and a Bachelor of Arts in "Political Science" from Marquette University (Glen, Economic Collapse and Global Ecology, 14 January 2008, http://www.countercurrents.org/barry140108.htm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Humanity and the Earth are faced with an enormous conundrum -- … ecological sustainability is economic sabotage to hasten the day. It is more fragile than it looks.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Delay Bad</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It’s linear—the longer we wait, the worse it will be</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Barry 10**—President and Founder of Ecological Internet. Ph.D. in "Land Resources" from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, a Masters of Science in "Conservation Biology and Sustainable Development" also from Madison, and a Bachelor of Arts in "Political Science" from Marquette University (Glen, Resisting Global Ecological Change, 5 January 2010, https://mail.google.com/mail/?shva=1#inbox)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The human family faces imminent and (Copenhagen would suggest) inevitable … likelihood that a humane and ecologically whole Earth remains to be renewed.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Transition</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Collapse of the economy shifts to local communities—the transition might be bad, but it’s the only way to stop inevitable extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Lewis 2k**—prof, U Colorado, Boulder. Ph.D. (Chris, Global Industrial Civilization: The Necessary Collapse, http://www.colorado.edu/AmStudies/lewis/ecology/lewglo.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The First World's failure to modernize and civilize the world … hopeless and heartless, it is not. We can learn a lot from our present global crisis. What we learn will shape our future and the future of the complex, interconnected web of life on Earth. </span>

===2NC Author Indict=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Prefer our evidence – their authors methodology is flawed</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Trainer 7**— Senior Lecturer of School of Social Work @ University of New South Wales [Ted, “Renewable Energy Cannot Sustain A Consumer Society”, p. 125-159]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Above all it must be stressed how far beyond sustainable levels …impenetrable mentality of delusion and denial.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Turn Shield</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Draw a line here—all their arguments assume that growth is linear, not exponential—the rate of economic growth is constantly increasing, so adaptation and building tech and regulation are doomed since we can’t stabilize the population fast enough</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Bartlett 4** [Dr. Albert Bartlett is a Physics Professor Emeritus at the. University of Colorado at Boulder, “Dr. Albert Bartlett on Compounding,” http://www.chrismartenson.com/dr_albert_bartlett] *gender modified</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Now there's something else that’s very important: … thousands of lives—that just makes the population problem worse. Clean air makes it worse.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Tech Fails</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their authors are wrong – ZERO scientific or historical support for the thesis that technology solves</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Brown et. al. 11** (Jan. 2011, James H. Brown is a distinguished professor of Biology at the University of New Mexico and external faculty of the Santa Fe Institute, leading developer of the field of macroecology. William R. Burnside, William C. Dunn, Jordan G. Okie, and Wenyun Zuo are PhD candidates in the Department of Biology at the University of New Mexico. Ana D. Davidson is a postdoctoral researcher at the National University of Mexico and adjunct professor of biology at the University of New Mexico. John P. DeLong is a postdoctoral associate at Yale University in the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology. Marcus J. Hamilton is an archaeological anthropologist at the University of New Mexico and the Santa Fe Institute. Jeffrey C. Nekola is an ecologist at the University of New Mexico. Norman Mercado-Silva is a research specialist with the School of Natural Resources and the Environment, Arizona Cooperative Fish and Wildlife Research Unit, at the University of Arizona, in Tucson. William H. Woodruff is a scientist at Los Alamos National Laboratory and external faculty at the Santa Fe Institute, “Energetic Limits to Economic Growth ,” Bioscience, Vol. 61 No. 1, [[http://biology.unm.edu/jhbrown/Documents/Publications/2000s/2011-1%20Energetic%20Limits%20to%20Economic%20Growth.pdf|google]] scholar)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Mainstream economists historically have … prevent socioeconomic collapse (Tainter 1988, Diamond 2004).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Newly developed technologies will worsen the problem</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Huesemann and Huesemann 11**(Michael, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, M.B.A., Arizona State University, Joyce, activist and academic, “Techno-fix: why technology won't save us or the environment,” New Society Publishers, pg. 17, Tashma)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">As discussed in Chapter 1, many negative environmental … environmental effects of newly introduced technologies. </span>