Aff -

Freight
Buses
Disabilities

Neg -

K:
Security
Capitalism
Predictions
State Bad
Heidegger
CP:
States
PPP
NEPA
T:
Military
Substantial
Investment
DA:
Spending
Politics
Buy America
Federalism

Note: I have not read this 1AC since Gvine, to see what I have been reading recently refer to Caddo MJ

=1AC= 
====Current funding for transportation infrastructure has alienated people with disabilities from society by robbing them of their mobility==== 
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AAPD, 2012</span>//<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> (The American Association of People With Disabilities, “Equity in Transportation for People with Disabilities”, May 23, http://www.infrastructureusa.org/equity-in-transportation-for-people-with-disabilities/)</span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Congress is currently debating reauthorization of the surface transportation bill, with heated debate over spending amounts and policy needs. As the nation considers its transportation policy for the 21st century, it is crucial to consider the needs of all individuals living in the United States, especially those who have traditionally been left behind. </span>__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Transportation and mobility play key roles in the struggle for civil rights and equal opportunity in the disability community. Affordable and reliabletransportation allows people with disabilities access to important opportunities in education, employment, health care, housing, and community life. Because our nation’s investments in transportation infrastructure have disproportionately favoredcars and highways, those who cannot afford cars or do not drive cars often lack viable transportation options. People with disabilities—</span>__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">particularly in rural areas—</span>__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">need accessible, affordable transportation options that bring employment, health care, education, housing, and community life</span>__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> within reach. Unfortunately, </span>__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">adults with disabilities are twice as likely as those without disabilities to have inadequate transportation</span>__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (31 percent vs. 13 percent). </span>__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Of the nearly 2 million people with disabilities who never leave their homes, 560,000 never leave home because of transportation difficulties</span>__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. Leaving people out has real costs to the nation. Keeping people with disabilities at home </span>__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">keeps them out of jobs, away from shopping, and out of community life, and it prevents them from making valuable contributions to our society as individuals, as workers, as consumers, and as taxpayers</span>__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Transportation and The Americans with Disabilities Act</span>**<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA) is the landmark civil rights law that addresses the rights of people with disabilities. Title II of the ADA prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in public transportation services, such as city buses and public rail (subways, commuter trains, etc.). Under the ADA; all new vehicles used in public transit must be accessible; key existing rail stations and all new rail stations and facilities must be accessible; and transit operators must provide paratransit (on-demand, door-to-door) services for those who cannot use available mass transit. </span>**<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Surface Transportation Legislation</span>**<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> The current legislation that authorizes all highway and transit funding is the 2005 Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU). SAFETEA-LU authorized $286.5 billion to fund the nation’s transportation network through 2009. It authorizes funds for highways and highway safety and transit programs, including paratransit and grant programs related to transportation for people with disabilities. The bill originally expired on September 30, 2009, and has been extended a number of times as Congress seeks a long-term funding solution for the nation’s transportation infrastructure and considers reauthorization legislation. </span>**<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Accessibility</span>**__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Twenty years after passage of the ADA, transportation choices for people with disabilities are still limited</span>__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. The ADA has led to major improvements in transit systems across the United States. </span>__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">However, there are persistent gaps in compliance that continue to create significant barriers for people with disabilities</span>__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. In addition, because the ADA only addresses public transportation, </span>__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">few transportation options exist for people with disabilities where no public transportation is available</span>__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. In some areas, such as in rural communities, </span>__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">insufficient funding has left people with disabilities with little or no transportation options</span>__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. In urban areas, where individuals often rely on accessible taxis, a lack of requirements has meant very uneven progress.</span>

====Despite the ADA, public transportation is still inaccessible for people with disabilities==== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">AAPD,2011</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">(American Association for People With Disabilities ,"Equity in Transportation for People with Disabilities", 7/16/2012,</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.aapd.com/resources/publications/transportation-disabilities.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> )</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Train travel has also improved, yet still imposes certain obstacles. With regard to previously existing rail systems, </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">the ADA only requires that key stations be made accessible. Key stations include transfer rail stations, major interchange points, stations where passenger boardings exceed average boardings, and stations serving major activity centers</span>__****<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>****__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">In cities that have subways, commuter rails, or other systems built before the ADA took effect, including some large East Coast systems such as Boston and New York, there are few accessible stations. Requiring only key stations to be made accessible, rather than incrementally making all existing rail stations accessible, has led to gaps in accessibility. Furthermore, it is difficult to agree on a “key” station. Any station is key to those who use it. A significant barrier on some rail systems is a lack of elevators or the failure to maintain elevators in working order and to inform riders when they are out of service. Issues with platform accessibility also continue to deter individuals using mobility assistive devices from accessing rail systems.</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Overly wide gaps between the train and the platform can be problematic.</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> While newer systems have been built with minimal gaps, </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">older systems have larger gaps that can make transportation prohibitive. Stop announcements for people with visual or cognitive disabilities are often unreliable, when agencies fail to test systems regularly, monitor them closely, and make changes necessary to ensure that they function properly</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;"> When people with disabilities cannot access a station or bus stop, they may be forced to go out of their way to find one that is accessible, and in some cases, this may make travel prohibitive.</span>__**

====Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in universally designed transportation infrastructure in the United States.==== 
==Advantage 1: Automobility== 

====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Federal spending associated with automobility is a form of segrega</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">t</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">ion that provides the mobile able body, we must strive for a reduction disparity in mobility</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Langan, associate professor of English at the University of California Berkeley, in ‘1 [Celeste, “Mobility Disability” in Public Culture 13(3): 459–484]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As Wasserman points out, the issue of disability rights raises two central problems.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> First, as noted above, the problem is deciding among competing claims for</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the redistribution of resources. The second problem is the possibility that “securing</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the right of people with disabilities to ‘live in the world’ demands an indefinite</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> commitment of resources” (Wasserman 1998:180). Even if it were possible</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (though I maintain it is not) to formalize a category of physical disability that did</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> not depend on the rejected medical model but was still capable of distinguishing</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> between socially constructed physical impairments and socially constructed</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> poverty, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the retrofitting of the public sphere to make it fully accessible to the disabled</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> is not a one-time expenditure</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Wasserman (1998: 179) quotes one judge distressed</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by this implication of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973:</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> What must be done to provide handicapped persons with the same right to</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> utilize mass-transportation facilities as other persons? Does each bus have</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to have a special capacity? Must each seat on the bus be removable? Must</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the bus routes be changed to provide stops at hospitals, therapy centers,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and nursing homes? Is it required that buses be able to accommodate</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> bedridden persons?</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> This barely suppressed rant demonstrates the ambiguity of what the ADA will</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> later identify as “reasonable accommodation.” There are, of course, different</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ways of imagining what constitutes a “reasonable” expenditure to facilitate the</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> full participation of disabled people. But the issue has real effects. In her review</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of the impact of the ADA on accessible transportation, Rosalyn Simon (1996:</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 300) establishes two important trends: “paratransit services grow steadily to meet</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> increasing demand and utilization of increasingly accessible fixed-route systems</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> remains low.” It is difficult to reconcile this apparent preference and growing</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> diversion of resources with the premise of the ADA, for as Simon (1996: 306)</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> goes on to point out (and as Silvers would undoubtedly insist),</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The ADA is a civil rights statute, not a transportation or social service</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> program statute. The ADA clearly emphasizes non-discriminatory access</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to fixed-route service, with complementary paratransit acting as a safety</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> net for people who cannot use the fixed route system. Under the ADA,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> complementary paratransit is not intended to be a comprehensive system</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of transportation for individuals with disabilities.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Moreover, Simon (1996: 319) suggests, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the unintended expansion of paratransit</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">is having a measurably negative effect on what we might call a general “social</span>¶ <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">progress” in mass transportation: “Paratransit is becoming a disincentive to fixed</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">route expansion, as transit systems admit limiting the expansion of fixed route</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">service because of the corresponding paratransit service area implications</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Of course, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">what </span>this focus on the possibly negative effects of ADA provisions<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>on the availability of mass transportation in general risks leaving out of consideration<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>is the far larger public funding of automobility for the<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (ostensibly) </span>nondisabled<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">We do not frequently consider federal spending on new or retrofitted highways</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">in the same light in which expenditures on curb cuts, ramps, or wheelchair</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">lifts for buses are regarded</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">either as a luxury or as a questionable redistribution</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">of resources.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Yet, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">spending on highways does amplify the mobility of some, and</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">it may decrease the free range of others</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. But this means that spending on curb</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> cuts, chair lifts, and accessible bathrooms might also affect the mobility of others.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">It suggests the inadequacy of imagining the repair of social injustice on the model</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">of automobility</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> What are we to do, then, in the situation that now obtains, in which the privileging</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of “disability” over other disadvantages threatens to become a real issue?</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Shall we, because cuts in public transportation would appear to dispossess</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> equally all citizens of that mobility option, decide that it is nondiscriminatory? Or</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> do we weigh into the equation the fact—proved in the legal case the Bus Riders</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Union brought against the Los Angeles Metropolitan Transportation Authority</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (the subject of one of the Wexler documentaries, discussed below)—that cuts in</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the extent and frequency of service have disproportionately negative effects on a</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> population that can be classified not in terms of race, gender, or physical disability,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> but rather as transit dependent? I want to insist that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the development of</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> what</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> might be termed, after Bullard and Johnson 1997, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">just transportation, entails the</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">continued attempt to diminish disparities in relative mobility, rather than</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (as Silvers</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and others would have it) </span>merely maintain disparities of class across disabled<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>and nondisabled populations<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Otherwise, </span>the problem of segregation<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">—which disability</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">activism makes the cornerstone of the claim for redress from discrimination—</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">will not have been fully addressed. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Even Silvers (1998: 21) suggests that</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> paratransit fails to fulfill the spirit of the ADA on these very grounds. “We should</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> recognize,” she writes, “that</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> both public and private special services programs for</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">people with disabilities are aimed at individuals whose participation is feared to</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">disrupt the efficiency of our ordinary transactions.”</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Surely </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">it is not merely coincidental that both the civil rights movement against</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">race disability and the more recent (physical) disability rights movement should</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">have focused particular attention on access to public transportation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Although I</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> have been somewhat selective in my accumulation of examples, it is certainly the</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> case that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">mobility is a far more frequent subject of disability scholarship than</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">sensory or cognitive difference. So much public funding and public property is</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">devoted to transportation that the identification of citizenship with physical</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">mobility is somewhat inevitable</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. But there is, as I have suggested, a split in that</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> identification: </span>the notion of freedom attaches to the automobile, symbol of privacy<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>and relative social mobility<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, while mass transportation represents the bottom</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">limit, or floor, of equality. This opposition is</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, of course, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">patently false,since</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the extent to which supposedly “private” modes of transportation are subsidized</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">by public funding projects can be documented</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. But </span>the conceptual hierarchyof<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>transportation options also lends a particular affect to the figure of the bus<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, generally</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">framed as the poorest relation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The bus has a history of enabling and extending participation in the public</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">sphere</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. We might invoke Washington Irving’s (1864: 455) description of the 1832</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Reform Bill—“the great reform omnibus moves but slowly”—as a particularly</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> telling example, for although Irving may have meant to indicate nothing more</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> than the generality and internal contradictions of the bill, the prototype of the</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> modern bus was making its appearance concurrently in the streets of Paris; during</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the July Revolution, the Annual Register (1830: 188) reported, “A barricade</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> was formed across the street by one of those long coaches to which Parisians</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> have given the name omnibus.” </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The bus is a singularly slow vehicle of transportation—</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">a traveling cripple, one might almost say, when compared to other</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">forms of mass transportation or even the automobile—because it has more interests</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to serve. </span>Having usually a greater number of points for access and departure<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>along<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> its </span>fixed route<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, </span>the bus is more irregular in keeping its appointments<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">; it is</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">this openness to contingency that makes it</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, finally, </span>not only a portion of the public<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>sphere, but also a figure for the transitivity or progressive aspect of that public<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>sphere<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Or that is the lesson, I hope to show, of the remarkable series of documentaries</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by the filmmaker Haskell Wexler.</span>

====United States automobility policies are modeled globally==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Springs 7 [Mary Alice, School of humanities @ college of charlston “Inequity in transportation: The Problem with Auto Hegemony]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">While problems with auto hegemony have only recently surfaced in wealthy nations, poor nations are evidently experiencing immediate drawbacks. In describing this trend in the worldwide proliferation of the automobile</span><span style="font-family: Times,serif;">, Peter Freund and George Martin explain </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">several reasons why poor nations have “[faced] challenges in their attempts to adopt the automobile culture</span><span style="font-family: Times,serif;">” (226). Adopting fellow sociologist Dr. Wolfgang Sach’s terminology, Freund and Martin refer to the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">first world countries as the global “north,” the location of the majority of industrialized nations, and third world countries as the global “south,” where most of the developing nations are located (227). </span><span style="font-family: Times,serif;">In the south, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the car culture has only spread to a minority population consisting of the elite and middle class</span><span style="font-family: Times,serif;"> (Freund and Martin 229). Because only a small percentage of people in the global south are car owners, there is still diversity in transportation choice (Freund and Martin 229). </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Many of the southern nations are “relatively poor and debt-laden,” which makes auto transport costs less socially constructive because it drains scarce public resources</span><span style="font-family: Times,serif;"> (Freund and Martin 229-30). However, because the elite minority has the most political influence, chances are that these costs will continue to rise as the facilities needed to maintain efficient use of the automobile will most likely continue to expand at their request. South Africa serves as a viable case study. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">As a result of extreme dissonance between wealth and poverty, South Africa has one of the worst traffic safety records in the world</span><span style="font-family: Times,serif;"> (Freund and Martin 232). </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The few luxury cars that are on the road are mixed in with “overcrowded trucks (used as buses), donkey carts, cows, and pedestrians to produce a deadly combination”</span><span style="font-family: Times,serif;"> (Donald McNeil qtd. in Freund and Martin 232). Freund and Martin observe that “</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">black townships do not have sidewalks, adequate lighting, or pedestrian overpasses on the roads through which affluent-owned high-powered vehicles race” </span><span style="font-family: Times,serif;">(Freund and Martin 232). </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The residual impact of Apartheid is evident in the fact that “one out of two white South Africans owns a car [while] only one of 100 blacks do” </span><span style="font-family: Times,serif;">(John Griffin qtd. in Freund and Martin 232). </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In many cities in China, along with Bombay, Jakarta, and Calcutta, rickshaws are starting to be viewed negatively because they are seen as “archaic” and impede the flow of auto traffic, and therefore have been banned from the streets in several cases</span><span style="font-family: Times,serif;"> (Freund and Martin 233). In these urban areas, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">this policy greatly infringes upon household incomes where many of the poor propel these non-motor vehicles to earn money </span><span style="font-family: Times,serif;">(Freund and Martin 233). The authors also note that arable land is in scarce supply in the global south more so than those in the north (Freund and Martin 231). As Robert Smith observes, China has four times the population of the U.S. living on about the same amount of land area (qtd. in Freund and Martin 231). A large proportion of the country is either desert or mountains, so “its population is crammed into dense concentrations around river valleys” (Smith qtd. in Freund and Martin 231). As a result, China must feed its population, which makes up one-fifth of the world’s population, on less than one-fifteenth of its arable (Smith qtd. in Freund and Martin 231). Meanwhile, other southern countries such as Egypt, Bangladesh, and Indonesia face the same situation (Lester Brown qtd. in Freund and Martin 231). For Freund and Martin, this situation in the developing world begs the question, “does it make sense for [these countries] to pave over arable land or land usable for dwelling spaces?” (231). </span>It is evident that the same inequality that exists in the United States due to auto hegemony is spreading on to a global scale via the ever-increasing presence of the global capitalistic economy<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. However, </span>if<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the </span>United States can set a better example for establishing a more diversified repertoire of transportation choices,then<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> hopefully </span>developing countries,<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> such as China, </span>will follow this example rather than continuing down the more conventional but hazardous path toward auto hegemony<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Car culture results in millions of deaths and injuries per year: it ensures both the production of impairments and continued exclusion of people with disabilities, ensuring shorten life spans for countless individuals.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Aldred and Woodcock 08</span>** [Rachel Aldred and James Woodcock; School of Social Sciences, Media, andCultural StudiesUniversity of East London and Department of Epidemiology and PopulationHealthLondon School of Hygiene and Tropical<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Medicine ‘Transport: challenging disabling environments’ LocalEnvironment: The International Journal of Justice and Sustainability; pgs 7-9; [[http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/content~content=a901696392]]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The case of transport demonstrates the importance of extending the social model to deal with¶ impairment. By this </span>**__we do not mean returning to the medicalised focus on individual experience¶ and suffering criticised by disability theorists__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Oliver 1990). Rather </span>**__we mean theorising how¶ impairment is socially constructed discursively__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (disabling structures shaping our concepts of </span>**__what¶ is an “impairment”__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">) and materially (economic and social forces producing such impairments). This¶ latter, linking social theory to critical epidemiology, is particularly crucial to people in the Global¶ South at higher risk of injury from war, unregulated toxic industries, road crashes, etc. (Stone¶ 1997). “As far as the majority of the world’s disabled people are concerned, </span>**__impairment is very¶ clearly primarily the consequence of social and political factors.__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">” (Abberley 1997:9). </span>**__For transport¶ this approach can connect the threat of environmental catastrophe__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (hence “eco-social model</span>**__”) to¶ the creation of impairment and disability within a movement for inclusive, sustainable¶ environments.¶ Road traffic injuries are a major cause of temporary and permanent impairment. The W__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">orld </span>**__H__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ealth¶ </span>**__O__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">rganization </span>**__estimates that 1.2 million people were killed and 50 million injured on the roads__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in¶ 2002 (Peden et al 2004), </span>**__most pedestrians in low income countries__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Even in the UK there is a¶ strong class gradient for injury risk. In the European Union more than 150,000 people are¶ 8¶ permanently disabled by crashes each year (Peden et al 2004).¶ </span>**__Motorised economies construct diverse roads to impairment and ill-health__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Woodcock et al 2007).¶ </span>**__The stress of traffic noise and danger can harm mental health__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, as can post-traumatic stress after¶ an injury. In the longer term </span>**__urban sprawl entrenches inequalities and depletes social capital.__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">¶ Cross-sectional studies show worse self-reported health among people living in sprawled cities¶ (Strum 2004).¶ As Crow (1999:8) comments, the types of interventions made to prevent impairments matter¶ greatly, and should interest disability theorists. Currently “[t]he isolation of impairment from its¶ social context means that </span>**__the social and economic causes of impairment often go unrecognised__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”¶ Those “at risk” are targeted at an individual level: for transport safety this has meant protecting,¶ restricting, and marginalising vulnerable road users (e.g. USA laws forbidding “jaywalking”) while¶ leaving the source of danger unchecked. This approach increases physical inactivity, a major¶ cause of impairment through conditions including diabetes with its associated risks of visual¶ impairment and amputations (Williamson 2004). </span>**__Disabled people, disproportionately excluded from¶ the streets, have higher rates of physical inactivity and obesity__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ells et al 2007).¶ Traffic noise is the main source of noise pollution, disrupting sleep and increasing cardiovascular¶ risk (Dora and Phillips 2000). </span>**__Air pollution creates impairment through respiratory morbidity,¶ allergic illness and symptoms, cardiopulmonary mortality, non allergic respiratory disease, and¶ myocardial infarction__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Krzyzanowski et al 2005). Many of </span>**__these conditions can limit mobility__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. People¶ with impaired mobility or other disabilities may move more slowly through traffic and so suffer¶ greater exposure to pollution.¶ </span>**__Transport leads us to analyse the process of disablement__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> with its biological and social¶ components, including social organization and oppression, functional limitation, impairment, and¶ pathology. A recent study found that for a given level of physical function, older adults reported¶ greater independence in more walkable environments with mixed land use (Clarke and George¶ 2005). </span>**__Analysis__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from the USA </span>**__found__****__living in an area with excessive noise, heavy traffic, or limited¶ access to public transportation to be important risk factors for faster functional decline in older¶ people, even after adjusting for health behaviours such as physical activity__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span> **__Residents of such¶ areas were more likely to be female, black, and poor__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Balfour and Kaplan 2002).¶ These processes can be understood through the eco-social concept of embodiment, meaning how¶ we literally incorporate the world we live in over the life course (Krieger 2005). An embodied¶ account integrates social life and its structures of power, production, and consumption with our¶ biology</span>**__.__** //<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Roads to disability and disadvantage are not coincidentally joined but represent the playing out of social processes, including capital accumulation, impoverishment, racism, sexism, and disablism.</span>//

====And, focus on accessible transit solves the ideology of disability reinforced by car culture.==== 
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Aldred and Woodcock 08</span>//<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> [Rachel Aldred and James Woodcock; School of Social Sciences, Media, and Cultural Studies University of East London and Department of Epidemiology and Population Health London School of Hygiene and Tropical¶ Medicine ‘Transport: challenging disabling environments’ Local Environment: The International Journal of Justice and Sustainability; pgs 9-11 ; [[http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/content~content=a901696392]]]</span>

People with mobility impairments would gain much from inclusive urban environments<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, as would</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">other marginalised road users. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Such environments need regular resting facilities for wheelchair users, visually impaired people, stick users, and others</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Wixey et al 2005). However, </span>this way of being in the world is marginalised by motor-centric citi<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">es</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">; it is more pleasant to speed along a busy,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">noisy road by car than to sit down by it. Policies to promote social participation and health – and</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">avoid environmental crisis – demand fundamental change. </span>This means challenging car dominance<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">¶ </span>in favour of accessible, inclusive environments with major increases in walking and cycling, and a<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">¶ </span>major reduction in car use<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Even now most trips are short trips; </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">in London 72% ofcar trips are less than 8 km long</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">a distance suitable for cyclists or vehicles of similar speed</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, such as electric scooters. However, like the</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Department of Transport’s handbooks on transport (1982 onwards) the DPTAC prioritises private</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">cars, stating that for many disabled people private cars are the only form of accessible transport,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">and that restrictions on car use are negative for disabled people. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">This demonstrates a failure to understand the harms of car based transport systems and to imagine how people with impairments could benefit from a society prioritising active and green transport</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The DPTAC pays little attention</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">to electric scooters and less to cycling. Yet these could play a key role in enabling local mobility, if</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">combined with measures to counteract urban sprawl and provide employment, services, leisure</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">activities, and retail close to where people live.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">BOX: We conducted expert interviews with two people involved with disability cycling to</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">supplement our analysis in this under-researched area. Their words are paraphrased below to</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">indicate the potential options, and possible benefits from cycling.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jim Blakemore recently set up Bikeworks, a not for profit inclusive cycling company, in East</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">London. Currently his activities include cycle training for adults and children with learning</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">difficulties (on traditional two wheelers and recumbent bikes, tricycles, and linked cycles) and for</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">people with obesity referred by health professionals. For some people cycling is primarily exercise,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">fun, and independence, whilst for others a form of transport, perhaps an accompanied cycle</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">journey (e.g. cycle trains, linked cycles, or multi-user cycles) replacing a taxi or community bus ride</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Paul M. Smith sits on the British Handcycling Association Committee and studies health benefits of</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">handcycling, suitable for many wheelchair users (and others). He finds that handcycling offers</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">considerable health benefits, improving energy balance, developing aerobic fitness, and</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">10</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">postponing secondary diseases. It is less likely to result in overuse injuries sustained by wheelchair</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">users. Handcyclists travel considerably faster than a standard day wheelchair and can cope with</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">varying terrain more effectively. Some handcycles can be attached to the front of wheelchairs,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">while others resemble recumbent bicycles.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jim and Paul agree the biggest barriers to take-up are knowledge and cost. Many disabled people</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">cannot afford traditional or modified cycles, even though they are much cheaper than modified</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">cars. Unlike modified cars, there is no national subsidy scheme available, and very limited project</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">funding is available.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jim finds that other problems include stereotypes: support workers may assume that people with</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">learning difficulties are unable to cycle, whereas they may actually only need additional training.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">There is a lack of instructors and inclusive, effective cycle training is only now being developed.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The health benefits from increasing active travel, makes it important that people with impairments</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">are not excluded. Cycling can be more inclusive than is often realised (see box) and a range of</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">electric scooters exist, with speeds ranging from cycling to walking paces. Smaller and lighter than</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">cars, </span>these vehicles have much lower greenhouse gas emissions, and a much smaller environmental footprint<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. If necessary they can be enclosed. Scooters could offer a high degree of</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">independent non-car based mobility, with door to door access, in the urban environment. But in a</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">system prioritising the car and those without impairments, these vehicles appear inferior – and the</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">risk of injury in heavy motorised traffic is real. This can lead to conflict on the pavement as vehicles</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">better suited for the road compete with pedestrians.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cycling for disabled people is a neglected area lacking support. Small organisations, often reliant</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">on short-term grant funding, exist in some areas including Jim’s Bikeworks in East London and</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cycling Projects in North West England. York-based Company of Cyclists provide disability try-out</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">roadshows stating that “[c]ycling is liberating for disabled people …[y]et the potential and the</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">possibilities are largely unrecognised by both the public and professionals in the caring services.”</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Increased financial, social, and organisational support are needed to realise this potential.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In a society that prioritised active and green transport, all people travelling by active modes, semiactivemodes (pedal cycles with a small electric motor), and small electric scooters would be much safer than at presen</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">t. As the number of cyclists increases, so cycling becomes safer (Jacobsen</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">2003). There would be a range of low energy travel options, with low maximum speeds, and urban</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">speed limits of 20 mph or less producing much safer and calmer environments.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Such an environment would not re-create the current “disabled”/”non-disabled” binary.</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A range of</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">11</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">active transport options would be used (including skateboards, scooters, and rollerblades). Many</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">people with impairments can use traditional cycles, including some who find walking difficult.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Electric scooters and power-assisted cycles (foot or hand pedal) would fulfil important functions; in</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">hilly terrain, for longer journeys, or when pulling heavy loads. Taxis would retain a role, although</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">they could be replaced by light electric vehicles, rickshaws, and tandems. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">For long distance travel, </span>a comprehensive and accessible public transport system is essential.<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> However, here we concentrate on the majority of journeys that could be substituted by pedestrian travel, cycling, or electric scooters.</span>

==Adv 2: Stigma== 
====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Current transportation infrastructure relies on segregated services for people with disabilities, enforcing a naturalized binary between abled and disabled stigmatizing these bodies with their association with second class services.</span>==== 
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Silvers 1996</span>//<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> (Anita, professor and chair of the Philosophy Department, San Francisco State University, Disability, Discrimination, and Difference, pg 23-26)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A segregated system is sometimes thought to be more responsive to the "special" needs of people who cannot see, hear, move, think, or perform other activities as well as most. But segregation has drawbacks</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>Segregated facilities and special programs are often not as efficacious in providing ordinary services as facilities and programs with similar objectives<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> that serve the broad public</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">especially when the population being segregated is a powerless one.</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of course, some separate educational facilities for children who are deaf or blind offer important training in special adaptive techniques such as using a cane for mobility, effective instruction using appropriate formats or modes such as signing (in American Sign Language) rather than speech, and, in addition, excellent opportunities to learn subject matter. Too often, however, becoming qualified to teach in special education settings substitutes acquiring information about disabilities for mastering the academic subject matter youngsters with disabilities, like all others, should learn from their teachers. Sociologist and disability studies scholar Mike Oliver comments, "There is no doubt that the medical hegemony in special education has hardly been challenged."18 For this reason, children with disabilities who have been in segregated schooling tend to be less well prepared than other children to exercise the skills and display the knowledge of basic subjects such as English, math, and science. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Separate "paratransit" systems manifest similar problems in respect to the level and quality of service. </span>These van systems almost never maintain full schedules or routes<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, nor do they provide on-demand service for tourists and other users unable to schedule days or weeks in advance.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Furthermore, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">these systems tend to be so unreliable, even when booked in advance, that people cannot use them to get to jobs. Nor do they have the capacity to serve all who have to use them. Because special paratransit services are notoriously oversubscribed, individuals with disabilities must compete against each other for transportation. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Until recently, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">cab companies have viewed accessible transportation as a market reserved for paratransit, which is subsidized at the public expense. Consequently, wheelchair users have had little alternative to paratransit and therefore have had only compromised access to the lifestyle that "ondemand" urban transportation supports.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Now, however, municipalities, especially those in "sunshine" localities coUrting "elderly" tourists and emigration by retirees, have created accessible taxi service through a variety of low-cost methods, such as offering scarce taxi medallions on a preferential basis to whichever of the competing taxi proprietors agree to equip a percentage of their vehicles with fold -out manual ramps. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">There are, then, three devastating problems with imagining that treating people with disabilities justly means creating programs to serve their "special needs." First, </span>to calm fears about compromising the efficiency with which non disabled people enjoy ordinary public services, segregated systems isolate people with disabilities<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. Paratransit systems</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, special education classrooms, and exemptions £i.-om paying certain fees because a facility is not fully accessible to those with disabilities </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">are examples where programs are created on the supposition that people with disabilities needspecial services</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (as some undoubtedly do), </span>but the existence of special services //<span style="font-size: 13pt;">then is made an excuse, or worse, for denying all who are disabled access to ordinary public services</span>////<span style="font-size: 13pt;">.</span>//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> What has been less often noticed about segregated systems of special services is that they place the interests of individuals with disabilities in competition with one another for access to whatever resources nondisabled people are willing to allocate to the disabled</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Unlike competition for other kinds of goods, however, </span>there is no suggestion that contests between people with disabilities for disability benefits stimulate achievement or productivity<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. So, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">second, systems whose structures foment such competition are unredeemingly damaging.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> To illustrate, the Swedish boendeservice system provides centralized attendant service in semi-institutional settings for seriously disabled people. To try to gain a competitive edge over other residents so as to obtain a higher priority for their personal care, residents vie with each other to develop personalities that are nonoffensive and appealing to the staff.19 </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Third, to be viable, schemes that sequester disabled people by providing special services and benefits must distinguish reasonably accurately between individuals whom restorative, rehabilitative, or adaptive measures can make capable of effectively contributing to production and those whom neither medical treatment nor accessible environments can keep from impeding it</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Otherwise, the productive people whose work supports the system will perceive it as draining rather than fortifYing productivity and also as unjust because it offers some otherwise able people a ticket out of the workplace. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">But, as Jerry Mashaw, chair of the Disability Policy Panel of the National Academy of Social Insurance, comments, efforts to apply such distinctions must abandon the traditional procedural controls associated with just decision making because "adopted wholesale, these forms would be, to say the least, dysfunctional</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">." So, Mashaw concludes, </span>any program that relies on making such eligibility decisions about who is so impaired as to deserve services and support<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> "cannot escape giving the impression ... that its ... processes ... </span>are a form of second -class justice.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> "20 Furthermore, eligibility decision processes that incorrectly purport to separate out just the truly incompetent run the risk of arbitrarily limiting anomalous but competent people. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">By stipulating which impairments constitute sufficient conditions for needing care, the benefits eligibility process a priori identifies having those impairments with being incompetent</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">We should not underestimate the invidiousness of criteria that falsely purport to have found the line between competence and incompetence when it is simply separation they serve</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In this regard</span>//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">,</span>////<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> the discourse of twentieth century disability resembles earlier discourses on race</span>////<span style="font-size: 13pt;">.</span>//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Kwame Anthony Appiah cautions, "Remember always why the intellectual incapacity ... of blacks is invoked ... as part of a catalog of differences, which, when taken together, make it certain that blacks and whites .cannot live together as equal citizens. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">"21</span>A similar purpose is served by the catalog of impairments or dysfunctions that carry entitlement to disability benefits<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

====Segregated systems ensure that people with disabilities will remain invisible and excluded from political and public spaces of interaction. This creates a central dependency of people with disability on charitable welfare services while ensuring that their voices are never heard.==== 
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sinyo 2011</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Josephine, first blind woman lawyer in Kenya. She is a trailblazer in politics for people with disabilities in Kenya, CHALLEGES OF DISABILITY, VISIBILITY, AS A HUMAN RIGHTS AGENDA A PAPER PRESENTED ON THE 8TH SEPTEMBER BY JOSEPHINE SINYO AT LELDEN NETHERLANDS. [[http://www.scribd.com/doc/57772810/Disability-Presentation-Josephine-Sinyo]] 2011)</span>

The<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> relative </span>invisibility of people with disabilities<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> can h</span>ave a dramatic impact on their enjoyment of civil rights.<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> The right to life has been violated through abortion on the basis of disability</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. Euthanasia legislation and the phenomenon of selective medical non-treatment are challenges that still exist. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The right to freedom from torture and from inhuman and degrading treatment may also be violated where people with disabilities are institutionalized</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. Persons with mental disabilities or multiple or profound physical disabilities are particularly at risk. However well regulated institutions may look on paper, the regulations may simply not be applied in practice. Standards of care and treatment institutions may fall short of what is required to respect the value of human dignity and autonomy. In the past, the rights of these marginalized and forgotten groups have not been championed either from outside the system (by NGOs) or from within, although there has been a palpable change in recent times. If society lived up to its aim of achieving an independent life for all, many such institutions would not exist. The right to liberty is affected by institutionalization, also in the case of civil commitment of the mentally ill. There have been many changes for the better in “due process” requirements in cases of mental disability and in the development of a substantive right to treatment. But much still needs to be done. The fact that the norms applied to civil commitment in the past contrasted sharply with the structures of due process used in normal criminal trials shows the extent to which people with mental disabilities were viewed as “different” and how this difference was used to justify radically different levels of legal protection for their rights and interests. If one adopts a more imaginative approach to the concept of liberty, a host of challenges emerge. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Most people take for granted the ability to move about in the built environment</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and to use normal channels of communication</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. They factor this into their background understanding of liberty. But although this ability is not universal, mainstream facilities are not designed on an inclusive basis</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>It is important to characterize inaccessible transport,<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">an inaccessible built environment and an inaccessible communications environment </span>as factors that detract <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to such an extent from </span>the value of liberty<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> that they call into question its existence </span>for people with disabilities<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. This is an admittedly broad definition of liberty. Yet </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">if liberty is not defined broadly for people with disabilities, it is of little worth to them. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Many restrictions are still placed on family and privacy rights for people with disabilities, specially those in institutions, throughout the world. Their right to adopt children on an equal footing with other is a virtually unrecognized issue on which little has been written. Some categories of </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">persons with disabilities seem not to enjoy full freedom of association</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. Legal incapacity still exists with respect to participation in legal proceedings and the giving of evidence. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">These rules seem to be premised on outdated notions of incapacity that fail to do full justice to the actual capacities of persons with disabilities</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. Equality norms in constitutions and other legislation often fail to cater adequately for the difference of disability. This situation is changing but a great deal remains to be done. (d) Effects of invisibility on political rights </span>Persons with disabilities often have no voice or a very feeble voice in the democratic process.<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> Even where they have a strong voice, they are not necessarily listened to. </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A lack of participation in the political debate can result in policy being formed without the active involvement of groups likely to be affected by its outcome</span>//.<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> It can lead to alienation from democratic processes and cynicism about the possibility of achieving justice through law. </span>It can also lead to passivity<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and dependence factors that serve to reinforce stereotypes, compounding and </span>perpetuating the invisibility of persons with disabilities<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. The right to stand for election and the right to vote are sometimes explicitly withheld from persons with disabilities. Even if the right to vote is protected by law, in practice a myriad of factors can render it hollow. These include the lack of accessible polling station, material (for example in Braille), campaign literature, transportation to and from polling stations. Over the past decade or so the disability NGO movement has grown considerably. Grievances are no longer experienced in isolation. Disability NGOs are beginning to speak a common language, the language of rights and to engage the political system directly. This phenomenon is worldwide and a hopeful sign for the future. But if people with disabilities are to make the most of it,existing impediments to political participation need to be removed. (e) Effects of invisibility on social policy </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The assumption that people with disabilities were objects and not subjects and the tendency to react with pity rather than respect has had implications for the operation of welfare systems. Welfare was generally used to support people with disabilities or to compensate them for their absence from the mainstream of society. </span>Governments treated disability solely as a welfare issue. The invisibility factor was discernible<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">in the way many systems excluded children with disabilities from the ordinary education system and the benefits of vocational education and guidance. Where they were admitted to the mainstream, the resources appropriated to these children were often insufficient to ensure meaningful enjoyment of the right to education. When children with disabilities qualified and gained entry into colleges, they still faced seemingly insurmountable obstacles. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Invisibility was also discernible in the assumption that people with disabilities had virtually no role to play in the open labour market. They were therefore channeled into segregated (and expensive) work environments. Employment prospects for persons with disabilities throughout the world are still dismal, to some extent reflecting low (unnecessarily low) levels of educational attainment and to some extent unwillingness to ensure that labour markets respond appropriately and positively to the difference of disability.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Either way, we would argue, everybody loses, including the taxpayer. Working conditions in sheltered and other alternative forms of employment leave much to be desired in terms of the human rights of disabled workers. (f) Effects of invisibility on freedom </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">To sum up, the relative or absolute invisibility of persons with disabilities has meant that </span>the legal structures created to advance private freedom<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> (protection against the abuse of power) </span>and public freedom<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> (participation in the mainstream) </span>have either not been applied or have been applied with less rigour in the case of people with disabilities.<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> This has produced a category of person who, while being dependent on the public sphere for survival, lacks access to or influence over public policy. Such persons are denied full admission to public power and full control over their individual destiny</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. They rain outside the mainstream of civil society. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">This lack of presence ? or invisibility? serves to reinforce stereotypical assumptions about the incapacity of persons with disabilities. It encourages a lack of respect for people with disabilities as rights holders on an equal footing with others</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The segregation of people with disabilities underlies able-nationalism, where the national body is purified of abnormal bodies, discourses, and activities. </span>==== 
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Snyder & Mitchell 2010</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Sharon L. Snyder, founder of Brace Yourselves Productions and the director of four award-winning films David T. Mitchell ssociate Professor in the Curriculum, Instruction, and Technology in Education Department in the College of Education at Temple University. “Introduction: Ablenationalism and the Geo-Politics of Disability” Journal of Literary & Cultural Disability Studies, Volume 4, Number 2, 2010, pp. 113-125]</span>

A key conflation of nation and able-ism has been emerging<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> since at least the late eighteenth century in countries enduring processes of industrialization and post-industrialization. With a nod to Jasbir Puar's influential formulation of homonationalism,1 </span>we call this<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> convergence "</span>ablenationalism<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">"—the degree to which treating people with disabilities as an exception valorizes able-bodied norms of inclusion as the naturalized qualification of citizenship</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Disability Studies </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">critiques are based on an analysis of the repetition of human predicaments</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—or, more precisely, a parsing through of the ever multiplying modes of non-normalcy—</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">as people with disabilities encounter the inflexibilities of key social institutions</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> such as healthcare, religious gatherings, communities, work places, schools, families, etc. </span>These sites of interaction exclude some populations inequitably based on differences that cannot be adequately accommodated<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yet, </span>while disability has been recognized as a social, material, and manufactured terrain<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, its basis in bodies as well as ideologies also provides opportunities for unique combinations of social becoming</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Attention to the lived intricacies of embodiment offer alternatives to normalization efforts aimed at homogenizing social outsiders. As such, </span>the interactions of disability cultures<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, as Anne Finger emphasizes in the film Vital Signs: Crip Culture Talks Back (1995),</span>//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">will </span>////<span style="font-size: 5pt;">always</span>////<span style="font-size: 13pt;">be self-consciously generated around the politics of exclusion and the alternatives that such exclusions precipitate. </span>//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The historical development of ablenationalism results in the modern formation of disability as a discrete, sociological minority</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In order to locate people with disabilities under market capitalism one must often look beyond the margins of surplus labor to those classified as "deserving poor" by national regimes.In emphasizing severity of incapacity as primary to a devalued identity, discourses of policy, economics</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, health, rehabilitation, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and citizenship suppo</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">rt [End Page 113] </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">practices of charity</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as voluntary instances of conspicuous contributions to sustain them and the bureaucratic provision of supports and services. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Whether nation-state or market-supplied, ablenationalism's calculated provision (and non-provision) of services based on principles of detecting and qualifying bodies as "too impaired" for meaningful labor underscores the degree to which the category of "deserving poor" is a </span>//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">highly guarded space of ostracization</span>//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The best result, from the perspective of the modern state, may be to have hordes of individuals not fully recognized as part of the "deserving poor" while simultaneously existing on the social scales of impoverishment. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Disability Studies maps the coordinates of these populations in order to deepen an understanding of the degree to which </span>disabled people find themselves "locked in or locked out" of meaningful cultural interactions with others<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. This mapping imperative involves the advent of alternative outlines of human existence not formally recognized within systems of ablenationalism. One result of this effort is the ability to begin undertaking necessary comparisons and contrasts between people with disabilities around the globe. This is not in order to draw up universalizing conclusions about duplicative states of social rejection (the forms of social rejection experienced by people with disabilities are often quite unique), but rather to gain an understanding of the nuances of ablenationalism's tactics on a global scale. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Geo-politics, then, draws upon identifications of shared predicaments of exclusion and isolation while also allowing ways of revaluing the demographics of disability as counterinsurgent opportunities to resist the dictates of ablenationalism</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In part, these resistance strategies manifest themselves as necessitated survival strategies in response to violence and orchestrated campaigns of neglect. The contributors in this special issue of JLCDS seek to parse through the particularities of exclusions (both within and without the borders of post-industrialization) in order to lay the groundwork for alternative responses to transecting forces of globalization. Alternatives to Consumptive Lives </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">By and large the disability professions determine that disabled populations merit rescue from labor force exclusions through the enactment of anti-discrimination policies</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and the provision of near-subsistence level medical and social services. </span>Within these neo-liberal intervention strategies disabled bodies are relegated to the ranks of surplus employment that may indeed drive labor costs down<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. Yet, at the same time the particularities of bodily accommodations</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [End Page 114] </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">necessarily send people with disabilities into circulation as consumers of medical and social services assistanc</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">e. This entry of disabled "consumers" into market systems becomes an odd and nuanced affair in that the basis of those classified as consumers usually requires "purchasing power," the one thing that the majority of disabled people do not possess. Furthermore, and perhaps most to the purposes of understanding disability experience from the inside out, is the demand to circulate as a paradigmatic patient-consumer with significant needs. Efforts to operate in this circuit of basic creature needs results in bureaucratic onslaughts of other creatures' rights to determine the coordinates of one's care, supports, inclusion, reproductive life, value, and, perhaps, accompanied by low-level treatment, as one whose payment is actually debated and negotiated among third parties (such as medical service organizations, assistive technology suppliers, and insurance companies). At the utopian end of progressive democracy, self-pay policy initiatives without remunerated labor power constitute the luxury addendum to this order of things, whether in the form of "money follows the person" or enrollment on a regular "dole" under social-democratic regimes. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Within the interstices of the geo-politics of Disability Studies we become all too aware that urgent questions of wartime economies and the perpetual resort by governments to declarations of a state of emergency quickly displace even the acute phases of peacetime negotiations among groups seeking to secure necessary augmentative equipment. </span>The advent of disability<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, then, </span>plays a critical role in predominantly aesthetic efforts to represent the nation as synonymous with a narrow array of acceptable body types<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Bodies that function across a range of variations are characterized by their possession of a fluid, adaptive ease among inflexible, human-made environments. Puar names this set of relations "assemblage," in the sense that the emphasis moves from an additive concept of devalued essences encountered in theories of intersectionality to a locus of interchanges and exclusions (174). In recent theories of corporeality highlighted by social theorists of the body such as Eve Sedgwick, Elizabeth Grosz, and Brian Massumi, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">environments are sculpted by corporeal creativity as much as they deterministically channel expressions into acceptable circuits of hetero-normative outputs</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Their work collectively provides some tools that Disability Studies may adopt for ways to recognize the active give-and-take between the virtual (prosthetic) and organismic (affective) </span>as they constitute sites of promise for cultural renewal rather than merely yielding further examples of social determinism<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (what Sedgwick calls the products of "paranoid criticism" [125] and Massumi refers to as "the cultural solipsism" of constructivism [39]). [End Page 115]</span>

====Exclusion of disabled bodies underlies all forms of oppression and mass death; All oppressive systems operate by isolating and eliminating people with traits deemed inferior and deviant. Only by reconceiving how disabled bodies appear can we begin to undo the underlying justification for all forms of violence against disqualified populations.==== 
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Siebers 2010</span>//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">(Tobin, professor of English, University of Michigan, Disability Aesthetics, pgs 23-28)</span>
Disqualification as a symbolic process removes individuals from the ranks of quality human beings, putting them at risk of unequal treatment, bodily harm, and //<span style="font-size: 13pt;">death</span>//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.That people may be subjected to violence if they do not achieve a prescribed level of quality is an injustice rarely questioned.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In fact, even though we may redefine what we mean by quality people, for example as historical minorities are allowed to move into their ranks, </span>we have not yet ceased to believe that non quality human beings do exist and that they should be treated differently from people of quality<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Harriet McBryde Johnson's debate with Peter Singer provides a recent example of the widespread belief in the existence of non quality human beings (Johnson). </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Johnson, a disability activist, argues that all disabled people qualify as persons who have the same rights as everyone else.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Singer, a moral philosopher at Princeton University, claims to the contrary that people with certain disabilities should be euthanized, especially if they are . thought to be in pain, because they do not qualify as persons. Similarly, Martha Nussbaum, the University of Chicago moral philosopher, establishes a threshold below which "a fully human life, a life worthy of human dignity:' is not possible (181). In particular, she notes that the onset of certain disabilities may reduce a person to the status of former human being: "we may say of some conditions of a being, let us say a permanent vegetative state of a (former) human being, that this just is not a human life at all" (181). </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Surprisingly little thought and energy have been given to disputing the belief that nonquality human beings do exist. </span>This belief is so robust that it //<span style="font-size: 13pt;">supports the most serious and characteristic injustices of our day.</span>//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Disqualification at this moment in time justifies discrimination, servi- tude, imprisonment, involuntary institutionalization, euthanasia, human and civil rights violations, military intervention, compulsory sterilization, police actions, assisted suicide, capital punishment, and murder</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. It is my contention that </span>disqualification finds support in //<span style="font-size: 13pt;">the way that bodies appear</span>// and in their specific appearances<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-that is, disqualification is justified through the accusation of mental or physical inferiority based on aesthetic principles. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Disqualification is produced by naturalizing inferiority as the justification for unequal treatment, violence, and oppression</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. According to Snyder and Mitchell, </span>//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">disability</span>// serves in the modern period as "//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">the master trope</span>// of human disqualification<span style="font-size: 8pt;">."4 They argue that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">disability represents a marker of otherness that establishes differences between human beings not as acceptable or valuable variations but as dangerous deviations</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Douglas Baynton provides compelling examples from the modern era, explaining that during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries in the United States </span>disability identity disqualified other identities defined by gender, race, class, and nationality. Women were deemed inferior because they were said to have<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> mental and physical </span>disabilities. People of color had fewer rights than other persons based on accusations of biological inferiority.<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> Immigrants were excluded from entry into the United States when they were poor, sick, or failed standardized tests,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> even though the populations already living there were poor, sick, and failed standardized tests. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In every case, </span>//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">disability identity served to justify oppression</span>//by amplifying ideas about inferiority<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> already attached to other minority identities.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Disability is the trope by which the assumed inferiority of these other minority identities achieved expression. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The appearance of lesser mental and physical abilities disqualifies people as inferior and justifies their oppression</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Thanks to the work ofBaynton and others, it is now possible to recognize disability as a trope used to posit the inferiority of certain minority populations, but it remains extremely difficult to understand that mental and physical markers of inferiority are also tropes placed in the service of disability oppression. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Before disability can be used as a dis qualifier, disability, too, has to be disqualified.Beneath the troping of blackness as inbuilt inferiority, for example, lies the troping of disability as inferior. Beneath the troping of femininity as biological deficiency lies the troping of disability as deficiency</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The mental and physical properties of bodies become the natural symbols of inferiority via a process of disqualification that seems biological, not cultural-which is why disability discrimination seems to be a medical rather than a social problem. If we consider how difficult it is at this moment to disqualify people as inferior on the basis of their racial, sexual, gender, or class characteristics, we may come to recognize the ground that we must cover in the future before we experience the same difficulty disqualifying people as inferior on the basis of disability. We might also recognize the work that disability performs at present in situations where race, sexuality, gender, and class are used to disqualify people as physically or mentally inferior. </span>At the current time we prefer to<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> fix, cure, or </span>eradicate the disabled body rather<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> than the discriminatory attitudes of society.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Medicine and charity, not social justice, are the answers to the problems of the disabled body, because the disabled body is thought to be the real cause of the problems. Disability is a personal misfortune or tragedy that puts people at risk of a nonquality existence-or so most people falsely believe. Aesthetics studies the way that some bodies make other bodies feel. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Bodies, minimally defined, are what appear in the world. They involve manifestations of physical appearance, whether this appearance is defined as the physical manifestation itself or as the particular appearance of a given physical manifestation.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Bodies include in my definition human bodies, paintings, sculpture, buildings, the entire range of human artifacts as well as animals and objects in the natural world. Aesthetics, moreover, has always stressed that feelings produced in bodies by other bodies are involuntary, as if they represented a form of unconscious communication between bodies, a contagious possession of one body by another. Aesthetics is the domain in which the sensation of otherness is felt at its most powerful, strange, and frightening. Whether the effect is beauty and pleasure, ugliness and pain, or sublimity and terror, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the emotional impact of one body on another is experienced as an assault on autonomy and a testament to the power of otherness</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Aesthetics is the human science most concerned with invitations 'to think and feel otherwise about our own influence, interests, and imagination. Of course, when bodies produce feelings of pleasure or pain, they also invite judgments about whether they should be accepted or rejected in the human community. People thought to experience more pleasure or pain than others or to produce unusual levels of pleasure and pain in other bodies are among the bodies most discriminated against, actively excluded, and violated on the current scene, be they disabled, sexed, gendered, or racialized bodies. Disabled people, but also sex workers, gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgendered people, and people of color, are tortured and killed because of beliefs about their relationship to pain and pleasure (Siebers 2009). This is why </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">aesthetic disqualification is not merely a matter for art critics or museum directors but a political process of concern to us all</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">An understanding of aesthetics is crucial because it reveals the operative principles of disqualification used in minority oppression. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Oppression is the systematic victimization of one group by another. It is a form of intergroup violence. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">That oppression involves "groups," and not "individuals:' means that it concerns identities, and this means, furthermore, that </span>oppression always focuses on how the body appears<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, both on how it appears as a public and physical presence and on its specific and various appearances</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Oppression is justified most often by the attribution of natural inferiority-what some call "in-built" or "biological" inferiority; Natural inferiority is always somatic, focusing on the mental and physical features of the group, and it figures as disability. The prototype of biological inferiority is disability. The representation of inferiority always comes back to the appearance of the body and the way the body makes other bodies feel. This is why the study of oppression requires an understanding of aesthetics-not only because oppression uses aesthetic judgments for its violence but also because the signposts of how oppression works are visible in the history of art, where aesthetic judgments about the creation and appreciation ofbodi~s are openly discussed. Two additional thoughts must be noted before I treat some analytic. examples from the historical record. First, despite my statement that disability now serves as the master trope of human disqualification, it is not a matter of reducing other minority identities to disability identity. Rather, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">it is a matter of understanding the work done by disability in oppressive systems. In disability oppression, </span>the physical and mental properties of the body are socially constructed as<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> disqualifying </span>defects<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, but this specific type of social construction happens to be integral at the present moment to the symbolic requirements of oppression in general.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In every oppressive system of our day, I want to claim, the oppressed identity is represented in some way as disabled, and although it is hard to understand, the same process obtains when disability is the oppressed identity. "Racism" disqualifies on the basis of race, providing justification for the inferiority of certain skin colors, bloodlines, and physical features. "Sexism" disqualifies on the basis of sex/gender as a direct representation of mental and physical inferiority. "Classism" disqualifies on the basis of family lineage and socioeconomic power as proof of inferior genealogical status. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">'Ableism" disqualifies on the basis of mental and physical differences, first selecting and then stigmatizing them as disabilities. </span>The oppressive system occults in each case the fact that the disqualified identity is socially constructed, a mere convention<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, representing signs of incompetence, weakness, or inferiority as undeniable facts of nature. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Second, it is crucial to remember the lessons of intersectional theory. This theory rightly focuses on how oppressive systems affect the identity of the oppressed individual, explaining that because individuality is complex, containing many overlapping identities, the individual is vulnerable to oppressive systems that would reduce the individual to one or two identities for the purpose of maintaining power and control (Collins 208),5 Intersectional theorists restore a complex view of the individual and fight against creating hierarchies between different identities. For example, the debate whether it is worse to be black or female is viewed as divisive and unproductive. My tactic here is similar. I want to </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">look at identity not from the point of view of the oppressed individual but from the point of view</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">-limited as it may seem and significant because limited-</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">of oppressive systems. Disability is the master trope of human disqualification, not because disability theory is superior to race, class, or sex/gender theory, but because </span>//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">all oppressive systems function by reducing human variation to deviancy and inferiority defined on the mental and physical plane.</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Intersectional analysis shows that disability identity provides a foundation for disqualification in cases where other minority identities fail because they are known to be socially constructed for the purposes of domination. It is not clear why </span>disability has proven so useful<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> a trope </span>for maintaining oppression<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, but one reason may be that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">it has been extraordinarily difficult to separate disability from the naturalist fallacy that conceives of it as a biological defect more or less resistant to social or cultural intervention. In the modern era, of course, eugenics embodies this fallacy</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Eugenics has been of signal importance to oppression because eugenics weds medical science to a disgust with mental and physical variation, but eugenics is not a new trend, only an exacerbation of old trends that invoke disease, inferiority, impairment, and deformity to disqualify one group in the service of another's rise to power. As racism, sexism, and classism fall away slowly as justifications for human inferiority-and the critiques of these prejudices prove powerful examples of how to fight oppression </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the prejudice against disability remains in full force, providing seemingly credible reasons for the belief in human inferiority and the oppressive systems built upon it. </span>This usage will continue<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, I expect, </span>until we reach a<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> historical </span>moment when we know as much about the social construction of disability as we now know about the social construction of race, class, gender, and sexuality.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Disability represents at this moment in time the final frontier of justifiable human inferiority. </span>


==Adv 3: Justice== 
====Current conceptions of disability and public policy ensure the production of a socially unjust order: focus on efficiency and utility ensure that people with disability remain incapable of participating in society.==== 
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bickenbach 2009</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jerome E. Professor of Philosophy and Law at Queen's University, Canada, and consultant for the World Health Organisation. “Disability, non-talent and distributive justice” in Arguing about Disability, eds. Kristjana Kristiansen, Simo Vehmas and Tom Shakespeare)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thus, as Wasserman has remarked (1996, 1998), </span>impairments are relevant to social justice<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in two different ways: </span>as functional deficits and social markers<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Some social responses view impairment as functional deficits that get in the way of a person's social participation; others emphasise the social stigma and other obstacles to full participation that disadvantage people with disabilities.As functional deficits, impairments create needs for services, resources and accommodation, calling up distributive justice; and as forms of social stigma, neglect and misunderstanding that have harmed persons with justice, the response - to try to undo the harm that has been done - calls for corrective or compensatory justice</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Wasserman believes, rightly in my view, that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">since impairments are 'fraught with social meaning' they appropriately call upon all three forms of justice: distributive, corrective and procedural. But, whatever the theoretical route one takes, Tawney's insight remains: social justice addresses inequalities created by social and political organisation. Social justice is about equality. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Disability critique Many </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">disability scholars</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, however, are uncomfortable with equality-grounded theories of social justice that attempt to incorporate both aspects of impairments. They </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">remind us of one of the most influential, though usually unstated assumptions of social policy: </span>it is always cheaper, more efficient, and publicly acceptable to provide resources that respond to individual functional deficits, than to modify the physical and social environment in which they live<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. Not only does the assumption relegate disability policy to the fringes - 'special needs' for people who can't make it in the real world - it also ignores the lessons of the universal design movement that argue that proactive changes in the physical and social environment are economically efficient and benefit everyone</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. But </span>//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">the assumption continues to hold the policy sector in its grip, creating a bias in favour of changing the person rather than changing the world</span>////<span style="font-size: 13pt;">.</span>//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">This, the disability critique concludes, further entrenches the true source of social inequality, namely the belief that disabilities are individual deficits that require 'special' services, rather than disadvantages resulting from unjust social arrangements. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The disability critique of mainstream equality theories is undoubtedly sound. When justice theorists turn to disability, there is an immediate shift to impairments, understood as individual deficiencies. We read that justice requires health resources in order to equalise social opportunities (Daniels 1986), or a hypothetical insurance scheme to calculate fair compensation (Dworkin 1981), or resources to equalise positive freedom by raising levels of capability (Sen 1993), or repairing the inequality of marginal utility caused by 'health-related conditions that might be expected to reduce welfare' (Stein 2007: 16). An obsession with personal deficits and comparative well-being of persons with disability may not be demeaning, as Silvers (1994) argues, but it certainly skews the discussion away from social and political organisations and their role in creating the disadvantages of disability, and the feasibility and social and economic advantages of doing so. A problem So, is Tawney's insight correct? Does a social commitment to equality not demand that we eliminate (possibly by means of compensation rather than amelioration) inequalities of individual differences, but rather only those inequalities that flow from the operation of social and political organisation? If we recall our gentle interpretative elaboration of Tawney, then we need to add the nuance that the </span>failure to respond to needs created by individual differences are also socially created<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> i</span>nequalities<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, a fact that disability scholars should be mindful of should they be tempted to say that impairment is not at all the proper focus of social equality</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (see again, Shakespeare 2006). Conceptually, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">all of this accords perfectly with the interactive model of disability </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(implicit in the epidemiological models of disability mentioned above): </span>Disability is an outcome of<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> an interaction between attributes of the individual (impairments and functional incapacities) and the entire physical, </span>social<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, attitudinal, </span>political and culture world<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in which the individual lives and acts. Impairments and other health problems impact on a person's capacity to participate in life activities; and the individual environment, and response or lack of response to impairment, will also impact on participation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In specific instances, it is not always clear whether the impairment is the major source of the non-participatory outcome, or whether the environment is the primary source. It depends on the facts. </span>



====Mobility is central to a spatial conception of justice that allows for full participation of all people, including people with disabilities, in social and political life.==== 
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pineda 8,</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Victor, Ph.d at UCLA, expert in disability policy, planning and regional development, taught courses on Policy Evaluation, Community Development, and International Disability Rights, advised international agencies such as the World Bank and United Nations, as well as state and federal governments, in the development and implementation of programs and policies that include people with disabilities, joined the Dubai School of Government as a Visiting Fellow to study the implementation of the UAE Disability Act of 2006, worked as an associate with the U.S. Treasury, obtained degrees in Political Economy, Business Administration, and a Master’s in City and Regional Planning, awarded the Fulbright-Hays and Sheikh Qassemi Fellow at the Dubai School of Government, (Victor Santiago Pineda, “Enabling Justice: Spatializing Disability in the Built Environment” </span>[[http://berkeley.academia.edu/VictorSantiagoPineda/Papers/251651/Enabling_Justice_Spatializing_Disability_In_the_Built_Environment|__http://berkeley.academia.edu/VictorSantiagoPineda/Papers/251651/Enabling_Justice_Spatializing_Disability_In_the_Built_Environment__]]
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">My aim is to elaborate a just theory of disabil- ity that takes into consideration the socio-political dimensions of space, seeing that disability is also relative to the greater socio-political environment within which space is produced</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. ‘Person A is disabled’ is to be analyzed as ‘Person A is disabled with respect to social and political norms expressed in an environ- ment (SP).’ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The medical abnormality and personal charity models forward a normalizing agenda onto the social and political environment. These social and political norms silence the philosophical position underlying my deeper point; the distribution of space is rarely ever addressed as a form of remedial action for disabled persons</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Without the social and political there is no spatial, and without the spatial there is no social and political</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Soja 1989</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">). From this position, a spatial justice and spatial distribution model of disability begin to emerge. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">For too long, disability has been seen as a property of the individual independent of the environment in which that person lives, a primary feature of the a-spatial models of disability discussed above. The influential work by Henry Lefebvre (1972, 1974) and Edward Soja (1980, 1989, 1991) provide new conceptual tools to bridge the gap. In the Production of Space, Henri Lefebvre argues effectively that space shapes social relations and social relations in turn shape space (Lefebvre 1974). In his view, </span>oppressive social constructions can create oppressive physical and spatial realities<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. </span>Such oppressive spaces<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in turn reproduce social constructions that </span>perpetuate injustice<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Edward Soja argues that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">spatial dialectics of this type lead to a vicious cycle of marginal- ity and inequality that often manifest as disabling spatial and social conditions</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Soja 1980, 224). Soja has demonstrated elsewhere (1989) how </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">planning theorists, practitioners and social scientists in general have failed to fully appreciate the role of space as an analytical dimension of inquiry into the production of social life. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Where environmental elements—and space itself—are conceived for the most part as fixed, immobile, and inflexible, planners may not see how their actions exercise a normalizing vision of physical ability that is socially constructed. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In my socio-spatial model, </span>disability is a socially, politically, and spatially created phenomenon.<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> This model reveals that: • </span>Access and mobility are a social and spatial right<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> • Physical barriers are unjust and oppressive • Spatial elements are fluid, and alterable • Institutional practices are exclusionary, full of obstacles, and only remediable through struggle </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">• </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The only legal possibility is full inclusion • As a result, </span>the disabled individual has the right to<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">: </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">• </span>His or her body<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> • Difference • Legitimately use their body in space and use space to adapt to their body </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Under this model, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">spaces of tolerance and difference are nourished not just for people with disabilities but a variety of other marginalized groups. This model accepts the diversity of living and learning styles.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> It also envisions alternative working modes (such as flex time, or telecommuting) and seeks to accommodate everyone to the greatest extent possible. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">It seeks broaden society and foster understanding, inclusion, participation and action</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In all, the socio-spatial model reveals assumptions of space and its inherent relationship to the subject’s immediate environment. </span>This model thus directly challenges the inequity of<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the medical </span>abnormality and personal tragedy<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">/charity models. When the way in which an environment (social- spatial-political) can fail to maximize the transforma- tion of specific functions for an individual informs a model of disability, </span>new avenues for seeking justice for disabled persons in the production and distribution of space emerge<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Lefebvre’s theories, the Berkeley Independent Living Movement, and the ADA legislation it inspired can be revisited, as well as extended, with this in mind.</span>

====The purpose of debate is deliberation over questions of justice. Any attempts to frame debate away from questions of justice and access to deliberative spaces are politically disabling and ensure a politics of futile confrontation as opposed to continual self-revisioning.==== 
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gooding-Williams 1998</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Bob professor of political science, University of Chicago, “RACE, MULTICULTURALISM, AND DEMOCRACY” Constellations)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">In the fourth part of this paper I defend a version of multiculturalism that avoids the kitsch of Afro- and other ethno-centrisms, as well as the kitsch of a political nationalism that eschews difference. In particular, I make the case that multicultural education in contemporary America should be race conscious. I begin with the assumption that fostering the capacity for democratic deliberation is a central aim of public education in a democratic society.53 I also follow a number of contemporary political theorists in supposing that </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">democratic deliberation is a form of public reasoning geared towards adducing considerations that all parties to a given deliberation can find compelling</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.54 On this view, </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">successful deliberation requires that co-deliberators cultivate a mutual understanding of the differences in conviction that divide them, so that they can formulate reasons</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (say, </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">for implementing or not implementing a proposed policy) that will be generally acceptable despite those differences.</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">55 In the words of one theorist, </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">“[d]eliberation encourages people with conflicting perspectives to understand each other’s point of view, to minimize their moral disagreements, and to search for common ground</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.”56 Lorenzo Simpson usefully glosses the pursuit of mutual understanding when he writes that </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">it requires “a ‘reversibility of perspectives,’ not in the sense of my collapsing into you or you into me, but in the sense that I try to understand – but not necessarily agree with – what you take your life to be about and you do the same for me . . . [i]n such a . . . mutual understanding you may come to alter the way in which you understand yourself and I . . . may find that listening to you leads me to alter my self-understanding.</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">”57 According to Simpson, the search for common ground need not leave us with the convictions with which we began. On the contrary, </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">the process of democratic deliberation can be a source of self-transformation that enriches one’s view of the issues at hand and even </span>__**//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">alters one’s conception of the demands of social justice</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.58 </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">In multicultural America, multicultural public education is a good that promotes mutual understanding across cultural differences, thereby fostering and strengthening citizens’ capacities for democratic deliberation</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. In essence, multicultural education is a form of pedagogy whereby students study the histories and cultures of differently cultured fellow citizens, many of whose identities have a composite, multicultural character. More exactly, </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">it is a form of cross-cultural hermeneutical dialogue, and therefore a way of entering into conversation with those histories and cultures.</span>__**//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">By disseminating the cultural capital of crosscultural knowledge, multicultural education can cultivate citizens’ abilities to “reverse perspectives.</span>//**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">” By facilitating mutual understanding, it can help them to shape shared vocabularies for understanding their moral and cultural identities and for finding common ground in their deliberations</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.60 By strengthening a student’s ability to reverse perspectives, multicultural education may bolster her disposition to engage the self-understandings of differently cultured others, even if the particulars of her multicultural education have not involved an engagement with the cultures of precisely those others (consider, e.g., someone whose multicultural education has included courses in Asian- American literatures, but who knows nothing of American Latino subcultures). </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Acquiring a know-how and a feel for cross-cultural hermeneutical conversation is likely to reinforce a student’s inclination to understand and learn from the selfinterpretations of cultural “others” in just the way that the cultivation of an athletic skill (e.g., the ability to “head” a soccer ball) tends to reinforce one’s inclination to participate in the sports for which having that skill is an advantage (e.g. playing soccer). In the case of multicultural education, one cultivates a skill which is motivationally conducive to the sort of mutual understanding that is critical to the flourishing of deliberative democracy in a multicultural society</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.61 Let me summarize my argument so far. In contrast to Schlesinger, who yearns for a society in which the understanding of key political ideals remains immune from deliberative debate animated by cultural and other group differences, I have been suggesting that deliberative debate of this sort is an appropriate medium for seeking and forging common grounds and ideals. I have also been arguing (1) that a commitment to deliberative democracy in multicultural America entails a commitment to promoting the mutual understanding of differences through cross-cultural dialogue and (2) that such a commitment justifies the institution of multicultural education. The promotion of mutual understanding avoids Schlesinger’s and Asante’s kitsch, because </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">it is not predicated on an imperative to preserve an uncomplicated national or ethnic identity in the face of cultural and social complexity</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. Indeed, the ideal of mutual understanding invites increasing complexity by suggesting that cross-cultural educational insights, since they can effect changes in the self-understandings of persons who have benefitted from a multicultural education, may alter and further complicate those persons’ identities, perhaps making them more multicultural. In what follows, I further explore the implications of this ideal by proposing that a commitment to deliberative democracy in multicultural America justifies a form of multicultural education that is, specifically, race-conscious. </span>


==Adv 4: Solvency== 
====Universal design is crucial for accessibility of transport.==== 
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Audirac in ‘8</span>//<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> [Ivonne, Director-Program in City and Regional Planning. University of Texas-Arlington, “Accessing Transit as Universal Design”, Journal of Planning Literature 23: 4]</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Accessing Transit as Universal Design</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">UD applied to transit is an inclusionary strategy</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">that seeks to redress the aforementioned forms of</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">social exclusion. Accessible transportation focused</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">previously on technical solutions to removing</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">physical barriers affecting specific disabled groups</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and providing dial-a-ride or specialized demand services</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">These strategies largely segregated and stigmatized</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">users as “seniors” or “disabled</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.” Instead, </span>UDemphasizes transportation that caters to all users<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>regardless of age and ability in a single integrated<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>system<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> that combines both mass transit and real-time</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">demand-responsive systems</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Grieco 2003; Mitchell</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 1997). Enabled by ICT and borrowing from freight</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> logistics, the European literature refers to this system</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as the “complete transportation chain” (Mitchell 1997;</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 2000; Ståhl 1999), while the American literature</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> terms it the new “mobility management model” (TCRP</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 1999, 2000, 2002). These models require seamless</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> integration of the supply side (i.e., system’s operation,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> infrastructure, and quality of service delivery)</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> with the demand side (i.e., mobility needs of the</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> widest number of users). Consequently, </span>this<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> often</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>entails a complete reorganization of transit operations<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">from traditional fixed-route, hub-and-spoke, and setschedule</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">systems to flexible schedule systems with</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">intelligent reservation centers that can identify passenger</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">needs and aggregate individual preferences in</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">real time, providing door-to-door service</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Hine and</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Grieco 2002). Despite its technical feasibility in the</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> current ICT era, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">institutional, organizational, legal,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and old market structures remain important barriers</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to the full realization of these integrated-transit models</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">touted as the means to bring about “a new relationship</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">between accessibility, mobility and the</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">previously socially excluded</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">” (Hine and Grieco 2002, 4).</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In a conceptual discussion of UD and accessibility,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Iwarsson and Stahl (2003) differentiate between three</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> dimensions of physical accessibility5: (1) micro accessibility</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> related to the immediate proximal environment,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (2) meso or neighborhood or city-level</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> accessibility, and (3) macro or metropolitan or regional</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> accessibility. This article applies these scales of accessibility</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to the previously discussed dimensions of</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> mobility-related social exclusion (i.e., immobility) to</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> assess the transit features requiring a UD approach.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> As shown in Table 3, a UD perspective applied to</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> transit underscores the notion that:</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 1. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Addressing physical exclusion at the micro level of</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">accessibility involves planning, designing, and operating</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">transit systems that are easy for all users. This</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">includes not only passengers with physical, sensory,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">or cognitive impairment but also those with language</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">or cultural barriers, people with children, individuals</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">carrying baggage or parcels, or those who</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">are new to the area</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Suen and Mitchell 1999).</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Micro-level accessibility requires barrier-free retrofitting</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of the existing physical built environment;</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> however, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">future development to be served with transit</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">requires planning for UD to avoid the need for retrofitting</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">or readaptation.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> This includes consideration of</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> pedestrian infrastructure and streetscape (e.g., sidewalks,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> traffic signals, crosswalks, street crossings, and</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> street furniture) and their interface with automobile</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> facilities (e.g., park and ride, kiss and ride), and transit</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> passenger facilities (e.g., terminals, stations, stops).</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Universally designed transit accessibility at the micro</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">level requires bus-stop boarding pads and street curbs</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">that are leveled with low-floor buses. This not only</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">makes shorter and easier bus boarding and alighting</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">for all</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (i.e., wheelchair passengers, frail and/or ambulant</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> disabled people, patrons with small children or</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> those carrying baggage or parcels), it also reduces bus</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> dwell time. </span>Low-floor buses with lifts or ramps meet<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>barrier-free design criteria, but strictly speaking,<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span> ramps and lifts are ADA bus design readaptations that<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>increase bus dwelling time and stigmatize wheelchair<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span> users or anyone needing them<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Thus, although they</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> are a form of inclusive design, they are not UD solutions</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to micro-level transit accessibility.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 2. Fear-based social exclusion is another form of</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> person-environment accessibility occurring at the</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> micro and meso levels. Fear of crime holds many</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> people without cars hostage in their own homes and</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> prevents them from walking and using public transportation.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Women, older, and disabled people are particularly</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> affected. Although generally outside the</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> scope of UD literature, crime prevention through</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> environmental design (CPTED) is typically a planning</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and design intervention applied by transit facility</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> designers in collaboration with transit managers</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and security personnel (Audirac and Higgins 2004).</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Implicit in these interventions is the belief that</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> redesigning certain aspects of the physical environment</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> can lower crime levels by enhancing “defensible</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> space” opportunities that deter or discourage</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> crime. A synthesis of practice on crime prevention</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and control by the Transit Cooperative Research</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Program (TCRP) found that CPTED is among the</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> seven strategies most widely used by transit managers.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> However, video surveillance, staff involvement,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> police presence, and community outreach and</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> education are necessary for CPTED to effectively</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> work6 (Needle and Cobb 1997). This raises the larger</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> issue—further discussed below in operator-based</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> accessibility—</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">that “transit for all” requires close</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> cooperation among all levels of transit personnel and</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> external stakeholders, and it implies an equally</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> strong emphasis on UD of services</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Consequently, to</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> deal with accessibility and social exclusion, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">attention¶ to social and organizational barriers is as important as¶ the emphasis on physical ones</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 3. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Geographical exclusion at the meso and macro¶ levels of accessibility underscores the importance of¶ transit for non–automobile users to reach neighborhood¶ and metropolitan destinations beyond normal¶ walking range</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The characteristic low-density cardependent¶ urban form of metropolitan America and¶ the scattering of services, employment, shopping,¶ entertainment, and so on across the metropolitan¶ region makes traditional mass transit</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (such as fixed</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and hub-and-spoke bus service systems oriented to</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the central business district) </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">ineffective in reaching¶ peripheral and suburban destinations and in taking¶ people where they want to go. Effective transit accessibility¶ at the meso and macro levels should address¶ geographical as well as “from-facilities,” economical,¶ and time-based forms of social exclusion. This¶ would require the aforementioned shift in transit service¶ paradigm and full development of intelligent¶ integrated systems under the “complete transportation¶ chain” or “mobility management” models.¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> At the system’s level, achieving the above would</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> require that conventional city transit agencies shift</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from being transit operators to mobility managers of</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a family of services. These would include fixedroute</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and fixed-schedule transit serving high-volume</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> destinations together with feeder transit services,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> flexible-schedule and demand-response transit, and</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> taxis and community-based transportation options7</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that cater to mobility-impaired individuals. (see</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Burkhardt, McGavock, and Nelson. 2002; Pagano</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and Metaxatos 2006; Spielberg and Pratt 2004; Suen</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and Sen 2004; Ståhl 1999).</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 4. In the above models, designed to offer the greatest possible</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> choice of travel to all users, the mobility management</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> agency provides fare subsidies to those in need,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> thus tackling this form of economic exclusion.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 5. Time-based exclusion can be minimized with real-time</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> information about vehicle arrival and trip duration</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> available at bus stops or internet-based tracking via</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> cell phones and other wireless devices. These systems</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> have been used in Norway. The City of Kristiansand’s</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Bussmetro offers to passengers GPS-based real-time</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> info that tracks where the bus is located at all times.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Bus stops have visual and audio displays showing</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> count-down time for bus arrival. Hearing and visually</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> impaired individuals can also receive this information</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> via personal remote control devices.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 6. </span>Operator-based social exclusion is related to lack of¶ information and assistance about service<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, discourteous¶ staff attitudes, and drivers’ behavior toward¶ impaired and older people</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. These conditions contribute</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to suppressed journeys, and thus, to social</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> exclusion. In addition to </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">staff training and education,¶ internet-based reporting of service quality hosted by¶ disability and elderly advocacy NGOs have been¶ proposed as a means to insure service accountability¶ and quality assurance </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Grieco 2003). Outside of UD</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of student services (Burgsthahler n.d.), customer</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> care system design has been less prominent in the</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> UD literature. However, this is clearly an area where</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> more UD research and development is needed, since</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to be truly accessible for all, complex systems like</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> city transit require planning and design of both its</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> physical and socioorganizational components.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> UD applied to transit has focused primarily on</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> planning and design guidance of the physical side at</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the micro-accessibility level. However, extending UD</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> considerations to geographical accessibility, as</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> intended in “complete chain” and “mobility management”</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> models, has recently drawn attention to the fact</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that “accessible transit for all” implies that the</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> physical chain of accessible transit must be seamlessly</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> integrated with a regional administrative chain</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Organization for Economic Cooperation and</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Development 2000; Steinfeld 2001). There have been</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a number of lessons learned in Nordic countries,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> where land use and transportation planning plays a</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> major role in implementing universal design as</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “Town Planning for All” (Petren 2004). These</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> include the importance of effective intergovernmental</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> cooperation, smooth collaboration across administrative</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> boundaries, successful consultation arrangements</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to obtain user input, and heeding the advice</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that “small mistakes in planning and implementation</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> often have big consequences” (Petren 2004).</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Despite the challenging complexity of implementing¶ universally designed transit at the various micro¶ and macro scales, a small but growing literature on¶ UD performance evaluation is starting to appear¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Preiser 2001; Preiser and Ostroff 2001). </span>It offers<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>user-driven feedback design methodologies that can<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span> be applied both to facilities at the micro-accessibility<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span> level and to the organizational level of agencies providing<span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span> transit services<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Nonetheless, UD performance</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> evaluation research is still in its infancy. It will take</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> time for design and planning education to fully</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> embrace the UD paradigm and for public awareness</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to demand universally designed products and services</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> before significant private and public UD research and</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> development becomes the norm (Ostroff 2001).</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>













Freight 1AC:

======<span style="font-size: 20pt;">Advantage One – Hegemony</span>====== 
US freight transportation infrastructure is collapsing now while freight volume is increasing – highways can’t be expanded fast enough
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Peter </span><span class="Underline">**Bradley**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Jul 20</span><span class="Underline">**08**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, award-winning journalist with over three decades of experience in newspapers and national business magazines, his credentials include seven years as the transportation and supply chain editor at Purchasing Magazine and six years as the chief editor of Logistics Management, </span><span class="Underline">“The Logistics Infrastructure,”</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> DC Velocity, p http://www.dcvelocity.com/articles/?article_id=1940&channel=11</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">A few months later... ...</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">efficiency</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">," it says. </span>


Freight traffic is increasing and current rail capabilities are not enough – the plan is key
Cristopher P.L. <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Barkan</span>**</span>, Mark H. <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Dingler and</span>**</span> Lai [Rex] <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Yung-Cheng</span>**</span>, April 16th, 20<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">11</span>**</span>, (1) professor, director, Railroad Engineering Program, (2) graduate research assistant, Railroad Engineering Program, (3) assistant professor, Division of Transportation Engineering, NTU, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">“Effects of Communications-Based Train Control and Electronically Controlled Pneumatic Brakes on Railroad Capacity,”</span> <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://ebookbrowse.com/impact-of-cbtc-and-ecp-brakes-on-capacity-pdf-d114888226]]</span> vk

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Beginning in the... ...about their implementation.</span>



The plan increases efficiency and lowers congestion – development solves the coming freight overload – it’s empirically proven to work
Steven R.<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Ditmeyer</span>**</span>, March 15th, 20<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">11</span>**</span>, DoT Faculty Chair, Industrial College of the Armed Forces,<span style="font-size: 11pt;">“Network-Centric Railway Operations – Utilizing Intelligent Railroad Systems,”</span> <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.transportation.northwestern.edu/docs/2011/2011.03.15.Ditmeyer_Paper.pdf]]</span> vk

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Network-centric railway... ...the transportation marketplace. </span>



freight overload collapses US economic __competitiveness__
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Neil </span><span class="Underline">**Shister**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Sep 20</span><span class="Underline">**07**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, editorial director of World Trade Magazine, </span><span class="Underline">“The Infrastructure (Again!),”</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> World Trade Magazine 20.9, p ebsco</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">For the second-half... ...</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">threatening economic competitiveness</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">.</span>



freight volumes will overload the rail and highway system – this creates __congestion__ that undermines the global supply chain
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Scott </span><span class="Underline">**Johnson and**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Joanne </span><span class="Underline">**Sedor**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Last updated July 26th, 20</span><span class="Underline">**11**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, transportation specialists in FHWA's Office of Freight Management and Operations, </span><span class="Underline">“Reliability: Critical to Freight Transportation,”</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Public Roads 68.3, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/publications/publicroads/04nov/09.cfm]]</span> vk</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The volume of... ...</span>
the <span class="Underline">U.S. </span>economy<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>




Rail is key to the supply chain and US economy

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Robert W. </span><span class="Underline">**Kelly**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, 3-6-20</span><span class="Underline">**08**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Senior Advisor to the Reform Institute’s Homeland and National Security Center, </span><span class="Underline">“Chain of Perils: Hardening the Global Supply Chain and Strengthening America’s Resilience,”</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> p http://se1.isn.ch/serviceengine/FileContent?serviceID=ISN&fileid=58656D76-9643-757E-BEA4-119FB6E12C29&lng=en</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">The fact is... ...private sector leaders.</span>




efficient rail service is key to continued US __innovation__
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Dr. Sean </span><span class="Underline">**Randolph**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Oct 20</span><span class="Underline">**08**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, President & CEO of the Bay Area Council Economic Institute, </span><span class="Underline">“California High-Speed Rail,” </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Bay Area Council Economic Institute Report, p http://www.bayeconfor.org/media/files/pdf/CaliforniaHigh-SpeedRailOct2008Web.pdf vk</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">World-class infrastructure... ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">rail will offer.</span>


That’s key to US primacy and tech leadership
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Rocco </span><span class="Underline">**Martino**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, spring 20</span><span class="Underline">**07**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, founder and chair of the board of Cyber Technology Group, Inc.,</span><span class="Underline"> “A Strategy for Success: Innovation Will Renew American Leadership,”</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Orbis, p http://www.fpri.org/orbis/5102/martino.innovationamericanleadership.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Much of the... ...</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">and energy dependence</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>



Continued innovation is key to the US hegemony
Zalmay <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Khalilzad</span>**</span>, spring 19<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">95</span>**</span>, director of the Strategy and Doctrine Program @ RAND, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">"Losing the Moment? The United States and the World After the Cold War,"</span> Washington Quarterly, p L/N
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">To sustain</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">and... ...</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">will</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> necessarily </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">worsen</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>



Collapse of US economic leadership will make hegemony unsustainable

Zalmay <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Khalilzad</span>, February 8th, 20<span style="font-size: 11pt;">11</span>, counselor at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and president of Khalilzad Associates, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">“The Economy and National Security,”</span> <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad?pg=3]]</span>


<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Today</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">economicand... ...the geopolitical implications.</span>




Military railroads are decaying now – they’re vulnerable to accidents and pose a high risk of failure
Kenneth M. <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Mead</span>**</span>, last modified December 23rd, 20<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">11</span>**</span>, previous inspector general of the Department of Transportation, originally written June 20th, 1991, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">“DoD Can Improve the Safety of On-Base Track and Equipment,”</span> <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.gao.gov/products/RCED-91-135]]</span> vk
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Pursuant to a... ...</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">meet FRA requirements</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">. </span>



Rail corridor networks are failing now – it will collapse absent improvement of infrastructure

Jack <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kinstlinger</span>**</span>, last revised June 20<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">10</span>**</span>, chair of the American Road and Transportation Builder’s Association Railroad/Transit advisory Council, ATRBA is an advocate association <span class="SmalltextChar">of US transportation design and construction</span>, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">“Railroad/Transit,”</span> <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.artba.org/advocacy/government-affairs/policy-statements/railroadtransit/]]</span> vk


<span style="font-size: 7pt;">ARTBA urges the... ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">intermodal </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">transportation </span><span class="Underline">**//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">system.</span>//**</span>




Thats key to forward deployment, mobility and military readiness
John <span class="Cite">Pike</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, director of GlobalSecurity.org, </span>“Strategic Rail Corridor Network (STRACNET),”<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> last modified January 10th, 20</span><span class="Cite">12</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/facility/stracnet.htm]]</span> vk</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">During the Great ... ...170 defense installations. </span>



The plan is key to continued shift in US military power
<span class="Cite">Arquilla ‘10</span>
(John Arquilla, professor of defense analysis at the U.S. Naval Postgraduate School, MARCH/APRIL 2010, “The New Rules of War”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/02/22/the_new_rules_of_war)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">The irony, however... ...world from darkness. </span>

Even if hard power is still key, information dominance is a __prerequisite__ for its deployment.
<span class="Cite">Lowe ‘10</span>
(Chris Lowe, Major, US Army; School of Advanced Military Studies, US Army Command and General Staff College, 2010, “From ‘Battle’ to the ‘Battle of Ideas’: The Meaning and Misunderstanding of Information Operations,” http://usacac.army.mil/cac2/IPO/repository/Lowe_Monograph.pdf)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Introducing language that... ...</span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">its military force. </span>//





railroading is is key to make rail corridors effective – using the fed’s key to info sharing and integration with STRACNET
Kenneth L. <span class="Cite">Alford</span>,<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Ph.D.,</span> <span class="Cite">and</span> Steven R. <span class="Cite">Ditmeyer</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, National Defense University, DoT Faculty Chair, Industrial College of the Armed Forces, and Professor and Department Chair, Industrial College of the Armed Forces, “Net-Centric Operations: Defense and Transportation Synergy,” January 20</span><span class="Cite">07</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA487718 vk</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Department of Defense... ...</span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">of </span>**</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">n</span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">et-</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">c</span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">entric </span>**</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">r</span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">ailroading</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">.</span>


US hegemony is key to prevent global chaos and extinction – there’s no alternative

Zbigniew <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Brzezinski</span>**</span>, January/February 20<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">12</span>**</span>, CSIS counselor and trustee/co-chair of the CSIS Advisory board, Robert E. Osgood Professor of American Foreign Policy at the School of Advanced International Studies @ Johns Hopkins University, co-chair of the American Committee for Peace in the Caucasus and a member of the International Advisory Board of the Atlantic Council, recipient of numerous honors and awards, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">“After America,”</span> Foreign Policy, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/01/03/after_america?page=0,1]]</span> vk


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">For </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">if America... ...into global turmoil. </span>




<span style="font-size: 20pt;">terror</span>

Fire will be the weapon of choice in future terrorist attacks – we’re unprepared
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Stephen A. Raynis</span>, Battalion Chief Fire Department City of New York, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Improved Incendiary Devices: Risk Assessment, Threats, Vulnerabilities and Consequences,” </span>20<span style="font-size: 11pt;">06</span>, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[https://www.hsdl.org/?search&collection=limited&fct&so=date&submitted=Search&tabsectionmore=true&tabsection=Thesis+(CHDS)&creatormore=true&page=1&creator=Raynis%2C+Stephen+A]]</span>.,
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Terrorists choose</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">their... ...fuel is exhausted.</span>

No defense – the US lacks protection – this invites attack
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Stephen A. Raynis</span>, Battalion Chief Fire Department City of New York, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">“Improved Incendiary Devices: Risk Assessment, Threats, Vulnerabilities and Consequences,” </span>20<span style="font-size: 11pt;">06</span>, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[https://www.hsdl.org/?search&collection=limited&fct&so=date&submitted=Search&tabsectionmore=true&tabsection=Thesis+(CHDS)&creatormore=true&page=1&creator=Raynis%2C+Stephen+A]]</span>.,
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Terrorists have used... ...</span>of IID attacks.




Radical environmental groups also perpetuate rail terrorism – it’s the number one threat – and it’s completely domestic

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">AP, ‘08</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Associated Press, “FBI: Eco-Terrorism Remains No. 1 Domestic Terror Threat” 3/31/08, Online [FH])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">For nearly seven... ...</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">game</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">, experts said. </span>



terrorists are focused on railroads now – they’re using the railway attacks in Spain as a model

Joseph <span class="Cite">Farah</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, World Net Daily owner, </span>“New al-Qaida plot to burn U.S. forests,”<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> April 8th, 20</span><span class="Cite">04</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, http://www.wnd.com/2004/04/24086/ vk</span>


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">An Arabic-language... ...attacks</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;"> in Australia.”</span>




No alt causes – railroads are the __most likely__ target of a terrorist attack – use of improvised incendiary devices is __guaranteed__
Gregory S. <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Capra</span>**</span>, December 20<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">06</span>**</span>, Chief of the Program Management Office, Air Force Center for Environmental Excellence, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">“Protecting Critical Rail Infrastructure,”</span> <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://cpc.au.af.mil/PDF/monograph/criticalrailinfrastructure.pdf]]</span> vk
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Since</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;"> the </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">9/11... ...materials on board </span>



The plan solves – provides detection, notification and recovery capabilities that prevent disaster
<span class="Cite">Steven R. Ditmeyer,</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> DoT Faculty Chair, Industrial College of the Armed Forces, </span>“Network-Centric Railroading; Utilizing Intelligent Railroad Systems,”<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> June 15th, 20</span><span class="Cite">05</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, http://www.dodccrp.org/events/10th_ICCRTS/CD/005.pdf vk</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Intelligent</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">railroad systems... ...</span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">manage</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> their </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">operations</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">. </span>



Successful attack collapses the economy and destroys critical infrastructure – causes extinction

Robert Arthur <span class="Cite">Braid</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, US Marine Corps School of Advanced Warfighting,</span> “Pyro-Terrorism – The Threat of Arson-Induced Forest Fires as a Future Terrorist Weapon of Mass Destruction,”<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> June 20</span><span class="Cite">06</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA509220]]</span> vk</span>


<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Thesis:</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">The United... ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">for policy change.</span>




**<span style="background-color: white;">Global economic crisis causes war---__strong__ statistical support---their defense doesn’t account for global crises properly</span>**



**Royal 10** <span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">– Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is... ...deserves more attention.</span>


=====<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Plan: the United States federal government should implement Positive Train Control systems and Electronically Controlled Pneumatic Brakes on commercial </span><span style="font-size: 12.222222328186035px; line-height: 20px;">rail lines</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> in the United States</span>===== 

==Solvency== 
**<span style="font-size: 20pt;">Now, Solvency –</span>**
The plan greatly enhances capacity – integration of the technologies in the near future takes out all solvency deficits
Cristopher P.L. <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Barkan</span>**</span>, Mark H. <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Dingler and</span>**</span> Lai [Rex] <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Yung-Cheng</span>**</span>, April 16th, 20<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">11</span>**</span>, (1) professor, director, Railroad Engineering Program, (2) graduate research assistant, Railroad Engineering Program, (3) assistant professor, Division of Transportation Engineering, NTU, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">“Effects of Communications-Based Train Control and Electronically Controlled Pneumatic Brakes on Railroad Capacity,”</span> <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://ebookbrowse.com/impact-of-cbtc-and-ecp-brakes-on-capacity-pdf-d114888226]]</span> vk
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">*Note – CBTC = PTC</span>//
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Railroads are</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">increasingly... ...</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">shorter stopping distances</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">.</span>