=Sept/Oct:= 
==AFF:== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">FOUCAULT AC</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">We cannot use rationality to justify all of our beliefs. Asking us to do so is an impossible demand and asks the wrong question. **Keller**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The Reason For God. Timothy Keller. 2008. BG.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Is there anything […] to bow to.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Therefore,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> because the nature of justification ultimately relies on belief, we must reflect upon what shapes those beliefs. **Foucault**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Michel Foucault. Power And Knowledge. 1980. BG.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri;">It seems to […] importance of Nietzsche.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Thus the **burden** of the affirmative is to demonstrate that by giving terrorists due process rights, that the AFF detaches truth from current hegemonic powers that construct truth.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Further,</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> in order to stop specific instances violence, we must examine the structures and hidden violence within society that cause these visceral explosions of violence. **Zizek**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Violence: Big Ideas/Small Books. Slavoj Zizek.2008. BG.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">If there is […] </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">of subjective violence.</span>__</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Advantage 1 is the State of Exception </span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The war on terrorism takes place outside of the framework of law placing terrorists in a state of exception. **Munster**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">THE WAR ON TERRORISM: WHEN THE EXCEPTION BECOMES THE RULE. International Journal for the Semiotics of Law Revue Internationale de SeÅLmiotique Juridique 17: 141–153, 2004. 2004 Kluwer Academic Publishers. Printed in the Netherlands.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Building upon the […] is actually effective.’’</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">We strip terrorists of all rights and reduce them to bare life when refuse to incorporate them in existing legal structures. Rens Van **Munster** 2 - THE WAR ON TERRORISM: WHEN THE EXCEPTION BECOMES THE RULE. International Journal for the Semiotics of Law Revue Internationale de SeÅLmiotique Juridique 17: 141–153, 2004. 2004 Kluwer Academic Publishers. Printed in the Netherlands.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">As noted earlier […]</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> exercised over them.</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">28</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Advantage 2 is Discourse About Terrorists</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">A) is the Status Quo</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #1a1718; font-family: Calibri;">Current discourse on terrorism stigmatizes terrorists as an unrelatable Other whose motives we can never comprehend. **de Benoist ’07**</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #1a1718; font-family: Calibri;">Alain [editor of the two French academic journals //Krisis// and //Nouvelle Ecole//, and the author of more than fifty books about political philo- sophy, sociology and the history of ideas]. “Global terrorism and the state of permanent exception: the significance of Carl Schmitt’s thought today.” //The International Political Thought of Carl Schmitt: Terror, liberal war and the crisis of global order.// JE.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #1a1718; font-family: Calibri;">From the point […] the best society.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">This terrorist rhetoric reinforces a binary that puts the good in an endless war against so-called “evil” terrorists.Kellner</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Douglas Kellner - Chair of Philosophy @ UCLA, Presidential Studies Quarterly. Vol. 37 (4), 2007, pg. 622+)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">On the day […]be a military response.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Indeed, this perception has profound impacts by justifying unsubstantiated claims of the impending threat. **Mueller** and **Stewart**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">John Mueller, Mark G. Stewart- 2011[Professor and Woody Hayes Chair of National Security Studies Mershon Center for International Security Studies and Department of Political Science Ohio State University, Professor of Civil Engineering Director, Centre for Infrastructure Performance and Reliability The University of Newcastle] “Terror, Security, and Money: Balancing the Risks, Benefits, and Costs of Homeland Security”. AS</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">In the same […] **__helping to stoke]__**."75</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">B) is the Impact</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Terrorist rhetoric shuts off solutions to terrorism, necessitates eradication of those who its applied to, and incites racist violence.Kapitan and Schulte</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Tomis Kapitan and Erich Schulte – Prof of Philosophy @ N Illionois U, and Erich – Journal of Political and Military Sociology Vol. 30 Iss. 1, 2002, pp. 172+, Questia)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Given that a […] violence" (Said 1988)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Indeed, the insecurity fostered by the rhetoric of these policiesleads to endless wars and unbelievable amounts of collateral damage. **Aradau**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Claudia Aradau-2001[Research Associate in the Centre of International Relations, Department of War Studies, King’s College London] “Beyond good and evil: Ethics and securitization/desecuritization techniques” AS</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Survival</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> refers not […] **__and eventually violence__**.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">C) is the Solvency</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Giving due process to terrorists makes trials more transparent and allows us to hear the voices of terrorists. **Nickel**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">James W. Nickel- 2007[University of Miami] “Due Process Rights and Terrorist Emergencies” AS.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">DPRs protect</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> us […] **__DPRs more stable.__** </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">By hearing the voices of terrorists we are able to understand them as actual people instead of as impending threats. **Zulaika** and **Douglas**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Zulaika, 1996. Joseba. Professor and Co-Director Center for Basque Studies at University of Nevada Reno. Douglas 1996. William. Professor John Hopkins University. Terror and Taboo: the follies, fables, and faces of terrorism. Routelage. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Confronted with </span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">the […] **__agency and subjectivation.__** </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Zulaika</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> and **Douglas** continue</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Zulaika, 1996. Joseba. Professor and Co-Director Center for Basque Studies at University of Nevada Reno. Douglas 1996. William. Professor John Hopkins University. Terror and Taboo: the follies, fables, and faces of terrorism. Routelage. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">This chapter presents […] </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">proximity and sympathy.</span>__</span>**
==NEG:== 
==== ==== 
====CLS K:==== 

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 14pt;">A) is the Framework.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The K Works Both Pre and Post Fiat</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">B) is the Link.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The Affirmative says due process protections through the Constitution provide a methodological, objective approach for deciding what people are due. These claims of systemic objectivity prevent criticism of traditional legal discourse.**Gordon**</span><span class="FootnoteReference1">[[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> ’97 writes;</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Now a central tenet … </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">and rational choices.</span>__**
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Due process is the ultimate utopian fantasy. **Peller**</span><span class="FootnoteReference1">[[home#_ftn2|**[2]**]]</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> ’85 explains:</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">In law, before … part, performs politically.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Hutchinson</span>**<span class="FootnoteReference1">[[home#_ftn3|**[3]**]]</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> ‘84 concurs </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">that there is no rhyme or reason to court adjudication**;**</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Traditional jurisprudence … </span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">For Unger, there is a 'permanent disequilibrium of doctrine.'</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 14pt;">C) is the IMPACT</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The courts and the law create hierarchical systems of domination to reinforce the myth of legal objectivity. **Hutchinson**</span><span class="FootnoteReference1">[[home#_ftn4|**[4]**]]</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> ’84 writes;</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Liberalism and contemporary legal ….</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> a world of rights.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The law is a jurispathic killer. Violence is the norm under a commitment to the law. **Henderson**</span><span class="FootnoteReference1">[[home#_ftn5|**[5]**]]</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> ‘91 writes;</span>**
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">The lack of scholarly …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">alternative legal meanings. </span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 14pt;">D) is the ALTERNATIVE</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Vote negative to reject the myth of legal objectivity that prevents any real progress or change in the way we deal in society. **Singer**</span><span class="FootnoteReference1">[[home#_ftn6|**[6]**]]</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> ’84 writes;</span>**

<span class="CardText-Underlined">**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Legal scholars can </span>****<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">… </span>****<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> that question ourselves</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">This criticism cannot happen absent the ballot – by endorsing the traditional legal theory advocated by the Affirmative you as an individual help to crush criticism of the system. **Gabel[[home#_ftn7|**[7]**]] ’84 writes;**</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">We therefore can … of mutual distance.</span>__**


----
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]] [R.W., Professor of Law, Stanford University Unfreezing Legal Reality: Critical Approaches to Law, 15 Fla. St. U.L. Rev. 195, pg. L/N]</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]] [Gary, assi. prof law UVA – 73 Calif. L. Rev. 1151]</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref3|[3]]] [Allan and Patrick Monahan, The ‘rights’ stuff: Roberto Unger and Beyond, Texas Law Review, May 1984, page 1503]</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref4|[4]]] CRITICAL LEGAL STUDIES SYMPOSIUM: Law, Politics, and the Critical Legal Scholars: The Unfolding Drama of American Legal Thought, 36 Stan. L. Rev. 199, Stanford Law Review</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref5|[5]]] [Lynne – prof law Indiana – 66 Ind. L.J. 379]</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[home#_ftnref6|[6]]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande'; font-size: 6pt;">Joseph William __Singer__, Associate Professor of Law at Boston University, __1984__</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande'; font-size: 6pt;">[“The Player and the Cards: Nihilism and Legal Theory,” Yale Law Journal (94 Yale L.J. 1), November, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis]</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Lucida Grande'; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftnref7|[7]]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> [Peter – law prof New College of San Fran. – 62 Tex. L. Rev. 1563]</span>

==<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Generic </span>== 

===<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Kato K </span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">A)</span>** **<span style="font-family: Calibri;">IS THE FRAMEWORK: </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Debate is not irrelevant to the continuation of and resistance to the problems of the real world. The arguments we make, positions that we advocate, and mindsets we defend shape our understandings and actions as individuals. Therefore, concerns over how we debate are prior to what we debate.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">B) IS THE LINKS: </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The 1AC represents a pattern of nuclear discourse that characterizes nuclear violence as exclusively an interstate mater in which nuclear war is only a threat to the delocalized globe. Nuclear test explosions don’t even qualify for recognition. All that matters is the possibility of massive nuclear exchange between nations. **Kato[[home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]** ’93:</span>



**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Nuclear war has … a historical fact.</span>__**



<span style="font-family: Calibri;">[CASE SPECIFIC RHETORIC]</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">C)</span>** **<span style="font-family: Calibri;">IS THE IMPACT: </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">In the name of preventing the “authentic catastrophe” of nuclear apocalypse, perpetual violence against the guinea pigs of our nuclear testing is justified. As we ‘rehearse’ for the delocalized global catastrophes portrayed by the AFF, we wreak havoc on innocents. Our discursive frames are the unique cause of this destruction. How we speak about nuclear war shapes how we act about it. **Kato** concludes:</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">And yet how can … Fourth World and Indigenous Nations.</span>





<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus, because the discourse of the affirmative is the cause of genocidal violence, it must be rejected. </span>




----
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]] Masahide Kato—1993. [Professor of Political Science, University of Hawaii]. Alternatives. 339.</span>

==Util NC[F/W Specific to the Round]== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">[Links to AC F/W]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Because the nature of justification ultimately relies on belief, ethics must instead be based upon the constant re-evaluation of our sets of goals and values. We use empirical events and observations to revise our ethical theories and see the consequences of living by a set of certain values. In the wake of the Holocaust, “never again” serves as a rallying cry, which should pervade our moral theories. </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Glover</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Not all sceptics about …. a sketch of the pattern of failure.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Therefore,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> only a system of net benefits can condemn the actions of those who commit atrocities, and allow for action to prevent these atrocities. We must take a diverse set of perspectives into our moral calculations and cannot use long chains of reason to exclude obviously bad impacts from calculation. Instead, if a theory justifies atrocities such as the Holocaust that should be sufficient proof to reject it.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">And,</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">[Links to AC F/W]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Gary **Woller** explainswhy the government specifically has an obligation to help its own people.</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> [BYU Prof., “An Overview by Gary Woller”, A Forum on the Role of Environmental Ethics, June 1997, pg. 10]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Moreover, virtually all …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;"> in a democracy.</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus the standard is **net benefits.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Further, Normative uncertainty demands that we default to preventing extinction, even under a non-consequentialist framework. **Bostrom:**</span>
==<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Nick __Bostrom [__professor of philosophy at Oxford], July 2005 “On our Biggest Problems” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.ted.com/index.php/talks/view/id/44]]</span>== 
==**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Our present understanding …. </span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">any </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">existential catastrophe.</span>__**== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">C1. Targeted killing would give them rights, it denies them habeus corpus, and other things</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> Targeted killing of insurgent leaders increases the chances of successful counter-terrorism operations by 46%. **Johnston[[home#_ftn2|**[2]**]] ’10:**</span>
==<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Table 3 contains the</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> …, a change of over 46%.</span>__**== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> Targeted killing of terrorist leaders significantly improves the chances of successful counter-insurgency operations - there’s a 32% increase in success chances. Johnston<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn3|[3]]]</span> ’10:</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">The</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> results </span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">shown …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> operational-level success.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Alexander</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">[[home#_ftn4|[4]]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> explains the impact of terrorism,</span>
<span style="color: #1a1818; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> “Last week's brutal …</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> global security concerns”</span>__**
----
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]] Glover, Jonathon. //Humanity// (Yale University Press: 1999), 406</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref2|[2]]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Patrick B. Johnston—2010[Post-Doctoral Research Fellow, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Harvard University] “Assessing the Effectiveness of Leadership Decapitation in Counterinsurgency Campaigns.” September 24, 2010</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref3|[3]]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Patrick B. Johnston—2010[Post-Doctoral Research Fellow, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Harvard University] “Assessing the Effectiveness of Leadership Decapitation in Counterinsurgency Campaigns.” September 24, 2010</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[home#_ftnref4|[4]]] Alexander Prof and Director of Inter-University for Terrorism Studies (Yonah, Terrorism Myths and Realities, Washington Times, Prof and Director of Inter-University For Terrorism Studies)</span>



=Health Care= 
==AFF== 
===Public Plan Option AC=== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Part 1: What is Universal Healthcare?</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Definitions of Universal Health Care are inconsistent across different authors; there are only a few consistent themes in definitions of Universal Health Care. **Stuckler et al.** 2010:</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[David Stuckler [. University of Oxford, UK]. Andrea B Feigl [London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, UK]. Sanjay Basu [Harvard School of Public Health, USA]. Martin McKee [University of California San Francisco, USA]. “The political economy of universal health coverage.” This paper is one of several in a series commissioned by the World Health Organization for the First Global Symposium on Health Systems Research, held 16-19 November, 2010, in Montreux, Switzerland.]</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">A large body of research … than mutually exclusive.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The WHO definition best characterizes UHC as it is used in the literature. **Stuckler et al.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[David Stuckler [. University of Oxford, UK]. Andrea B Feigl [London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, UK]. Sanjay Basu [Harvard School of Public Health, USA]. Martin McKee [University of California San Francisco, USA]. “The political economy of universal health coverage.” This paper is one of several in a series commissioned by the World Health Organization for the First Global Symposium on Health Systems Research, held 16-19 November, 2010, in Montreux, Switzerland.]</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Towards an … desired ends (e.g. financial risk protection)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Part 2 is the Framework:</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Moral claims have to be grounded in concrete experience, rather than abstract, ahistoric principles which are ethically bankrupt. Ethical theories must be based in actual social realities. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> **Ryn** </span>**//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">Claes G. Ryn</span>//**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">—1992. “Universality and History:The Concrete as Normative” From </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.nhinet.org/hum.htm|HUMANITAS]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">, Volume VI, No. 1, Fall 1992/Winter 1993 ©</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.nhinet.org/index.htm|National Humanities Institute]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">, Washington, DC USA. TC</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 7pt;">The reasons why …</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> stifling philosophical renewal.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Oppression is a social reality that ethics must be grounded in. Morality is the struggle to humanize,. This struggle is contextualized by a struggle against dehumanization, the result of oppression. In order for humanization to commence, it becomes necessary to resist oppression in all its forms. **Freire:**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 9pt;">Freire, Paulo. //Pedagogy of the Oppressed.// New York: Continuum, 2000. Print</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">While </span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">the problem …</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 7pt;">in turn </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">dehumanizes the oppressed.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">the standard is **minimizing oppression.**</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Further, </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">prefer this standard because:</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">1.</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> To evaluate ethical obligation we must //first// untangle our ontological commitments about who is and is not included in the “us” and the “them.” This requires analyzing how policies frame our capacity to apprehend lives. Without untangling these commitments, it is impossible to evaluate normative judgments. **Butler** </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.909090995788574px;">Butler, Judith. </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.909090995788574px;">Frames of War</span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.909090995788574px;"> (2009), 138</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> explains: </span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">We ask</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">such</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> **__… those who will not__**. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">2.</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> Once a person is excluded from the frame of consideration, they can be perpetually destroyed allowing us to commit the worst possible violence to them. **Butler 2**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.909090995788574px;">Butler, Judith. “Violence, Mourning, Politics” </span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.909090995788574px;">Studies in Gender & Sexuality</span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10.909090995788574px;"> 4.1 (2003), 20 – 23</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Lives are supported and maintained …qualifies for recognition.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">We cannot allow certain groups of individuals to be excluded from our frames of reference or else our normative systems will fail and unimaginable violence will be done against those people.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Part 3 is the Plan:</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The United States Federal Government will implement a system of Public Plan Choice, involving a public insurance plan and a health insurance exchange that allows private insurers to exist and compete with the public plan. I reserve the right to clarify. </span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: Calibri;">Peter **Harbage and** Karen **Davenport** explains the plan </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">“</span><span style="color: #366388; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Competitive Health</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Care: A </span><span style="color: #366388; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Public Health Insurance</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Plan That Delivers Market Discipline." //Competitive Health Care: A Public Health Insurance Plan That Delivers// </span>//<span style="color: #366388; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Market Discipline</span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">. Center for American Progress Action Fund, Mar. 25 2009. <http://www.americanprogressaction.org/issues/2009/03/public_plan.html>.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Key to the Massachusetts ….today if they so choose.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">This public option has been implemented in San Francisco and Massachusetts. **Dow et al:**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">William Dow, Arindrajit Dube, and Carrie Colla. “A Public Option that Works” August 2009.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Answers might be found …. </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">in the private-insurance market.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Part 4 is the Advantages:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">A1 is Poverty:</span>**

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Calibri;">There are many people who cannot get any form of health care in the status quo. Even Medicaid expansion has not solved because states refuse to pay and some people who need it don’t qualify. **Goodman** </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.webmd.com/health-insurance/news/20120629/who-gets-covered-under-health-reform]]. “Who Gets Covered Under Health Reform?” [[http://www.webmd.com/brenda-goodman|Brenda Goodman]]. WebMD Health News. June 29, 2012.</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">The court's decision … Kaiser Family Foundation.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">And, the lack of affordable health care traps the poor in poverty and closes off life options. Marshall:</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Norman Daniels (Tufts University). Justice, Health, and Health Care. http://www.hsph.harvard.edu/benchmark/ndaniels/pdf/justice_health.pdf National Healthcare and American Constitutional Culture, William P. Marshall, Kenan Professor of Law, University of North Carolina., Harvard Journal of Law and Public Policy, Vol. 35</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">One of the most sustaining … who we are as nation.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">A2 is Competition</span>**

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Calibri;">Peter **Harbage and** Karen **Davenport** explain why a Public Plan Option increases competition and fixes our broken healthcare system.</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">“</span><span style="color: #366388; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Competitive Health</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Care: A </span><span style="color: #366388; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Public Health Insurance</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Plan That Delivers Market Discipline." //Competitive Health Care: A Public Health Insurance Plan That Delivers// </span>//<span style="color: #366388; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Market Discipline</span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">. Center for American Progress Action Fund, Mar. 25 2009. <http://www.americanprogressaction.org/issues/2009/03/public_plan.html>.</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Doctors and patients, employees …. </span>**__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Calibri;">have the same innovation.</span>__**

==Neg== 
===Politics DA=== 


<span style="font-family: Calibri;">A is the uniqueness.YouGov poll proves Obama is ahead. Silver 10/17</span>
Nate Silver “Oct. 16: Can Polls Exaggerate Bounces?” October 17, 2012
<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">There was another …. </span>**__<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Calibri;">changed their minds.</span>__**
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Prefer this poll because it avoids statistical error and nonresponse bias. Silver 2 10/17,</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Nate Silver “Oct. 16: Can Polls Exaggerate Bounces?” October 17, 2012</span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">There are also two potential …. the past two decades.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">B is the link.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Romney will win the 2012 election if Obama-care isn’t repealed. S.A. **Miller**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.nypost.com/p/news/national/new_battle_rages_in_belly_of_beast_max3S5FntjGque7eU1JHBM]]. June 29, 2012.</span>




<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Don’t tell Mitt Romney …. ObamaCare,” Boehner said.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Further, a single payer system makes the issue worse. According to the Ramussen Reports </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.rasmussenreports.com/public_content/politics/current_events/healthcare/october_2011/49_oppose_single_payer_health_care_system]]</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">October 25, 2011</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Roughly half</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">(49%)</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> **__of …. are undecided__**</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> (To see survey question wording, </span>[[http://www.rasmussenreports.com/public_content/business/econ_survey_questions/october_2011/questions_wall_street_protests_october_21_22_2011|__click here__]]<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">C. is the internal links. Romney will undercut if not ban the EPA. Broder 11,</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">John M. Broder 8/18/</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: Calibri;">2011</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;"> “Bashing E.P.A. Is New Theme in G.O.P. Race”, New York Times.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">WASHINGTON — The Environmental Protection Agency …. the sense of harming our bodies.”</span>

====<span style="color: windowtext;">Obama winning is key to EPA regulations – And EPA regulation solves CO2 and oil dependence. The</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Star Ledger. </span><span style="color: windowtext;">June 3 </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">2012 </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://blog.nj.com/njv_editorial_page/2012/06/scary_times_for_environment_--.html]]</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">The </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nj.com/newsflash/index.ssf/story/three-voices-on-the-jobs-report-and-whats-ahead/5fbb139ce9ba4faea56ece6259e93fec|grim report on jobs Friday]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> … into the atmosphere.</span>

====<span style="color: windowtext;">D. is the impact. EPA key to check runaway warming. Parenti.</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Christian </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Parenti</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> (writer for the Nation) April </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">2010</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> NPR "The Nation: The Case for EPA Action"</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">On April 1 the Environmental…</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> last, best hope.</span>__**
====<span style="color: windowtext;">And, Try or die – warming makes extinction inevitable. Henderson</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Bill </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Henderson</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> (Environmental Scientist) Aug 19 </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">2006</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> “Runaway Global Warming – Denial,” [[http://www.countercurrents.org/cc-henderson190806.htm]]. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">The scientific debate about …. to man in the world we share.</span>


=<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Bioterror DA</span>= 

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">A) is the uniqueness</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">. Biotechnology is growing now. The industry is recovering well from the economic crisis. **Noonan summarizes Burrill:**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 7pt;">Kevin Noonan writing on a speech by Steve Burrill. “Docs at BIO: Steve Burrill’s State of the Biotechnology Industry Report 2011.” July 5, 2011. Biotechnology Industries Organization International Convention.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 5pt;">The underlying theme of his ….</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> Court's recent decision in [[http://www.patentdocs.org/2011/06/board-of-trustees-of-the-leland-stanford-junior-university-v-roche-molecular-systems-inc-2011.html|//Stanford v. Roche//]]).</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">B) is the Link: </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Universal health care destroys biotechnological innovation. **Fazio**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Jacome Fazio, managing editor of the Northwestern Chronicle and weekly contributor to the D.C. Writeup, **09** ( Ryan “Public Option will pull the plug on medical innovation” </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.thedcwriteup.com/2009/07/public-option-will-pull-the-plug-on-medical-innovation]]</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> ) </span>



<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 7pt;">America, we often hear, …</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;"> requires investment.</span></span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">C) is the Impact.</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> Bioterror is inevitable, possible, probable and worse than nuclear war—advances in biotech drugs are key to solve.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Maurer 07</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">, </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 5pt;">(director of the Goldman School Project at the University of California – Berkeley, 07 (Stephen, “Lifeboat Foundation BioShield”, http://lifeboat.com/ex/bio.shield)</span>



**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The new realities …</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Time is running out.</span>__**




<span style="font-family: Calibri;">And, bioterror is an existential risk.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Matheny 07</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">, </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 5pt;">(</span><span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 5pt;">Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction” Risk Analysis, Vol. 27, No. 5, 2007)</span>



**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Of </span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 5pt;">current</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> **extinction …**</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 5pt;">, & Shuler, 2006).</span>