[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
<span style="font-size: 17px; line-height: 26px;">**Accessibility**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Status quo decisions for the nation’s transportation infrastructure investment have systematically barred the population differently-abled from society by denying them of their mobility</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AAPD, 2012</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (The American Association of People With Disabilities, “Equity in Transportation for People with Disabilities”, May 23, http://www.infrastructureusa.org/equity-in-transportation-for-people-with-disabilities/)</span>
Transportation and mobility play...very uneven progress.

**And – These seemingly innocuous investment decisions render differently-abled people prisoner to a transportation infrastructure system that forces immobility upon them. The differently-abled are confined to their own space and the only way out is through a transportation system that was designed and is maintained without consideration of their perspective. This is not unintentional, rather, fixed-routes and times are regulated to allow society to exist free from contact with these individuals**
Silas **Archambault 07**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Cool Bro with master’s degree in transportation planning from University of British Columbia, __“Defining the Public: Planning and Reduced Mobility”,__ http://www.unh.edu/sociology/media/pdfs-journal2007/07Archambault.pdf)</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">In order to drive...extremely limited mobility.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The current relationship and understanding of the differently-abled fulfills the eugenic gaze that culminates in the genocidal impulse by the State. The emergence of state-sponsored violence has become apparent by the institutional spaces of exclusion provided by the utilization of transportation infrastructure politics</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Hughes, 2002</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Bill, Professor of Social Policy at the University Glasgow, Disability Studies, p. 60-62)</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The dominant framework...politics of genocide.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">This viewing of society under a lens of a medical spectrum excludes certain segments of the species-This enforcement of biological degradation is the root cause of all conflicts- whereas war and violence don’t occur under any other interest aside from the biopolitical commitment to eugenic violence by the state</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Elden, 2002</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Stuart, Professor of Politics at the University Warwick, Boundary 2, 29.2)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The reverse side...men to be killed.</span>

**Our conception of normalcy and otherness is rooted within our comprehension of those who are differently-abled-despite this fact, the State continues its segregation of the population and, thus, creates a social construction that legitimizes eugenic extermination**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bagenstos, 2000</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Samuel R., Law Professor at Harvard, 86 Va. L. Rev. 397, April)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Erving Goffman's notion of...as a dependent caste.</span>

**The otherization of the differently-abled is caused by our obsession with preventing any possible “ultra-Catastrophe”. This logic of fear imprisons us in self-fulfilling prophecies against the unknown and frightening rationale. We lose our ability to make decisions and start magnifying and artificially constructing impacts.**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Der Derian, 2005</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (James, Professor of International Relations and Political Science at Brown University, http://www.harvardir.org/articles/1430/2/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It often takes a...war by other means.</span>


Plan – the United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in transportation infrastructure accessibility.

**And – Here are examples of transportation infrastructure investments that the plan could involve**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Carpenter et al, 2006</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Matt, Senior Planner with the Sacramento Area Council of Governments, “Senior and Disabled Mobility Study”, Sacramento Area Council of Governments, October 23) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Implement local Pedestrian...design and access.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The plan is key to resolve transportation barriers</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Laskow, 2012 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Sarah, New York Reporter, Public Transportation Systems Are Leaving People With Disabilities Behind, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.good.is/post/public-transportation-systems-are-leaving-people-with-disabilities-behind/]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, May 10)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To use New York...where they need to go.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The plan acts as a catalyst that spurs change within the system that serves to change the way society views the differently-abled</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Metts, 2006</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert, Professor of Economics at the University of Nevada, http://www.ecomod.org/files/papers/181.pdf)</span>
This paper has...can be abolished.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Our current understanding of differently-abled within transportation policy makes it such that their perspective is always relegated to the periphery. Traditional assumptions about transportation blame individuals for their lack of accessibility and consider them ultimately responsible for their own mobility. Only repoliticizing transportation infrastructure can shift responsibility to the institutions that maintain exclusion and can open space to expose our complicity in ableist structures of knowledge</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Koch, 2008</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Tom, Adjunct Professor of Medical Ethics at the University of British Columbia, “Spaced Out in the City: the Wrinkled World of Transit for Those With Limited Mobility”, Disability Studies Quarterly, Vol. 28 No. 2, Spring, [[http://dsq-sds.org/article/view/94/94]])</span>
Making my way slowly...in transit planning.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Our obligation to put the differently-abled at the center of our discourse leads Patrick and I to start the process here and now. The way we construct these ideas are how public policy decisions are conceived and represented by the federal government.</span>**
<span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bérubé, 2003</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael, Paterno Family Professor in Literature at Pennsylvania State University, “Citizenship and Disability”, Spring, http://www.dissentmagazine.org/article/?article=506)</span>
Is is striking...of all of us.

**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">Our current state of understanding the differently-abled garners the medicalization of life and promotes the otherization of these individuals from society</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">Reinikainen 6</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 10pt;">Marjo-Riittas</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, doctoral student in Women’s Studies University of Jyväskylä, Department of Social Sciences and Philosophy)</span>
Next, I focus...for disabled people.

==== ==== 





=Negative= 
Grapevine:

Round 1: vs Cargo Planes aff (Casady)
1nc: Chaloupka disad, Security K, Elections (Obama good), advantage CP, case
2nr: Security K and Chaloupka disad

Round 4: vs Topic Education aff (Bishop Guerten)
1nc: Elections (Obama good), T-investment, Nietzsche K, case
2nr: T-investment

Round 5: vs New Orleans aff (Reagan)
1nc: The PIC, Centering K, Cede the Political disad, f/w, case
2nr: Centering K

Greenhill:

Round 2 vs Alaska Ports add (Dowling Catholic)
1nc:Security K, Elections (Obama good), Alaska CP, Case
2nr: Security K, Case.


Elections DA
**Obama leads in the election-Romney’s 47% statement proves**
**Chicago Tribune 9/19**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(9/19/2012, The Chicago Tribune is a major daily newspaper, http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2012-09-19/news/sns-rt-us-usa-campaign-pollbre88i1e9-20120919_1_ipsos-poll-mitt-romney-democratic-president-barack-obama)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Washington (Reuters)...video questions.</span>


====<span style="color: windowtext;">Obama slashing Coast Guard funding now – plan would be spun as flip flopping</span>==== 

**Helvarg 2012**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">SOS from Coast Guard on Obama plan to cut budget David Helvarg Published 04:00 a.m., Friday, February 24, 2012 http://www.sfgate.com/opinion/openforum/article/SOS-from-Coast-Guard-on-Obama-plan-to-cut-budget-3357265.php</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The crew of the...Guard get smaller.</span>


**Israel will hold off strikes now**

**Foster, ’12** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Daniel, National Review, 3/8/12, [[http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/292970/obama-casually-offers-israel-goodies-bomb-iran-iafteri-election-daniel-foster|http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/292970/obama-casually-offers-israel-goodies-bomb-iran-iafteri-election-daniel-foster#]], JD)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">The president,...and intelligence sources.</span>


**Obama’s key**

**Hurst, ’12** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Stephen, AP, 4/18/12, [[http://www.breitbart.com/Big-Peace/2012/04/18/Romneys-foreign-policy-may-mean-hardball-is-back]], JD)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Even so...a nuclear weapon.</span>




**Iran strikes causes multiple scenarios for extinction.**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Chossudovsky 6</span><span style="font-size: 14pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michel Chossudovsky, The Next Phase of the Middle East War, Global Research, http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=3147)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Bush Administration...the Russian Federation</span>


====<span style="color: windowtext;">GOP win causes Iran strikes</span>==== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dilek 11</span> Emine, addicting info, “All Republican Candidates Favor War with Iran” http://www.addictinginfo.org/2011/09/20/all-republican-candidates-favor-war-with-iran
All Republican candidates...unending wars.



Alaska CP

**Text: The Alaskan Department of Transportation should fund the development and construction of its deep-water ports.**

**Alaskan Department of Transportation solves best.**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Northern Economics 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">– Largest professional economics consulting firm in Alaska; report prepared for Army Corps of Engineers and Alaska Department of Transportation (“Alaska Regional Ports: Planning for Alaska’s Regional Ports and Harbors: //Final Report”// January 2011; <http://www.dot.state.ak.us/stwddes/desports/assets/pdf/regionalports_finalreport0111.pdf></span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Port and harbor...harbor design work.</span>


Centering K

The 1AC centers the resolution as its cite for resistance. Rather than rejecting it outright, they attempt to "play" with the resolution. This centering ensures that our play in the debate round will be limited to that which relates to making fun of the rez or of debate. The affirmative thus collapses into a reaffirmation of debate structure
Derrida 66 (www.hydra.umn.edu/derrida/sign-play.html)
It would be...and so forth

The impact is scapegoating-limiting our politics causes outgrouping and oppression
Stvarakakis 99(Yannis, Lacan and the political, p.101-102)
The point here...encounters the real.

The alternative is to resist the ideological appeal of centering the resolution and rather to celebrate its absence. This fulfills the duty of critical intellectual to reveal contingent character of the dominant ideology through a celebration of openness.
Zizek, Former Slovenian Presidential Candidate, 1993
Tarrying with the Negative,p 1-2
The most sublime...artificial, contingent character.

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]