[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
===CCS – 1AC=== 

Plan: The United States federal government should facilitate regulated pipeline transportation of captured carbon in the United States.

Contention I: Solvency
CCS technology is advancing – facilitating a regulated transportation infrastructure is key to jump-starting the commercial industry.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Zarraby’12 </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[Cyrus Zarraby, chemical engineer for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, JD expected from GWU in 2012. “Note: Regulating Carbon Capture and Sequestration: A Federal Regulatory Regime to Promote the Construction of a National Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Network.” 80 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 950, Lexis]</span>
Rising food prices…new CO2 pipelines.

Coal is inevitable in the short term – other energy solutions will fail. This means CCS is key.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Mack and Endemann ‘10</span> <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[Joel Mack, partner in the Houston office and global Chair of the Environmental Transactional Support Practice, and Buck Endemann, JD, Faculty @ USD Law. </span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> “Making carbon dioxide sequestration feasible: Toward federal regulation of CO2 sequestration pipelines,” Energy Policy, </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[[http://lw.com/upload/pubContent/_pdf/pub3385_1.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">]</span>
At present, approximately …global climate change.

CCS is feasible and is the only way to stabilize CO2 emissions
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Cohen et al. 9</span> <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">– (Armond Cohen, former head of the Conservation Law Foundation's Energy Project, member of the Environmental Protection Agency’s Clean Air Act Advisory Committee; Mike Fowler, Technology Coordinator for the Coal Transition Project at the Clean Air Task Force, former New Source Review Supervisor and Enforcement Manager in the Air Quality Bureau of the New Mexico Environment Department, former Project Scientist in the Division of Applied Sciences at Harvard University; and Kurt Waltzer, Carbon Storage Development Coordinator for the Clean Air Task Force’s Coal Transition Project; May 2009, “‘NowGen’: Getting Real about Coal Carbon Capture and Sequestration,” //The Electricity Journal//, Volume 22, Issue 4, pp. 25-42, p. ScienceDirect)</span>
II. CCS is Critical …in climate mitigation.

We must act now – federal inaction creates uncertainty that deters private investment in CCS.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Zarraby ’12 </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[Cyrus Zarraby, chemical engineer for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, JD expected from GWU in 2012. “Note: Regulating Carbon Capture and Sequestration: A Federal Regulatory Regime to Promote the Construction of a National Carbon Dioxide Pipeline Network.” 80 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 950, Lexis]</span>
C. Carbon Capture and Sequestration…limit private investment.

Advantage I: Warming
Drastic emissions reductions are key to avoid dangerous climate disruptions.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Somerville ‘11</span> <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[Richard Somerville, Distinguished Professor Emeritus and Research Professor at Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California, San Diego and Coordinating Lead Author in Working Group I for the 2007 Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. “Climate Science and EPA’s Greenhouse Gas Regulations.” CQ Congressional Testimony, 3/8/11. Lexis]</span>
In early 2007… within this century.

Reducing greenhouse gases key to climate leadership – other countries will model. 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Harris ’09</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> [Paul Harris, Professor of Political Science @ Lingan University. //Energy Policy//, Vol. 37, Iss. 3. March 2009]</span>
For those interested … people to do.

Global warming is real and human induced – top climate scientists agree. This means we have consensus and expertise on our side.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Anderegg et al 10</span> <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[William Anderegg, PhD Candidate @ Stanford in Biology; James W. Pralli, electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of Toronto; Jacob Harold, William and Flora Hewlett Foundation; Stephen H. Schneider, Department of Biology at Stanford University. “Expert credibility in climate change.” Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. June 21, 2010. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2901439/]</span>
Preliminary reviews … anthropogenic climate change.

Runaway warming leaves no possibility for adaptation. The impact is extinction. 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Tickell ‘08</span> <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[Oliver Tickell, Climate Researcher. “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction.” August 11, 2008. http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]</span>
We need to …similar hothouse Earth.

Must act now. Even 1% risk of warming means you should vote aff.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Strom ’07</span> <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[Robert Strom, Professor Emeritus of Planetary Sciences at the University of Arizona and Former Director of the Space Imagery Center of NASA. //Hot House: Global Climate Change and the Human Condition//. 2007, pg 246]</span>
Keep in mind …action is now.
Climate change results in global food shortages – hundreds of millions will die.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Vidal ‘12</span> <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[John Vidal, staff writer for The Guardian. UN warns of looming worldwide food crisis in 2013. October 13, 2012. </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/global-development/2012/oct/14/un-global-food-crisis-warning]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">]</span>
Prices of main …food prices," Brown says.


Even minor food shortages trigger mass famine and starvation
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Helfand ’07 </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[Ira Helfand, North American vice president of the </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[[@http://www.ippnw.org/|International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War.]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> "An Assessment of the Extent of Projected Global Famine Resulting From Limited, Regional Nuclear War." </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[[http://www.psr.org/assets/pdfs/helfandpaper.pdf|www.psr.org/assets/pdfs/helfandpaper.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">]</span>
At this point … shortfall in production.

Advantage II: Ocean Acidification
Unmitigated carbon emissions cause ocean acidification – leads to massive marine die-off. Err on the side of caution – we can’t predict all the impacts of acidification.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Romm ’12</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[Dr. Joseph Romm is the editor of Climate Progress and a Senior Fellow at the American Progress, Acting Assistant Secretary of Energy for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy during the Clinton Administration, PhD in Physics from MIT. “Science: Ocean Acidifying So Fast It Threatens Humanity’s Ability to Feed Itself,” 3/2/2012, http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2012/03/02/436193/science-ocean-acidifying-so-fast-it-threatens-humanity-ability-to-feed-itself/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+climateprogre</span>
The world’s oceans … and shell-building.

That’s key to sustaining planetary life.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Westenskow ‘08</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[Rosalie Westenskow, Correspondent for United Press International. “Acidic Oceans May Tangle Food Chain.” June 6, 2008. </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[[http://www.upi.com/Business_News/Energy-Resources/2008/06/06/Acidic-oceans-may-tangle-food-chain/UPI-84651212763771/]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">]</span>
Increased carbon levels … he told UPI.

Oceans are key - loss of oxygen production in the oceans leads to extinction. 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Bryant ’03</span> <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[Donald A. Bryant, Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology at Pennsylvania State University. “The beauty in small things revealed.” Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, August 19, 2003. Vol. 100, No. 17.http://www.pnas.org/content/100/17/9647.full]</span>
Oxygenic photosynthesis accounts … productivity to be made.

Put away your resiliency arguments – biodiversity loss destroys ecological sustainability.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Craig ’03</span> <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[Robert K. Craig, Associate Professor of Law, Indiana University School of Law. “Taking Steps Toward Marine Wilderness Protection? Fishing and Coral Reef Marine Reserves in Florida and Hawaii.” //McGeorge Law Review.// Winter, 2003. 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155, ln]</span>
Biodiversity and ecosystem …out of business as a result.


Contention II: Impact framing.
No war – cooperation is more likely than competition.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Deudney and Ikenberry 09</span> <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[DanielDeudney, Professor of Political Science at Johns Hopkins, and John Ikenberry, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University.“The Myth of the Autocratic Revival :Why Liberal Democracy Will Prevail.”//Foreign Affairs//, Jan/Feb. 2009]</span>
This bleak outlook … integration and cooperation.

No risk of accidental launch or escalation from any other conflict-scenario. 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;"> Quinlan 09</span> <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[Michael, Former Permanent Under-Sec. State – UK Ministry of Defense, “Thinking about Nuclear Weapons: Principles, Problems, Prospects”, p. 63-69]</span>
Even if initial …belongs to science fiction.


Nuclear war doesn’t cause extinction – your evidence relies on bad physics.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Seitz ‘06</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[Russell Seitz, Visiting Scholar in Harvard University's Center for International Affairs. “The ‘Nuclear Winter’' Meltdown: Photoshopping the Apocalypse.” December 20, 2006. adamant.typepad.com/seitz/2006/12/preherein_honor.html, accessed 9-25-11]</span>
Below, a case illustrating … a new generation of X-Box.
=Negative= 

===Sequestration DA=== 

Uniqueness – sequestration cuts will be averted in the status quo, but bipartisan confidence-building measures are needed.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Litvan 6/12</span> <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[Laura Litvan, staff writer for Business Week. “Levin ‘Confident’ Automatic Budget Cuts Will Be Averted.” June 12, 2012. </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[[http://www.businessweek.com/news/2012-06-12/levin-confident-automatic-budget-cuts-will-be-averted]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">]</span>

U.S. Senator Carl Levin… be any different, he said.

The deal is not over – budget resolutions are always on the brink. Any unforeseen spending like the plan would be seen as a “poison pill” that prevents a deal to avoid sequestration. 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">McAuliff 7/31</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[Michael McAuliff, staff writer for the Huffington Post. “Government Shutdown Averted as Lawmakers StrikeDeal.” 7/31/12. </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/07/31/government-shutdown_n_1724654.html?view=print&comm_ref=false]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">]</span>

Congressional leaders believe …accomplishes these goals.


Sequestration and military cuts decimate hegemony – threatens regional conflict escalation, proliferation, and nuclear war. 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">FPI et al ’11</span> <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[Joint Project of The Foreign Policy Initiative, American Enterprise Institute, and the Heritage Foundation. “Defending Defense: Defense Spending, the Super Committee, and the Price of Greatness.” </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/11/defending-defense-setting-the-record-straight-on-us-military-spending-requirements]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">] </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In turn, Panetta …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">role in the world</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>

===Sequestration DA (updated)=== 
Despite resolution on the fiscal cliff, sequestration cuts are still set for early March. Bipartisanship is key to avoiding sequestration – delays will only make it worse. 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Maze 1/13</span> <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[Rick Maze, staff writer for //Army Times//. “Cliff avoided, but sequestration still looms.” 1/1/13. http://www.armytimes.com/news/2013/01/military-sequestration-delayed-march-fiscal-cliff-deal-010113/]</span>

The nation stepped back …do things around here.”


And there’s no room for error this time - Congress is looking for ways to avoid sequestration, but any such deal would require significant spending cuts. 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Sherman 2/6</span> <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[Jake Sherman, writer for Politico. “Some in GOP want sequester deal.” February 6, 2013. http://www.politico.com/story/2013/02/sequester-some-in-gop-want-out-87295.html?hp=t1_3]</span>

One thing is …Obama has insisted on.

Transportation spending collapses bipartisanship – 3 reasons: deficit spending, environmental streamlining, and the definition of the federal role in transportation.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Schank ‘12</span> <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[Joshua Schank, President and CEO of the Eno Center for Transportation. “Is Partisanship the Problem?” April 16, 2012. http://www.enotrans.org/eno-brief/is-partisanship-the-problem]</span>

There is indeed … a better position.

Sequestration and military cuts decimate hegemony – threatens regional conflict escalation, proliferation, and nuclear war. 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">FPI et al ’11</span> <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[Joint Project of The Foreign Policy Initiative, American Enterprise Institute, and the Heritage Foundation. “Defending Defense: Defense Spending, the Super Committee, and the Price of Greatness.” </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/11/defending-defense-setting-the-record-straight-on-us-military-spending-requirements]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">] </span>

In turn, Panetta … role in the world. 




===Keystone Rider DA=== 

Keystone Rider was stripped from the highway funding bill, but new spending on transportation would be a key vehicle.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Rampton 7/23</span> <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[Roberta Rampton, staff writer for Reuters. “Keystone pipeline backer again seeks U.S. Congress approval.” July 23, 2012. </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[[http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/politics/sns-rt-us-usa-congress-keystonebre86m15e-20120723,0,2293632.story]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">]</span>

A Republican lawmaker … I will be clear."

Keystone pipeline will increase gas prices.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Swift ’12 </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[Anthony Swift, attorney with the international program at the Natural Resources Defense Council and former policy analyst for the Department of Transportation. “Keystone XL: A Tar Sands Pipeline to Increase Oil Prices.” Natural Resources Defense Council Report. May 22, 2012. http://www.nrdc.org/energy/keystone-pipeline/files/Keystone-Oil-Prices-Report.pdf]</span>

The Keystone XL tar sands … subsidies for the oil industry.

High gas prices hurt the economy --- causes a decline in consumer spending and inflation
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Aversa ’11</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[Jeannine Aversa, staff writer for Associated Press. “Economy Slowed by High Gas Prices, Bad Weather.” April 28, 2011. http://cnsnews.com/news/article/economy-slowed-high-gas-prices-bad-weather]</span>

The economy slowed … for a healthy economy.

U.S. economic decline triggers nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Harris and Burrows 2009 </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">(Mathew, PhD European History at Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">)</span>

Increased Potential for Global …more dog-eat-dog world.

===Dollar DA=== 

No new transportation funding in the 2013 legislative session
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Holeywell 12/12</span> <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">(Ryan, “Is 2013 the Year of New Transportation Funding?” 12/19/12, www.governing.com/blogs/fedwatch/gov-2013-year-new-transportation-funding.html)</span>

The 2013 legislative session … challenges as the federal gas tax.

Stimulus spending increases inflation – it erodes the dollar and floods the economy.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Zupan ‘11</span> <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[Mark Zupan, Economist and Dean of the Simon Graduate School of Business, University of Rochester. “Stimulus Is a Recipe for Inflation.” March 30, 2011. http://www.kiplinger.com/features/archives/stimulus-is-a-recipe-for-inflation.html?si=1]</span>

Our nation is flirting … add to inflationary pressures.

Inflation results in global financial panic, crushing US economy and resulting in international dollar flight.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Wharton ’09</span> <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania. “Is the World Losing Faith in the U.S. Dollar?” September 2, 2009. </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[[http://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article.cfm?articleid=2332]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">]</span>

As the global economy … dollar-denominated reserves.



Economic leadership prevents economic collapse—leadership key to resilience
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Mandelbaum, 5</span> <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">– Professor and Director of the American Foreign Policy Program at Johns Hopkins – 2005 [Michael, The Case for Goliath: How America Acts As the World’s Government in the Twenty-First Century, p. 192-195]</span>

Although the spread … cars without gasoline.

That goes nuclear without leadership
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Mandelbaum, 5</span> <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">– Professor and Director of the American Foreign Policy Program at Johns Hopkins – 2005 [Michael, The Case for Goliath: How America Acts As the World’s Government in the Twenty-First Century, p. 224]</span>

At best, an American …of nuclear weapons.

===NEPA Counterplan=== 
Text: The Department of Transportation should submit [plan] for a National Environmental Policy Act Environmental Impact Statement. The United States federal government should implement the least environmentally damaging alternative identified in the Environmental Impact Statement.
The counterplan solves – the //__process__// of evaluating environmentally friendly alternatives //__prior__// to action leads to a compromise that solves the aff and avoids environmental harm .
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Dreher 5</span> <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">- Deputy Executive Director of the Georgetown Environmental Law & Policy Institute. He served as Deputy General Counsel of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Robert, “The Political Assault on the National Environmental Policy Act,” http://www.law.georgetown.edu/gelpi/research_archive/nepa/NEPAUnderSiegeFinal.pdf</span>
Yet another criticism … plague controversial timber sales.” 56

===Housing Conditions CP=== 

Text: The United States federal government should increase its transportation infrastructure investment in New Starts inclusive transit with the requirement that states agree to adopt inclusionary zoning and streamline unnecessary regulations to affordable housing production.

CP solves the Aff, but allows for sustainable housing development through inclusionary zoning.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Joint Center for Housing Studies ‘07</span> <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[JCHS is a collaborative unit that focuses on democratic and economic factors associated with urban housing, affiliated with Harvard University. “Revisiting Rental Housing Policy: Observations from a National Summit.” April 2007. </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[[http://www.jchs.harvard.edu/sites/jchs.harvard.edu/files/w07-2_revisiting_rental_policy_brief.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">]</span>

While states are … and transportation funds.

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The counterplan solves gentrification.</span>
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Levy et al ‘06</span> <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[Diane Levy, Jennifer Comey, and Sandra Padilla, Senior Research Associates in the Metropolitan Housing and Communities Policy Center at the Urban Institute. “Keeping the Neighborhood Affordable: A Handbook of Housing Strategies for Gentrifying Areas.” Metropolitan Housing and Communities Policy Center, the Urban Institute, 2006. www.urban.org/uploadedPDF/411295_gentrifying_areas.pdf]</span>

One method to … need becomes pressing.


===Consumption K=== 

Ideological forces are poised to achieve a new victory by expanding the infrastructure of consumption. Rather than stimulate consumer choice, new economies are set up around transportation to fuel circuits of mindless ravaging. Masquerading under the frames of growth or sustainability, the affirmative’s dedication to the conceptual goal of profit accumulation reduce the lifeworld to fields of waste, decay, and destruction.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Soron 2005</span> (Dennis, Assistant Professor of Sociology, Brock University “Death by Consumption” From the Labour/Le Travail Issue 55. [[http://www.historycooperative.org/journals/llt/55/soron.html]])

Having clearly spelled … their overall quality of life. (172) 

Transportation Infrastructure is crucial to ground the flux of consumption.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Sack 1988</span> (Robert D., professor of geography, University of Wisconsin—Madison. The Consumer's World: Place as Context, Annals of the Association of American Geographers, Vol. 78, No. 4 (Dec., 1988), pp. 642-664)

Few words have … facet of our lives.

The only impact to consumerist infrastructure is domination and war – This “new slavery” reduces those who produce as expendable and fragments those who consume– all in the name of profit maximization. This is the primary motivation for the scenarios of violence outlined by the 1AC.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">McGregor 03</span> [Sue, PhD Coordinator, Undergraduate Peace and Conflict Studies Program Mount Saint Vincent Unviersity“Consumerism as a source of structural violence” ([[http://wwator]], w.kon.org/hswp/archive/consumerism.pdf)]

Persons living in a … culture and our species?”

Vote negative to engage in collective action through debate against the consumptive logic underlying the 1AC’s investment in transportation infrastructure:
Mobilization against public works connects horizontally, cross-fertilizing to create new communities opposed to enclosure
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Piazza ‘09</span> (Gianni, researcher and lecturer of Political Science and Public Policy Analysis at the University of Catania “BEYOND THE TERRITORY: LOCAL MOBILIZATIONS IN NORTHERN ITALY AGAINST THE HSRL IN VAL DI SUSA AND THE US BASE IN VICENZA” Contemporary centrifugal regionalism: Comparing Flanders and Northern Italy 19-20 JUNE 2009)

Local players are … meant to be non-violent.

=== === 
===Exceptionalism K=== 

This is the story of how the West was won…
The history of imperialism reveals an ongoing attempt to eliminate radical difference through a self-justifying narrative - delegitimizing modes of thinking that do not conform to the “end of history” discourse of the New World Order. This form of American exceptionalism cannot be separated from the imperial praxis of colonization and control.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Spanos ‘08</span> <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[William Spanos, Distinguished Professor of English at Binghamton University. //American Exceptionalism in the Age of Globalization: The Specter of Vietnam.// 2008, pg 19-21]</span>

What should be remarkable …(onto)logic of liberal democracy.



The failure to question western ontology ensures future hegemonic expansion. We will isolate several specific links. First, transportation investments are predicated on the need to establish a “critical infrastructure” which makes it an object of securitized practices. The affirmative is rooted in the logic of protecting the sovereign from external threats and vulnerabilities— this reifies American exceptionalism.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Collier and Lakoff ‘08</span> <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[Stephen J., and Andrew. "The Vulnerability of Vital Systems: How “Critical Infrastructure” Became a Security Problem." Anthropological Research on the Contemporary, 2008. Web. <http://anthropos-lab.net/wp/publications/2008/01/collier-and-lakoff.pdf>]</span>

In recent years …Critical Foundations, cited above.
The impact is a “forgetting of being,” the reduction of radical difference to standing, disposable reserve. The Vietnam War proves the danger of this exceptionalist identity: America’s failed endeavor to assimilate a world that refused to be accommodated within a liberal-capitalist ideology resulted in genocidal violence.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Spanos’08</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[William Spanos, Distinguished Professor of English at Binghamton University. //American Exceptionalism in the Age of Globalization: The Specter of Vietnam.// 2008, pg ix-x]</span>
In this book … idea of America.

Finally, our role of the ballot: the task of the intellectual is to resolve questions of competing ontological narratives. Vote negative to “rethink thinking,” to open ourselves to modes of thought that have been marginalized by the disciplinary logic of metaphysical imperialism.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Spanos ‘08</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[William Spanos, Distinguished Professor of English at Binghamton University. //American Exceptionalism in the Age of Globalization: The Specter of Vietnam.// 2008, pg 21-22]</span>

We are thus compelled … its final "anthropological" phase.




[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]