[[toc]]
=====Any questions? email noahgray98@gmail.com===== 
=Affirmative= 
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Imagine human beings living in an underground, cave-like dwelling...which is both open to the light and as wide as the cave itself. They’ve been there since childhood, fixed in the same place...able to see only in front of them...Light is provided by a fire burning far above and behind them. Also behind them...a low wall has been built, like the screen in front of puppeteers above which they show their puppets. This cave is below the ground. It is isolated and removed from reality. The cave is a prison.</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri;">Nietzsche, Friedrich.</span> <span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus Spoke Zarathustra. New York: Penguin, 1969.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">http://members.core.com/~ascensus/docs/Metamor.html</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">In his greatest work, Thus Spoke Zarathustra, Friedrich Nietzsche proclaims that "God is dead" (Nietzsche 41). For Nietzsche, this means that the philosophical abstraction known as "God" to institutional religion, especially Christianity, has died in the hearts and souls of Western man. It also means that the dualistic metaphysics of Plato is no longer viable. But even though God's death leaves a gaping hole in Western man's Being, Nietzsche has recognized that the death of God necessary to bring about transformation. Prior to God's death, human consciousness is bound in a morass of "Thou shalts," a controlling, will-less existence, where the new, the unique, is anathema. Creativity, which is mankind's birthright, is frowned upon when it is implemented to bring about new values, new opinions, and new attitudes, which deviate from the norm. But when the ideals, the "eternal" standards have died, creativity can burst forth. As in the saying of Jesus, "Except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone: but if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit" (John 12:24 KJV). Before, the existence of God guaranteed eternal standards of ethics, knowledge, politics, metaphysics, etc. But afterwards, all these are obliterated. Now, humanity is tossed upon a sea of uncertainty. Now, there are no absolutes. In the midst of such a tempest, however, a new creation is born. The problem, for Zarathustra, then, is to discover new realities--to create new meaning out of the chaotic aftermath of God's death.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND, this debate round is where we begin to pour our knowledge that we have learned from breaking away from the chains of the cave and spread what we have learned as individuals. We first have to use our new creativity to become ourselves further before we can adequately look at the resolution. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">KABREN LEVINSON CAVE MEN MAY 2010</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Zarathustra and his voyage to and from his home and up and down his mountain.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Zarathustra also begins his journey with a descent. “...I must go under -- go down, as is said by man, to whom I want to descend” (TSZ 10). Zarathustra is alone on his</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">mountain. He is elevated and seeks to descend. Zarathustra literally and figuratively</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">spills over with wisdom and strives to spread and share his knowledge with other men. “Bless the cup that wants to overflow, that the water may flow from it golden and carry everywhere the reflection of your delight...I love man...I bring men a gift” (TSZ 10-11). Zarathustra desires the presence of men and wants to distribute his love. Zarathustra</span><span style="font-family: 'Menlo Bold Italic';">ʼ</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">s enlightenment is connected to nature, as well, for his sun, his mountain, and his animals accompany his illuminated existence. Speaking of the sun, Zarathustra says, “For ten years you have climbed to my cave: you would have tired of your light and of the journey had it not been for me and my eagle and my serpent” (TSZ 9). Not only has Zarathustra become truly aware upon a mountain, but natural processes, too, are made possible by Zarathustra</span><span style="font-family: 'Menlo Bold Italic';">ʼ</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">s enlightened self. (I now refrain from discussing the relevance of Zarathustra</span><span style="font-family: 'Menlo Bold Italic';">ʼ</span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">s cave, for I discuss it in great detail later in this essay and it becomes the central theme of my argument).</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND, once we acknowledge the death of god and travel down from our caves, we transform into the human bridge, the rope between being human and animal. Once we walk over the bridge, we become apart of the bridge for others to follow. We have to invest in creating and destroying these bridges constantly because not even a bridge is stable. This connects the movement of the knowledge from the cave and begins the constant process of building and rebuilding the bridge to be the superman.</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri;">Nietzsche, Friedrich.</span> <span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus Spoke Zarathustra. New York: Penguin, 1969.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">ZARATHUSTRA, HOWEVER, LOOKED at the people and wondered. Then he spake thus: Man is a rope stretched between the animal and the Superman—a rope over an abyss. A dangerous crossing, a dangerous wayfaring, a dangerous looking-back, a dangerous trembling and halting. What is great in man is that he is a bridge and not a goal: what is lovable in man is that he is an over-going and a down-going. I love those that know not how to live except as downgoers, for they are the over-goers. I love the great despisers, because they are the great adorers, and arrows of longing for the other shore. I love those who do not first seek a reason beyond the stars for going down and being sacrifices, but sacrifice themselves to the earth, that the earth of the Superman may hereafter arrive. I love him who liveth in order to know, and seeketh to know in order that the Superman may hereafter live. Thus seeketh he his own down-going. I love him who laboureth and inventeth, that he may build the house for the Superman, and prepare for him earth, animal, and plant: for thus seeketh he his own down-going.I love him who loveth his virtue: for virtue is the will to down-going, and an arrow of longing. I love him who reserveth no share of spirit for himself, but wanteth to be wholly the spirit of his virtue: thus walketh he as spirit over the bridge. I love him who maketh his virtue his inclination and destiny: thus, for the sake of his virtue, he is willing to live on, or live no more. I love him who desireth not too many virtues. One virtue is more of a virtue than two, because it is more of a knot for one’s destiny to cling to. I love him whose soul is lavish, who wanteth no thanks and doth not give back: for he always bestoweth, and desireth not to keep for himself. I love him who is ashamed when the dice fall in his favour, and who then asketh: “Am I a dishonest player?” for he is willing to succumb. I love him who scattereth golden words in advance of his deeds, and always doeth more than he promiseth: for he seeketh his own down-going. I love him who justifieth the future ones, and redeemeth the past ones: for he is willing to succumb through the present ones. I love him who chasteneth his God, because he loveth his God: for he must succumb through the wrath of his God. I love him whose soul is deep even in the wounding, and may succumb through a small matter: thus goeth he willingly over the bridge. I love him whose soul is so overfull that he forgetteth himself, and all things are in him: thus all things become his down-going. I love him who is of a free spirit and a free heart: thus is his head only the bowels of his heart; his heart, however, causeth his down-going. I love all who are like heavy drops falling one by one out of the dark cloud that lowereth over man: they herald the coming of the lightning, and succumb as heralds. Lo, I am a herald of the lightning, and a heavy drop out of the cloud: the lightning, however, is the superman.—</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri;">AND, beware of those who will stray away from this bridge and will be seldom in the truths that have been constructed in this day in age. But these are the ones who would enjoy the stopping of this bridge and enslave the it in the truths that they hold dear, for they are the ones to go over.</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri;"> David von Walland 2011 Philosophy teacher http://www.ubscure.com/Art/150461/111/Nietzsche-s-Slave-Morality-Why-Morality-Is-Killing-Us.html</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri;">Nietzsche insists that we enter a world depraved by slave morality. The Christians teach that we should avoid wrong desires or sins of the flesh. Their list of do's and do not's, exemplified in "don't drink," "don't smoke," "don't watch R-rated movies," etc. create quite of conservative "law," many of which the Scriptures vaguely condemn. We begin to develop this morality and realize the impossibility of upholding these moral codes. The Christians despairs over his failure as a human being and constantly beckons God's grace. Nietzsche says that the battle lies in this tension. In a battle between right and wrong, a person easily loses confidence. The Priestly class wins the battle here because the Nobles allow guilt to overcome strength. Hermann Hesse's Demian illustrates this well. The protagonist, Sinclair, struggles throughout his childhood with the Christian sense of morality. Sinclair's friend, Demian, describes him as bearing "the mark of cain." The Biblical story of Cain and Abel explains that Cain murdered his brother Abel for offering a better sacrifice to God. Thus, God cast Cain out of the land and to bear a mark that all the nations would recognize as evil. One wishes to harness these ulterior motives once he recognizes the "evil" side to his personality, not smother it. Existentialism really provides helpful insight to Nietzsche's argument. Existence and radical free will (or indeterminism) primarily characterize the philosophical movement. As for existence, Jean Paul Sartre explains that existentialism merely states that existence precedes essence. This suggests that man has no essence within which to fit but rather creates his own essence and being. This doesn't negate a scientific view of heredity but rather shows that man defines himself sociologically. On the other hand, Nancy Holstrom describes will on a continuum of desire. One often has battle volitions of varying orders. For example, one may want to smoke. The first order volition is "I want to smoke." However, a second order volition may exist too that questions or strengthens the first, such as "Smoking is bad for your health." If a concern for health causes one not to smoke, it then becomes the first order volition and "I want to smoke," becomes the second. If this occurs, one has broken the median between determinism and indeterminism. The Nobles lose at this point. They cannot overcome the first order, Christian desires with their more natural "evil" volitions. Hence, the Noble loses his freedom and cannot define his own existence or cannot live.</span> <span style="font-family: Calibri;">The question then becomes, "All this rests on our nature being aggressive and violent, groping for power. Some are, in fact, this way, but many others are not. How can this be?" Hesse might explain that some descend from Cain and others from Abel. Nietzsche clearly would admit that those who lack a violent and aggressive nature still possess a will to power. However, since all are groping for power, it is just a matter of the means to that end. The Noble uses strength, and the Priest uses deception. One desires that existential freedom above to make himself his own god. We are thirsty to be gods in our own minds, the center of the universe. All will to power, some are just more violent and aggressive than others depending on their mark, whether they are Cain or Abel. The Priest, Nietzsche maintains, only tricks the Nobleman into thinking he should be weak. This way, the Priest brings his opponent on his level so that he may effectively will to power against the Nobleman. Otherwise, if the Nobleman recognized his strength, he would crush the Priest. Therefore, the slave system of morality kills everyone, as I stated before, because in losing our freedom, we lose our existence. The slave morality provides a code to which one must adhere. When one fails to adhere to it, he feels "sinful." At this point, one must embrace his freedom and realize that he is his own king, his own god. Then he will fully realize his existence and his lack thereof beforehand. Some are stronger than others, and since all desire to be gods in their own eyes then all take necessary measures to become that god, fulfilling their will to power.</span>


<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri;">AND, for the current values man worships today shall be the death of us tomorrow! The ones to go over have forgotten the changing of time as well, for they live in complete solitude of these new values for they do not know of the bridge that brings the superman! </span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri;">Nietzsche in 69 “Thus spoke zarathrustra” http://www2.hn.psu.edu/faculty/jmanis/nietsche/tszarath.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">LO, THIS IS the tarantula’s den! Would’st thou see the tarantula itself? Here hangeth its web: touch this, so that it may tremble. There cometh the tarantula willingly: Welcome, tarantula! Black on thy back is thy triangle and symbol; and I know also what is in thy soul. Revenge is in thy soul: wherever thou bitest, there ariseth black scab; with revenge, thy poison maketh the soul giddy! Thus do I speak unto you in parable, ye who make the soul giddy, ye preachers of equality! Tarantulas are ye unto me, and secretly revengeful ones! But I will soon bring your hiding-places to the light: therefore do I laugh in your face my laughter of the height. Therefore do I tear at your web, that your rage may lure you out of your den of lies, and that your revenge may leap forth from behind your word “justice.” Because, for man to be redeemed from revenge—that is for me the bridge to the highest hope, and a rainbow after long storms. Otherwise, however, would the tarantulas have it. “Let it be very justice for the world to become full of the storms of our vengeance”—thus do they talk to one another. “Vengeance will we use, and insult, against all who are not like us”—thus do the tarantula-hearts pledge themselves. “And ‘Will to Equality’—that itself shall henceforth be the name of virtue; and against all that hath power will we raise an outcry!” Ye preachers of equality, the tyrant-frenzy of impotence crieth thus in you for “equality”: your most secret tyrantlongings disguise themselves thus in virtue-words! Fretted conceit and suppressed envy—perhaps your fathers’ conceit and envy: in you break they forth as flame and frenzy of vengeance. What the father hath hid cometh out in the son; and oft have I found in the son the father’s revealed secret. Inspired ones they resemble: but it is not the heart that inspireth them—but vengeance. And when they become subtle and cold, it is not spirit, but envy, that maketh them so. Their jealousy leadeth them also into thinkers’ paths; and this is the sign of their jealousy—they always go too far: so that their fatigue hath at last to go to sleep on the snow. In all their lamentations soundeth vengeance, in all their eulogies is maleficence; and being judge seemeth to them bliss. But thus do I counsel you, my friends: distrust all in whom the impulse to punish is powerful! They are people of bad race and lineage; out of their countenances peer the hangman and the sleuth-hound. Distrust all those who talk much of their justice! Verily,</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">in their souls not only honey is lacking. And when they call themselves “the good and just,” forget not, that for them to be Pharisees, nothing is lacking but—power! My friends, I will not be mixed up and confounded with others. There are those who preach my doctrine of life, and are at the same time preachers of equality, and tarantulas. That they speak in favour of life, though they sit in their den, these poison-spiders, and withdrawn from life— is because they would thereby do injury. To those would they thereby do injury who have power at present: for with those the preaching of death is still most at home. Were it otherwise, then would the tarantulas teach otherwise: and they themselves were formerly the best worldmaligners and heretic-burners. With these preachers of equality will I not be mixed up and confounded. For thus speaketh justice UNTO ME: “Men are not equal.” And neither shall they become so! What would be my love to the Superman, if I spake otherwise? On a thousand bridges and piers shall they throng to the future, and always shall there be more war and inequality among them: thus doth my great love make me speak! Inventors of figures and phantoms shall they be in their hostilities; and with those figures and phantoms shall they yet fight with each other the supreme fight! Good and evil, and rich and poor, and high and low, and all names of values: weapons shall they be, and sounding signs, that life must again and again surpass itself! Aloft will it build itself with columns and stairs—life itself: into remote distances would it gaze, and out towards blissful beauties—therefore doth it require elevation! And because it requireth elevation, therefore doth it require steps, and variance of steps and climbers! To risen striveth life, and in rising to surpass itself. And just behold, my friends! Here where the tarantula’s den is, riseth aloft an ancient temple’s ruins—just behold it with enlightened eyes! Verily, he who here towered aloft his thoughts in stone, knew as well as the wisest ones about the secret of life! That there is struggle and inequality even in beauty, and war for power and supremacy: that doth he here teach us in the plainest parable. How divinely do vault and arch here contrast in the struggle: how with light and shade they strive against each other, the divinely striving ones.—Thus, steadfast and beautiful, let us also be enemies, my friends! Divinely will we strive against one another!— Alas! There hath the tarantula bit me myself, mine old enemy! Divinely steadfast and beautiful, it hath bit me on the finger! “Punishment must there be, and justice”—so thinketh it: “not gratuitously shall he here sing songs in honour of enmity!” Yea, it hath revenged itself! And alas! now will it make my soul also dizzy with revenge! That I may not turn dizzy, however, bind me fast, my friends, to this pillar! Rather will I be a pillar-saint than a whirl of vengeance! Verily, no cyclone or whirlwind is Zarathustra: and if he be a dancer, he is not at all a tarantula-dancer!— Thus spake Zarathustra.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">AND, just as Zarathrustra we must return to our mountain, for our caves are our refuges! Our caves are what teaches us our new truths, for these teach us about the bridge and this bridge is never done, this bridge is an ongoing process that will constantly require us to retreat to our own mountain and come down to the village and spread the word of the superman.</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Calibri;">Nietzsche in 69 “Thus spoke zarathrustra” http://www2.hn.psu.edu/faculty/jmanis/nietsche/tszarath.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">When Zarathrustra had spoken these words, he paused, like one who had not said his last word; and long did he balance the staff doubtfully in his hand. At last he spake thus—and his voice had changed: I now go alone, my disciples! Ye also now go away, and alone! So will I have it. Verily, I advise you: depart from me, and guard yourselves against Zarathustra! And better still: be ashamed of him! Perhaps he hath deceived you. The man of knowledge must be able not only to love his enemies, but also to hate his friends. One requiteth a teacher badly if one remain merely a scholar. And why will ye not pluck at my wreath? Ye venerate me; but what if your veneration should some day collapse? Take heed lest a statue crush you! Ye say, ye believe in Zarathustra? But of what account is Zarathustra! Ye are my believers: but of what account are all believers! Ye had not yet sought yourselves: then did ye find me. So do all believers; therefore all belief is of so little account. Now do I bid you lose me and find yourselves; and only when ye have all denied me, will I return unto you. Verily, with other eyes, my brethren, shall I then seek my lost ones; with another love shall I then love you. And once again shall ye have become friends unto me, and children of one hope: then will I be with you for the third time, to celebrate the great noontide with you. And it is the great noontide, when man is in the middle of his course between animal and Superman, and celebrateth his advance to the evening as his highest hope: for it is the advance to a new morning. At such time will the down-goer bless himself, that he should be an over-goer; and the sun of his knowledge will be at noontide. “Dead are all the gods: Now do we desire the superman to live.”—Let this be our final will at the great noontide!— Thus spake Zarathustra.</span>


Previos 2NR's
Cap
K of Colonial philosophy
Spanos kritik
Beneath the neon PIC out of state
T
FW