[[toc]]
Disclaimer- ALL NEW stuff will go here- as well as round reports. If there is NOT cites posted here, its because we have already read it and therefore cites will be on our regular wiki. Linked here --
http://wiki.debatecoaches.org/2011-2012+-+Stratford+Academy+%28GA%29+-+Andrew+Jones+%26+Hemanth+Sanjeev
=Round 1- Neg Vs Edgemont MX= 
===**<span class="Underline">Jackson-Vanik Ptx – Relations Impact </span>**=== 

Jackson-Vanik will pass – PC key
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Kelemen 4-20</span> (Michele, Bill Could Complicate U.S.-Russia Relations, NPR, 2012, http://www.npr.org/2012/04/20/151058720/bill-could-complicate-u-s-russia-relations)
<span style="font-size: 14px;">Bipartisanship is ….. to advocate for human rights in Russia</span>.

Key to Russian US/Russian relations
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">STOKES ’11</span> (Bruce, An Agenda, If You Can Keep It, 1/26, National Journal, p. <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[[http://www2.nationaljournal.com/member/daily/balance-of-payments]]</span>)
After years of relative quiescence..oing so could be an uphill slog.

Relations key to solve all global problems and nuclear war ---outweighs the case
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Taylor</span> - Atlantic correspondent living in Moscow – <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">‘8</span> Jeffrey, Medvedev Spoils the Party, November, http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200811u/medvedev-obama
Like it or not<span style="font-size: 14px;">, the …arm in arm.</span>

===**<span class="Underline">T substantial – need a quantitative baseline </span>**=== 
===**<span class="Underline">Astropolitics Kritik </span>**=== 
===**<span class="Underline">DOD CP/fiber-optics and ground-based training w/Debris/Ozone DA </span>**=== 
Text: The Department of Defense should adopt a system of undersea fiber optic cables in place of satellites for the purpose of military bandwidth in all necessary instances. The Department of Defense should mandate mission training without the benefit of space systems for navigation, intelligence collection and communications.

CP solves the case better - fiber optics are comparatively superior to using commercial satellites - key to military effectiveness - avoids the link to spending
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Ehrhard 4</span> (David, Major @ USAF, " Standing in the Strategic Bandwidth Gap: A View of Military Communications in 2012," March 9th, [[http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/airchronicles/cc/ehrhard.html]],)
We do not endorse gendered language
<span style="font-size: 14px;">The U.S. ….</span>-centric warfare in the future.

Ground based systems and training solve vulnerability
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Cheng,</span> 8-16-<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">11</span>, Dean, Research Fellow in Chinese Political and Security Affairs in the Asian Studies Center at The Heritage Foundation, “China’s Space Program: A Growing Factor in U.S. Security Planning,” [[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2011/08/Chinas-Space-Program-A-Growing-Factor-in-US-Security-Planning]],
**Increase alternatives to space systems**….<span style="font-size: 14px;"> event of conflict.</span>

We have reached a __tipping point__ – space debris is increasing __exponentially__ due to __chain reactions__ and will destroy satellites
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Carreau 12/1</span><span class="Underline">**/11** (Mark Carreau, staff writer at Aviation Weekly, “Orbital Debris Expert Urges Retrieval,” Aerospace Daily and Defense Report, </span>[[http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_channel.jsp?channel=space&id=news/asd/2011/12/01/11.xml&headline=Orbital%20Debris%20Expert%20Urges%20Retrieval]])
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Efforts over the past two …. country’s spacecraft. </span>

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Extinction </span>
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Thomas 06</span> (William Thomas, Investigative Journalist, 8-7-2006, “Scientist Says Chemtrails, Shuttle Launches Endangering Earth,” Chem Trails, http://www.chemtrails911.com/docs/Space%20Shuttle%20Launch-Ozone%20Layer.htm)
<span style="font-size: 14px;">A Canadian ….stratosphere itself.</span>

===**<span class="Underline">Russian Aerospace </span>**=== 
<span style="mso-fareast-language: KO;">Russian Aerospace Strong- Fueling Economic diversification</span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background: lime; font-size: 11.0pt; mso-highlight: lime;">Hoyle 4-19</span>__</span>** (Craig, Russian industry: back from the brink, 2012 http://www.flightglobal.com/blogs/the-dewline/2012/04/russian-industry-back-from-the.html)

<span class="Underline"><span style="background: lime; font-size: 10.5pt; mso-highlight: lime;">Things were pretty tough </span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">…time in years.</span></span>


<span style="mso-fareast-language: KO;">Plan reverses this trend- US will usurp the market</span>

<span class="citesChar"><span style="background: lime; font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: lime;">Mack 11</span></span> (David Mack 3/25/11 Vice President, The Middle East Institute of the CSIS, Center for Strategic and International Studies, <span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">[[http://csis.org/blog/russias-new-space-odyssey]]</span>)

<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">Russia’s space program</span></span> …<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">development and <span style="background: lime; mso-highlight: lime;">remain competitive</span> for the future</span></span>.


That’s crucial to end Russian energy export reliance and maintain long-term economic sustainability

<span class="citesChar"><span style="background: lime; font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: lime;">Mohanty ’11</span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">,</span></span> (Prof. Arun holds a PhD from Academy of Sciences USSR, Prof @ the Centre for Russian and Central Asian Studies, 2/8/11, http://indrus.in/articles/2011/02/08/medvedev_doctrine_12139.html)

<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: lime; font-size: 10.5pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: lime;">Russia</span></span> for the first time in its post-…<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">facilitate development of best human capital and democracy in the country</span></span>.


Causes nuclear war

<span class="citesChar"><span style="background: lime; font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: lime;">Filger 9</span></span> (Sheldon <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">Filger</span></span>, Huffington Post, 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">09</span></span>, author previously Vice President for Resource Development at United Way “Russian Economy Faces Disastrous Free Fall Contraction” globaleconomiccrisis.com/blog/archives/356

<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">In Russia</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> historically, </span><span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: lime; font-size: 10.5pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: lime;">economic </span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">… is its least dangerous consequence.</span></span>



**<span class="Underline">Radio Astronomy DA</span>**
<span style="mso-fareast-language: KO;">NGSO satellite constellations kill radio astronomy.</span>

<span class="citesChar"><span style="background: lime; font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-fareast-language: KO; mso-highlight: lime;">OECD 04</span></span><span style="mso-fareast-language: KO;"> – (Jan. 2004, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Global Science Forum, members include Michael Goddard (Chair), Spectrum Policy Director UK Radiocommunications Agency, Makoto Inoue, Director, Nobeyama Radio Observatory National Astronomical Observatory of Japan, Paul A. Vanden Bout, Senior Scientist and former Director U.S. National Radio Astronomy Observatory, William Hatch (retired), Associate Administrator, Office of Spectrum Management National Telecommunications & Information Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce “Report of the Task Force on Radio Astronomy and the Radio Spectrum,” http://www.oecd.org/dataoecd/54/33/28011602.pdf Ajones)</span>

<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-fareast-language: KO;">The science …</span> <span style="background: lime; font-size: 10.5pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-fareast-language: KO; mso-highlight: lime;">allocated to radio astronomy</span></span><span style="mso-fareast-language: KO;">.</span>


<span style="mso-fareast-language: KO;">Radio astronomy key to asteroid detection – key to solve potential impacts.</span>

<span class="citesChar"><span style="background: lime; font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: lime;">Irvine et. al. 05</span></span><span style="mso-fareast-language: KO;"> – (2005, edited by William M. Irvine, PhD from Harvard, Professor of Astronomy at University of Massachusetts at Amherst, Esperanza Carrasco, PhD, researcher at INAOE, and Itziar Aretxaga, astronomer, astrophysicist, researcher at INAOE, written by joint panels and published jointly by Five College Radio Astronomy Observatory at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst and the Instituto Nacional de Astrofísica, Óptica y Electrónica (INAOE), “Planetary Science and Astrobiology,” in The Large Millimeter Telescope Book, http://www.lmtgtm.org/book/lmtbook.html Ajones)</span>

<span style="mso-fareast-language: KO;">However, such </span><span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: lime; font-size: 10.5pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-fareast-language: KO; mso-highlight: lime;">transmitters</span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-fareast-language: KO;"> …</span></span><span style="mso-fareast-language: KO;"> would not need to cease transmitting in order to monitor the echo).</span>


<span style="mso-fareast-language: KO;">Asteroid impacts cause the extinction of all life—outweighs the aff </span>

<span class="citesChar"><span style="background: lime; font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: lime;">Marusek 07</span></span><span style="mso-fareast-language: KO;"> – (James, nuclear physicist and engineer, formerly with the US Navy, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, “Comet and Asteroid Threat Impact Analysis,” http://www.aero.org/conferences/planetarydefense/2007papers/P4-3--Marusek-Paper.pdf ajones)</span>

<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-fareast-language: KO;">A deep …</span></span><span style="mso-fareast-language: KO;"> These deep impacts are not random. Rather they occur with regularity in geological time.5</span>

=Round 2 - Aff vs Westminster XH= 
ORS
-Deterrence
-Development

=Round 3- Aff vs Ghill BR= 
ORS
-Deterrence
-PGS

=Round 4- Neg vs Woodward NS= 
===Russian Aerospace DA=== 
===Anthro K=== 
===Elections DA- Obama Good=== 
Obama will win- ahead of Romney in preparation and not hurt by primary fights
<span class="byline">**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Memoli and Hennessey 4-15</span>__** (Michael A. and Kathleen LA Times, </span>Obama campaign primed for general election battle with Romney, 2012 http://www.fox43.com/news/nationworld/la-pn-obama-campaign-general-election-20120414,0,4217290.story)
"<span style="font-size: 14px;">We were ready … pathways are there and even more."</span>

Plan swings the election – voters will backlash against nasa spending.
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">SMITH 10</span>. [Marcia, editor, “What the Election Means for NASA” Space Policy Online Nov 3]
<span style="font-size: 14px;">The Republican takeover ….. federal spending cut tsunami</span>

Republican control hurts US- Russia and US Turkish relations, missile defense, efforts to reduce climate change
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">AP 10-</span> (Associated Press, “US Republican Wins Could Be Felt in Europe” November 1, 2010, http://www.cnbc.com/id/39845295/US_Republican_Wins_Could_Be_Felt_in_Europe)
<span style="font-size: 14px;">A</span> big <span style="font-size: 14px;">Republican win</span> in Tuesday's ….<span style="font-size: 14px;"> missile defense, which some would like to boost. </span>

Strong US- Russian relations are necessary to access pretty much ever major extinction scenario imaginable
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Nixon Center 2k3</span> (“Advancing American Interests and the U.S.-Russian Relationship: INTERIM REPORT,” SEPTEMBER 2K3 HTTP://WWW.NIXONCENTER.ORG/PUBLICATIONS/MONOGRAPHS/FR.HTM)// WLT

The proper starting point in thinking about ….<span style="font-size: 14px;"> of political support</span>

<span style="font-size: 14px;">__**1NR Overview**__</span>

Bostrom ‘02

(Dr. Nick, Professor of Philosophy and Global Studies at YALE, "Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards," 3-8-02, http://www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html)

Risks in this sixth category are a recent phenomenon. ….and how much we discount future benefits [15,16].


Republicans turn the aff

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Semeniuk et al. 2/10</span>- columnist for Discovery Channel in Canada, and the US Bureau Chief for New Scientist, eceived his journalism degree at Boston University, following an undergraduate degree in physics and astronomy (Ivan, Jeff Tollefson & Meredith Wadman, “ US science agencies targeted for cuts ” 10 February 2011, http://www.nature.com/news/2011/110210/full/news.2011.84.html)

A researcher at the SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, one of ten US national labs that faces proposed severe cuts.SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory The US budget battle of 2011 has barely begun, but the opening salvos are echoing loudly across the capitol — in some cases, signalling the potential for major cuts to labs and regulatory agencies. With a partial list of spending measures released yesterday by the House Appropriations Committee, <span style="font-size: 14px;">Republican leaders have ….</span> for funding increases in COMPETES, is still set to receive an increase for 2011.



Republican 2012 means no chance for action against warming

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Becker</span>, Director of the Presidential Climate Action Project, 5/18

(Bill, “In 2012, vote for climate courage”, 5/18/2011, accessed 6/24/<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">2011</span> [[http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2011/05/18/208113/2012-vote-climate-courage/]] aw)

Almost <span style="font-size: 14px;">every prominent Republican ….</span>, Japan and India, who are “laughing at America’s stupidity”. Oh, and he has a piece of coastal real estate he wants to sell us.)



Warming causes Extinction

Tickell, 2008

(Oliver, Climate Researcher, The Gaurdian, “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction”, [[@http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]])

We need to get prepared for four degrees of global warming, Bob Watson …. a similar hothouse Earth.

__**1NR Uniqueness Wall**__
IDK what polls you’re looking at—the election has structured itself for an Obama win
**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">AP 4-14</span>__** (Obama starts re-election campaign in traditionally GOP territory, 2012 http://www.mercurynews.com/nation-world/ci_20399938/obama-starts-re-election-campaign-traditionally-gop-territory)
<span style="font-size: 14px;">If the election were held now, … has moved. This is not your parents' electoral map." </span>

Millennials support Obama now, but the plan alienates them—independent uniqueness and link claim
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Daily Caller 11-14</span> (Millienal Voters Could Swing 2012 election says non-profit group,” 2011 [[http://dailycaller.com/2011/11/13/%E2%80%98millennial%E2%80%99-voters-could-swing-2012-election-says-nonprofit-group/]])
<span style="font-size: 14px;">Millennials</span> — those “Gen Y” Americans born in the late 1980s and ….<span style="font-size: 14px;">which are the Millennials</span>,” Conway explained.

Romney will lose- No base support
**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">NYT 4-18</span>__** (Romney and Obama Are in a Tight Contest, Poll Finds, 2012 http://thecaucus.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/04/18/new-poll-romney-and-obama-are-in-a-tight-contest/)
But <span style="font-size: 14px;">the poll continues to show a lack …. reservations about him.</span>
**__AT: Space Not Key__**
NASA budget big issue in elections
Scott J. <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Cameron</span> (irector of Grant Thornton LLP, works with government agencies to help them improve the effectiveness and efficiency of their organizations. He is a principal of the Council for Excellence in Government.) 5/23/<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">11</span> “Managing an unsettled environment” [[http://www.nasa.gov/offices/oce/appel/ask/issues/42/42i_managing_unsettled_environment.html]] RM
More than half the fiscal year had elapsed before Congress and the president finally came to closure on annual funding on April 8, 2011. Unprecedented debate over how deep budget cuts needed to be this year represented a break in a pattern that goes back at least half a century, which saw …<span style="font-size: 14px;"> be impeded by political considerations, which often lead to stalemate andinaction. </span>

And the primaries prove- Space will be a pivotal issue- Jobs
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Foust 2-13</span> (Jeff, is the editor and publisher of The Space Review. Campaign lunacy, revisited, 2012 http://www.thespacereview.com/article/2024/1)
<span style="font-size: 14px;">According to conventional wisdom, …. American public</span>, or merely tickled its funny bone?


===Colonize Word PIC=== 
Text – The United States federal government should establish a permanent settlement on Mars.

We have a solvency advocate – “space colonization” is not a benign term – it masks the violence of colonialism
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Duke 2011</span> (Shaun, a reviewer, and an academic. He is currently a graduate student at the University of Florida studying science fiction, postcolonialism, posthumanism, and fantasy. [[http://wisb.blogspot.com/2011/02/colonizing-space-is-dirty-phrase-stop.html|"Colonizing Space" is a Dirty Phrase: Stop Using It]] Feb 24, http://wisb.blogspot.com/2011/02/colonizing-space-is-dirty-phrase-stop.html)
<span style="font-size: 14px;">The term "colonize" is not ….. political implications of misuse.</span>

----Single words shape reality: rhetoric pre-determines the outcome of the plan
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Reeves 5</span> (Richard, Lecturer – Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Southern California “Words Matter in Politics”, The New Statesman, 1-24, http://www.newstatesman.com/200501240022)
<span style="font-size: 14px;">What's in a word? In …..</span> lies, how doctors should interact with people and how the success of medical institutions is defined.

=Round 5- Neg vs GDS= 
===T- Exploration=== 
===JV=== 
===Memo CP=== 
Text --- The Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration should issue and publish in the Code of Federal Regulations a memorandum on space policy that relevant United States entities should substantially increase its exploration of the dead astronauts Connolly, Tkachev, Merril, Maiakovski, Pokrovski, Woodward and Brodisnek.

Competes --- policy statements do not make law --- they’re legally distinct from the plan because they’re only position-taking
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Koch 5</span> (Charles H. Jr., Professor of Law – William and Mary School of Law, “Policymaking by the Administrative Judiciary”, Alabama Law Review, Spring, 56 Ala. L. Rev. 693, Lexis)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">n110 E.g., Consol AND neither the public, nor the agency</span>

Solves --- the Director has the power to issue non-legislative rules ---- shapes space policy
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Kueter 10 </span>(Jeff, President – George C. Marshall Institute, “Evaluating the Obama National Space Policy: Continuity and New Priorities”, Marshall Policy Outlook, July, http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/900.pdf)

In May 2006, we asked AND to them which signals notable shifts.

The practical effect is identical to binding law --- memo sends a signal of the plan and agencies will comply
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Hunnicutt 99 (</span>James, JD – Boston College Law School, “Another Reason to Reform the Federal Regulatory System: Agencies' Treating Nonlegislative Rules as Binding Law”, Boston College Law Review, December, 41 B.C. L. Rev 153, Lexis)

Rules created without process--<span style="font-size: 14px;">interpretative rules</span>, …<span style="font-size: 14px;"> given up on the appeals process</span>. <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=c0ec9a064fe216c19e67ece199b6b99b&csvc=bl&cform=searchForm&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLzVlz-zSkAA&_md5=0e45446f6db42a782b549545db19451d#n156|156]]</span>

Administrative law crushes agency progressivism --- CP’s key to check the executive
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Strauss 11</span>(Peter, Not David Paul, Betts Professor of Law – Columbia Law School, “The APA at 65- Is Reform Needed to Create Jobs, Promote Economic Growth and Reduce Costs?”, Congressional Documents and Publications, 2-28, Lexis)

As you may know, I AND by federal regulation and deregulation. n3

APA power is bad – props-up the worst forms of executive privilege specifically in foreign affairs.
Wirth ‘93
David A. Wirth – Assistant Professor of Law, Washington and Lee University – American University Journal of International Law & Policy – Fall, 1993 – lexis

<span style="font-size: 14px;">A great deal can also be AND the international context for decision making.</span>

Turns the case and independently outweighs
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Rockwell 96</span> – Llewellyn H. Rockwell, Jr., president of the Mises Institute, editor of LewRockwell.com, 1996, “Down With the Presidency,” http://www.lewrockwell.com/rockwell/prez.html
The presidency<span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;"> is seemingly bound by AND that </span>must be reduced<span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;"> to kindling.</span>
===Lacan=== 
Ideological transgression is a continuation of the existing order—the power of the protest structurally depends upon the continued authority of the system. The critique functions as a carnivalesque reversal of authority—we make a gesture of non-compliance that posits us as the “real” masters of fate.
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Zizek 95</span> (Slavoj, International Director of the Birkbeck Institute for the Humanities, president of the Society for Theoretical Psychoanalysis, LAW AND THE POSTMODERN MIND: SUPEREGO BY DEFAULT, Cardozo Law Review, 1995, 16 Cardozo L. Rev. 925)

<span style="font-size: 14px;">In the traditional patriarchal society, AND obsessed precisely with the national thing? </span>

Space fantasy is bad--attention to what the 1AC takes for granted reveals that their project is saturated in fantasies of omnipotence and narcissism
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Ormrod 9</span> James S. Ormrod, Lecturer in Sociology at Univ. of Brighton, 2009 “Phantasy and Social Movements: An Ontology of Pro-Space Activism”, Social Movement Studies, Vol. 8, No. 2, 115–129, April 2009

The Centrality of Fantasy <span style="font-size: 14px;">The centrality AND </span><span class="underlinedChar">**<span style="font-size: 14px;">which the whole universe was oriented</span>**</span>.

Critiques uphold the existing system because they are a safe outlet for transgression, which is a necessary supplement to any system of power.
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Zizek 95</span> (Slavoj, International Director of the Birkbeck Institute for the Humanities, president of the Society for Theoretical Psychoanalysis, LAW AND THE POSTMODERN MIND: SUPEREGO BY DEFAULT, Cardozo Law Review, 1995, 16 Cardozo L. Rev. 925)

The proper way to approach "AND with a specific form of enjoyment).


Lacanian politics are a genuine political alternative. If it is impossible to fully represent the real, then we have no choice but to institutionalize the Lack or design politics around doubt and uncertainity. This will result in more radically democratic politics.
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Stavrakakis, 99</span> (Yannis, //Lacan and the Political,// Visiting Professor, Department of Government, University of Essex, pages p 96-98).

According to my reading, BellamyAND <span style="font-size: 14px;">within a radically transformed ethical framework.</span>
===Orientalism=== 
**The 1AC’s method to revolutionize the politics about outerspace is rooted in Orientalism**
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">SANDERS ‘8</span> – Ph.D, Philosophy at Massey University (Leonard Patrick Sanders, “POSTMODERN ORIENTALISM: William Gibson, Cyberpunk and Japan”, http://mro.massey.ac.nz/bitstream/handle/10179/816/02whole.pdf?sequence=1)
-----[globalized view of politics]
-----[strategic use of politics thru tools of globalization – i.e. science, technology]

Bruce <span style="font-size: 14px;">Sterling reminds cyberpunk enthusiasts that AND </span>, the style of visual kei.

The impact is extinction
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Batur 7</span> (Pinar, Professor of Sociology – Vassar College and Ph.D. – University of Texas, Austin, “The Heart of Violence: Global Racism, War, and Genocide”, Handbook of the The Sociology of Racial and Ethnic Relations, Eds. Vera and Feagin, p. 446-447)
At the turn of the 20th AND up with genocide, in Darfur.

Alternative deconstruct these narratives to resist the motivation of global ordering the plan attempts to create – this is key to solve the aff
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Ghannoushi 11</span> (Soumaya, Writer Specializing in the History of European Perceptions of Islam, "The propagation of neo-Orientalism," http://english.aljazeera.net/indepth/opinion/2011/01/201112611591745716.html)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In a globalised world governed by AND </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">network of power centres and institutions.</span>

=Round 6- Aff vs GBS HS= 
===New ISR Adv=== 
The state of military communications is grim—interoperability and organizational issues preclude military effectiveness
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Aikins et al 08</span> (Rob Atkins, Naval Postgraduate School, Aaron C. Bass, Lieutenant Colonel, United States Air Force, MASTER OF SCIENCE IN SPACE SYSTEMS OPERATIONS, Mike Francis, Systems Engineer at Northrup Grumman Space Technology, Dave Jablonski, Jeff Nelson, Consultant at C4 Planning Solutions, and Satellite Communications Networks Analyst at Femme Comp, Inc., “AN OPERATIONALLY RESPONSIVE SPACE ARCHITECTURE FOR 2025”, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA488022]], Hemanth)
In defining ORS, it becomes clear that …, but the organization and interoperability does not exist.

**We don’t endorse the gendered language

And a new acquisition strategy is key to warfighting and communications
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Aikins et al 08</span> (Rob Atkins, Naval Postgraduate School, Aaron C. Bass, Lieutenant Colonel, United States Air Force, MASTER OF SCIENCE IN SPACE SYSTEMS OPERATIONS, Mike Francis, Systems Engineer at Northrup Grumman Space Technology, Dave Jablonski, Jeff Nelson, Consultant at C4 Planning Solutions, and Satellite Communications Networks Analyst at Femme Comp, Inc., “AN OPERATIONALLY RESPONSIVE SPACE ARCHITECTURE FOR 2025”, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA488022]], Hemanth)
<span style="font-size: 14px;">The fifth and final pillar is AND quickly acquire and field new satellites.</span>

Plan Solves:

<span style="text-decoration: none;">First is acquisition</span>
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Cebrowski and Raymond 2005</span> (Vice Admiral Arthur K. Cebrowski, USN Ret., is Director, Force Transformation, in the Office of the Secretary of Defense. He is a former naval aviator and commanded Fighter Squadron 41 and Carrier Air Wing Eight. He subsequently commanded the assault ship USS Guam, the aircraft carrier USS Midway, and the USS America Battle Group. He has combat experience in Vietnam and Desert Storm. His joint assignments included service as the Director, Command, Control, Communications, and Computers (J-6), on the Joint Staff. Before retiring from the Navy in 2001, Admiral Cebrowski was President of the Naval War College in Newport, Rhode Island. He is a 1964 graduate of Villanova University, holds a master’s degree in computer systems management from the Naval Post Graduate School, and is a graduate of the Naval War College. Colonel John W. Raymond, USAF, is a Transformation Strategist in the Office of Secretary of Defense Force Transformation Office. He has served as the 21st Operations Group Deputy Commander and commanded the 5th Space Surveillance Squadron at RAF Feltwell in the United Kingdom. He is a graduate of Clemson University and the Air Command and Staff College, and he holds master’s degrees from Central Michigan University and the Naval War College, “Operationally Responsive Space: A New Defense Business Model” Spring 2005, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA485888&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]], Hemanth)
The context of <span style="font-size: 14px;">space technology is AND </span>be expected to surpass the old.


Second is maneuverability—it’s key to flexibility
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Aikins et al 08</span> (Rob Atkins, Naval Postgraduate School, Aaron C. Bass, Lieutenant Colonel, United States Air Force, MASTER OF SCIENCE IN SPACE SYSTEMS OPERATIONS, Mike Francis, Systems Engineer at Northrup Grumman Space Technology, Dave Jablonski, Jeff Nelson, Consultant at C4 Planning Solutions, and Satellite Communications Networks Analyst at Femme Comp, Inc., “AN OPERATIONALLY RESPONSIVE SPACE ARCHITECTURE FOR 2025”, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA488022]], Hemanth)

<span style="font-size: 14px;">The fourth pillar of ORS is AND , </span>preferably no more than weeks.

Third is launch on demand
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Aikins et al 08</span> (Rob Atkins, Naval Postgraduate School, Aaron C. Bass, Lieutenant Colonel, United States Air Force, MASTER OF SCIENCE IN SPACE SYSTEMS OPERATIONS, Mike Francis, Systems Engineer at Northrup Grumman Space Technology, Dave Jablonski, Jeff Nelson, Consultant at C4 Planning Solutions, and Satellite Communications Networks Analyst at Femme Comp, Inc., “AN OPERATIONALLY RESPONSIVE SPACE ARCHITECTURE FOR 2025”, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA488022]], Hemanth)

The third pillar, Availability, AND <span style="font-size: 14px;">compromised, as is the brigade.</span>

Here’s reverse causal evidence—ISR fails without ORS—increased funding is key
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Best 12/27</span>/11 (Richard A. Best Jr. Specialist in National Defense, Congressional Research Service, “Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) Acquisition: Issues for Congress”, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/intel/R41284.pdf]], Hemanth)

“Tactical” Space <span style="font-size: 14px;">Although considerable AND advantage of rapidly advancing technology</span>.27

ISR solves all your DAs—it’s key to naval primacy, which deescalates all wars
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Clark 2002</span> (Vern, Admiral, US Navy, “Sea Power 21 Projecting Decisive Joint Capabilities”, [[http://www.navy.mil/navydata/cno/proceedings.html]], Hemanth)

<span style="font-size: 14px;">Projecting decisive combat power has been AND </span>and the <span style="font-size: 14px;">early termination of conflict</span>.

ISR and communications capabilities control internal link to all of your DA’s- it’s the enabler for every military function and provides defense against a bioterror attack
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">DOD 10</span> (Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissancehttp://space.au.af.mil/guides/stg/stg_isr.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 14px;">Joint Vision 2020 depends on information AND </span>for specific warfighters and other users.

Otherwise its inevitable by 2013
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">MSNBC 08</span> (“Panel warns biological attack likely by 2013”, [[http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/28006645/#.TxtS4W83Sf5|http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/28006645/#.TxtS4W83Sf5]])

WASHINGTON — <span style="font-size: 14px;">The United States can AND could have inflicted,"</span> he said.

And, New Gene Manipulation Increases Risk Of Bioweapons
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">MSNBC 12/7</span> (“Clinton warns of bioweapon threat from gene tech”, [[http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/45584359/ns/]])

GENEVA — <span style="font-size: 14px;">New gene assembly technology</span> AND complicated to monitor every lab's activities.

Dispersal is not a problem
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Wheelis ’02</span> (Mark Wheelis works in the Section of Microbiology, University of California, Davis, CA 95616. His research interests are in the history of biological warfare, especially in the First World War, and the scientific aspects of biological and chemical arms control. BioScience – July 1st – lexis)
Dissemination of many introduced pathogens likewise AND effectively with sudden, multifocal outbreaks.


Extinction
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Ochs 02</span> – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]

Of all the weapons of mass AND is the highest of all crimes.

Bioterror is the largest existential risk and should be prioritized in your decision calculus
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Andersen and Bostrum 3/6</span>/12 (Ross, Atlantic correspondent, and Nick, director of the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford, “We're Underestimating the Risk of Human Extinction”, http://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2012/03/were-underestimating-the-risk-of-human-extinction/253821/ , Hemanth)

And <span style="font-size: 14px;">why shouldn't we be as AND can't really have a nuclear arsenal.</span>

=Round 7- Neg vs Lexington CY= 
T- Its
Elections - (See Above)
Astro politics

===Lunar Forums CP=== 

Text: World Trade Organization should amend the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights and create the Lunar Forum as per the Hatch evidence. This Lunar Forum should establish lunar property rights by recognizing lunar land claims, create a dispute settlement body, and create a permit style trading scheme for rights to lunar land and its resources.

Creation of an international Lunar Forum solves the aff
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Hatch 1AC AUTHOR 10</span> (Benjamin D. Hatch, Executive Notes and Comments Editor, Emory International Law Review; J.D. Candidate, Emory University School of Law (2010),24 Emory Int'l L. Rev. 229, Lexis
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Because developing and financially exploiting lunar AND for states that contemplate acting badly.</span>

=<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Ocatas v MtnBrook- New Aff- Asteroids</span>= 

1AC Impact Calculus
Contention one is impact calculus

Nuclear war is not an existential threat
Nyquist ‘99
(J. R., WorldNetDaily contributing editor and a renowned expert in geopolitics and international relations, “Is nuclear war survivable?,” 5-20, http://www.worldnetdaily.com/news/article.asp?ARTICLE_ID=19722)

I patiently reply to these correspondents AND necessarily suffer a disastrous social disorganization."

Doesn’t hurt the atmosphere
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Kearny ’87</span>(Cresson H., two degrees in geology at Oxford, Jungle Experiment Officer of the Panama Mobile Force, demolitions expert in the Office of Strategic Services, research analyst at the Hudson Institute, worked with Herman Kahn on nuclear scenario planning, “Nuclear War Survival Skills: Updated and Expanded”)
° Myth: <span style="font-size: 14px;">Blindness and a AND smaller reductions than their calculated ones.</span>

Even if nuclear winter theory is correct it assumes an impact bigger than theirs
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Ball 2006</span> (Desmond, prof at the Strategic and Defense Studies Centre at the Australian National Univ, “The Probabilities of On the Beach: Assessing ‘Armageddon Scenarios’ in the 21st Century,” Working Paper No. 401, Strategic and Defence Studies Centre at The Australian National University, http://rspas.anu.edu.au/papers/sdsc/wp/wp_sdsc_401.pdf)

In the early 1980s, various AND 50 percent of the time’.6

Major war is over – not even the recession can cause conflict
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Fetweiss</span> 10/3/<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">11</span> - assistant professor of political science at Tulane University (Christopher J., “ The World is Actually Safer than It Used to Be ... And It Keeps Getting Safer ” http://hnn.us/articles/10-3-11/the-world-is-actually-safer.html)

<span style="font-size: 14px;">While global anxiety rises over the</span> AND not always appear to be so.

Taboo is too strong – all of their scenarios are wrong
George <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Perkovich</span>, International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament, May <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">2009</span>, “Extended Deterrence On The Way To A Nuclear Free World,” International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament
The reality today is that <span style="font-size: 14px;">the AND </span>not committed aggression against Taiwan first.

No escalation
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Quinlan</span>, Under-Secretary of State for Defense, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">97</span> [Michael Quinlan, 1997. Under-Secretary of State for Defense. Thinking about Nuclear Weapons; p. 31.]
There are good reasons for fearing AND rationality required is plain and basic.

Err aff on risk assessment—their impacts are subject to conjunctive fallacy
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">YUDKOWSKY 2006</span> (Eliezer, Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence, “Cognitive biases potentially affecting judgment of global risks,” forthcoming in Global Catastrophic Risks, August 31)

Could the conjunction fallacy rest on AND <span style="font-size: 14px;">more probable than are conjunctions.' </span>

And the role of the ballot is to minimize existential risk
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">MATHENY 2007</span> (Jason, Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, Vol 27, No 5)

We may be poorly equipped to AND the costs of mitigating them.20

Short term focus prevents us from doing that—masks longer term trends and makes extinction inevitable – turns its own ends.
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Tonn 04</span> – (2004, Bruce, PhD, Urban and Regional Planning, Northwestern University, Program Leader, ISSE Environmental Sustainability, Professor, UT's Department of Political Science, Director, UT's Urban and Regional Planning Program, Senior Researcher, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, “Integrated 1000-year planning,” Futures 36 (2004) 91–108, elsevier, Ajones)

<span style="font-size: 14px;">Why tackle 1000 years and not AND -of-the-world.</span>

An asteroid is the only true extinction risk
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">McGUIRE 2002</span> (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 173-174)
The <span style="font-size: 14px;">Tunguska events pale into insignificance AND </span>new comet heading in our direction.

Only asteroid strikes cause immediate compound environmental crises—nothing else comes close
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">CHAPMAN 04</span> (Senior Scientist at the Southwest Research Institute, Dept. of Space Studies, “the Hazard of near-Earth asteroid impacts on earth”, Earth and Planetary Science Letters 222)
I have argued [59] AND left traces in the fossil record.

Asteroid impact is 100% certain and could occur at any time
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">VERSCHUUR 1996</span> (Gerrit, Adjunct Prof of Physics at U of Memphis, Impact: the Threat of Comets and Asteroids, p. 158)

In the past few years, <span style="font-size: 14px;">AND </span>nature that will determine our fate.

High risk of a strike – newest research proves
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Easterbrook 2008</span> (Gregg, Editor of The Atlantic and The New Republic and Sr. Fellow at Brookings, “The Sky is Falling,” June, http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200806/asteroids)

Breakthrough ideas have a way of AND race is riding on the plane.”

Asteroids shatter standard risk analysis—vote Aff no matter how low the probability of our advantage is
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">POSNER 2004</span> (Richard, US Court of Appeals judge and Senior Lecturer at the University of Chicago Law School, Catastrophe: Risk and Response 249-250)

<span style="font-size: 14px;">Even if our insouciant reaction to AND </span>or otherwise to reduce the risk.


Fractures the crust
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Marusek 07</span> – (James, nuclear physicist and engineer, formerly with the US Navy, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, “Comet and Asteroid Threat Impact Analysis,” http://www.aero.org/conferences/planetarydefense/2007papers/P4-3--Marusek-Paper.pdf ajones)
<span style="font-size: 14px;">A deep impact produces two zones AND </span>with regularity in geological time.5

1AC Solvency

Only space based detection solves long period comets and small asteroids – status quo fails
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">IAA 2009</span> (International Academy of Astronautics, “Dealing with the Threat To Earth From Asteroids and Comets,” http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups/SG%20Commission%203/sg35/sg35finalreport.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 14px;">Ground-based telescopes cannot observe</span> AND <span style="font-size: 14px;">, in the not too distant future</span>

Detection guarantees deflection - Incentives mean U.S. will invest all resources available
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Barrett, 6</span> [Scott, Professor and Director of International Policy, School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University and Distinguished Visiting Fellow, Center for the Study of Globalization, Yale University, “ SYMPOSIUM: CATASTROPHE: The Problem of Averting Global Catastrophe,” Winter, 2006 6 Chi. J. Int'l L. 527 ]

<span style="font-size: 14px;">Protection of the Earth from asteroids AND </span>and these are thus particularly dangerous.)

This is the only way to prevent nuclear war from small asteroid strikes
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">DAVID 2002</span> (Leonard, Senior Space Writer, Space.com, “First Strike or Asteroid Impact?” June 6, http://abob.libs.uga.edu/bobk/ccc/cc060702.html)

<span style="font-size: 14px;">Military strategists and space scientists that AND detect small asteroids</span>, he said.

Otherwise causes billions of deaths
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Forrow</span>, MD, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">98</span>
(Lachlan, MD, et al, "Accidental Nuclear War – A Post-Cold War Assessment", New England Journal of Medicine)

Public health professionals now recognize that AND direct and indirect <span style="font-size: 14px;">casualties worldwide</span>.4

Advance warming solves nuclear deflection
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">BRANDENBURG 2011</span> (John E. Brandenburg is a plasma physicist at Orbital Technologies in Madison Wisconsin, working on space plasma technologies and space propulsion, “Preparing for a Future Asteroid Crisis,” Astronomical Review, May 16, http://astroreview.com/issue/2011/article/preparing-for-a-future-asteroid-crisis)

<span style="font-size: 14px;">The detection of a large asteroid AND to foresee and prepare for one.</span>

That fails and spreads out the impact
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Chapman 3</span> (Clark, scientist at the Southwest Research Institute's Department of Space Studies, Great Impact Debates, Collision Course for Earth, http://www.astrobio.net/debate/396/encore)

The advantage of using nuclear weapons AND it is a very bad idea.

Nuclear deflection prevents successful deflection methods
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Lu 4</span> (Statement of Dr. Ed Lu President, B612 Foundation, “Near-Earth Objects,” testimony before the Committee on Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Subcommittee on Science, Technology, and Space, Apr.7 CQ, lexis)

Why does the asteroid need to AND for the purposes of resource utilization.

Only the Venus-orbit solves by providing a comprehensive NEO survey – earth-orbiting telescopes can’t solve.
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Dunham & Genoca 2010</span> Using Venus for Locating Space Observatories to Discover Potentially Hazardous Asteroids D. W. Dunham1 and A. L. Genova2 1 Kinet X, Inc., 7913 Kara Ct., Greenbelt, Maryland 20770􏰄3016, USA 2 NASA Ames Research Center, Moffett Field, California 94035, USA Cosmic Research, 2010, Vol. 48, No. 5 pp. 424–429

CONCLUSIONS The IRAS, and now <span style="font-size: 14px;">AND </span>of images for the NEA searches.

Any solvency deficit to a counterplan means you vote Aff—constant asteroid risk means that we only have to be wrong a single time and the human species will end
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">BARBEE 2009</span> (4/1, Brent W., BS, Aerospace Engineering degree from UT Austin; MS in Engineering from the Department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics at the University of Texas, Austin specializing in Astrodynamics and Spacecraft Mission Design, currently working as an Aerospace Engineer and Planetary Defense Scientist with the Emergent Space Technologies company in Greenbelt, Maryland, teaches graduate Astrodynamics in the Department of Aerospace Engineering at The University of Maryland, College Park, “Planetary Defense”, http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/apjinternational//apj-s/2009/1tri09/barbeeeng.htm)

I<span style="font-size: 14px;">t is generally accepted that statistics AND </span>making process for defense against NEOs.

Deflection dilemma is non-unique and illogical
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Wall</span> 11/4/<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">11</span> (Mike, by Mike Wall, SPACE.com Senior Writer, [[http://www.space.com/13515-asteroid-deflection-space-weapons.html]], Hemanth)

<span style="font-size: 14px;">If you lie awake at night AND of coming late to the party</span>."

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]

<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 1007px; width: 1px;">NGSO satellite constellations kill radio astronomy.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 1007px; width: 1px;"><span class="citesChar"><span style="background: lime; font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-fareast-language: KO; mso-highlight: lime;">OECD 04</span></span><span style="mso-fareast-language: KO;"> – (Jan. 2004, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Global Science Forum, members include Michael Goddard (Chair), Spectrum Policy Director UK Radiocommunications Agency, Makoto Inoue, Director, Nobeyama Radio Observatory National Astronomical Observatory of Japan, Paul A. Vanden Bout, Senior Scientist and former Director U.S. National Radio Astronomy Observatory, William Hatch (retired), Associate Administrator, Office of Spectrum Management National Telecommunications & Information Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce “Report of the Task Force on Radio Astronomy and the Radio Spectrum,” http://www.oecd.org/dataoecd/54/33/28011602.pdf Ajones)</span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 1007px; width: 1px;"><span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-fareast-language: KO;">The science …</span> <span style="background: lime; font-size: 10.5pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-fareast-language: KO; mso-highlight: lime;">allocated to radio astronomy</span></span>.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 1007px; width: 1px;">Radio astronomy key to asteroid detection – key to solve potential impacts.</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 1007px; width: 1px;"><span class="citesChar"><span style="background: lime; font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: lime;">Irvine et. al. 05</span></span> – (2005, edited by William M. Irvine, PhD from Harvard, Professor of Astronomy at University of Massachusetts at Amherst, Esperanza Carrasco, PhD, researcher at INAOE, and Itziar Aretxaga, astronomer, astrophysicist, researcher at INAOE, written by joint panels and published jointly by Five College Radio Astronomy Observatory at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst and the Instituto Nacional de Astrofísica, Óptica y Electrónica (INAOE), “Planetary Science and Astrobiology,” in The Large Millimeter Telescope Book, http://www.lmtgtm.org/book/lmtbook.html Ajones)</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 1007px; width: 1px;">However, such <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="background: lime; font-size: 10.5pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-fareast-language: KO; mso-highlight: lime;">transmitters</span><span style="font-size: 10.5pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-fareast-language: KO;"> …</span></span> would not need to cease transmitting in order to monitor the echo).</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 1007px; width: 1px;">Asteroid impacts cause the extinction of all life—outweighs the aff</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 1007px; width: 1px;"><span class="citesChar"><span style="background: lime; font-size: 11.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-highlight: lime;">Marusek 07</span></span><span style="mso-fareast-language: KO;"> – (James, nuclear physicist and engineer, formerly with the US Navy, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, “Comet and Asteroid Threat Impact Analysis,” http://www.aero.org/conferences/planetarydefense/2007papers/P4-3--Marusek-Paper.pdf ajones)</span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 1007px; width: 1px;"><span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-fareast-language: KO;">A deep …</span></span><span style="mso-fareast-language: KO;"> These deep impacts are not random. Rather they occur with regularity in geological time.5</span></span>