=Besides everything on here, I might also read anything found on [[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Reagan High School (TX) - Rodrigo Paramo|Rodrigo's]] wiki.= 
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">I affirm. Resolved: The United States ought to extend to non-citizens accused of terrorism the same constitutional due process protections it grants to citizens. </span>
# <span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">1. Because the resolution calls in to question what the United States ought to do, and not what it will/or can do, the round should be based upon ethical theories instead of some form of policy action. </span>
# <span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">2. Ought is defined as a “moral obligation” so this approach is topically supported. This is best because current legal efforts in the international community have failed to evolve as multiculturalism has permeated in to all facets of society. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">3.The resolution states “those accused of terrorism” which does not automatically presume guilt therefore, it is sufficient for the affirmative to discuss the broad spectrum of those considered terrorists. </span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Thus, rather than take an advocacy based in status quo state action, the affirmative adopts the standard of respecting alterity, meaning that difference and otherness is seen as something to be considered, discussed, but not eradicated. This is best because:</span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">The discourse of terrorism is a dangerous type of non-state violence because it reinforces and justifies intervention, sovereignty and the production of state power through providing “essential” security. This promotes the eradication of non-citizens accused of terrorism as an acceptable form of violence. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Connolly 1</span>**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;"> [William, Professor of Political Science at John Hopkins University, Identity/Difference-Democratic Negotiations of Political Paradox pg, 207]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;"> [The power of definition, as Hobbes knew, is a highly strategic power invested in the state. … general principles to distinctive instances of violence.]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Contention one. </span>**

<span style="font-family: Times;">People who challenge the identity of the state are all discussed as symbols of external enemies that the state must eradicate to protect itself. Open nationalism, and the belief in the distinction between citizen and non-citizen securitizes the state’s power. Without respecting alterity, a discourse of exclusion continues from the people accepting the binary between citizen and non citizen, leading to inevitable violence. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Connolly 2</span>**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;"> [William, Professor of Political Science at John Hopkins University, Identity/Difference-Democratic Negotiations of Political Paradox pg, 209-210]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">[In the case of both terrorism and welfarism, ... Electoral politics containspowerful pressures to become a closed circuit for the dogmatism of identity through the translation of difference into threat and threat into energy for the dogmatization of identity. ]</span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">The state justifies its original violence, and reinforces its power and identity, by creating the threat of an external enemy that can be eradicated based upon difference. Conceptions of complete/ perfect collective identity is set against a backdrop of dogmatism and externalization, anything that disrupts this perfect Identity is eliminated in order to secure the order of the perfect identity. That is exactly what Guantanamo Bay does. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Bleiker 2k8 [Roland, Professor of IR at U of Queensland, The New Pluralism, page on bottom of page]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">[The second response to the charge of relativism has to be found in the extensive scholarly debates about the issues at stake. …David Campbell, for instance, be­lieves that the inability of the international community to break with territorial notions of identity and accommodate multicultural values was one of the features that prevented a timely resolution of the ethnic con­flict in Bosnia.60]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">136-137</span>

**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Contention two.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">The affirmative’s advocacy is founded in due process protections which is just one avenue that the state can offer as a sign of good faith for those who are perceived as threats. Rather than view non-citizens accused of terrorism as things to be eradicated, your ballot will respect difference while offering a renewed vision of the contemporary relation between the state and outsiders.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Roland Bleiker and Emma Hutchinson explain in 2008</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">[Roland: professor of international relations at the university of queensland, australia Emma: Doctoral candidate and tutor in international relations at the university of Queensland, Australia. “Emotions in the war on terror” Security and the War on Terror. Pages 64-67 ] </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">[Although scholars in the sociology of emotions disagree on numerous fronts, they all acknowledge, in one way or another, … the stereotypical understandings of identity and difference that often drive conflict the first place.]</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Contention three.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Democracy best exists when it extends global issues such as terrorism in to its infrastructure. The affirmative does this by allowing the noncitizen to have legal protections under the current US concept of law. </span>
**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Connolly 3</span>**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;"> [William, Professor of Political Science at John Hopkins University, Identity/Difference-Democratic Negotiations of Political Paradox pg, 217-219]</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">[Defined //within// the terms of sovereignty, the alternatives are these: either democracy remains confined to the territorial state and becomes increasingly …that sustain collective identity today. ]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Thus you affirm. </span>

version two:
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Part one. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The resolution uses the word “accused” defined as, “a person or group of people who are charged with a crime” to modify the term of art non-citizen. If I win there is no net benefit to the status quo this switches presumption and defines the ground of the negative. Even if you grant the squo, current policy doesn’t extend due process to non-citizens accused of terrorism which increases the occurrence of terrorism. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Cole 2k12</span>
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Cole, David. "Enemy Aliens." Stanford Law Review 54: n. pag. Social Science Research Network. Web. 23 Aug. 2012. <http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/ papers.cfm?abstract_id=320114>.</span>//<span class="highlight2">//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. Cut at VBI 2012, </span>//</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Parthasarathy/Ross</span>//<span class="highlight2">//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> lab.</span>//</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Legitimacy is ... enemy aliens</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Part two.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">I affirm. Resolved: The United States ought to extend to non-citizens accused of terrorism the same constitutional due process protections it grants to citizens. </span>
# <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">1. Because the resolution calls in to question what the United States ought to do, and not what it will/or can do, the round should be based upon ethical theories instead of some form of policy action. This ethics is an approach to the resolution that adopts a pluralistic approach to incorporate morality and alterity. </span>

# <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">2. Ought is defined as a “moral obligation” so this approach is topically supported. This is best because current legal efforts in the international community have failed to evolve as multiculturalism has permeated in to all facets of society. A new approach to international relations is necessary that incorporates all individuals, citizens and non citizens alike, in the legal process</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Thus, rather than take an advocacy based in status quo state action, the affirmative adopts the standard of respecting alterity, meaning that difference and otherness is seen as something to be considered, discussed, but not eradicated. This is best because it refuses the violent drive to secure a perfect identity. Alterity forms our individual identity, and</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Connolly 1 explains</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [William, Professor of Political Science at John Hopkins University, __Identity/Difference-Democratic Negotiations of Political Paradox pg, 118-120__]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Must we t...on principle.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Contention one. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The state justifies its original violence, and reinforces its power and identity, by creating the threat of an external enemy that can be eradicated based upon difference. Conceptions of complete/ perfect collective identity are set against a backdrop of dogmatism and externalization, anything that disrupts this perfect identity is eliminated in order to secure the order of the perfect identity. That is exactly what Guantanamo Bay does. Without due process protections, the state is able to enact violence against difference and otherness will always then be inevitable under squo legal processes. The state is able to kill people without ever murdering them. </span>

<span class="cite">Bleiker 2k8 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Roland, Professor of IR at U of Queensland, The New Pluralism, page on bottom of page]</span>
<span style="background-color: white;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The second ...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">ution of the ethnic con­flict in Bosnia.60</span></span>
<span style="background-color: white;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">136-137</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The affirmative’s advocacy is founded in due process protections which is just one avenue that the state can offer as a sign of good faith for those who are perceived as threats. Rather than view non-citizens accused of terrorism as things to be eradicated, your ballot will respect difference while offering a renewed vision of the contemporary relation between the state and outsiders.Moreover, it is in times of death and potential insecurity that it is most important to assert a respect for alterity and move past the privileged standpoint of moral superiority. It is in these times that true democracy exists. Our response to terrorist attacks like September 11, 2001 meant we lost an opportunity for a new politics and a new ethic that includes the respect present at the heart of democracy—and my affirmation of due process protections for noncitizens is the first step in an attempt to move away from a politics of fear and securitization. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Roland Bleiker and Emma Hutchinson explain in 2008</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Roland: professor of international relations at the university of queensland, australia Emma: Doctoral candidate and tutor in international relations at the university of Queensland, Australia. “Emotions in the war on terror” __Security and the War on Terror__. Pages 64-67 ]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">  </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Although scholars i...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">t place.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Democracy best exists when it extends global issues such as terrorism in to its infrastructure. The affirmative does this by allowing the noncitizen to have legal protections under the current US concept of law. This concept of non territorial democracy is the formation of nonstate activists who focus on particular practices through which specific states, like the US eradicate people deemed as terrorists without trials, or fair legal proceedings. Such nonstate formations would disturb the normal operation of state-centered politics, exposing how these structures create ambiguity. </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Connolly 2</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [William, Professor of Political Science at John Hopkins University, __Identity/Difference-Democratic Negotiations of Political Paradox pg, 217-219__]</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Defined //within ...//</span>____<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">dentity today</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Part three.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The world has become far too complex for causal chains to be established. Rather than trying to construct the world’s future to our whim, we must adapt and adjust to the existence of these unpredictabilities. These attempts to control the future are potential disasters waiting to happen, and almost always make the situation worse.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Taleb ’11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Nassim Nicholas, bestselling author and has been a professor at several universities, currently at Polytechnic Institute of New York University and Oxford University, __The Black Swan__, page # at bottom)</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The inability ...</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">as you can.</span>__**


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Experts and models fail at predicting or preventing terrorism- attempts are only illusory and waste millions of dollars, while still casting citizens to risk of an existential attack. </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Brown, 2011</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> –</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">Gerald, Professor of Operations Research Deparment at the Naval Postgraduate School ( “Making Terrorism Risk Analysis Less Harmful and More Useful: Another Try”, http://faculty.nps.edu/gbrown/docs/MakingTerrorismRiskAnalysisLessHarmfulandMoreUseful.pdf)</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The poor performance ...</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> career-limiting, for those involved</span>



==Negative== 
**<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">mini-k</span>**
**<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">1)</span>** <span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The negative has the burden of clash,</span>
**<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">2)</span>** <span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Maintains fair ground </span>
**<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">3)</span>** <span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">To insert a not in the resolution would create the contrapositive</span>
**<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">4)</span>** <span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The resolution is not a comparative statement so the negative does not have the burden of proving some form of alternative solvency.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">1.Because the resolution calls in to question what the United States ought to do, and not what it will/or can do, the round should be based upon ethics</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">2.Ought is defined as a “moral obligation” </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">the Affirmative’s usage of the state to promote tolerance is a Band-Aid for the larger problem. Assuming the state is the best vehicle for change assimilates us into the nation’s homogenizing identity. Dissent may seem productive on the outside, but attaching it to the state means our politics become co-opted by governmentality. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">brown 1</span>

Wendy Brown. Prof of Political Science @ UC- Berkley. “Regulating Aversion: Tolerance in the Age of Identity and Empire” 2006.
"even...tactics"

s: respecting alterity

The AC’s discussion of tolerance only strengthens the tools of the nation state, and quells civic dissent. Regardless of what the affirmative THINKS extending due process protections will do for non citizens- the state will spin plan action for self-serving purposes.
Brown 2
Wendy Brown. Prof of Political Science @ UC- Berkley. “Regulating Aversion: Tolerance in the Age of Identity and Empire” 2006.
"yet...violence"

The State will co-opt the movement for tolerance. The success of giving due process is used as a slick public relations tool, while the nation state uses those liberal morals to spread imperialism abroad
Brown 3
Wendy Brown. Prof of Political Science @ UC- Berkley. “Regulating Aversion: Tolerance in the Age of Identity and Empire” 2006.
"both...humankind"

The use of tolerance as a political tool neutralizes any discussion of difference. The plan only assimilates difference into the current political landscape ruining any democratic deliberation. When individuals are taught to tolerate they produce these differences through organizing them as sites of exclusion and marginalization.
Brown 4
Wendy Brown. Prof of Political Science @ UC- Berkley. “Regulating Aversion: Tolerance in the Age of Identity and Empire” 2006.
"the...otherwise"

My alternative is not to ignore the suffering or oppression of others, but instead become savvy about the ways tolerance discourse circulates with the power of language, social forces and justice. The alternative would see difference as an inherent site of hostility and agonism.
Brown 5
Wendy Brown. Prof of Political Science @ UC- Berkley. “Regulating Aversion: Tolerance in the Age of Identity and Empire” 2006.
"in...howls"
thus you negate.


=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]