[[toc]]
Email Sam for Neg Cites - lagerstrom16[at]gmail[dot]com
Email Shanelle for Aff Cites - shanelleroman[at]gmail[dot]com

=Affirmative= 

==Nib== 

===1AC=== 

1AC Economy Adv

Contention 1 is the Economy

We will isolate 3 internal links ---
First is declining infrastructure --- it is undermining the foundation of the U.S. economy
Donohue, 11 --- president and chief executive officer of the US Chamber of Commerce (9/8/2011, Thomas J., Christian Science Monitor, “The highway to jobs - via better infrastructure,” Factiva, JMP)
As Obama and Congress talk jobs… …. anyone is up to the challenge, we are.
This negatively influences the entire economy --- prevents a resilient supply chain
Little, 11 --- Director, Keston Institute for Public Finance and Infrastructure Policy (4/5/2011, Richard, “Infrastructure Investment and U.S. Competitiveness,” [[http://www.cfr.org/united-states/infrastructure-investment-us-competitiveness/p24585]], JMP)
The massive network of seaports… … for economic decline and its consequences.
Second is stimulus ---
Confidence is collapsing now and destroying investment --- a national infrastructure bank is the best short term stimulus that doesn’t drive up the deficit
Skidelsky & Martin, 11 --- *Emeritus Professor of Political Economy at the University of Warwick, AND **macroeconomist and bond investor (3/30/2011, Robert Skidelsky and Felix Martin, New York Review of Books, “For a National Investment Bank,” [[http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/]], JMP)**
**But could a National Investment Bank … …other long-term investors.**
**The economy won’t recover quickly or sufficiently enough on its own --- A national bank will stimulate the economy and boost jobs**
**Skidelsky & Martin, 11 --- *Emeritus Professor of Political Economy at the University of Warwick, AND** macroeconomist and bond investor (3/30/2011, Robert Skidelsky and Felix Martin, New York Review of Books, “For a National Investment Bank,” [[http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/]], JMP)
President Obama is in a bind… …projects would bring to the broader economy.
Studies prove the plan is a uniquely beneficial form of stimulus
Tyson, 11 --- Chan Chair in Global Management at UC Berkeley's Haas School of Business (Laura D., “A Better Stimulus Plan for the U.S. Economy,” [[http://hbr.org/web/extras/hbr-agenda-2011/laura-d-tyson]], JMP)
Although stimulus spending is a politically … … time has come to make it happen.

Third internal link is unemployment ---

This is triggering a major economic crisis --- outweighs the deficit and is best solved by the plan
Tyson, 11 --- professor at the Haas School of Business at Cal Berkeley and former chair of the Council of Economic Advisers and the head of the National Economic Council under President Clinton (8/18/2011, Laura D’Andrea Tyson, “What it will take for President Obama and big business to bring back American jobs,” [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/on-leadership/for-president-obama-and-american-business-fixing-the-us-jobs-deficit/2011/08/18/gIQAhW8ZNJ_story.html]], JMP)
The immediate crisis confronting the U.S. economy … …the millions of Americans who need a job.
Economic decline triggers worldwide conflict

Royal, 10 – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, (Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)
Less intuitive is how periods of .. …considered ancillary to those views.

Independently, slow growth makes the US uncooperative and desperate – leads to hegemonic wars
Goldstein 7 - Professor of Global Politics and International Relations @ University of Pennsylvania, Avery Goldstein, “Power transitions, institutions, and China's rise in East Asia: Theoretical expectations and evidence,” [[@http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/title~db=all~content=t713636064|Journal of Strategic Studies]], Volume[[@http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/title~db=all~content=t713636064~tab=issueslist~branches=30#v30|30]], Issue [[@http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/title~db=all~content=g780703608|4 & 5 ]]August 2007, pages 639 – 682

Two closely related, though distinct… … the possible crossover.19 pg. 647-650

Growth eliminates the only rational incentives for war
Gartzke 11 – associate Professor of political science at the University of California, San Diego PhD from Iowa and B.A. from UCSF Erik, "SECURITY IN AN INSECURE WORLD" [[@http://www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/|www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/]]
Almost as informative as the decline in warfare has been where this decline is occurring. Traditionally, nations were constrained by opportunity. Most nations did not fight most others because they could not physically do so. Powerful nations, in contrast, tended to fight more often, and particularly to fight with other powerful states. Modern “zones of peace” … …war becomes a durable anachronism.
Transportation infrastructure investment is key --- boosts jobs and attracts businesses. A federal bank spurs critical public-private partnerships.
Tyson, 11 --- professor at the Haas School of Business at UC Berkeley (6/3/2011, Laura D’Andrea Tyson, NYT Blogs, “The Virtues of Investing in Transportation; Economix,” Factiva, JMP)
Years of underinvesting in … …. returns on scarce investment dollars.

Will immediately boost employment and growth
Zakaria, 11 (6/13/2011, Fareed, “Zakaria: U.S. needs an infrastructure bank,” [[http://globalpublicsquare.blogs.cnn.com/2011/06/13/zakaria-u-s-needs-an-infrastructure-bank/]], JMP)
President Obama has proposed … … might actually be the biggest payoff of all.


1ac Steel Industry Adv
Contention 2 is the Steel Industry ---
The steel industry is growing now, but remains fragile – new transportation infrastructure projects are vital to `maintain momentum
Brooks, 12 – Foundry Management & Technology Editor-in-chief at IndustryWeek (Robert Brooks, “Domestic Steelmakers are Strong, But Concerned”, IndustryWeek, 4/12/12, [[http://www.industryweek.com/articles/domestic_steelmakers_are_strong_but_concerned_27078.aspx?SectionID=5]] | AK)
The U.S. steel industry is bullish … … for steelmakers and other manufacturers.
Now is key – focusing on new projects is key to the industry’s survival
King, 12 – political writer for the Wheeling News-Register and the Intelligencer (Joselyn King, “’Future Of Steel’ Topic In D.C”, Wheeling News-Register, 3/25/12, [[http://www.theintelligencer.net/page/content.detail/id/567562/Future-Of-Steel-Topic-In-D-C.html?nav=515]] | AK)
WHEELING - Congress must take action … … steel and manufacturing sectors."

The 2009 ARRA was insufficient – establishing a national infrastructure bank is crucial
Robertson, 10 – Pittsburgh Bureau chief at American Metal Market (Scott Robertson, “Obama infrastructure plan a first step, but short of needs: steel”, American Metal Market, 9/10/10, General OneFile | AK)
PITTSBURGH -- Steel industry … … the (success and growth of) the economy."


A national infrastructure bank is critical – new infrastructure investments are vital to stimulate steel and manufacturing demand
Danjczek et al., 11 – President of the Steel Manufacturers Association (Thomas A. Danjczek, “2011 — 2012 PUBLIC POLICY STATEMENT STEEL MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION”, Steel Manufacturers Assocation, 2011-2012, [[http://66.39.14.41/public_policy/public_policy.pdf]] | AK)
The Need for Infrastructure Investment The infrastructure … … expedite the approval of key projects.

hegemony – a strong steel industry is the vital internal link to military primacy
AISI, 7 – serves as the voice of the North American steel industry in the public policy arena and advances the case for steel in the marketplace as the preferred material of choice. AISI also plays a lead role in the development and application of new steels and steelmaking technology (American Iron and Steel Institute, “STEEL AND THE NATIONAL DEFENSE”, AISI, January 2007, [[http://www.ssina.com/news/releases/pdf_releases/steel_and_national_defense_0107.pdf]] | AK)
The U.S. carbon/alloy and specialty steel industries … …these criteria on a consistent basis.

Heg prevents global nuclear war
Barnett, 11 [Thomas Barnett, Chief analyst at Wikistrat, former visiting scholar at the University of Tennessee’s Howard Baker Center for Public Policy and a visiting strategist at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies, March 7, 2011, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts US, and the Globalization, at Crossroads”, World Politics Review, http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/8099/the-new-rules-leadership-fatigue-puts-u-s-and-globalization-at-crossroads]

Events in Libya are a further reminder … … from state-based conflicts.

1ac Solvency

Contention _ is Solvency ---

A national bank devoted just to transportation will revitalize U.S. infrastructure --- it will be easy on the budget and politically palatable
Lovaa, 11 --- Federal Transportation Policy Director for NRDC (6/28/2011, Deron, “An Infrastructure Bank for Transportation,” [[http://switchboard.nrdc.org/blogs/dlovaas/an_infrastructure_bank_for_tra.html]], JMP)

Another creative funding idea that’s getting … …to vastly improve the status quo.

Federal action is superior --- better evaluation, finance, and reduced borrowing costs
Thomasson, 11 --- Director of Public Policy, Progressive Policy Institute (10/12/2011, Scott, Congressional Documents and Publications, House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Highways and Transit Hearing - "National Infrastructure Bank: More Bureaucracy and More Red Tape," Factiva) // NK

Myth #6: We don't need a national … …power of state banks is entirely misplaced.
Federal action key to ensure cooperation and resources for large-scale projects
McConaghy & Kessler, 11 --- * Director of the Third Way Economic Program, AND **Vice President for Policy at Third Way (January 2011, Ryan McConaghy and Jim Kessler, “A National Infrastructure Bank,” [[http://www.bernardlschwartz.com/political-initiatives/Third_Way_Idea_Brief_-_A_National_Infrastructure_Bank-1.pdf]], JMP)
America’s economic future will hinge on … … to make enduring infrastructure investments.
Plan: The United States federal government should establish a national bank to substantially increase its investment in transportation infrastructure.


=Negative= 
==Valley== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Round 2</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">1NC: States CP, Obama Good Elections DA (russia impact), T-Pipelines, Security K
</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">2NR: Elections DA and Case</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Round 4</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">1NC: Security K, Alaska CP, Elections DA, T-in</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">
</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">Round 5</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">1NC: Security K, T-excludes water infrastructure, and maintenance, Obama Good Elections DA, Privatization CP, Stimulus bad (Crowd-out, bond market)</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;"><span style="font-size: 13.333333969116211px;">2NR: Privatization CP, Elections DA</span></span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">
</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13.333333969116211px; text-align: start;">
==<span style="font-size: 1.4em;">UMich</span>== 
</span>
Round 2 Title XI
1NC:Fiscal Cliff DA, T-loan guarantees, Breila K, States CP (SIB funding mechanism), Dedev on case
2NR: Dedev

Round 4 Space Ports
1NC: Fiscal Cliff DA, T- Space, Breila K, Consult Russia CP, Heg bad on case
2NR: Breila K

Round 5 New Orleans
1NC: T- vehicles and Cap K
2NR: T-vehicles -->extra T
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]