[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
=Algae= 
==Inherency== 
====__Government funding is needed for algae biofuels to be successful.__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Madrigal 09</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Alexis Madrigal. Contributer to Wired Science. 12/29/09. “How Algal Biofuels Lost a Decade in the Race to Replace Oil” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.wired.com/wiredscience/2009/12/the-lost-decade-of-algal-biofuel/]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Just $25 million was invested...our country would have algal biofuels now.</span>
====__Obama wants algae, but congress won't let us have it.__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lacey 12</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Stephen Lacey. Reporter for climateprogress B.A in journalism. 3-1-12 Climate Progress.</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://thinkprogress.org/climate/2012/03/01/435317/algae-fuels-energy-innovation-obama-failed-climate-messaging/|On Algae Fuels, Energy Innovation and Obama’s Failed Climate Messaging]]</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://thinkprogress.org/climate/2012/03/01/435317/algae-fuels-energy-innovation-obama-failed-climate-messaging/?mobile=nc]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> )</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Republican politicians and media pundits are launching an assault...from an innovation and jobs perspective and failing to address them within the context of global warming</span>
====__Thus the plan: The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its of Transportation infrastructure in the United States by funding $14 million to the research and development of algae biodiesel that will spur algae stations and cars.__==== 

==Solvency== 
====__Algae is the most promising source of alternative energy for 6 reasons.__==== 
====__1. It’s fast growing.__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">SD-CAB 11</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(The San Diego Center for Algae Biotechnology was established in 2008 as a consortium of researchers from The Scripps Research Institute (TSRI), the University of California, San Diego (UCSD), and Scripps Institution of Oceanography (SIO), in partnership with private industry. 2011. “Why Algae” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://algae.ucsd.edu/potential/why-algae.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">”)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Algae ...get their energy from sunlight.</span>
====__2. It can grow in salt, fresh, even waste waters.__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Same source</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Algae can thrive...over-subscribed fresh water resources.</span>
====__3. It won’t compete with food.__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Same source</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Algae farms ...can generate up to 50 times the amount of oil per acre.</span>
====__4. It’s carbon neutral.__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Same source</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Algae take</span> ...<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">algae production.</span>
====__5. It’s going to help the economy.__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Same source</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">thousands of acres...will boost the economy of our nation.</span>
====__6. It will be economically viable in 5-10 years.__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Same source</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">scientists plan to make...a national and global model for the commercialization of algae fuel.</span>

==Advantage 1: Energy dependence== 
====__United States’ oil dependence is climbing every year while domestic production goes down, meaning foreign imports is increasing__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">GOREN JULY 13.</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Arie Goren, a global analyst for “Clal Finance Ltd.”, one of the biggest Israeli investment companies. He has many years of experience in the American Equity Market and in the Global Commodity Market. “America's Huge Appetite For Oil” July 13, 2012. Seeking Alpha. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://seekingalpha.com/article/720241-america-s-huge-appetite-for-oil]]</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The U.S....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">can see that in the long term the U.S. oil consumption is rising at a much higher rate than its production</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>

====__Dependence of fossil fuels drives up prices of consumer goods, prolongs the recession as well as increase terrorist activity.__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Stuart ’07</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Major Brian R. Stuart, USAF (April 2007. “Oil and Security Don’t Mix: Why the US can’t Ignore Dependency” pg 1-2)</span>
**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">\</span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Every time "prices rise at the pump." ...oil dependence is a national problem</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>**
====__Algae energy reduces oil dependence__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kin 08</span> 
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">{Kwan Weng Kin, Japanese Corresspondent, “Green fuel of the future: Scientists look to algae,” June 30, 2008,http://www.lexisnexis.com/us/lnacademic/results/docview/docview} </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Algae</span><span style="font-family: Arial;">...</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">can reduce dependence on fossil fuels as a source of energy.</span>

==Scenairo 1: Economy== 

====__A U.S. economic collapse leads to global economic depression.__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mead ’04</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Walter Mead, Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, March/April, 2004 America’s Sticky Power, Foreign Policy, Proquest)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">A collapse of the U.S. economy ...because they need its market and own its securities</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

====__Global economic collapse causes extinction__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bearden 2k</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Thomas Bearden, Association of Distinguished American Scientists and LTC, U.S. Army (Retired), 2000 ("The Unnecessary Energy Crisis: How to Solve It Quickly", http://www.seaspower.com/EnergyCrisis-Bearden.htm))</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">the stress on nations ...will destroy civilization as we know it, and perhaps most of the biosphere</span>

====__Despite some people’s opinions, biofuels create jobs and do not raise food prices__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Abbot ’11 </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Charles Abbot, Reporter for Reuters quoting U.S. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack, 6-21-11, “Biofuels are Job Creators, Not Hunger Villans: US” http://www.reuters.com/__article/2011/06/21/us-g20-agriculture-usa-idUSTRE75J7CK20110621)__</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Biofuels are a "tremendous job creator" ...and the fuels boost farm income and spark rural growth. </span>

==Advantage 2 Climate Change== 
====__Climate Change is real and caused by humans__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dessler 10</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Andrew Dessler 10, professor of atmospheric sciences, Texas A&M University; Katharine Hayhoe, research associate professor of atmospheric sciences, Texas Tech University; Charles Jackson, research scientist, Institute for Geophysics, The University of Texas at Austin; Gerald North, distinguished professor of atmospheric sciences, Texas A&M University; André Droxler, professor of earth science and director of the Center for the Study of Envirnment and Society, Rice University; and Rong Fu, professor, Jackson School of Geosciences, The University of Texas at Austin, March 6, 2010, (Chronicle, On Global Warming, the science is solid, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/editorial/outlook/6900556.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 15px;">the science of climate change...have taken over from nature as the dominant influence on our climate.</span>

====__Warming is on the brink__==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13.5pt;">Chestney 12</span>**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Nina Chestney Senior Environmental Markets Correspondent- March 26th 2012- Global warming close to becoming irreversible-scientists)</span>

<span style="font-size: 15px;">Scientific estimates...we will cross those lines</span>


====__Warming causes mass species extinctions and human contact with new terrible diseases__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Coyne and Hoekstra</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> September 24, 200</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">7 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jerry A. Coyne is a professor in the Department of Ecology and Evolution at the University of Chicago “The Greatest Dying” Hopi E. Hoekstra is a Professor of Zoology at Harvard http://www.tnr.com/article/environment-energy/the-greatest-dying</span>
<span style="font-size: 15px;">Extinction exacerbates...plagues from unknown microbes are a very real possibility. </span>

====__New diseases outweigh nuclear war__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sieff 09</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">MARTIN SIEFF Chief Global Analyst at The Globalist Research Center 5/24/09 “Swine flu-HIV could devastate human race” http://www.upi.com/news/issueoftheday/2009/05/04/Swine-flu-HIV-could-devastate-human-race/UPI-43071241461493/#ixzz21StBx51u</span>
<span style="font-size: 15px;">Skeptics are already arguing...thermonuclear war. </span>

====__Algae is an environmentally friendly biofuel that will never run out.__==== 
Howstuffworks 08
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Howstuffworks ‘08 (Howstuffworks.com-award-winning source of credible, unbiased, and easy-to-understand explanations of how the world actually works June 18th 2008 </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://science.howstuffworks.com/environmental/green-science/algae-biodiesel.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The race is on...more efficiently than petroleum. </span>

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]