[[toc]]
Email me at priotch@gmail.com with any questions.
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Even if “ought” implies a moral obligation, prefer functional obligations, because we can’t justify a moral statement without an appeal to an “is” premise.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">MACINTYRE</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Alasdair MacIntyre, 1981. Senior Research Fellow at the Centre for Contemporary Aristotelian Studies in Ethics and Politics and Emeritus Professor of Philosophy at the University of Notre Dame “After Virtue: A Study in Moral Theory.” __University of Notre Dame Press__.</span>//
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“For although each ... an ‘ought’ conclusion.”</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">MACINTYRE continues</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“For what in ...</span> expected to serve.”

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">S = consistency with functional obligation of the United States</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The function of the state is to create a legislative system to preserve the wellbeing of its citizens.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">LOCKE</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[John Locke, 1690. “Second Treatise on Government CHAP. IX., Of the Ends of Political Society and Government”]</span>//
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“But though</span> men ... of the people.”

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Function is determined by reason for continued existence. The preamble frames what the reason for existence of the United States is.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">PREAMBLE</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[http://www.law.cornell.edu/constitution/preamble]</span>//

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">1. U.S. violations of human rights negate cooperation efforts.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Walsh and Piazza</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[James I. Walsh and James A. Piazza, associate professors of political science at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte. 2010. “Why Respecting Physical Integrity Rights Reduces Terrorism”. __Comparative Political Studies.__ http://www.politicalscience.uncc.edu/jwalsh/cps3.pdf]</span>//
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Finally, </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">governments that .., U.S.</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> intelligence agencies”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Multilateral cooperation is key to solving terrorism – terrorists operate through exploitation of national differences and weak links.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Cordesman</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Anthony Cordesman, January 2006. Arleigh A. Burke Chair in Strategy at the Center for Strategic and International Studies “The Lessons of International Cooperation in Counterterrorism” Center for Strategic and International Studies http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/060118_lessonsintctcoop.pdf]</span>//
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“The first lesson ... </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">threat to others.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Violations of physical integrity rights empirically undermine public support for the United States, and allow terrorists to recruit and radicalize a previously passive population.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Walsh and Piazza 2</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[James I. Walsh and James A. Piazza, associate professors of political science at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte. 2010. “Why Respecting Physical Integrity Rights Reduces Terrorism”. __Comparative Political Studies.__ http://www.politicalscience.uncc.edu/jwalsh/cps3.pdf]</span>//
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Countries experience less ... antisystem political violence”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Impact is terrorism – a strike by terrorists culminates in US-China--Russia war, environmental collapse, and extinction.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Morgan</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Dennis Ray Morgan, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693, World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race]</span>//
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“In a remarkable … of strategic weapons”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2. Due to violations of human rights, the United States has lost credibility in the international realm.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Shattuck</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[John Shattuck, 2008. Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights and Labor from 1993 to 1998, and Ambassador to the Czech Republic from 1998 to 2000. “Restoring U.S. Credibility on Human Rights” __American Bar__</span>//__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> //Association//</span>__//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">http://www.americanbar.org/publications/human_rights_magazine_home/human_rights_vol35_2008/human_rights_fall2008/hr_fall08_shattuck.html]</span>//
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Among the many ... in the world”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Granting due process protections to noncitizens accused of terrorism will restore U.S. credibility.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Shattuck 2</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[John Shattuck, 2008. Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights and Labor from 1993 to 1998, and Ambassador to the Czech Republic from 1998 to 2000. “Restoring U.S. Credibility on Human Rights” __American Bar Association__ http://www.americanbar.org/publications/human_rights_magazine_home/human_rights_vol35_2008/human_rights_fall2008/hr_fall08_shattuck.html]</span>//
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“First, you should ... illustrates the point.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Military tribunals are perceived as second-rate and subject to the whims of prosecutorial interest – perception of fairness is key to credibility. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Ip</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">[John. University of Auckland, Faculty of Law. MILITARY COMMISSIONS AND DISCRIMINATION AGAINST NON-CITIZENS. </span><span style="color: #2a2a2a; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">http://ssrn.com/abstract=2031694]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Regardless of whether ... judgment of history.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Credibility is key to transnational relations and solving global issues.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Nye</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Joseph Nye, Distinguished Professor at Harvard and Former Dean of the Kennedy School of Government, “Recovering American Leadership,” Survival, March 2008]</span>//
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">At first glance … are increasingly important.”</span>
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The World Health Report clarifies universal health care.</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[World Health Organization. http://www.who.int/whr/2010/en/index.html]</span>//
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Universal health care ... </span>cost is covered.”

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Even if “ought” implies a moral obligation, prefer functional obligations, because we can’t justify a moral statement without an appeal to an “is” premise.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">MACINTYRE</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Alasdair MacIntyre, 1981. Senior Research Fellow at the Centre for Contemporary Aristotelian Studies in Ethics and Politics and Emeritus Professor of Philosophy at the University of Notre Dame “After Virtue: A Study in Moral Theory.” __University of Notre Dame Press__.</span>//
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“For although each ... an ‘ought’ conclusion.”</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">MACINTYRE continues</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“For what in ... </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">expected to serve.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">S = consistency with functional obligation of the United States</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The function of the state is to create a legislative system to preserve the wellbeing of its citizens.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">LOCKE</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[John Locke, 1690. “Second Treatise on Government CHAP. IX., Of the Ends of Political Society and Government”]</span>//
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“But though </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">men ... of the people</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Function is determined by reason for continued existence. The preamble frames what the reason for existence of the United States is.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">PREAMBLE</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[http://www.law.cornell.edu/constitution/preamble]</span>//

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Contention 1 is Pandemics.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Universal health care solves disease outbreaks through preventive care- key to long term solvency. SKLAR</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Holly 2002, Coauthor of “Raise the Floor”, Knight Ridder/Tribune News Service, “Rolling the Dice on Our Nations’ Health”, December 19, [[http://www.commondreams.org/views02/1219-07.htm]]</span>//
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Imagine if the ... any bioterror attack.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And, pandemics cause mass death. GREGER 06</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Michael Greger, Director of Public Health & Animal Agriculture at the Humane Society of the U.S. & Graduate of the Tufts University School of Medicine. "Bird Flu: A Virus of Our Hatching." 2006.]</span>//
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“A pandemic today ... worldwide pandemic catastrophe.”</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And, almost 45,000 Americans die every year due to lack of health insurance. CECERE 09</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Harvard Gazette. "New Study Finds 45,000 deaths annually linked to lack of coverage." David Cecere. Cambridge Health Alliance. Thursday, September 17, 2009.]</span>//
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Nearly 45,000 annual ... excess deaths annually.</span><span class="debateunderline0" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Contention 2 is Economy.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Lack of universal health care destroys business creation- affirming solves.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">FAIRLIE et al 11</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Robert Fairlie, Kanika Kapur, and Susan Gates. "Is Employer-Based Health Insurance A Barrier To Entrepreneurship?" Journal of Health Economics 30 (Jan. 2011) 146-162.]</span>//
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“To address concerns ... for future research.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The brink is now- U.S. economy is about to collapse- keeping jobs up is key.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">DAVIS AND WOLF 11/1</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Susan Davis and Richard Wolf, USA TODAY. November 1st, 2012. "A Mess Awaits the Next President."]</span>//
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Confrontations abroad. A ... in the Congress.”</span>

**Economic collapse leads to global conflicts between global powers- unemployment is the internal link.**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">MEAD</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Walter Mead, Senior Fellow at Council on Foreign Relations. “ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE SEMINAR AND NEWS CONFERENCE REGARDING G-7 JOBS CONFERENCE IN DETROIT,” Federal News Service, March 11, 1994.]</span>//
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Okay, well, as ... </span>English soccer riot.”

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Contention 3 is the Advocacy.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">I advocate a single payer system that extends coverage to the current uninsured. MCCALLY explains</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Dr. Michael McCally, Professor in the Department of Public Health and Preventive Medicine at the Oregon Health and Sciences University, Portland, Oregon. Single Payer National Health Insurance published by the Willamette University Health Journal]</span>//
“Single-payer insurance ... or prescription drugs.”

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Funding comes from already existing programs. MCCALLY 2</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“A single-payer ... for-profit corporation.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And, empirical analysis shows that single-pay provides more efficient care than status quo.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">MCCALLY 3</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Opponents </span>of government ... take early retirement.”

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And, only single payer provides universal access without raising costs, prefer my evidence – multiple independent studies all generated the same conclusions. MCCALLY 4</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">"Studies </span>in the ... while covering everyone."

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And, single-payer saves billions annually. FRIEDMAN 12</span>**
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Gerald Friedman. Professor of Economics at the University of Massachusetts-Amherst. Economy in Numbers. "Funding a national single-Payer system, "Medicare for all" would save billions, and could be redistributive." Dollars and Sense. March/April 2012.]</span>//
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“The Expanded & ... could be funded.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And, there's no waiting lists; the government can subsidize important treatments while placing co-pays on more mundane ones to discourage free-riding, so there's no waiting times or overuse, empirically proven by the French system.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">KLEIN 07 </span>**
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Ezra Klein, Editor of Wonkblog and a columnist at the Washington Post, as well as a contributor to MSNBC and Bloomberg. His work focuses on domestic and economic policymaking, as well as the political system that's constantly screwing it up]. The Health of Nations: How Europe, Canada, and our own VA do health care better. The Prospect. April 22, 2007.]</span>//
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Given all this ... </span>well to emulate”



==Negative== 
See Lexington JC
=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
**The only distinction between rehabilitation and retribution is the justification.**
**LESSNOFF**
[Michael Lessnoff, 1971. Reader in Politics and Associate Research Fellow at the University of Glasgow, “TWO JUSTIFICATIONS OF PUNISHMENT” __Wiley and The Philosophical Quarterly]__
"By 'the retributive theory,' I ... perform acts of the kind punished."

**And the West's Encyclopedia of American Law** **clarifies that rehabilitation is a utilitarian view of punishment.**
[West's Encyclopedia of American Law, edition 2. Copyright 2008 The Gale Group, Inc http://legal-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/Punishment,+Criminal]
"Rehabilitation is another utilitarian rationale ... compete in the job market"

**<span style="line-height: 1.5;"><span style="font-family: Arial Narrow,sans-serif;">T</span>hus the sufficient aff burden is proving that punishment ought to be justified through utilitarianism and the sufficient negative burden is proving that punishment ought to be justified by the moral culpability of behavior.</span>**

**I contend that the Justifying Aim of punishment ought to be utilitarian.**

**First, respect for the equality of persons mandates consequentialism**
**CUMMISKEY**
[Cummiskey, David. Kantian Consequentialism. Published by Oxford University Press. 1996. (p.142).]
"If I sacrifice some for ... sacrifice some to save many."

**Second, third, and fourth justifications all analytic.**

**Fifth, there’s no relevant distinction between persons because we’re all reducible to states of affairs.**
**PARFIT**
[Reasons and Persons. Oxford University Press: 1984.]
"In this imagined case, each ... descriptions of the same outcome."

**Lack of personal identity undermines theories of Desert.**
**DRESSER**
[Rebecca Dresser, J.D. Associate Professor, School of Law and Center for Biomedical Ethics, School of Medicine, Case Western Reserve University. “PERSONAL IDENTITY AND PUNISHMENT” __Boston University Law Review__]
"The provocative implications of Parfit's ... Parfit labels this the 'Extreme Claim.'"

**Sixth, utilitarianism is the ideal political strategy of governments.**
**SHAW**
[William H. Shaw, 1999, Philosophy and Chair of the Philosophy at SJSU “Contemporary Ethics: Taking Account of Utilitarianism” p 171-2.]
"A utilitarian approach to public ... political philosophers and that concern."
==**<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Seventh justification all analytic.</span>**== 
==Negative== 
I value morality as defined by the resolution.
[www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/ought].

Punishment ought to respect just deserts.
1. All analytic.
2. Desert restores the moral equilibrium disturbed by the criminal offence.
**MORRIS**
[Herbert Morris, Professor of Philosophy and Professor of Law Emeritus at UCLA and nationally recognized philosopher of law, “The Monist” Volume 52, No. 4 Persons and Punishment, Hegeler Institute, JSTOR, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/27902099]]</span>, October, 1968]
"Third, it is just to ... what they do not deserve."

Thus, the standard is respect for Desert.

Additionally prefer the standard:
1. Culpability. All analytic.
2. Agency. All analytic.

A. Retribution can only punish in proportion to the moral culpability of behavior.
**LESSNOFF**
[Michael Lessnoff, 1971. Reader in Politics and Associate Research Fellow at the University of Glasgow, "TWO JUSTIFICATIONS OF PUNISHMENT." __Wiley and The Philosophical Quarterly__]
"By 'the retributive theory,' I ... perform acts of the kind punished."

B. Rehabilitation has indeterminate sentences.
**MINISTRY OF JUSTICE**
[Ministry of Justice, 1997 “Sentencing Policy and Guidance - A Discussion Paper”]
"The logic of rehabilitative sentencing ... in relation to offences commited."

C. Rehabilitative sentences focus on the offender, not the offense.
**BARTON**
[Alana Barton, Programme Leader for BA Criminology and Criminal Justice. "Just Deserts Theory." __Encyclopedia of Prisons & Correctional Facilities__ 2004.]
"The just deserts model became ...minorities, women, and the poor."
=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]