= = 
[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC Alta== 
===Inherency=== 
**Status quo wildlife crossing investment focuses only on cost-minimization, creating ineffective and unused crossings**
**Ruediger 01** [William Ruediger, USDA Forest Service, Washington Office. “High, wide, and handsome: designing more effective wildlife and fish crossings for roads and Highways.” September 24, 2001.] AP
Our past has largely been a series of hit-and-miss attempts to cross
AND
that turnedout to be shortsighted in their economic costs and benefits<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


===Plan=== 
**Thus the plan: the United States federal government should substantially increase investment in wildlife overpasses and underpasses in the United States.**

===Biodiversity=== 
**Roads are devastating biodiversity – they affect nearly every ecological process and relationship**
**Bissonette and Adair 08** [J.A Bissonette, US Geological Survey, Utah Cooperative Fish and Wildlife Research Unit, Department of Wildland Resources, Utah State University, and William Adair, Utah State University. “Restoring habitat permeability to roaded landscapes with isometrically-scaled wildlife crossings.” February 21, 2008] AP
The activities of humans <span style="font-size: 7pt;">around the world</span> impact an estimatedone-third
AND
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">), </span>and most critically,isolated populations<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Burnett, 1992; Wang and Schreiber, 2001; Kattan et al., 2004; Seiler and Folkeson, 2006).</span>

**There are four internal links –**

**First is fragmentation - Absent crossings, roads __split up populations__ and __leave them vulnerable__ to environmental disasters and threats – extinction becomes inevitable**
**Noss 95** [Reed Noss, Provost's Distinguished Research Professor at the University of Central Florida and President of the Florida Institute for Conservation Science.. “The Ecological Effects of Roads.” June 29, 1995. [[http://www.wildlandscpr.org/ecological-effects-roads]]] AP
Some species of animals simply refuse to cross barriers as wide as a road<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
AND
then extinction is inevitable

**Second is genetic diversity – road mortality and migration barriers are __devastating__ genetic variation and resilience of animal and plant populations**
**Jackson and Fahrig 11** [Nathan D. Jackson and Lenore Fahrig, Geomatics and Landscape Ecology Research Laboratory, Carleton University. “Relative effects of road mortality and decreased connectivity on population genetic diversity.” October 17, 2011] AP
Roads can have two important effects on populations
AND
a reduction in abundanceand connectivity may be occurring simultaneously.

**Third is keystone species – roads are __decimating__ large predators, cascading down to diminish ecosystem diversity across the food chain**
**Noss 95** [Reed Noss, Provost's Distinguished Research Professor at the University of Central Florida and President of the Florida Institute for Conservation Science.. “The Ecological Effects of Roads.” June 29, 1995. [[http://www.wildlandscpr.org/ecological-effects-roads]]] AP
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This scenario is fictitious, but every part of it has been documented somewhere</span>
AND
The end result is an impoverishment of global biodiversity.

**Fourth is climate change – the plan allows species to adapt and migrate away from changing climates – roads make this __impossible__**
**Noss 95** (Reed, Davis-Shine Professor of Conservation Biology at the University of Central Florida and a noted authority in conservation biology. “Climate change and conservation
Land conservation is even more essential and urgent in a time of rapidly changing climate” [[http://www.conservationnw.org/what-we-do/wildlife-habitat/climate-change]]) sjg
Stop habitat fragmentation<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The fossil record tells us that </span>
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">with minimal development is key to an intelligent adaptation strategy for climate change.</span>

**No alternative causes - U.S. biodiversity is uniquely key to global ecosystems**
**Bruce et al 2k** [Bruce A. Stein, Associate Director, Wildlife Conservation and Global Warming, National Wildlife Federation, and Lynn S. Kutner, and Jonathan S. Adams. “Precious Heritage: Executive Summary.” NatureServe.] AP
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A vast land of contrasts, </span>the United States
AND
a large percentage of the world's broadleaf forests, temperate grasslands, and Mediterranean-climate vegetation.

**There are four scenarios –**

**--First is Ecosystem Collapse – species decline causes extinction of the biosphere – each new extinction risks total collapse**
**Diner 94** [Judge Advocate’s General’s Corps of US Army, David N., Military Law Review, Winter, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161]
No species has ever dominated its fellow species as man
AND
[hu]mankind may be edging closer to the abyss.

**Biosphere collapse outweighs nuclear war – it is the only __irreparable__ scenario – all of their impacts will be repaired over time**
**Wilson 84** [Edward O. Wilson, Joseph Pellegrino University Research Professor in Entomology for the Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology at Harvard University. “Biophilia.” 1984] AP
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">For </span>if the whole process of our life is directedtoward preserving our species
AND
without our evenknowing fully what they contained.

**--Second is Food Production – biodiversity is a __necessary pre-requisite__ to agricultural output – it’s key to __every single part__ of the supply chain**
**Dollacker and Valero 08** [Annik Dollacker and Juan Gonzalez-Valero, Ecosystems Focus Area, World Business Council for Sustainable Development. “Agriculture and biodiversity: challenges and opportunities for agri-business.” March 27, 2008. [[http://www.businessgreen.com/bg/analysis/1802275/agriculture-biodiversity-challenges-opportunities-agri-business]]] AP
Agriculture is one of the key motors of the global economy.
AND
such as raw materials and water, for example.

**U.S. agriculture solves extinction – accesses __every impact__**
**Lugar 11** [Richard G. Lugar, a US Senator from Indiana, is Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and a member and former chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee. “Plant Power.” 3/18/11 (Last Modified)]
In a world confronted by global terrorism, turmoil in the Middle East,
AND
humanitarian role in the survival of billions of people and the health of our planet

**--Third is Food Security - Biodiversity is key to it – it’s both the __safety-net__ and a __main market access-point__**
**Sunderland 11** [T.C.H. Sunderland, Principal Scientist, CIFOR. “Food security: why is biodiversity important?” International Forestry Review 13 (3). 2011] AP
Biodiversity at three levels, ecosystems, the species theycontain
AND
processes that are critical to the maintenanceof agricultural systems<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Thrupp 2000, Benton 2007).</span>

**Food security prevents extinction – it’s an __impact filter__**
**Trudell 05** [Robert H., J.D. Candidate 2006, Food Security Emergencies And The Power Of Eminent Domain: A Domestic Legal Tool To Treat A Global Problem, 33 Syracuse J. Int'l L. & Com. 277, Lexis]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today, </span>more than 842 million people<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - nearly three times the population of the United States – </span>
AND
lest we find ourselves facing some far worse danger in the days to come

**Super volcanoes and asteroids are __inevitable__** ­**and will cause extinction – only food security through biodiversity allows for survival**
**Trewavas 2k** (Anthony Trewavas, Professor at the Institute of Cell and Molecular Biology at the University of Edinburgh, “GM Is the Best Option We Have”, http://www.agbioworld.org/biotech-info/articles/biotech-art/best_option.html, June 5,2000)
In 535A.D.a volcano near<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the present </span>Krakatoa
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">in recent years; my version of it is "be prepared".</span>

**--Fourth is biomedicine - Biodiversity is necessary to biomedical research – that’s key to solve for future diseases**
**Chivlan 12** [Eric Chivlan, Assistant Clinical Professor, Department of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School. “The importance of conserving biodiversity for biomedical research.” European Commission. February 23, 2012.
Genetics
There is a long history of research into genetics using a range of organisms<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
AND
for the benefit of all life on Earth, including humankind<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**New diseases result in extinction.**
Souden 2k<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David, former Research Fellow in History at Emmanuel College, Cambridge, consultant to the Cambridge Group for the History of Population and Social Structure, “Killer Diseases,” Factsheet, http://darrendixon.supanet.com/killerdiseases.htm)</span>
<span class="underline">**Nature's ability to adapt is amazing –** </span>
AND
<span class="underline">**it will be a virus that leads to the eventual extinction of the human race**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===No War=== 
**International conflict is obsolete - the costs far outweigh any benefits**
**Mandelbaum** **99** [Michael Mandelbaum, Christian A. Herter Professor and Director of the American Foreign Policy program at Johns Hopkins University**.** “Is Major War Obsolete?” Great Debate Series. February 25, 1999. [[http://www.ciaonet.org/conf/cfr10/]]]
**__My argument says__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, tacitly, that while this point of view, which was widely believed 100 years ago, </span>
AND
**__liberalism, tends to be pacific.__**

**Empirics disprove war and escalation claims – power wars are inconceivable**
**Goldstein and Pinker 11** Joshua S. Goldstein and Steven Pinker, professor emeritus of international relations at American University and psychology professor at Harvard, respectively. “War is really going out of style.” The New York Times. December 18, 2011. Lexis.] AP
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">THE departure of the last American troops from Iraq </span>
AND
**__North nor South Korea could win a war at an acceptable cost.__**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nuclear war is survivable and nuclear winter isn’t real</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NYQUIST 1999</span> __(__J.R., Defense Analyst, Worldnetdaily.com, May 20, 1999)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I patiently reply to these correspondents that</span>nuclearwar
AND
If used in airburst mode, __these <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">weapons would produce few (if any) fallout casualties</span>__.

===Solvency=== 
**Wildlife crossings are both __sufficient__ and __necessary__ for permeability and connectivity of species across landscapes and ecosystems**
**CRS 08** [Creative Research Strategies, for Metro. “Wildlife Crossings: The State of the Science – A Literature Review.” 2008] AP
Landscape permeability allows for free daily movement of a species across its home range
AND
management, restoration, and protection of native habitats.

**Wildlife crossings will be used – empirical evidence**
**White and Ernst 03** (Patricia A. and Michelle, Director, Habitat and Highways Campaign, “Second Nature: Improving Transportation Without Putting Nature Second) sjg
**__Roads constitute the largest human artifact on earth.__**
AND
**__70 grizzly bear, 637__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>**__black bear, 710 cougar, 2,899 wolf, 2,801 coyote,__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>**__22,173 elk, 12,156 deer, and 2,107 sheep.__**

**Obama is already tied to politically unpopular transportation funding increases – backlash inevitable**
**Boak 8/13** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Josh Boak (writer for the Fiscal Times) August 13, 2012 “New Law Puts “Bridge to Nowhere” Back on Track” New Law Puts “Bridge to Nowhere” Back on Track Read more at [[http://www.thefiscaltimes.com/Articles/2012/08/13/New-Law-Puts-Bridge-to-Nowhere-Back-on-Track.aspx#HMclpbMZJlcMLaRe.99|http://www.thefiscaltimes.com/Articles/2012/08/13/New-Law-Puts-Bridge-to-Nowhere-Back-on-Track.aspx#HMclpbMZJlcMLaRe.99]]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Remember Alaska’s infamous “</span>bridge to nowhere<span style="font-size: 7pt;">,” the poster project for wasteful government spending? </span></span>
AND
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Somebody invested in roads and bridges. If you’ve got a business, you didn’t build that. Somebody else made that happen.</span></span>

**Preventing extinction comes first - there’s option value in preserving life**
**Bostrom 02**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Nick Bostrom, philosopher at Oxford. nickbostrom.com, “Existential Risk”]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">These reflections on moral uncertainty suggest an alternative</span>
AND
**__, we must prevent any existential catastrophe__**

**Framing environmental threats as “extinction-level” revitalizes our ethical priorities – solves their kritik**
**Epstein and Zhao 09** [Richard J. Epstein & Y. Zhao, Winter 2009, Lab of Medicine at Hong Kong, Laboratory of Computational Oncology, Department of Medicine, University of Hong Kong, Perspectives in Biology and Medicine, Vol. 52 No. 1, “The Threat That Dare Not Speak Its Name; Human Extinction,” JSTOR]
Final ends for all species are the same,but the journeys will be differen<span style="font-size: 8pt;">t</span>
AND
could spark a new social ethic to upgradewhat we now all too often dismiss as “human nature”<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Tudge 1989). [End Page 122] </span>

**There are no prior questions to problem-oriented IR – empirical validity is sufficient justification for action.**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Owen 02</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> David Owen, 2 Reader of Political Theory at the Univ. of Southampton, Millennium Vol 31 No 3 2002 p. 655-7</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Commenting on the ‘philosophical turn’ in IR, Wæver remarks that </span><span class="DebateUnderline">**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">‘[a] frenzy for words like </span>__**</span>
AND
<span class="DebateUnderline">**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">into IR exacerbating the first and second dangers, and so a potentially </span>__**</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">vicious circle arises.</span>

==1AC Golden Desert== 
===Inherency=== 
Status quo wildlife crossing investment focuses only on cost-minimization, creating ineffective and unused crossings
**Ruediger 01** [William Ruediger, USDA Forest Service, Washington Office. “High, wide, and handsome: designing more effective wildlife and fish crossings for roads and Highways.” September 24, 2001.] AP
Our past has largely been a series of hit-and-miss attempts
AND
that turnedout to be shortsighted in their economic costs and benefits<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
===Plan=== 
**Thus the plan: the United States federal government should substantially increase investment in wildlife overpasses and underpasses in the United States.**

===Biodiversity=== 
**Roads are devastating biodiversity – they affect nearly every ecological process and relationship**
**Bissonette and Adair 08** [J.A Bissonette, US Geological Survey, Utah Cooperative Fish and Wildlife Research Unit, Department of Wildland Resources, Utah State University, and William Adair, Utah State University. “Restoring habitat permeability to roaded landscapes with isometrically-scaled wildlife crossings.” February 21, 2008] AP
The activities of humans <span style="font-size: 7pt;">around the world</span> impact
AND
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, </span>and most critically,isolated populations<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Burnett, 1992; Wang and Schreiber, 2001; Kattan et al., 2004; Seiler and Folkeson, 2006).</span>

**There are four internal links –**

**First is fragmentation - Absent crossings, roads __split up populations__ and __leave them vulnerable__ to environmental disasters and threats – extinction becomes inevitable**
**Noss 95** [Reed Noss, Provost's Distinguished Research Professor at the University of Central Florida and President of the Florida Institute for Conservation Science.. “The Ecological Effects of Roads.” June 29, 1995. [[http://www.wildlandscpr.org/ecological-effects-roads]]] AP
Some species of animals simply refuse to cross
AND
, and cannot adapt quickly enough because of limited genetic variation, then extinction is inevitable

**Second is genetic diversity – road mortality and migration barriers are __devastating__ genetic variation and resilience of animal and plant populations**
**Jackson and Fahrig 11** [Nathan D. Jackson and Lenore Fahrig, Geomatics and Landscape Ecology Research Laboratory, Carleton University. “Relative effects of road mortality and decreased connectivity on population genetic diversity.” October 17, 2011] AP
Roads can have two important effects on populations that impact genetic variation:
AND
given that a reduction in abundanceand connectivity may be occurring simultaneously.

**Third is keystone species – roads are __decimating__ large predators, cascading down to diminish ecosystem diversity across the food chain**
**Noss 95** [Reed Noss, Provost's Distinguished Research Professor at the University of Central Florida and President of the Florida Institute for Conservation Science.. “The Ecological Effects of Roads.” June 29, 1995. [[http://www.wildlandscpr.org/ecological-effects-roads]]] AP
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This scenario is fictitious, but every part of it has been documented somewhere</span>
AND
end result is an impoverishment of global biodiversity.

**Fourth is climate change – the plan allows species to adapt and migrate away from changing climates – roads make this __impossible__**
**Noss 95** (Reed, Davis-Shine Professor of Conservation Biology at the University of Central Florida and a noted authority in conservation biology. “Climate change and conservation
Land conservation is even more essential and urgent in a time of rapidly changing climate” [[http://www.conservationnw.org/what-we-do/wildlife-habitat/climate-change]]) sjg
Stop habitat fragmentation<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The fossil record tells us that </span>
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">is key to an intelligent adaptation strategy for climate change.</span>

**No alternative causes - U.S. biodiversity is uniquely key to global ecosystems**
**Bruce et al 2k** [Bruce A. Stein, Associate Director, Wildlife Conservation and Global Warming, National Wildlife Federation, and Lynn S. Kutner, and Jonathan S. Adams. “Precious Heritage: Executive Summary.” NatureServe.] AP
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A vast land of contrasts, </span>the United States harbors an
AND
broadleaf forests, temperate grasslands, and Mediterranean-climate vegetation.

**There are four scenarios –**

**--First is Ecosystem Collapse – species decline causes extinction of the biosphere – each new extinction risks total collapse**
**Diner 94** [Judge Advocate’s General’s Corps of US Army, David N., Military Law Review, Winter, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161]
No species has ever dominated its fellow species as
AND
rivets from an aircraft's wings, [hu]mankind may be edging closer to the abyss.

**Biosphere collapse outweighs nuclear war – it is the only __irreparable__ scenario – all of their impacts will be repaired over time**
**Wilson 84** [Edward O. Wilson, Joseph Pellegrino University Research Professor in Entomology for the Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology at Harvard University. “Biophilia.” 1984] AP
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">For </span>if the whole process of our life is directedtoward
AND
without our evenknowing fully what they contained.

**Second is Food Production – biodiversity is a __necessary pre-requisite__ to agricultural output – it’s key to __every single part__ of the supply chain**
**Dollacker and Valero 08** [Annik Dollacker and Juan Gonzalez-Valero, Ecosystems Focus Area, World Business Council for Sustainable Development. “Agriculture and biodiversity: challenges and opportunities for agri-business.” March 27, 2008. [[http://www.businessgreen.com/bg/analysis/1802275/agriculture-biodiversity-challenges-opportunities-agri-business]]] AP
Agriculture is one of the key motors of the global economy
AND
supplies or rising costs of key resources and inputs, such as raw materials and water, for example.

**U.S. agriculture solves extinction – accesses __every impact__**
**Lugar 11** [Richard G. Lugar, a US Senator from Indiana, is Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and a member and former chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee. “Plant Power.” 3/18/11 (Last Modified)]
In a world confronted by global terrorism, turmoil in the Middle East,
AND
humanitarian role in the survival of billions of people and the health of our planet

**--Third is Food Security - Biodiversity is key to it – it’s both the __safety-net__ and a __main market access-point__**
**Sunderland 11** [T.C.H. Sunderland, Principal Scientist, CIFOR. “Food security: why is biodiversity important?” International Forestry Review 13 (3). 2011] AP
Biodiversity at three levels, ecosystems
AND
processes that are critical to the maintenanceof agricultural systems<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Thrupp 2000, Benton 2007).</span>

**Food security prevents extinction – it’s an __impact filter__**
**Trudell 05** [Robert H., J.D. Candidate 2006, Food Security Emergencies And The Power Of Eminent Domain: A Domestic Legal Tool To Treat A Global Problem, 33 Syracuse J. Int'l L. & Com. 277, Lexis]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today, </span>more than 842 million people<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - nearly three times the </span>
AND
we find ourselves facing some far worse danger in the days to come

**Extinction-level threats are inevitable – food-security through biodiversity is key to survival**
**Trewavas 2k** (Anthony Trewavas, Professor at the Institute of Cell and Molecular Biology at the University of Edinburgh, “GM Is the Best Option We Have”, http://www.agbioworld.org/biotech-info/articles/biotech-art/best_option.html, June 5,2000)
In 535A.D.a volcano near<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the present </span>Krakatoa exploded with the force
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We have heard much of the precautionary principle in recent years; my version of it is "be prepared".</span>

Fourth is biomedicine - **Biodiversity is necessary to biomedical research – that’s key to solve for future diseases**
**Chivlan 12** [Eric Chivlan, Assistant Clinical Professor, Department of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School. “The importance of conserving biodiversity for biomedical research.” European Commission. February 23, 2012.
Genetics
There is a long history of research into genetics using a range of organisms<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
AND
for the benefit of all life on Earth, including humankind<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**New diseases result in extinction.**
Souden 2k<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David, former Research Fellow in History at Emmanuel College, Cambridge, consultant to the Cambridge Group for the History of Population and Social Structure, “Killer Diseases,” Factsheet, http://darrendixon.supanet.com/killerdiseases.htm)</span>
<span class="underline">**Nature's ability to adapt is amazing - but the consequences** </span>
AND
<span class="underline">**leads to the eventual extinction of the human race**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
===No War=== 
**International conflict is obsolete - the costs far outweigh any benefits**
**Mandelbaum** **99** [Michael Mandelbaum, Christian A. Herter Professor and Director of the American Foreign Policy program at Johns Hopkins University**.** “Is Major War Obsolete?” Great Debate Series. February 25, 1999. [[http://www.ciaonet.org/conf/cfr10/]]]
**__My argument says__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, tacitly, that while this point of view, </span>
AND
**__, our own, liberalism, tends to be pacific.__**

**Empirics disprove war and escalation claims – power wars are inconceivable**
**Goldstein and Pinker 11** Joshua S. Goldstein and Steven Pinker, professor emeritus of international relations at American University and psychology professor at Harvard, respectively. “War is really going out of style.” The New York Times. December 18, 2011. Lexis.] AP
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">THE departure of the last American troops from Iraq brings relief to a </span>
AND
**__Neither North nor South Korea could win a war at an acceptable cost.__**

**Democracy checks war**
**Tertais 12** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Bruno Tertais, Senior Research Fellow at the Foundation for Strategic Research. The Demise of Ares: The End of War as We Know It?, Center for Strategic and International Studies, The Washington Quarterly, [[http://csis.org/files/publication/twq12SummerTertrais.pdf]]] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Even with all these reasons for the decline of war, </span>
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (It has also considerably reduced global mortality due to genocide.)42</span>

**Nuclear winter is flawed – newest studies disprove extinction claims and their modeling is plagued by ideologically-based input errors**
**Seitz 06** [Russell is a Visiting Scholar in Harvard University's Center for International Affairs, published in Nature and Foreign Affairs on the subject of nuclear winter, Dec 20, “The' Nuclear Winter ' Meltdown: Photoshopping the Apocalypse” adamant.typepad.com/seitz/2006/12/preherein_h
onor.html]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">All that remains of Sagan's Big Chill </span>
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"</span>Nuclear Winter has well and truly melted down.
===Solvency=== 
**Wildlife crossings are both __sufficient__ and __necessary__ for permeability and connectivity of species across landscapes and ecosystems**
**CRS 08** [Creative Research Strategies, for Metro. “Wildlife Crossings: The State of the Science – A Literature Review.” 2008] AP
Landscape permeability allows for free daily movement
AND
management, restoration, and protection of native habitats.

**Wildlife crossings will be used – empirical evidence**
**White and Ernst 03** (Patricia A. and Michelle, Director, Habitat and Highways Campaign, “Second Nature: Improving Transportation Without Putting Nature Second) sjg
**__Roads constitute the largest human artifact on earth.__**
AND
**__2,899 wolf, 2,801 coyote,__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>**__22,173 elk, 12,156 deer, and 2,107 sheep.__**

**Preventing extinction comes first - there’s option value in preserving life**
**Bostrom 02**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Nick Bostrom, philosopher at Oxford. nickbostrom.com, “Existential Risk”]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">These reflections on moral uncertainty suggest an alternative, complementary way of looking at existential risk</span>
AND
**__we must prevent any existential catastrophe__**
**Framing environmental threats as “extinction-level” revitalizes our ethical priorities – solves their kritik**
**Epstein and Zhao 09** [Richard J. Epstein & Y. Zhao, Winter 2009, Lab of Medicine at Hong Kong, Laboratory of Computational Oncology, Department of Medicine, University of Hong Kong, Perspectives in Biology and Medicine, Vol. 52 No. 1, “The Threat That Dare Not Speak Its Name; Human Extinction,” JSTOR]
Final ends for all species are the same,but the journeys
AND
now all too often dismiss as “human nature”<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Tudge 1989). [End Page 122] </span>

**Biodiversity loss precludes all ethical claims – it’s a side constraint**
**Elliot 97** [Herschel, University of Florida Emeritus Philosophy, 1997, “A General Statement of the Tragedy of the Commons” February 26, [[http://www.jayhanson.us/page121.htm]]] AP
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Third, </span>all systems of ethical beliefs are hypotheses
AND
including the needs and interests of human societies and individuals.

**There are no prior questions to problem-oriented IR – empirical validity is sufficient justification for action.**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Owen 02</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> David Owen, 2 Reader of Political Theory at the Univ. of Southampton, Millennium Vol 31 No 3 2002 p. 655-7</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Commenting on the ‘philosophical turn’ in IR, Wæver remarks that </span>
AND
<span class="DebateUnderline">**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">and so a potentially </span>__**</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">vicious circle arises.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">No disadvantages – </span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> a) 9.7 billion in Sandy aid</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Abdullah 1/4</span> (Halimah Abdullah; staff writer for CNN; Written January 4, 2012 2:45; “Congress approves scaled-back Sandy aid bill”; http://www.cnn.com/2013/01/04/politics/house-sandy-bill-vote/index.html; Accessed January 4, 2012)
Congress approved a $9.7 billion
AND
millions of dollars for unrelated projects.

**b) Obama announced controversial birth-control on Friday**
**Feldman 2/1** [Linda Feldmann. “Obama birth-control proposal: Some religious groups reject revised plan.” [[http://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Politics/2013/0201/Obama-birth-control-proposal-Some-religious-groups-reject-revised-plan]]] AP
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>Obama<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> administration </span>proposed a way
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">result in lower health-care costs to insurers down the road.</span>

===--- Anthropocentrism Advantage - Round 3=== 
**Status quo transportation infrastructure functions to psychologically distance humanity from the natural world**
**Duyser 10** [Mitchell. S. Duyser, University of Cincinnati. “Hybrid Landscapes: Territories of Shared Ecological and Infrastructural Value.” April 09, 2010. [[http://etd.ohiolink.edu/send-pdf.cgi/Duyser%20Mitchell%20S.pdf?ucin1277139665]]] AP
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The construct of </span>modern human life is built upon an invisible<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>foundation
AND
with the environment is not a recent societal or cultural development<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**The plan is a forceful confrontation with our relationship with nature – hybrid infrastructure necessitates a physical and psychological re-evaluation of the human/non-human distinction**
**Duyser 10** [Mitchell. S. Duyser, University of Cincinnati. “Hybrid Landscapes: Territories of Shared Ecological and Infrastructural Value.” April 09, 2010. [[http://etd.ohiolink.edu/send-pdf.cgi/Duyser%20Mitchell%20S.pdf?ucin1277139665]]] AP
New conceptualizations of nature must recognize the presence of<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>complex
AND
and only an unnecessary limitation on the potential for successful design<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Specieism validates a “systemic beastilization” which serves to justify the non-criminal destruction of the other – root cause of exclusion and violence**
**Rossini 06** [Manuela, postdoctoral Fellow ASCA, 2006, “To the Dogs: Companion speciesism and the new feminist materialism”, text and image Volume 3, September, http://intertheory.org/rossini]
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">What is equally sobering, however, is the fact that the most radical meta</span>posthumanists<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (</span>
AND
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">; it is by no means limited to its overwhelmingly direct and disproportionate effects on animals.[26] </span>
=Negative= 
==**<span style="font-size: 1.4em; line-height: 1.5;"> Alta</span>**== 
===**Round 2 - Centennial SH (ID) - F-35's**=== 
**T-Vehicles, ASPEC, Offsets CP (2NR) , Lacan K, PGS CP, Investor Confidence DA (2NR)**
===**Round 3 - Centennial OO (ID) - F-35's**=== 
**T-Vehicles, ASPEC, PGS CP, Lacan K (2NR), Investor Confidence DA**
===**Round 5 - Notre Dame KP - NextGen**=== 
**T-Communications, ASPEC, Best-Equipped-Best-Served CP, Lacan K (2NR), Investor Confidence DA**
===**Round 7 - Juan Diego FL - Defense Access Roads**=== 
**T-Militar, ASPEC, PGS CP, Economic Adjustment Committee CP (2NR), Investor Confidence DA (2NR)**

==**Golden Desert**== 
===**Round 1 - Juan Diego FM - Mexico Infrastructure**=== 
**T-Maintenance, Offsets CP, Investor Confidence DA, Lefebvre K, Coercion DA (2NR)**
===**Round 4 - College Prep AP - Mayport**=== 
**T-Military (2NR), Coercion DA, Light Carriers CP, Asia Pivot Trade-Off DA**
===**Round 5 - Rowland Hall-St. Mark AK - CCS**=== 
**Ag Waste Dumping CP, T-Pipelines, Investor Confidence DA (2NR), Coercion DA**

==**Berkeley (Kent Denver JP)**== 
===**Round 2 - Green Valley CJ - ITS**=== 
**Coercion DA (2NR), T-Communications, Lefebvre K, Soybeans DA**
===**Round 3 - Niles West KP - Port Security**=== 
**T - Capital Expenditure (2NR), Coercion DA, Cost-Share Waivers CP, Lacan K**
===**Round 6 - Kinkaid RY - JAR**=== 
**T-Maintenance, Lacan K, Coercion DA (2NR), Offsets CP, Investor Confidence DA + Anthropocentric Language Bad (2NR)**
===Doubles - St. Mark's BM - NIB=== 
**Extra-T (2NR), Lefebvre K, Soybeans DA, CCP Collapse Good DA**