=Contact information= 

Aff cites: dolamg1@nths219.org
Neg cites: lia.isono.1996@gmail.com

=Affirmative= 
==**Plan Text**== 
**The United States federal government should substantially increase its funding of port security**
==**Contention 1: Terrorism**== 
**Recent cuts leave port security vulnerable – we don’t have the funds to expand and adapt to problems**
**AAPA 3/7**[American Association of Port Authorities], (“Maritime Security”, [[http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/Maritime%20Security%202012.pdf]], 3/7/12)

AAPA urges Congress… at the federal level

**Terrorists are already stealing the material for nukes now – it’s not a question of IF the attack will occur, but WHEN**
**NPR 3/26** (Quoting: Matthew Bunn, associate professor at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government, “Report Examines Effort To Secure Loose Nukes”, [[http://www.npr.org/2012/03/26/149411800/report-examines-effor|http://www.npr.org/2012/03/26/149411800/report-examines-effort-to-secure-loose-nukes]], 3/26/12)

As Mike Shuster… highly enriched uranium

**Attack is on the brink – anti-Muslim video**
**Ephron 9-15** (Dan Ephron has been Newsweek's Jerusalem bureau chief since January 2010. Previously, he served as a national-security correspondent and deputy bureau chief for the magazine in Washington. His stories have also appeared in The Boston Globe, The New Republic, and Esquire. “As Muslims Protest, America Is on Alert” http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2012/09/15/as-muslims-protests-america-is-on-alert.html)

The bodies of…it will be a miracle

**Building a weapon is surprisingly easy – it’s just a question of if they can get enough material for the bomb**
**Maerli2k**(Morten Bremer Science Program Fellow, Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University, Quoting: Luis W. Alvarez, prominent nuclear weapons scientist for Manhattan Project, “Relearing the ABCs: Terrorists and ‘Weapons of Mass Destruction;.” THE NONPROLIFERATION REVIEW, Summer**-**2K, p. 111-112.)

A striking parallel… to a nuclear explosive

**Cargo is the most probable method of attack for nuclear weapons**
**NYT 6/26** (New York Times news service, includes opinions from: Stephen Flynn, President of the Center for National Policy and CISAC Consulting Professor at Stanford and Graham T. Allison, Harvard political scientist, “Cargo, the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse”, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html)

Millions of cargo…Congressional Research Service

**Delays only magnify the impact – terrorists are focusing on nukes now**
**Calvan 12** (Bobby, Boston Globe Staff and former foreign reporting fellow with the D.C.-based International Center for Journalists, “US to miss target for tighter port security”, Boston Globe, 6/12/12, [[http://articles.boston.com/2012-06-12/nation/32176427_1_homeland-security-cargo-containers-nuclear-bomb/3]])

The department of homeland security… called dirty bombs

**Even if the attack fails it causes Russia and China war**
**Ayson 10** (Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington,“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)

A terrorist nuclear attack… chances of nuclear restraint


**That outweighs - It’s the only existential risk**
**Bostrom 2** (Nick, PhD Faculty of Philosophy, Oxford University “Existential Risks :Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards” <span style="color: #002efa;">[[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html|__http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html__]]</span>)

A much greater existential risk… encounter in the 21st century

**Bioterrorism is incredibly easy** 
**Allison 9-7** (Graham Allison is director of the Harvard Kennedy School’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. “Living in the Era of Megaterror” http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/08/opinion/living-in-the-era-of-megaterror.html#h[IaQAbl,2,WtdFsa,2])

Capabilities for producing bioterrorism… an era of megaterror.

**Status quo security allow for easy smuggling of bio-weapons through ports**
**GSN 9** (Global Security Newswire, news service focused on global security threats, produced by National Journal, “Customs and Border Protection Faulted for Preparation Against Bio, Chem Threats”, [[http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/customs-and-border-protection-faulted-for-preparation-|http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/customs-and-border-protection-faulted-for-preparation-against-bio-chem-threats/]]. 11/3/9)

The inspector general office… will be essential for moving forward

**That causes extinction**
**Ochs 2** – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]

Of all the weapons… human extinction is now possible 

**A port attack shuts down naval power**
**Watts 5** [CDR Bob Watts is a 1985 graduate of the U.S. Coast Guard Academy and has served six tours at sea conducting drug/migrant operations, most recently commanding the USCGC STEADFAST (WMEC 623). He is currently assigned as the chief of drug and migrant interdiction at Coast Guard Headquarters, where his responsibilities include drafting migrant policy and strategy, including planning for mass migration. A 2006 graduate of the Naval Postgraduate School’s Center for Homeland Defense and Security, he has advanced degrees from the Naval War College, Old Dominion University, American Military University, and is a doctoral candidate at coastline and 3.4 million square miles of territorial seas and exclusive economic zones in the U.S. maritime domain. 1

Connecting the continental United States… what can we learn from the experience

**Unimpeded access to all ports is critical to operation**
**Talor et al. 7** (Bruce Taylor director of research at the Police Executive Research Forum (PERF) in Washington, D.C; Antony Pate Bruce Kubu;) Protecting America’s Ports: Promising Practices A Final Report Submitted https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/grants/221075.pdf

The US navy…overburdened airlift resources


**Maritime power solves all war – deters conflict and ensures defense**
**Whiteneck and Clark 11** (Commander Bryan Clark U.S. Navy (Retired) and Dr. Dan Whiteneck, “Strategic Choices at the Tipping Point”, Proceedings Magazine - February 2011 Vol. 137/2/1,296)

In light of global… at a tipping point

==Contention 2: Econ== 
**Any port attack by terrorists causes immediate shut down – that decimates the economy**
**Flynn 3** (Written Testimony before a hearing of the U.S. Senate Governmental Affairs Committee Stephen E. Flynn, Ph.D. a terrorism expert at Northeastern University and former Commander of the U.S. Coast Guard, and a Jeane J. Kirkpatrick Senior Fellow in National Security Studies, and Director of the Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force on Homeland Security Imperatives, 3/20/03, “The Fragile State of Container Security”, [[%22ht|www.cfr]].org/defensehomeland-security/fragile-state-container-security/p5730)

Future terrorists… make up international trade


**Attacks don’t need to be successful- perception of port disruption alone will shock the economy and international confidence**
**Clark et al. 7**. (CAPT Bruce G. Clark, USCGR (ret) Director of Maritime Security Projects, Maritime Security Directorate Dept. of Sponsored Projects & Extended Learning -The California Maritime Academy. Dr. Donna J. Nincic , Associate Professor and Chair-Department of Global and Maritime Studies of The California Maritime Academy. CAPT NevinFidler, USCGR (ret) Maritime Security Directorate Dept. of Sponsored Projects & Extended Learning-The California Maritime Academy-The California State University. “Protecting America’s Ports: Are We There Yet?” 10/7)

Why because in this… any cyber terrorism plan


**Economic decline causes war and miscalculation** 
**Royal 10** — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” //Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives//, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and JurgenBrauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)

Less intuitive is how… to those views


**U.S. competitiveness is decreasing now**
**The Hill 9/5** (The Hill news service, “US slips in global competitiveness rankings”, [[http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/economy/247619-us-slips-in-global-competitiveness-rankings]], 9/5/12)

The US is… sustainable growth path


**New security measures ensure investor, consumer and business confidence**
**Palac-McMiken5**(EvanorPalac-McMiken, Director of the Economic Analytical Unit at the Department of Foreign Trade and Affairs, “Economic Costs and Benefits of Combating Terrorism in the Transport Sector”, Asian-Pacific Economic Literature, [[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/store/10.1111/j.1467-8411.2005.00158.x/asset/j.1467-8411|http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/store/10.1111/j.1467-8411.2005.00158.x/asset/j.1467-8411.2005.00158.x.pdf;jsessionid=04AE22510AFBB1EA4756D40DEA0CFA55.d03t03?v=1&t=h4ppdiht&s=3f469b88d024638a8733b4601e8cf7c32550c4c9]])

However, counter terrorism measures… purpose of illustration


**Loss of confidence creates a negative feedback cycle annihilating the economy**
**Rubin, Orszag, and Sinai 4** – PhD Economics, Senior Fellow of the Brookings Institute and Chief Global Economist at Decision Economics inc. (Robert E. Rubin, Chairman of Citigroup Financial, Peter R. Roszag, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institute, and Allen Sinai, Decision Economics, “Sustained Budget Deficits: The Risks of Financial and Fiscal Disarray” Paper presented The Andrew Brimmer Policy Forum, “National Economic and Financial Policies for Growth and Stability,” Sunday, 1/4/04)

The loss of investor… negative feedback effects


**The world economy relies on the US for trade and maritime security – trade accounts for 25% of US GDP**
**Fritelli 5** – Transportation Analyst [John F. Fritelli, CRS Report for Congress Port and Maritime Security: Background and Issues for Congress –May 27th 2005 [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/homesec/RL31733.pdf]] Access Date - 6/22/2012]

Ships are at… for US importers


**Investments in port security have been catalysts for job creation and economic prosperity—facilitate commerce and contribute to local, regional, and national economic growth**
**PR Newswire 2011** (American Association of Port Authorities, “10 Years After 9/11, Security Still a Top Priority of U.S. Ports” 6/19/12 Lexis 6/19/12)

Since 9/11… national economic growth

==Contention 3: Solvency== 
**Visualization and imaging technology solves**
**PPIC 6** (Public Policy Institute of California, Citing: Jon D. Haveman, RAND policy expert and JowardShatz, Senior Economist at RAND, “Protecting theNation’s Seaports:¶Balancing Securityand Cost”, [[http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/r_606jhr.pdf]], 2006)

A documentation… are then detected


**New computer and software takes out any solvency deficits**
**PPIC 6** (Public Policy Institute of California, Citing: Jon D. Haveman, RAND policy expert and JowardShatz, Senior Economist at RAND, “Protecting theNation’s Seaports:¶Balancing Securityand Cost”, [[http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/r_606jhr.pdf]], 2006)

In-port imaging… start-ups¶ and agile retreads


**Federal level coordination key to successful security**
**Harrald 05** [John R, “Sea Trade and Security: an Assessment of the Post-9/11 Reaction,” Web, Fall 05, http://search.proquest.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/pqrl/docview/220702986/1376BF5C74E6A8F9B1B/5?accountid=14667, 6/19/12]

The threat is real… turf battles

=Negative= 
Round 1 v Rowland Hall

1NC:
framework
Apocalyptic Rhetoric K
Heiddiger K

2NR: framework

Round 4 v Edina

1NC:
politics
Heg turn
T - maintenance
Plan Flaw
Cap K

2NR: Politics and Case turns

Round 6:

Cap K
Politics
Alaska CP
T-Vehicles

2NR: Cap K


Round 7 v Eden Prairie

1NC:
Commissions CP
T - capital investment
Politics
Capitalism K

2NR: Commissions and Politics

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]