=**Team Info**= 

Will post affirmative cites before major tournaments. Email Adam McSweeney at [[mailto:mcsweeneyadam@gmail.com|mcsweeneyadam@gmail.com]] if you want emotional support, life advice, marriage counseling, partner counseling, or just want to have a nice chat. If you want cites...you should also email Adam McSweeney.



==**Aff**== 
===**Ice breakers 1AC**=== 



==**Neg**== 
===**Security K**=== 
The affirmative’s obsession with ranking and managing risk is the essence of security logic
Hagmann & Cavelty, 2012 (National risk registers: Security scientism and the propagation of permanent insecurity, John Hagmann and Myriam Dunn Cavelty, International Peace Research Institute, Oslo, Sage Journals Feb 15 2012)

In particular, infrastructure development is the essence of modern securitization – it translates the normal function of life into the discourse of security
Lundborg and Vaughan-Williams, 10 (Tom Lundborg, The Swedish Institute of International Affairs, Nick Vaughan-Williams, University of Warwick, “There’s More to Life than Biopolitics: Critical Infrastructure, Resilience Planning, and Molecular Security,” Paper prepared for the SGIR Conference, Stockholm, 7-10 September, 2010)

The dream of security produces apocalypse– //constructions// of existential risk produce the annihilation they are meant to escape
Pever Coviello, Prof. of English @ Bowdoin, 2k [//Queer Frontiers//, p. 39-40]

Alternative – Reject the affirmative’s security logic – only resistance to the discourse of security can generate genuine political thought
Mark Neocleous, Prof. of Government @ Brunel, 2008 [//Critique of Security//, 185-6]
**States Counter Plan**
=== === 
**Spending Disadvantage**
==**2NRs**== 
===**Harvard**=== 
**RD. 2 Vs Niles North Port Security**
**1nc-States, CIR, Security, Case D**
**2nc-Security**
**2nr-Security**

**RD. 3 Vs Caddo Mountain JARC**
**1nc-States, CIR, Security, Heg bad**
**2nc-Security**
**1nr-CIR**
**2nr-Security**

**RD.5 Vs Sequoia (???) Climate adaption**
**1nc- Security, China Steel, Econ case turns**
**2nc-Security**
**1nr-Econ Case turns**
**2nr-Security**

===**State Quals**=== 
**RD.1 Vs Kent Denver Highway Bank**
**1nc- T,CIR, China Steel, States, Stimulus turns on Case**
**2nc- Stimulus turns**
**1nr-T, Inherency**
**2nr-T, Inherency (stock issues ftw)**

**RD. 3 Vs. Pomona "The Affirmative doesn't have to be topical"**
**1nc-Framework**
**2nc-Framework(limits good, narratives bad)**
**1nr-Framework(Shively)**
**2nr-Framework**