[[toc]]
=Statistics (up to date as of St. Mark's)= 
We've given eleven 2ARs so far this season.
PER Split: eight prelims, zero elims, three rr rounds.
Aff Split: two Guam, nine Diego Garcia.

==Percentage (All)== 
T--military: 27.3%
Cap K: 9.1%
Cocos CP: 9.1%
Britain CP and Elections/Ptx: 18.2%
States CP and Federalism: 9.1%
Elections DA: 27.3%

==Percentage (Guam Aff)== 
States CP and Federalism: 50.0%
Elections DA: 50.0%

==Percentage (Diego Garcia Aff)== 
T--military: 33.3%
Cap K: 11.1%
Cocos CP: 11.1%
Britain CP: 22.2%
Elections DA: 22.2%
==Percentage (Prelims)== 
T--military: 25.0% (2-0)
Britain CP: 25.0% (1-1)
States CP and Federalism: 12.5% (0-1)
Elections DA: 37.5% (3-0)

==Percentage (Elims)== 

==Percentage (RRs)== 
T--military: 33.3% (1-0)
Cap K: 33.3% (0-1)
Cocos CP: 33.3% (0-1)

=Grapevine= 
==Round 2 vs. Moore HN== 
1AC: Guam (Alliance, Deterrence, and Guam Economy advantages)
1NC: T--in, Security K, States CP, Elections DA (Obama good, Russia relations), Heg Bad
2AC: Coral Reefs add-on (on States CP), Africa Wars add-on (on States CP)
2NR: Elections DA and Case Defense

==Round 4 vs. Caddo Magnet JA== 
1AC: Guam (Alliance, Deterrence, and Guam Economy advantages)
1NC: T--Military, Predictions K, States CP (with federalism da), Elections DA (Obama good)
2AC: No add-ons
2NR: States CP (with federalism da)

=Greenhill RR= 
==Round 2 vs. Greenhill GR== 
1AC: Diego Garcia (Power Projection, Asia, and Straight of Hormuz advantages)
1NC: T--military, Nunn McCurdy CP, States CP, Politics DA (FISA Obama good)
2AC: Japan Relations add-on (on Nunn McCurdy), India Relations add-on (on States CP)
2NR: T--military

==Round 4 vs. CK McClatchy HS== 
1AC: Diego Garcia (Power Projection, Asia, and Straight of Hormuz advantages)
1NC: T--military, T--In, Cap K, Social Justice K, Debt DA, Heg Bad
2AC: No add-ons
2NR: T--military, Cap K (cap k was the vast majority of the 2nr)

==Round 5 vs. Chattahoochee KL== 
1AC: Diego Garcia (Power Projection, Asia, and Straight of Hormuz advantages)
1NC: T--military, T--In, Security K, Cocos CP (internal nb), Elections DA (Russia rels Obama good)
2AC: India Relations Add-on (on Cocos CP)
2NR: Cocos CP

=Greenhill= 
==Round 1 vs. Westminster PY== 
1AC: Diego Garcia (Power Projection, Asia, and Straight of Hormuz advantages)
1NC: T--military, Security K, Nuclear Modernization Tradeoff DA, Elections DA (Russia rels Obama good)
2AC: India Relations Add-on (on Asia Advantage)
2NR: Elections DA and Case Defense

==Round 3 vs. CK McClatchy KH== 
1AC: Diego Garcia (Power Projection, Asia, and Straight of Hormuz advantages)
1NC: T--military, Capitalism K, Social Justice CP, Debt DA, Heg Bad
2AC: No add-ons
2NR: T--military

==Round 6 vs. Sage Ridge CL== 
1AC: Diego Garcia (Power Projection, Asia, and Straight of Hormuz advantages)
1NC: T--military, Deleuze K, Deterrence Adv. CP (multiple planks), Elections DA (Obama good, isolationism)
2AC: Africa Wars Add-on (on the Deterrence Adv. CP)
2NR: T--military

=St. Mark's= 
==Round 2 vs. Pine Crest LM== 
1AC: Diego Garcia (Power Projection, Asia, and Straight of Hormuz advantages)
1NC: T--military, T--substantial, T--United States, OMB CP, Maintain Presence CP, Britain CP, Elections DA (Obama good, china bashing), Politics (Fiscal Cliffs Obama good)
2AC: Terrorism Add-on (on Britain CP), India Relations Add-on (on Britain CP), Japan Relations Add-on (on Britain CP),
2NR: Britain CP, Elections DA

==Round 4 vs. Pace CK== 
1AC: Diego Garcia (Power Projection, Asia, and Straight of Hormuz advantages)
1NC: T--in, T--military, Britain CP, Virilio K, Elections DA (Obama good, china bashing)
2AC: Terrorism Add-on (on Britain CP), India Relations Add-on (on Britain CP), Japan Relations Add-on (on Britain CP)
2NR: Britain CP, Elections DA

==Round 5 vs. Notre Dame BD== 
1AC: Diego Garcia (Power Projection, Asia, and Straight of Hormuz advantages)
1NC: T--military, Security K, Power Gap DA, DoD CP+aspec, Elections DA (Obama good, financial regulation-->econ)
2AC: Japan Relations add-on (on DoD CP)
2NR: Elections DA and Case Defense

=Michigan= 
==Round 2 vs. University Prep DR== 

==Round 3 vs. Pace ES== 

==Round 5 vs. Pine Crest GJ== 


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]