[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
===ITS Aff=== 
====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bioterror Advantage</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bio-attack is coming now—they have the tech and motive—it will __get worse__</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Garrett 12</span>** <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[January 5, 2012, Laurie Garrett is senior fellow for global health at the Council on Foreign Relations and recipient of the 1996 Pulitzer Prize for her coverage of the Ebola outbreak, “Flu Season” [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/01/05/flu_season?print=yes&hidecomments=yes&page=full]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">When flu scientist Ron … the synthetic-biology revolution.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">New technology means the risk is __uniquely high__ - they can build it on their own</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">MSNBC 12/7</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (“Clinton warns of bioweapon threat from gene tech,” pg online @ <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/45584359/ns/technology_and_science-security/#.TuaTq7JomzZ|http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/45584359/ns/technology_and_science-security/#.TuaTq7JomzZ]]</span> )</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">GENEVA — New gene … every lab's activities.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The transportation system will be __overwhelmed__ in the panic impeding response—ITS is __comparatively__ the only way to solve</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hinds 7</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Josh Hinds, former Graduate Research Assistant at Center for Transportation Research and Education Transportation Engineer at South Dakota Department of Transportation, 10-11-07, [“The Emergency Transportation Operations within the Intelligent Transportation System,” Midwest Transportation Consortium Scholars Paper, <span style="color: black;">[[http://ctre.iastate.edu/mtc/papers/documents/hinds2007paper.pdf]]</span>] E. Liu</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The surface transportation … any emergency event. (5) </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And ITS contains the attack—5 reasons</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">RITA 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, U.S. Department of Transportation’s Research and innovative technology administration, RITA, 4/18/11, Final Report for the Application of Technology to Transportation Operations in Biohazard Situations</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">1.4 Technology Application Plan The … signal preemption technology)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And it’s the __linchpin__ of containment efforts—independently it solves detection</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Pincus 11</span>** <span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[September 2011, Marcia Pincus is from the ITS Joint Program Office Research and Innovative Technology Administration U.S. Department of Transportation Department of Transportation, Final Report, “Intelligent Transportation Systems Benefits, Costs, Deployment, and Lessons Learned Desk Reference: 2011 Update”,[[http://www.benefitcost.its.dot.gov/its/benecost.nsf/files/BCLLDepl2011Update/$File/Ben_Cost_Less_Depl_2011%20Update.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A variety of sensors …during ¶ emergencies.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And the federal government is key—national coordination’s vital</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">RITA 6/28</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, U.S. Department of Transportation’s Research and innovative technology administration, RITA, 6/28/12</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">As described in the ITS …about travel modes. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And bio-attack is the __biggest existential risk__</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Matheny 7</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> - research associate at Oxford University (Jason G., “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction”. November 5, 2007; < http://www.physics.harvard.edu/~wilson/pmpmta/Mahoney_extinction.pdf>//AB) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Of current … respond to pandemics (Lam, Franco, & Shuler, 2006).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And it’s __worse than nuclear war__</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Alexander 7 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Timothy, Former Scottish Editor of Burke’s Peerage, B.Sc. in Pol. Sc. & History; M.A. in European Studies, October 22nd, “War On Iran = You Die from Biowar”, Op Ed News, http://www.opednews.com/articles/genera_lord_sti_071020_war_on_iran__3d_you_di.htm)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">We have been conditioned, by … risk to their own lives.</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Computational Science Advantage</span>**==== 
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">It’s lagging now - only integrating it into infrastructure creates __sustained focus__ for __research and development__</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">R&D 12 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(R&D, News Agency dedicated to research and development, “Study: Computing advances vital to sustainability efforts,” http://www.rdmag.com/News/2012/06/Environment-Computing-Advances-Vital-To-Sustainability-Efforts/,Friday, June 29, 2012)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Innovation in computing … to make progress. </span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The plan’s the __ultimate testbed__ for the science and __revolutionizes__ development</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Winter et al 10</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Stephan Winter: The University of Melbourne, Australia, Monika Sester: Leibniz University Hannover, Germany, Ouri Wolfson: University of Illinois, Chicago, USA, Glenn Geers: National ICT Australia, Sydney, Australia, ACM SIGMOD Record, Volume 39 Issue 3, September 2010 , Pages 27-32,</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> [[http://www.cs.uic.edu/~boxu/mp2p/39-135-1-SM.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In the near future, vehicles, travelers, … to say it all. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">That creates a __network effect__ that __spills over__—specifically to the high tech industry—the best research proves</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Blecher 9, </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Congress: Invest in Intelligent Transportation Systems to create jobs, By Scott Belcher, CEO and President, Intelligent Transportation Society of America, <span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">[[http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/technology/70623-congress-invest-in-intelligent-transportation-systems-to-create-jobs]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The future of ITS … quality of life.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Tech growth solves __multiple existential risks__</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Barker 2K</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (BRENT is manager of corporate communications, having earlier served as manager of strategic and executive communications and for12 years as the Journal's editor-in-chief, Technology and the Quest for Sustainability, EPRI Journal)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Sustainability has been …critical to sustainability. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And computational science is key to __biotech innovation__ that is __impossible__ in the squo</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Strayer 4</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Michael Strayer, Acting Director of Mathematical, Informantion, and Computational Science Division of the US Department of Energy, September 19, 2004, <span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">[[http://science.energy.gov/~/media/ascr/pdf/program-documents/archive/Scales_report_vol2.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Progress in biology …the future in biology. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">That solves deforestation and industrial pesticides</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">McGloughlin 2K</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Martina McGloughlin is a professor @ UC Davis, Journal of Agrobiotechnology Management, Ten Reasons Why Biotechnology Will Be Important to the Developing World, <span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.agbioforum.org/v2n34/v2n34a04-mcgloughlin.htm]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Biotechnology companies, national …the introduction of biotechnology crops?</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Amazon deforestation risks extinction—specifically it solves oxygen</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">AIRR 2K </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Amazon International Rainforest Reserve 00 ["The Amazon Stands As A Wonderous Testimony To Its Glorious Creator," <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.amazonrainforest.org/community/articles/article2.asp|www.amazonrainforest.org/community/articles/article2.asp]]</span> Waldman]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Amazon Rainforest, …to all living beings."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Oxygen collapse causes extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Tatchell 8 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">human rights activist who campaigns with OutRage! He is a regular contributor to PinkNews.co.uk and The Guardian, cites Author and scientist Roddy Newman, NASA Reports, and the UN environmental program, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/13/carbonemissions.climatechange</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Compared to prehistoric times…diminish global fish supplies.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Pesticides cause extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">WDP 97—</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Western Daily Press, 10/6/1997. “Diana's gone all sari-eyed,” Lexis.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">For new research … now and again?</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Nanotech’s inevitable but computational science makes it safe</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Francis 4</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Michael Francis is a scientist at Accelrys, The Big Picture for Nanotechnology and Computational Science,<span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.scientific-computing.com/features/feature.php?feature_id=66]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Nanotechnology is breaking … concluded Dr Drexler.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">U.S. development ensures cooperative frameworks - banning nanotech only makes misuse worse</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Vandermolen 6</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Thomas D., BS, Louisiana Tech University; MA, Naval War College), is officer in charge, Maritime Science and Technology Center, Yokosuka, Japan. He was previously assigned as a student at the Naval War College, Newport Naval Station, Rhode Island.</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"><span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj06/fal06/vandermolen.html]]</span> //*MNT=Molecular Nanotechnology//</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In either case… solutions can cope.</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Transition to nanotech is inevitable—responsible management solves grey goo, miscalculation, and nano-diseases—each causes extinction</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Vandermolen 6</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Thomas D., BS, Louisiana Tech University; MA, Naval War College), is officer in charge, Maritime Science and Technology Center, Yokosuka, Japan. He was previously assigned as a student at the Naval War College, Newport Naval Station, Rhode Island.</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj06/fal06/vandermolen.html]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> MNT is a potentially … could be catastrophic.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Independently it creates a mechanism for dispute settlement that solves escalation of their disad</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Barfield 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, James Barfield is a staffwriter at the Guardian, Get Ready for a world of Nanotechnology, This evidence is gender modified, <span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2010/sep/02/nanotechnology-world-technological-leap]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The solutions will have … shape of the future.</span>

=====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">No-Till Biotech Module</span>**===== 
**Biotech leads to no-till agriculture which solves erosion and earthworms.**
**Fawcett and Towry 02** [Researchers for the CTIC (Conservation Technology Information Center), a non-profit organization dedicated to environmentally responsible and economically viable agricultural decision-making. CTIC is supported by a partnership of individuals, corporations, governmental agencies, associations, foundations, universities and media, Reviewed by Dave Schertz, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation Service, Washington, DC Wayne Reeves, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service, Soil Dynamics Lab, Auburn, AL Carem Sandretto, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Economic Research Service, Washington, DCJerry Hatfield, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service, National Soil Tilth Lab, Ames, IA Terry Riley, Wildlife Management Institute, Washington, DC“Conservation Tillage and Plant Biotechnology: How New Technologies Can Improve the Environment By Reducing the Need to Plow”, pgs. 1-4,http://croplife.intraspin.com/Biotech/papers/35%20Fawcett.pdf]
There is a strong …developed through biotechnology

**Erosion causes extinction**
**Ikerd 99**, Professor Emeritus of Agricultural Economics at University of Missouri [John E., “Foundational Principles: Soils. Stewardship, and Sustainability,” Sep 22, http://www.ssu.missouri.edu/faculty/jikerd/papers/NCSOILS.html]
A foundation is "… just less obvious.

**Earthworms solve extinction**
**Tompkin & Bird 99** (Peter, and Christopher, Authors of The Secret Life of Plants (published by Harper and Row and referred to by the Boston Herald as “A worthy sequel to Rachel Carson’s Silent Spring”) and “Secrets of the Soil” taken from Microsoil, http://www.microsoil.com/earthworm.htm)
Many agriculture oriented … Nilotic valley's soil.

**Biotech makes extinction level events survivable**
**Trewavas 2K** – Institute of Cell and Molecular Biology at the University of Edinburgh
(Anthony, “GM Is the Best Option We Have,” 6/5/2000, [[http://www.agbioworld.org/biotech-info/articles/biotech-art/best_option.html)*This|www.agbioworld.org/biotech-info/articles/biotech-art/best_option.html)*This]] evidence is modified to respect Jewish history
In 535A.D. a volcano …it is "be prepared".

=====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Air Pollution and Honeybees Biotech Module</span>**===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Biotech is key to solve air pollution.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Santra 07</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> [Professor, “New Frontiers of Environmental Biotechnological Application”, Published by ENVIS Centre on Environmental Biotechnology (Supported by Ministry of Environment & Forest, Govt. of India) http://www.envis.kuenvbiotech.org/Biotech-book.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">1.3 Biotechnology for pollution …and gives solid sulphur. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Air pollution triggers honeybee extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Eilperin, 08</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Juliet Eilperin, Washington Post Staff Writer, “Air Pollution Impedes Bees' Ability to Find Flowers” Washington Post</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Scientists already knew …be playing a role." </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Causes human extinction—now is key</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Watson 07 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">(Joseph Watson, “Ecological Apocalypse: Why Are All the Bees Dying” April/10/2007</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The alarming decline … driving them away. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Air pollution independently causes extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Salvador 07</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Lourdes Salvador, Writer and Social Advocate for American Chronicle. "Human Extinction,") http://www.americanchronicle.com/articles/view/24238</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The most common … always work” (Relethford, 2005).</span>

=====**Ozone and Immortality Nanotech Module**===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Nanotech solves ozone. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Drexler and Peterson 91 –</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> nanotech researcher and Chief Technical Advisor to Nanorex AND director of Nanotechnology at the Foresight Institute (K. Eric and Chris, Unbounding The Future: The Nanotechnology Revolution, p. 186-189, [[http://www.foresight.org/UTF/Unbound_LBW/chapt_9.html]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Most atmospheric pollutants…stratosphere is soon clean.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ozone collapse causes extinction </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**Greenpeace 95** [Full of Holes: Montreal Protocol and the Continuing Destruction of the Ozone Layer, http://archive.greenpeace.org/ozone/holes/holebg.html]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">When chemists Sherwood…of life on earth. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Nanotech causes immortality</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Drexler 86</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Eric, Leading nanotechnology expert, Foresight Institute, 1986] </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">With cell repair machines…a long, long time.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Immortality fosters global human cooperation—inspires future mindedness that short-circuits all conflicts</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Drexler 86</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Eric, Leading nanotechnology expert, Foresight Institute,1986] </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Expectations always shape…for the better?</span>

=====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Nuclear Waste and Disease Nanotech Module</span>**===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Nuclear waste dispersion is inevitable in the squo—extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Coplan 06</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Karl S. Coplan , Associate Professor of Law, Pace University School of Law., Fordham Environmental Law Review, 2006, p. 227</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">It goes without … nation on earth.94 </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Nanotech solves. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Drexler 86</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (leading nano expert, Foresight Insitute) [K. Eric, Engines of Creation, foresight.org //wfi-tjc]// </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Consider the toxic … rock or cask. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Disease inevitably causes extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Yu 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Victoria, Undergraduate at Dartmouth, University publication, “Human Extinction: The Uncertainty of Our Fate,” Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science, 22 May 2009)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A pandemic will …a human-viable strain (10).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Nanotech solves that too.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Drexler 86</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (leading nano expert, Foresight Insitute) [K. Eric, Engines of Creation, foresight.org </span>wfi-tjc]
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The simplest medical …that spells "herpes."</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">M2M Advantage</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Intelligent transportation infrastructure is a __prerequisite__ to Machine to Machine Modules—that solves emissions and smart grid upgrades</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Tran 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Alan Tran writes for Automotive Industries Online, Connectivity is greening transport, [[http://www.ai-online.com/Adv/Previous/show_issue.php?id=4358]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Transportation is at … which is significant. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And the problem is __demand__—ITS resolves this and facilitates the transition</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Roos 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Daniel Roos became the founding Director of the Engineering Systems Division in 1998. Previously, he was Director of the Center for Transportation Studies, and Director of the Center for Technology, Policy and Industrial Development. Roos serves as Founding Director of the International Motor Vehicle Program and as Director of the Cooperative Mobility Program. He is co"author of The Machine That Changed the World, which has been published in 11 languages and has sold more than 600,000 copies, The Future Automotive System: The World That Changed the Machine, [[http://ttv.mit.edu/videos/16747-the-future-automotive-system-the-world-that-changed-the-machine]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Manufacturing and markets, once … about major transformations. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Independently it leads to __tech spinoffs__ that solve warming</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Waltz and King 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [7/29/09, David L. Waltz is a Director of the Center for Computational Learning Systems (CCLS) at Columbia University since 2003. He was formerly President of the NEC Research Institute in Princeton, John L. King works at the School of Information at the University of Michigan, “Information Technology and America’s Energy Future”, Version 8: July 29, 2009]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">ITS (Intelligent Transportation … minimize searching, and so on.¶ </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Federal action is key to __international spillover__ and getting the __industry__ on board—transceivers are key</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Zuckerman 4</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Amy Zuckerman, Standards for Intelligent Transportation Systems will Speed Up, [[http://web.ebscohost.com/ehost/detail?vid=6&hid=8&sid=40e0c731-5281-4403-b749-cc9895e677c5%40sessionmgr111&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWhvc3QtbGl2ZQ%3d%3d#db=ulh&AN=14738426|http://web.ebscohost.com/ehost/detail?vid=6&hid=8&sid=40e0c731-5281-4403-b749-cc9895e677c5%40sessionmgr111&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWhvc3QtbGl2ZQ%3d%3d#db=ulh&AN=14738426]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Supply Chains Federal … 2008 and beyond."¶ </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Warming is real—scientific consensus, satellite data, trends, ice core samples, polar melting, and El Nino prove—any other evidence is __cherry picked__ and natural variations don’t explain the __magnitude__ of CO2</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Rahmstorf 8 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">– Professor of Physics of the Oceans**,** Richard, of Physics of the Oceans at Potsdam University, Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto, Edited by Ernesto Zedillo, “Anthropogenic Climate Change?,” pg. 42-4</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">It is time to turn … which we need to deal.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Consensus proves it’s anthropogenic and reversible if we act __now—__and CO2 is key</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Pew Center 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Pew Center on Global Climate Change, The Pew Center on Global Climate Change is as a non-profit, non-partisan, and independent organization dedicated to providing credible information, straight answers, and innovative solutions in the effort to address global climate change. The Center engages business leaders, policy makers, and other key decision makers at the international, national, regional, and state levels to advance meaningful, cost-effective climate policy and action, “Climate Change 101: Understanding and Responding to Global Climate Change,” January 2011, PM)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The scientific evidence … rate of climate change.” </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Electric vehicles solve warming</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Kaplan et al. 10 – *</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">affiliated with Frontier Group, a think tank that issues issue experts, writers and analysts to produce ideas and research to promote a cleaner environment and a fairer and more democratic society, **Brad Heavner, B.A. from the University of Michigan, Senior Policy Advisor for Environment America and State Director of Environment Maryland, AND** *Rob Sargent, graduate of the University of Vermont, Energy Program Director for Environment America and oversees policy and strategy development for energy and global warming campaigns throughout the U.S., more than two decades of experience leading a wide range of environmental and public interest campaigns (Siena, Charging Ahead: Curbing Oil Consumption with Plug-in Cars”, Environment Maryland Research & Policy Center, June 2010, http://www.environmentmaryland.org/sites/environment/files/reports/Charging-Ahead.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Plug-in cars emit … fueled by gasoline.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And it __solves__ oil—statistics prove</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Business Wire 10– </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">leading source for full-text breaking news and press releases, multimedia and regulatory filings for companies and groups throughout the world (“Plug-in Electric Cars Can Lower Global Warming Emissions, Oil Consumption and Unhealthy Air Pollution”, 20 January 2010, http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20100120006249/en/Plug-in-Electric-Cars-Global-Warming-Emissions-Oil)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Increasing America's use … about one-third.[3] </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And transportation is key</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">West 12 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Larry, 20-year professional writer and editor who has written many articles about environmental issues for leading newspapers, magazines and online publications citing from: John DeCicco, author of the report and senior fellow at Environmental Defense, “U.S. Autos Account for Half of Global Warming Linked to Cars Worldwide,” http://environment.about.com/od/globalwarming/a/autoemissions.htm) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">U.S. automobiles and light … according to the report.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And it’s modeled</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Wirth et al 3 (Timothy E, President of the UN Foundation – along with C. Boyden Gray and John D. Podesta – also of the UN Foundation, “The Future of Energy Policies,” Foreign Affairs, July/August, p. 132, lexis).</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Energy is a common thread … far into the future.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And it’s __try or die__—warming releases methane from the tundra causing extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Atcheson 4</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (John, former Department of Energy senior policy analyst and geologist, has held a variety of policy positions in several federal government agencies “Ticking Time Bomb,” December 15, 2004)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Arctic Council's recent … the Bush administration's </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">That outweighs nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ryskin 3 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Gregory, Department of Chemical Engineering, Northwestern University, Illinois, “Methane-driven oceanic eruptions and mass extinctions” Geology 31(9): 741-744, ASingh)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Upon release of a … nuclear winter scenario (Turco et al., 1991).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And it causes resource tensions and failed states—guarantees nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Johnson 10—</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">bachelor’s degree in math and physics from Amherst College and master’s degree in geosciences from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (Brad, 6 August 2010, “Global Boiling Fuels Disasters in Nuclear Nations”, [[http://www.progressiverealist.org/blogpost/global-boiling-fuels-disasters-nuclear-nations]]</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">,)</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Fueled by the buildup … of instability or conflict.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And it causes __international disputes__—these are coming now and geo-engineering makes them __worse__</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Smith 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">– professor of Security Strategies at the Naval War College, former associate/assistant professor with the Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies (Paul, “ The geopolitics of climate change: power transitions, conflict and the future of military activities,” Conflict, Security, & Development, [[http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/14678802.2011.593810]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Moreover, the nexus between … perceived resource scarcities. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And CO2 acidifies the oceans causing extinction—geo-engineering can’t solve</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Romm 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Joe, a Fellow at American Progress and is the editor of Climate Progress, which </span>New York Times columnist Tom Friedman called "the indispensable blog" and Time magazine named one of the 25 “Best Blogs of 2010.″ In 2009, Rolling Stone put Romm #88 on its list of 100 “people who are reinventing America.” Time// named him a “Hero of the Environment″ and “The Web’s most influential climate-change blogger.” Romm was acting assistant secretary of energy for energy efficiency and renewable energy in 1997, where he oversaw $1 billion in R&D, demonstration, and deployment of low-carbon technology. He is a Senior Fellow at American Progress and holds a Ph.D. in physics from MIT, “Imagine a World without Fish: Deadly ocean acidification — hard to deny, harder to geo-engineer, but not hard to stop — is subject of documentary,” http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2009/09/02/204589/a-sea-change-imagine-a-world-without-fish-ocean-acidification-film/, AM)
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Global warming is “capable …dioxide emissions is now.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Oil supply disruptions are __structurally inevitable__ in the __short term__—guarantees __global war__</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Rosen 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Mark Rosen (Deputy General Counsel at the Center for Naval Analyses & Professor of Homeland Security Law and Policy at George Washington University) 2010 “Energy Independence and Climate Change: The Economic and National Security Consequences of Failing to Act” University of Richmond Law Review, Lexis</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">There is a growing …would be held hostage. 110</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And it guarantees __miscalculation__ and __imperial overstretch__ that culminates in __great power war__</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Klare 4</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Michael T. Klare, Security Professor at Hampshire College, 2004, Blood and Oil, p. 177-9 (HARVEN0708)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In this precarious …very well run out.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And clean tech leadership lets us __de-escalate global conflicts__</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Klarevas 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Louis, Professor at the Center for Global Affairs – New York University, “<span style="color: black;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/louis-klarevas/securing-american-primacy_b_393223.html|Securing American Primacy While Tackling Climate Change: Toward a National Strategy of Greengemony]]</span>”, Huffington Post, 12-15, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/louis-klarevas/securing-american-primacy_b_393223.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">By not addressing climate … potential foes in check.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And absent upgrades national blackouts are __inevitable__ from grid failure</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Loder</span>****<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, 2/28**/**08– staff writer [Asjylyn, “Still in dark over blackout,” St. Petersburg Times, 2/28/08, Business p. 1D]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Floridians have power, … ago," Byres said. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">There’s a __high risk__ of a cyber attacks now</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Khan 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Huma Khan is a staff writer @ ABC, [[http://abcnews.go.com/blogs/politics/2011/05/cyber-attack-on-us-electric-grid-gravest-short-term-threat-to-national-security-lawmakers-say/]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">ABC News' Huma … technically sophisticated.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Retaliation to a cyber attack guarantees extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Lawson 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, 5/13/2009 (Sean - assistant professor in the Department of Communication at the University of Utah, Cross-Domain Response to Cyber Attacks and the Threat of Conflict, p. http://www.seanlawson.net/?p=477)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">At a time when …or greater seriousness.” [7] </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Status quo grid failures make nuclear meltdowns inevitable</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Capiello 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Dina, Huffington Post, "Long Blackouts Pose Risk To U.S. Nuclear Reactors" 3/29/11 [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/03/29/blackout-risk-us-nuclear-reactors_n_841869.html)]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A 2003 federal analysis … away by tsunami."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Lendman 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – Research Associate of the Centre for Research on Globalization (Stephen, 03/ 13, “Nuclear Meltdown in Japan,” http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/TPV3/Voices.php/2011/03/13/nuclear-meltdown-in-japan)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Reuters said the 1995 …literally, an apocalyptic event.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And blackouts ensure __accidental nuclear war__—there’s a __systemic risk__</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Earth Island Journal 2K </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Winter, Vol. 14, No. 4, [[http://www.earthisland.org/]] eijournal/win2000/wr_ win2000y2k.html</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">NIRS notes that … are in de-alert status."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">There’s a __high probability__ of miscalculation—it ensures extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Morgan 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Dennis Ray Morgan, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, South Korea, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race,” Futures, 41(10), December 2009, ScienceDirect)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In a remarkable website …in a nuclear winter.</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">M2M---Golden Desert</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Contention Two is Machine to Machine Modules:</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Intelligent transportation infrastructure is a __prerequisite__ to Machine to Machine Modules—that solves EVs and smart grid upgrades</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Tran 11</span>**, Alan Tran writes for Automotive Industries Online, Connectivity is greening transport, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.ai-online.com/Adv/Previous/show_issue.php?id=4358]]</span>
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Transportation is at a **crossroads**</span>__,
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">atmosphere per person, which is **significant**.</span>__

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">And the problem is __demand__—ITS resolves this and facilitates the transition</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Roos 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, Daniel Roos became the founding Director of the Engineering Systems Division in 1998. Previously, he was Director of the Center for Transportation Studies, and Director of the Center for Technology, Policy and Industrial Development. Roos serves as Founding Director of the International Motor Vehicle Program and as Director of the Cooperative Mobility Program. He is co"author of The Machine That Changed the World, which has been published in 11 languages and has sold more than 600,000 copies, The Future Automotive System: The World That Changed the Machine, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://ttv.mit.edu/videos/16747-the-future-automotive-system-the-world-that-changed-the-machine]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Manufacturing and markets, once centered </span>
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">will bring</span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> about major transformations</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">And it __solves__ oil—statistics prove</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Business Wire 10</span>–** leading source for full-text breaking news and press releases, multimedia and regulatory filings for companies and groups throughout the world (“Plug-in Electric Cars Can Lower Global Warming Emissions, Oil Consumption and Unhealthy Air Pollution”, 20 January 2010, http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20100120006249/en/Plug-in-Electric-Cars-Global-Warming-Emissions-Oil)//BI
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Increasing</span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> America's use of plug-in electric</span>__and plug in hybrid cars __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">would</span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> dramatically reduce </span>__
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">by about one-third</span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;">.[3] </span>__

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Oil supply disruptions are __structurally inevitable__ in the __short term__—guarantees __global war__</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Rosen 10 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mark Rosen (Deputy General Counsel at the Center for Naval Analyses & Professor of Homeland Security Law and Policy at George Washington University) 2010 “Energy Independence and Climate Change: The Economic and National Security Consequences of Failing to Act” University of Richmond Law Review, Lexis</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There is a growing consensus </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Indonesian archipelago would be held hostage. 110</span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">And it causes U.S. draw-in to global conflicts—extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Klare 4</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Michael T. Klare, Security Professor at Hampshire College, 2004, Blood and Oil, p. 177-9 (HARVEN0708)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">In this precarious environment, </span>__
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">their luck could very well run out.</span>__

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Oil competition causes competition with China that escalates to war, destabilizes Africa, and destroys relations</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Gagan, 10 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- MASTER OF MILITARY ART AND SCIENCE Homeland Security; MAJ, U.S.ARMY B.S. Criminal Justice, East Carolina University (John, “THE UNITED STATES’ STRATEGIC INSECURITY-THE OIL NEXUS”, 11/06/10, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.dtic.mil.proxy.lib.umich.edu/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a531222.pdf)/AY|http://www.dtic.mil.proxy.lib.umich.edu/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a531222.pdf)//AY]]</span>
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">To meet its demand </span>__
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">than a dozen African countries</span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> (Ghazvinian, 276).</span>__

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Escalates to nuclear war—energy competition makes it __uniquely likely__</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Santoli 5,</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Al, November, Asia America Initiative, decorated Vietnam veteran, author and founder of the Asia</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">America Initiative, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.asiaamerica.org/publications/cif/cif-08-2005.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On November 4, Tokyo's outspoken Governor and possible future Prime Minister Shintaro Ishihara used a public speech in Washington to warn </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">the U.S.</span>__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">not a dependable military ally.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">African energy conflicts escalate</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Glick 7</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Dec. 10, 2007 Caroline Glick , The Jerusalem Post]</span>
__<span style="background-color: silver; font-size: 11pt;">The Horn of Africa is </span>__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Djibouti, Ethiopia, Somalia, Sudan and Kenya. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">China relations stop nuclear war between India and Pakistan</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Xu 1</span>**, Xianquan Xu, Senior Research Fellow, Chinese Academy, International Trade and Economic Coop, 2001
(China, the United States, and the Global Economy, Shuxun Chen & Charles Wolf, p. 266)
Both __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">the U</span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;">nited States and China want </span>__
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">from becoming extreme.</span>__

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Oil dependence ensures global __state collapse__—guarantees global war</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Elhefnawy 8</span>**, Nader Elhefnawy, April-May 2008, Survival, pp. 27-66 (currently teaches at the University of Miami. He has previously published on international and security issues in journals including Astropolitics, International Security and Parameters
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Some states</span>__, particularly in __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">the </span>__
international conflicts because of territorial sea and Exclusive Economic Zone claims.

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Oil dependence causes Korean war—that’s extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Darley 3</span>**, Julian Darley, “The yawning heights - looking out from the great oil peak,” January, __2003__, http://www.letterfromearth.org/index.php?letter=letterfromearth.01
Moving east of the Gulf
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">against bio</span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;">logical weapons. </span>__

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">And absent upgrades national blackouts are __inevitable__ from grid failure</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Loder</span>****<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> 8</span>**, 2/28**/**08– staff writer [Asjylyn, “Still in dark over blackout,” St. Petersburg Times, 2/28/08, Business p. 1D]
Floridians have power, but not
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">25 to 30 years ago</span>__," Byres said.

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">There’s a __high risk__ of a cyber attacks now—they comparatively outweigh the disad</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Khan 11</span>**, Huma Khan is a staff writer @ ABC, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://abcnews.go.com/blogs/politics/2011/05/cyber-attack-on-us-electric-grid-gravest-short-term-threat-to-national-security-lawmakers-say/]]</span>
ABC News' Huma Khan reports: __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The U</span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;">nited </span>__
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">They are</span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> very technically sophisticated</span>__.”

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Retaliation to a cyber attack guarantees extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Lawson 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 5/13/2009 (Sean - assistant professor in the Department of Communication at the University of Utah, Cross-Domain Response to Cyber Attacks and the Threat of Conflict, p. http://www.seanlawson.net/?p=477)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At a time when it seems </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">a relatively small release of a lethal agent is regarded with the same or greater seriousness.” [7] </span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">That makes meltdowns inevitable</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Capiello 11</span>** (Dina, Huffington Post, "Long Blackouts Pose Risk To U.S. Nuclear Reactors" 3/29/11 <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/03/29/blackout-risk-us-nuclear-reactors_n_841869.html)]]</span>
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">A 2003 federal analysis </span>__
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">things in a place that would not have been swept away by tsunami."</span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Lendman 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Research Associate of the Centre for Research on Globalization (Stephen, 03/ 13, “Nuclear Meltdown in Japan,” http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/TPV3/Voices.php/2011/03/13/nuclear-meltdown-in-japan)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Reuters said the 1995 Kobe quake caused $100 billion in damage, up to then the most costly ever natural disaster. This </span>
__<span style="background-color: silver; font-size: 11pt;">It could be</span>__<span style="background-color: silver; font-size: 8pt;">,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> literally, </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">an **apocalyptic**event.</span>__

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">And blackouts ensure __accidental nuclear war__—there’s a __systemic risk__</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Earth Island Journal 2K </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Winter, Vol. 14, No. 4, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.earthisland.org/]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> eijournal/win2000/wr_ win2000y2k.html</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> NIRS notes that increasingly</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">states are in de-alert status."</span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">There’s a __high probability__ of miscalculation—it ensures extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Morgan 9</span>**(Dennis Ray Morgan, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, South Korea, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race,” Futures, 41(10), December 2009, ScienceDirect)
In a remarkable website
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">suffering in a nuclear winter.</span>__

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Grid upgrades solve an EMP attack that wipes out the U.S.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kessler 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">, </span>Ronald Kessler, 2009 (chief Washington correspondent of Newsmax.com). “EMP Attack Could Wipe Out U.S.” September 9, 2009. Accessed August 22, 2010 at <span style="color: black; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.newsmax.com/RonaldKessler/emp-attack/2009/09/09/id/334894]]</span>
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The federal government </span>__
__<span style="background-color: silver; font-size: 11pt;">infrastructures, especially the</span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> electric power grid.” </span>__

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Terror Advantage---Golden Desert</span>**==== 

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Scenario one is Bioterror—bio-attack is coming now—they have the tech and motive—it will __get worse__</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Garrett 12</span>** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">[January 5, 2012, Laurie Garrett is senior fellow for global health at the Council on Foreign Relations and recipient of the 1996 Pulitzer Prize for her coverage of the Ebola outbreak, “Flu Season” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/01/05/flu_season?print=yes&hidecomments=yes&page=full]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">]</span>
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">When flu scientist Ron Fouchier</span>__
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">unprepared for the synthetic-biology revolution.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Wikileaks cables prove they’re __on the verge__ of acquisition from __multiple sources__, and have __huge technical know-how__—__consensus__ goes aff</span>**
**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 11pt;">Telegraph 11</span>**<span style="background-color: white;">[February 2, 2011, Heidi Blake was The Daily Telegraph's Investigative Reporter until November 2011. She was nominated for Young Journalist of the Year and Scoop of the Year in the 2010 British Press Awards having joined the paper in 2008. Christopher Hope writes for The Telegraph. “WikiLeaks: al-Qaeda 'is planning a dirty bomb'”</span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/wikileaks/8296956/WikiLeaks-al-Qaeda-is-planning-a-dirty-bomb.html]]</span><span style="background-color: white;">]</span>
• <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/wikileaks-files/|The ]]</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/wikileaks-files/|WikiLeaks cables]]</span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/wikileaks-files/| in full]]</span>
documented in the leaked cables.

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">New technology means the risk is __uniquely high__—they can build it on their own</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">MSNBC 11</span>** (“Clinton warns of bioweapon threat from gene tech,” pg online @ <span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/45584359/ns/technology_and_science-security/#.TuaTq7JomzZ|http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/45584359/ns/technology_and_science-security/#.TuaTq7JomzZ]]</span> )
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">GENEVA — </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">New gene assembly technology </span>__
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">saying it is too complicated to monitor every lab's activities.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Panic will overwhelm the transportation system impeding response—only ITS solves</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Hinds 7</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, Josh Hinds, former Graduate Research Assistant at Center for Transportation Research and Education Transportation Engineer at South Dakota Department of Transportation, 10-11-07, [“The Emergency Transportation Operations within the Intelligent Transportation System,” Midwest Transportation Consortium Scholars Paper, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://ctre.iastate.edu/mtc/papers/documents/hinds2007paper.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">] E. Liu</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">surface transportation</span>__
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Maintaining traffic flow and directing travelers to the right route can benefit any emergency event. (5) </span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">It’s key to overall DOT coordination—only the fed creates a coordinated response</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">RITA 6/28</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, U.S. Department of Transportation’s Research and innovative technology administration, RITA, 6/28/12</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">As described in the ITS Strategic Research </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">mitigate the vehicle's impact on the environment and/or make more informed choices about travel modes. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">It’s the __linchpin__ of containment—independently it solves detection</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Pincus 11</span>** [September 2011, Marcia Pincus is from the ITS Joint Program Office Research and Innovative Technology Administration U.S. Department of Transportation Department of Transportation, Final Report, “Intelligent Transportation Systems Benefits, Costs, Deployment, and Lessons Learned Desk Reference: 2011 Update”,<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.benefitcost.its.dot.gov/its/benecost.nsf/files/BCLLDepl2011Update/$File/Ben_Cost_Less_Depl_2011%20Update.pdf]]</span>]
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">A variety of sensors deployed on the </span>__
are often used for evacuation during <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>emergencies.

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bioterror’s the __biggest existential risk__</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Matheny 7</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">- research associate at Oxford University (Jason G., “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction”. November 5, 2007; < http://www.physics.harvard.edu/~wilson/pmpmta/Mahoney_extinction.pdf>//AB)// </span>
//__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 11pt;">Of</span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> current extinction risks,</span>__//
//<span style="font-size: 6pt;">local health systems to respond to pandemics (Lam, Franco, & Shuler, 2006).</span>//

//**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Comparative evidence—it’s __worse__ than nuclear war and __kills off survivors__</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Alexander 7</span>**(Timothy, Former Scottish Editor of Burke’s Peerage, B.Sc. in Pol. Sc. & History; M.A. in European Studies, October 22nd, “War On Iran = You Die from Biowar”, Op Ed News, http://www.opednews.com/articles/genera_lord_sti_071020_war_on_iran__3d_you_di.htm)__//
//__We have been conditioned, by seeing films__//
//__their own lives.__//

//__**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Scenario two is rail—documents and empirics prove terrorists will target railways</span>**__//
//__**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bennett 11</span>** (Brian Bennett, Washington Bureau, LA Times, “Al Qaeda had U.S. trains in its sights, U.S. officials say”, http://articles.latimes.com/2011/may/05/nation/la-na-bin-laden-rail-threat-20110506, May 5, 2011, LEQ)__//
//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Evidence collected in</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">when it occurs."</span>//

//__**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Decentralization increases vulnerabilities</span>**__//
//__**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Temple 7</span>** (Bob Temple, Contributer to Group 7, think tank for Railroad Security, Quoting The GAO Report on Rail Security, The AAR Hearing on Rail Security, and The CRS Report for Congress - Passenger Rail Security: Overview of Issue, http://www.personal.psu.edu/staff/r/p/rpt117/sra211/vulnerabilities.htm, May 8, 2007, LEQ)__//
//__Ambiguity in Who Is Responsible For Security__//
//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">securing other vulnerabilities</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**//

//__**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">ITS stops Hazmat attacks—4 reasons</span>**__//
//__**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">RITA 10/3</span>**, ITS Security Areas, 10/3/12, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.iteris.com/itsarch/html/security/securityareas.htm]]</span>__//
//__Disaster Response and Evacuation<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>The Disaster__//
//__the Fleet Management Center, and the Fleet Management Center may notify police.__//

//__**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Attacks would be easy and they’re motivated—they’ll target Hazmats</span>**__//
//__**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">HITRAC 6</span>** (Homeland Infrastructure Threat & Risk Analysis Center (HITRAC), Office of Intelligence and Analysis / Directorate for Preparedness, Strategic Sector Assessment, “(U__//__FOUO) The Terrorist Threat to the U.S. Commercial Passenger and Freight Rail System”, Ohttp://www.nefafoundation.org/file/FeaturedDocs/HITRAC_PassengerFreightRail.pdf, May 24, 2006, LEQ)//__
__//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chemical, Biological, or Radiological Attacks </span>//__
__//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">hazardous materials or are under water. </span>//__

__//**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Attacks collapse rail—destroys auto</span>**//__
__//**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">PSD 3</span>** (Protective Security Division, Department of Homeland Security, “CHARACTERISTICS AND COMMON VULNERABILITIES INFRASTRUCTURE CATEGORY: RAILROAD BRIDGES”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://info.publicintelligence.net/DHS-RRBridges-CV.pdf]]</span>, September 22, 2003, LEQ)//__
__//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">CONSEQUENCE OF EVENT </span>//__
//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">both rail and highway traffic</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. See Figures 1 and 2. </span>__//

//__**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">And the auto industry’s key to Japan’s economy</span>**__//
//__**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Detroit News 9</span>** (“Detroit's auto pain hits Japan,” pg online @ <span style="color: black; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.detnews.com/article/20090409/AUTO01/904090422/Detroit+s+auto+pain+hits+Japan]]</span>__// __cndi-ef)__
__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Tokyo -- </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Five of Japan's eight automakers </span>
__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">parts manufacturers in the United States. </span>__

__**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Nuclear war</span>**__
__**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The Guardian 2</span>**, 2-11-2002, “Finance: Defenceless Japan awaits typhoon,” l/n, cnb__
__Even so, the west__
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">bigger (and nuclear) neighbour.</span>

__**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Retaliation to a major attack causes extinction</span>**__
__**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Conley 3</span>** (Lieutenant Colonel Harry W., Chief of the System Analysis Branch – Headquarters Air Combat Command, “Not with Impunity: Assessing US Policy for Retaliating to a Chemical or Biological Attack”, Air & Space Power Journal, Spring, http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj03/spr03/conley.html)__
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The number of</span> __American__ <span style="font-size: 11pt;">casualties</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">whatever promises had been made.”</span>__48

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Rail Advantage</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Two internal links—first is the industry—ITS is key to breaking, grade crossing, increasing capacity, and efficiency</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Ditmeyer 5</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">, Steven R. Ditmeyer Department of Transportation Faculty Chair Industrial College of the Armed Forces National Defense University Eisenhower Hall Fort Lesley J. McNair Washington, DC 20319, Network Centric Railroading Utilizing Intelligent Railroad Systems, http://www.dodccrp.org/events/10th_ICCRTS/CD/papers/005.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Intelligent railroad systems … the transportation marketplace.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">And it reduces delays—that’s key to economic viability and uniformity’s vital</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">FRA No Date,</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> [Federal Railroad Administration, “Intelligent Railroad Systems”, http://www.fra.dot.gov/Pages/779.shtml</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The new Intelligent … implementing these systems.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Second is terrorism—documents and empirics prove terrorists will target railways</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Bennett 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Brian Bennett, Washington Bureau, LA Times, “Al Qaeda had U.S. trains in its sights, U.S. officials say”, http://articles.latimes.com/2011/may/05/nation/la-na-bin-laden-rail-threat-20110506, May 5, 2011)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Evidence collected in …when it occurs."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Decentralization of info increases vulnerabilities.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Temple 7</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Bob Temple, Contributer to Group 7, think tank for Railroad Security, Quoting The GAO Report on Rail Security, The AAR Hearing on Rail Security, and The CRS Report for Congress - Passenger Rail Security: Overview of Issue, http://www.personal.psu.edu/staff/r/p/rpt117/sra211/vulnerabilities.htm, May 8, 2007,)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Ambiguity in Who …securing other vulnerabilities. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">ITS stops Hazmat attacks—4 reasons</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">RITA 10/3</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">, ITS Security Areas, 10/3/12, [[http://www.iteris.com/itsarch/html/security/securityareas.htm]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Disaster Response and … may notify police.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Attacks would be easy and they’re motivated—they’ll target Hazmats</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">HITRAC 6</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Homeland Infrastructure Threat & Risk Analysis Center (HITRAC), Office of Intelligence and Analysis / Directorate for Preparedness, Strategic Sector Assessment, “(U//FOUO) The Terrorist Threat to the U.S. Commercial Passenger and Freight Rail System”, Ohttp://www.nefafoundation.org/file/FeaturedDocs/HITRAC_PassengerFreightRail.pdf, May 24, 2006,)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Chemical, Biological, or Radiological … are under water. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Retaliation causes extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Conley 3</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Lieutenant Colonel Harry W., Chief of the System Analysis Branch – Headquarters Air Combat Command, “Not with Impunity: Assessing US Policy for Retaliating to a Chemical or Biological Attack”, Air & Space Power Journal, Spring, http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj03/spr03/conley.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The number of …had been made.”48 </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Attacks collapse rail—destroys auto industry, ag, chem industry, and coal</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">PSD</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> **3** (Protective Security Division, Department of Homeland Security, “CHARACTERISTICS AND COMMON VULNERABILITIES INFRASTRUCTURE CATEGORY: RAILROAD BRIDGES”, [[http://info.publicintelligence.net/DHS-RRBridges-CV.pdf]], September 22, 2003, LEQ)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">CONSEQUENCE OF EVENT … rail and highway traffic.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">And the auto industry’s key to Japan’s economy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Detroit News 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (“Detroit's auto pain hits Japan,” pg online @ [[http://www.detnews.com/article/20090409/AUTO01/904090422/Detroit+s+auto+pain+hits+Japan]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Tokyo -- Five of … the United States. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The Guardian 2</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">, 2-11-2002, “Finance: Defenceless Japan awaits typhoon,” l/n, cnb </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Even so, the …(and nuclear) neighbour. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Agriculture solves extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Lugar 4</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Richard, a US Senator from Indiana, is Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and a member and former chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee. “calls for a new green revolution to combat global warming and reduce world instability,” pg online @ [[http://www.unep.org/OurPlanet/imgversn/143/lugar.html]]) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">In a world confronted …of our planet. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Chemical industry solves extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Baum 99</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Rudy M., C&EN Washington, Chemical and Engineering News, Millennium Special Report, 12-6, [[@http://pubs.acs.org/hotartcl/cenear/991206/7749spintro2.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">But I know … not-so-basic needs.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">U.S. coal is key to Chinese and Indian exports</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Cullen 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Terri Cullen, Economy and Markets Blogger, “Coal’s Role in the U.S. Economy”, Nightly Business Report, 4/07/10, [[http://www.pbs.org/nbr/blog/2010/04/coals_role_in_the_us_economy.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">When Americans think "…replace retiring workers.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">And coal is key to China’s economy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Holmes 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Frank, Chief Executive and Chief Investment Officer at U.S. Global Investors, 5-3, http://www.marketoracle.co.uk/Article27899.html, 7-5-11, AH)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Coal powers the … appliances in homes. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Plate 3</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> [Tom, Professor at UCLA, The Straights Times, “Neo-cons a bigger risk to Bush than China,” 6-28-2003]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">But imagine a …now seems to prefer. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">And exports are key to India’s economy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">NSWNC 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (New South Wales Minerals Council, 1-14, http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web &cd=3&ved=0CCwQFjAC&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.nswmin.com.au%2FArticleDocuments%2F49%2FNSWMC_MediaRelease_02-11_NSW-coking-coal-critical-to-an-emerging-India_110114.pdf.aspx&rct =j&q=coal%20critical%20india%20econ&ei=sDEVTsfPM-GssAKw3-Ey&usg=AFQjCNEwEPGaK_iQr GWhUhkCRsRP9piuOA&cad=rja, 7-6-11)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">NSW coking coal … in emerging economies.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Indian economic prevents India-Pakistan conflict </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Ganguly and Kapur 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> Šumit and S. Paul. “India, Pakistan, and the Bomb: Debating Nuclear Stability in South Asia,” March, Columbia University Press, http://cup.columbia.edu/book/978-0-231-14374-5/india-pakistan-and-the-bomb/excerpt. </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Therefore, India … continued Indian growth. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Extinction </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Chomsky, ‘9.</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> Noam, “Crisis and Hope: Theirs and Ours,” http://www.thefallingrain.com/Crisis%20and%20Hope%20-%20Noam%20Chomsky.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">It’s also not …but no time here.</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 1.066em; line-height: 1.5;">Berkeley VMT Advantage</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">First no offense—VMT fee is inevitable</span></span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hawley 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Steve, staff writer at Houston Tomorrow, “Gas tax no longer sustainable?” http://www.houstontomorrow.org/livability/story/many-experts-think-vehicle-miles-traveled-fee-is-inevitable/, 02/10/10) VZ</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The United States …miles traveled fee.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And it’s the only alternative to the gas tax and will be implemented soon</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Copeland 2/24</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Larry, staff writer at USA Today, “Gas tax falling short in paying for transportation needs” http://www.usatoday.com/news/nation/story/2012-02-07/gas-tax-not-enough-to-fund-roads/53228510/1 02/24/12) VZ</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Transportation funding. Wait! … getting much stronger."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Federal ITS is key to VMT—no other actor solves coordination, interdependency, or gets the industry on board</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ezell 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Stephen Ezell, senior analyst with the information technology and innovation foundation (itif), Explaining International IT Application Leadership: Intelligent Transportation Systems, http://www.itif.org/files/2010-1-27-ITS_Leadership.pdf, azp)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Despite their technical …a VMT system. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">It’ll replace the fuel tax—generates new revenue</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">IEEE-USA 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, U.S. Economic Competitiveness and Intelligent Transportation Systems Technology, http://www.ieeeusa.org/policy/positions/ITS.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Intelligent Transportation … of the GDP.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Absent new fuel revenues the Highway Trust Fund will collapse—it’s unsustainable without new revenue—new revenue is a litmus test for broader fiscal discipline—</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ayotte 3/25</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Sen. Kelly Ayotte, Union Leader, “UL: Ayotte: Highway bill poses a big test for Congress,” pg online @ http://www.ayotte.senate.gov/?p=news&id=504 //um-ef)//</span>
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Everyone in Congress … can do both.</span>//

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The deficit guarantees miscalculated war with China, ends economic leadership, and relations collapse</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Prasad 2/25</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Eswar, Eswar Prasad holds the New Century Chair in International Economics. He is the Tolani Senior Professor of Trade Policy at Cornell University and a Research Associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research. He was previously head of the Financial Studies Division and the China Division at the IMF, “The U.S.-China Economic Relationship: Shifts and Twists in the Balance of Power,” pg online @ http://www.brookings.edu/testimony/2010/0225_us_china_debt_prasad.aspx </span>um-ef)
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The lopsided nature … tackling climate change.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Economic tensions cause war—most probable</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Landy 7</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Ben Landy, Director of Research and Strategy at the Atlantic Media Company, publisher of the Atlantic Monthly, National Journal, and Government Executive magazines, April 3, 2007, http://chinaredux.com/2007/04/03/protectionism-and-war/#comments,) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The greatest threat …anti-satellite tests.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hunkovic 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, American Military University [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A war …militarily affected by it.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">China relations solve extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Wenzhong 4</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, PRC Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 2-7-2K4 (Zhou, “Vigorously Pushing Forward the Constructive and Cooperative Relationship Between China and the United States,” http://china-japan21.org/eng/zxxx/t64286.htm)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">China's development needs … in China-US relations.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Relations solve a nuclear Indo-Pak war—the risk of miscalc is high</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Xu 1</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Xianquan Xu, Senior Research Fellow, Chinese Academy, International Trade and Economic Coop, 2001 </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(China, the United States, and the Global Economy, Shuxun Chen & Charles Wolf, p. 266)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Both the United … from becoming extreme.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Surface transportation’s deteriorating now—fixing the HTF stops manufacturing decline</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hermann 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Andrew Herrmann, P.E. SECB, F.ASCE President American Society of Civil Engineers, Impact Of Infrastructure Investment On The Manufacturing Sector, pg lexis//um-ef)//</span>
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">ASCE commends the …the nation's infrastructure</span>//

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The industry’s interconnected and shocks spillover—kills science leadership and innovation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Lind 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Michael Lind is policy director of New America’s Economic Growth Program and a co-founder of the New America Foundation. Joshua Freedman is a program associate in New America’s Economic Growth Program. “Value Added: America’s Manufacturing Future,” pg online @ http://growth.newamerica.net/sites/newamerica.net/files/policydocs/Lind,%20Michael%20and%20Freedman,%20Joshua%20-%20NAF%20-%20Value%20Added%20America%27s%20Manufacturing%20Future.pdf </span>um-ef)
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Manufacturing, R&D and the U.S… percent by 2020.33</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Science leadership’s key to EU relations and broader science diplomacy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Leshner and Turekian 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [The chief executive officer of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and executive publisher of the journal Science AND the chief international officer at AAAS and director of its Center for Science Diplomacy [February 2009, Alan I. Leshner and Vaughan Turekian, Editorial, “Europe and the United States: A Crucial Moment for Science Cooperation,” http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/jrc/downloads/jrc_newsletter_2009_02.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In the centuries … and engineering relationship. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Relations solve great power war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">O’Sullivan 4</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – vice president of the Mission Critical Networks business area, which includes all FAA programs, as well as the Alaska Flight Services Modernization and OASIS programs [March 31, 2004, John O'Sullivan, “Europe and the Establishment,” The National Interest, http://nationalinterest.org/article/europe-and-the-establishment-2608]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The report's starting …led to 1914.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And it’s key to TNW reductions with Russia</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Lowenthal 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Micah. Senior Program Officer Nuclear and Radiation Studies Board National Research Council of the National Academies “Science Diplomacy for Nuclear Security.” United States Institute for Peace. [[http://www.usip.org/files/resources/SR_288.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In the debate over … an essential role to play.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">That solves</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **Russian accidental launch and institutionalizes cooperation**</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Podvig 6</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Pavel, Research Director at the Center for International and Security Cooperation, “Reducing the Risk of an Accidental Launch” Science and Global Security, Vol. 14, pg. 75-115, May, http://iis-db.stanford.edu/pubs/21283/14_2-3__Podvig.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Part of the problem …with nuclear weapons.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Accidental launch causes extinction—high probability</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Morgan 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Dennis Ray Morgan, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, South Korea, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race,” Futures, 41(10), December 2009, ScienceDirect)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In a remarkable … in a nuclear winter.</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Plan Texts </span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Greenhill: The United States federal government should substantially increase funding for Intelligent Transportation Systems including funding for demonstration projects, deployment, and ongoing operations and maintenance of already deployed Intelligent Transportation Systems.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">**Greenhill Octas:** </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The United States federal government should substantially increase funding for Intelligent Transportation Systems including funding for demonstration projects, deployment, and ongoing operations and improvements of already deployed Intelligent Transportation Systems.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Golden Desert: </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its funding for demonstration projects, deployment, and ongoing operations and improvement of already deployed Intelligent Transportation Infrastructure.</span>**
====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Solvency</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The federal government is key</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ezell 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Stephen Ezell is a Senior Analyst with the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation (ITIF), with a focus on innovation policy, science and technology policy, international competitiveness, and trade, manufacturing, and services issues, January 2010, “Executive Summary: Intelligent Transportation Systems”, http://www.itif.org/files/2010-1-27-ITS_Leadership.pdf; AB</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This report examines … and regional levels. </span>

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Framing Advantage</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Interdependence checks war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Deudney et al 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Daniel, professor of political science at John Hopkins, and John Ikenberry, professor of international affairs at Princeton, Foreign Affairs, “The Myth of Autocratic Revival,” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/63721/daniel-deudney-and-g-john-ikenberry/the-myth-of-the-autocratic-revival)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This bleak outlook …autocratic revivalists acknowledge.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Empirics prove deterrence solves nuclear escalation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Murdock 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Clark Murdock, senior advisor at CSIS, March 2008, “the Department of Defense and the Nuclear Mission in the 21st Century,” CSIS, online</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">From a systemic perspective, … deterrence holds fast.19 </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">15 years of data prove a consistent statistical decrease in war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Easterbrook 5</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> senior fellow at The New Republic, 05 [Greg, “EXPLAINING 15 YEARS OF DIMINISHING VIOLENCE — The End of War?”, … like dueling or slavery. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Permanent psychological evolution checks major war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Fettweis 6</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Assistant Professor in the Political Science Department at Tulane University, 2006, (Christopher J., strategist for two year at the US Naval War College, “A Revolution in International Relation Theory: Or What if Mueller Is Right?” International Studies Review, pp. 677-697)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Almost as significant, all … that it could not.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Models disprove nuclear war theory -- their evidence is falsified</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Seitz 6 – </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">former associate of the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard University’s Center for InternationalAffairs (Russell, “The' Nuclear Winter ' Meltdown Photoshopping the Apocalypse”, <span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">[[http://adamant.typepad.com/seitz/2006/12/preherein_honor.html]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">All that remains … aloft for so long?</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hiroshima and large-scale volcanic eruptions prove smoke will dissipate after hours and the effect won’t be global</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dunning 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Brian, By profession I am a computer scientist, both as a Silicon Valley CTO and as a consulting engineer. My only academic credential that bears any scrutiny is in Writing for Film and Television from University of California, Los Angeles. I also have a credential that doesn't bear any scrutiny — and you'll find it at Thunderwood College. I'm also a member of the National Association of Science Writers. I've written a few books and numerous technical articles. I decided to put this experience to good use, and created the Skeptoid podcast. I'm also one of the featured bloggers on SkepticBlog, the official blog of the prospective TV series The Skeptologists which I host, “Nuclear War and Nuclear Winter,” http://skeptoid.com/episodes/4244)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">So here we … favor of nuclear war?" </span>

=Negative= 
===Topicality=== 
====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">T-Increase</span>**==== 
**Interpretation: increase requires preexistence**
**Webster’s 98**
Increase: to make ..well developed

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">T-Capital Expenditure</span>**==== 
**Investment requires capital expenditure**
**Anderson 6**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Edward, Lecturer in Development Studies – University of East Anglia, et al., “The Role of Public Investment in Poverty Reduction: Theories, Evidence and Methods”, Overseas Development Institute Working Paper 263, March, http://www.odi.org.uk/resources/docs/1786.pdf)</span>
1.3 Definitions We define… World Bank, 2002).

**Bering Strait land grants aren’t capital expenditures – __their solvency advocate__**
**Burroughs 9** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of Northern Inter-Continental Enterprises, Inc., (NICE, Inc.) an Alaska Corporation chartered for the purpose of building the Bering Strait railway tunnels and connecting trackage between the North American and Asian rail systems. He has been CEO of several short-line and regional railroads, and is an officer and a Founding Director of the Interhemispheric Bering Strait Tunnel & Railroad Group, an Alaska not-for-profit educational corporation which has been studying and promoting the trans-Bering Strait rail link for the past 17 years. Mr. Burroughs holds a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University('65) and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University's Kellogg School('70), “THE FAST TRACK TO A BETTER WORLD,” June, www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf)</span>
The big question in … to critical resources.
====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">T-Substantial</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A substantial investment is over 20%</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Traficant et. al 89</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – former member of US House of Representatives(James, written with other Congressmembers, Bill Summary & Status 101st Congress (1989 - 1990) H.R.2489, 5/24/89, http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d101:h.r.02489:)</span>
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(C) SUBSTANTIAL INVESTMENT DEFINED…of such period.</span>//

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Transportation infrastructure spending is $48.1 billion</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">GAO 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">– Investigative arm of Congress charged with examining matters relating to the receipt and payment of public funds (Government Accountability Office, Funding Used for Transportation Infrastructure Projects, but Some Requirements Proved Challenging, 6/29/11, http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-11-600)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This report responds to …, and local officials.</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">T-Vehicles</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Multiple government agencies prove infrastructure denotes fixed, permanent facilities and equipment</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">GAO 98 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">– U.S. General Accounting Office (“Best Practices: Elements Critical to Successfully Reducing Unneeded RDT&E Infrastructure: Report to Congressional Requesters,” GAO Website, Jan. 1998, http://www.gao.gov/assets/160/156058.pdf)//RD//</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">DoD generally defines … and software tools.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Vehicles are distinct </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">CFST 06</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – Campaign for Sensible Transportation, collection of organizations for better transportation in the Santa Cruz area (“Aboard Transportation”, 2006, http://www.cfst.org/transportation.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Transportation or transport … air traffic control, and etc.</span>
====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">T-Space</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Interpretation –Federal law defines transportation infrastructure is 9 specific subsectors—distinct from space</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">American Jobs Act, 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (112 H. Doc. 53, legislation submitted to the House by Obama, 9/13, lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(A) In general…. public and commercial buildings.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">They plan doesn’t meet aviation—that’s limited to activity __within Earth’s atmosphere__ </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Vogt ‘12</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Crystal, MS in Journalism – Boston University and BA in English – University of California, Santa Barbara, “The Difference Between the Aviation Industry and the Aerospace Industry”, Houston Chronicle, http://smallbusiness.chron.com/difference-between-aviation-industry-aerospace-industry-26208.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Though there is … air traffic management.</span>
====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">T-Pipelines</span>**==== 
**Interpretation –Federal law defines transportation infrastructure is 9 specific subsectors—distinct from energy transmission**
**American Jobs Act, 11** (112 H. Doc. 53, legislation submitted to the House by Obama, 9/13, lexis)
(9) Infrastructure project.--
(A) In general.--The term …public and commercial buildings.

**Pipelines are explicitly excluded—they are energy infrastruction**
**U.S. Chamber of Commerce, 10** (“Transportation Performance Index – Summary Report” 9/23/10 [[http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/lra/files/LRA_TPI%20_Summary_Report%20Final%20092110]].pdf)
Step 1 – Definition: Transportation Infrastructure…marine, and intermodal.

**Precision—secretary of transportation votes neg**
**Peters 7** – Secretary of Transportation (Mary, Statement by her made before the committee on the budget – US house of representatives 10/25/07 http://testimony.ost.dot.gov/test/pasttest/07test/peters9.htm)
Because transportation system … pipelines, and railroads.

**Pipelines unlimits the topic – There are 320 existing pipelines and over 1,000 networks.**
**Parformak 12** [Paul W., Specialist in Energy and Infrastructure, Congressional Research Service Report to Congress, “Keeping America’s Pipelines Safe and Secure: Key Issues for Congress”,March 13, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/homesec/R41536.pdf
Of the nation’s …peak demand periods

===Disadvantages=== 
====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Elections</span>**==== 
**Obama’s ahead now but it’ll be close—perception of the economy is key**
**Halloran 9/17**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, Liz Halloran is a staff writer @ NPR, Despite Romney Stumbles, Presidential Race is Far from Over, http://www.wnyc.org/npr_articles/2012/sep/17/despite-recent-romney-stumbles-presidential-race-is-far-from-over/</span>
Republican presidential candidate Mitt … the economy," Newport says.

**Infrastructure spending kills re-election**
**Reinhardt 12**William, Founder Public Works Financing, Engineering News Record, 2/27, lexis
Peter Ruane, CEO of the American Road and Transportation Builders Association, calls Washington a «fact-free zone.»
__The firewall that__ for …deliver mainly invoices. ?

=====**China Trade Impact**===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Romney will label China as a currency manipulator—kills the economy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Harwood 5/22</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">/12 “The Electoral Math of Romney’s Stance on Trade With China”; By JOHN HARWOOD; Published: March 22, 2012; </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Among all the … against Mr. Obama.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">That escalates to an all out trade-war—subsumes their defense</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">McNally 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Chris, research fellow and political economist @ East-West Center, “CHINA-U.S. ECONOMIC RELATIONS: FROM SYMBIOSIS TO RUPTURE?” East West Center -- Feb 8 -- [[http://www.eastwestcenter.org/news-center/east-west-wire/china-us-economic-relations-from-symbiosis-to-rupture/]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The unraveling of to mere “currency issues.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **Trade collapse causes extinction and escalates all conflicts -- economic collapse is only possible with protectionism**</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Pazner 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Michael, Panzner 2008 faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse, Revised and Updated Edition, p. 136-138, googlebooks</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Continuing calls for curbs …a new world war.</span>
=====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Terrorism Impact</span>**===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Obama win solves terror</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Korb and Rothman 2/15 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Lawrence J. Korb: Senior Fellow @ American Progress; senior advisor, Center for Defense Information, Georgetown University Prof. Alex Rothman: Special Assistant w/ National Security & International Policy team, American Progress. http://thinkprogress.org/security/2012/02/15/426332/obama-plan-to-reduce-nukes-is-good-for-budget-boosts-moral-authority-on-global-nonproliferation/?mobile=nc]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Obama administration is …what it preaches.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**Sid-Ahmed 4** (Mohamed, Managing Editor for Al-Ahali, “Extinction!” August 26-September 1, Issue no. 705, http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A nuclear attack by … all be losers.</span>

=====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">October Surprise Impact</span>**===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Obama will authorize Israel to strike Iran if he perceives that he is losing the election</span>**
<span style="background-color: white; text-align: start;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Buchanan 4/15</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Pat Buchanan, 4/15/12, columnist, MSNBC political analyst, author; he has been a senior advisor to three Presidents, a two-time presidential candidate, and nominee of the Reform Party, “Bibi's Dilemma -- and Barack's”, Creators.com)</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">An Israeli attack on …do it, before November?</span>

<span style="background-color: white; text-align: start;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">That causes global war—consensus</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: white; text-align: start;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Kristof 3/24</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Nicholas D. Kristof, 3/24/12, Pulitzer-Prize-winning NY Times columnist, expert on international and presidential politics, author, “The False Debate About Attacking Iran”, NY Times, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/03/25/opinion/sunday/kristof-the-false-debate-about-attacking-iran.html)</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">I wonder if we…but a consensus.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Syria Impact</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Romney will arm the rebels in Syria—this risks a regional war in the Middle East:</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">MacAskill 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">/**8** Ewen (staff writer, “Mitt Romney: arm the Syrian rebels,” 2012, [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2012/oct/08/mitt-romney-arm-syrian-rebels]], Accessed 10/16/2012,)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Mitt Romney will…restrict the supply of weapons to small arms.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">That goes nuclear</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Russell 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">, James A. Russell, Senior Lecturer, National Security Affairs, Naval Postgraduate School, ‘9 (Spring) “Strategic Stability Reconsidered: Prospects for Escalation and Nuclear War in the Middle East” IFRI, Proliferation Papers, #26, http://www.ifri.org/downloads/PP26_Russell_2009.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Strategic stability in the … for the entire world.</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Coast Guard Trade-Off</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Coast Guard can weather the first round of cuts but it’s </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">on the brink</span>__</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Gooding 6/26</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **(**Mike, WVEC reporter on military affairs, “Port of Virginia gets new Coast Guard captain amid budget cut concerns”, http://www.wvec.com/my-city/portsmouth/Port-of-Virginia-to-get-new-Coast-Guard-captain-159987875.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dramatic budget cuts are…as sequestration kicks in.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">They </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">devour</span>__</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> the Coast Guard budget</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Caldwell 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Director of Homeland Security and Justice, ’11 (Stephen, December 1, “Coast Guard: Observations on Arctic Requirements, Icebreakers, and Coordination with Stakeholders” Testimony Before the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, House of Representatives”http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyCGMT/2011-12-1-Caldwell.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">As mentioned above, ….icebreakers, see appendix IV.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Otherwise they’d have to cut anti-drug smuggling</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Perera 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, David March 7, 2012 executive editor of the FierceMarkets Government Group ‘Coast Guard could cut back operations without NSCs, says Papp” [[http://www.fiercehomelandsecurity.com/story/coast-guard-could-cut-back-operations-without-nscs-says-papp/2012-03-07]] </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Coast Guard could …back, Papp added.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">BBC 2</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> By Tim Hirsch BBC environment correspondent Thursday, 31 October, 2002, 23:51 GMT Cocaine industry 'killing rainforest [[http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/americas/2384303.stm]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Cocaine-users across the … needs for its oxygen."</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Vostochny </span>**==== 
=====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">1NC</span>**===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Work on Vostochny is beginning now -- that revolutionizes Russia’s space program</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Russian Aviation 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Vostochny Cosmodrome will cost 300 billion rubles, http://www.ruaviation.com/news/2011/12/22/695/</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The construction of Vostochny … allocated in 2014-2015.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Aerospace is globalized – Russian experts will go to the highest bidder</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Pigman 2</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Geoffry Allen, Professor of political economy at Coventry University and member of the Centre for International and European Studies “ The New Aerospace Diplomacy: Reinventing Post-Cold War US-Russian Economic Relations” paper for the Centre for International and European Studies 3-25-02 </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://isanet.ccit.arizona.edu/noarchive/pigman.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> NEH)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In order for Russia … and research in space. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And, skilled workers are key to a new spaceport -- that solves development in the Far East</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Russia and CIS Defense Industry Weekly 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, 9-3-2010</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Russia needs its own … Russian Federation," he said.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Lack of Far Eastern development means China fills the vacuum -- causes Sino-Russo war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Blagov 7 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Sergei, Moscow-based analyst for ISN Security Watch, EnerPub, April 2, http://www.energypublisher.com/article.asp?idarticle=8786)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">However, critics have questioned …power, such as China.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And, nuclear winter</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Sharavin 1 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Alexander, Director of the Institute for Military and Political Analysis, What the Papers Say, Oct 3)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Now, a few words about … possible nuclear winter.</span>

=====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NC Overview</span>**===== 
**<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Robust Russian space program is key to asteroid deflection -- outweighs nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Blade 10 </span>**<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">1-5-2010 (“Preparing for Impact,” lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">But the proposal to …around to wrangle asteroids.</span>

**<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Robust space program key to Russia’s early warning network</span>**
**<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hitchens 3</span>**<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Theresa Hitchens is the director of Center for Defense Information and the former editor of Defense News. "Monsters and Shadows: Left Unchecked, American Fears Regarding Threats to Space Assets Will Drive Weaponization." Disarmament Forum. No. 1 (2003) <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.unidir.org/pdf/articles/pdf-art1884.pdf]]</span>) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">As a long-time space …warning satellite networks.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Morgan 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Dennis Ray Morgan, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, South Korea, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race,” Futures, 41(10), December 2009, ScienceDirect)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In a remarkable … a nuclear winter.</span>

=====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NC Link Framing </span>**===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And, 20% of scientists are willing to leave now -- supercharges the probability new opportunity makes them go</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Peterson 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, 6-14-11, Trude, Barents Observer Reporter Norwegian news magazine, “ Russia still suffering from brain drain” BarentsObserver.com <span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.barentsobserver.com/russia-still-suffering-from-brain-drain.4932283-116320.html]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">One fifth of … and move abroad.</span>

=====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NC Link Wall</span>**===== 
**<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2015 completion deadline means the brink is now -- a precarious brink means you err neg on the link debate</span>**
**<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Deutsche Welle 10</span>**<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (“Russian space program on the rise,” Nov 3, http://www.dw-world.de/dw/article/0,,6185232,00.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Russian space industry,…plans come true."</span>

**<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Launches are zero sum -- the plan reverses the brain drain in the status quo</span>**
**<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Spotts 10 </span>**<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">– (3/8/10, Peter, Christian Science Monitor, staff writer, “Congress tries to alter Obama's plans for NASA,” l/) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">"When the shuttle…of the proposal.</span>

=====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NC AT U.S. Workers </span>**===== 
**<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Massive workforce shortage now</span>**
**<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">IFPA 9 </span>**<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, “ Space and U.S. Security A Net Assessment,” </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA494460&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]], AM)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">If current trends … math and science teachers. 7</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Employment trends prove</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">ARSA 3</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Amateur Rocketry Society of America “Homeland Security Act Hurts Aerospace/Defense Industry”, March 22, Amateur Rocketry Society Of America On Line News Letter, [[http://www.space-rockets.com/arsanews.html]]) access 7/9/11</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">American aerospace companies use ….develop this new vehicle.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">NASA recruits from overseas</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dinerman 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Taylor, thespacereview.com, “Protecting the Space Workforce”, 8/31/9, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1455/1]], accessed 7/6/11,)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Every major downturn … defective main mirror.</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Coercion</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Centralized economic planning causes __totalitarianism__—reject it in every instance</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dorn 4</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Vice president for academic affairs at the Cato Institute and author of "The Rise of Government and the Decline of Morality." (James, “The Road to Serfdom after 60 Years”, CATO Institute, March 14, 2004, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cato.org/publications/commentary/road-serfdom-after-60-years]]</span>, Callahan)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In The Road to Serfdom and … a market-liberal order.</span>

====**Free Trade**==== 
**Free trade collapsing now**
**Caldwell 12** (Christopher “US consensus on free trade is faltering”, [[http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/9c1fc3c2-190c-11e2-af88-00144feabdc0.html#axzz29oRcotvj|http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/9c1fc3c2-190c-11e2-af88-00144feabdc0.html#axzz29oRcotvj]], acceessed 10/19/12)
Both candidates are … gradually taken apart.

**The aff would massively boost global trade**
**Barry '11**
(Mark P. Barry, Senior Fellow for Public Policy, Summit Council for World Peace, Washington, DC, "M.P. Barry: Advancing the Bering Strait Tunnel Project in the United States and Canada", 10/4/11, www.upf.org/programs/bering-strait-project/4017-mp-barry-advancing-the-bering-strait-tunnel-project-in-the-united-states-and-canada]
First, West Coast American … Paris, London, etc.

**That makes global war and U.S. intervention in places like Iraq inevitable**
**Denney and Gleason, 5/31** – Steven Denney, master’s candidate at the Graduate School of International Studies, Yonsei University. He received his BA in Political Science from Harding University; Brian Gleason, master’s candidate at the Gradate School of International Studies, Yonsei University. He received his BA in Political Science from the University of Wisconsin-Madison (“ The Political Economy of Trade Policy: A Realist Perspective,” Yonsei University, 5/31/12, [[http://sinonk.files.wordpress.com/2012/05/the-political-economy-of-trade-policy-steven_c_denney-brian_d_gleason.pdf]], //JPL)
Realists differ from … to center stage

====**Nuclear Navy**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">New naval ships will be __nuclear-powered__</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Grossman 8</span>**, KARL GROSSMAN, professor of journalism at the State University of New York/College at Old Westbury, 7-30-2008, Counter Punch, “Nuclear-Powered Amphibious Assault Ships?”, http://www.counterpunch.org/grossman07302008.html, JK
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The National Defense Authorization </span>__
was signed by President Bush.

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">That causes a __Chernobyl at sea__</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kaplan 87</span>**, DAVID E. KAPLAN, an investigative reporter and director of the Center for Public Integrity's International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, 6-8-1987, The Globe and Mail (Canada), “A Chernobyl at sea haunts countries with nuclear subs”, Lexis, JK
The Ministry of National Defence's...<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">records of these ships.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">That destroys the food chain and causes __extinction__</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Krieger 96</span>** (Krieger, David. "Denuclearization of the Oceans: Linking Our Common Heritage with Our Common Future." Mar 1996. Nuclear Age Peace Foundation, Web. 12 Jan 2010. [[http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/1996/03/00_krieger_denuclearization-oceans.htm]])
From an environmental perspective...<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">breach their containment.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Turns the economy—</span>****<span style="font-size: 11pt; line-height: 1.5;">evacuation __shuts down__ industrial centers</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kaplan 87 </span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">DAVID E. KAPLAN, an investigative reporter and director of the Center for Public Integrity's International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, 6-8-1987, The Globe and Mail (Canada), “A Chernobyl at sea haunts countries with nuclear subs”, Lexis, JK </span>
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">U.S. officials</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> do....</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt; line-height: 1.5;">encompassing 186,000 people.</span>__

====**Chinese Steel**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Chinese economy and steel industry strong – steel exports key </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Reuters 12,</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> 10/18/12 (“China Sept steel, oil output bounce points to recovery ahead”, [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/10/18/us-china-output-steel-idUSBRE89H0DH20121018]], accessed 10/19/12) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">(Reuters) - China's crude steel … China's total capacity.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">New Buy America provision means the plan uses domestically sourced steel – undermines Chinese steel </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Metal Bulletin 11,</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (“Bill aims to bolster 'Buy America' provisions” , Metal Bulletein, Industry Newsletter, 12/2/11 lexis nexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">A new bill … on this issue" (AMM, Oct. 3).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Undermines Chinese growth </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Haley 09</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> George Haley (PhD, Professor & Director, Center for International Industry Competitiveness, College of Business, University of New Haven) March 24 2009 “Testimony before the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission Hearing: China’s Industrial Policy and its Impact on U.S. Companies, Workers and the American Economy,” http://www.uscc.gov/hearings/2009hearings/written_testimonies/09_03_24_wrts/09_03_24_haley_statement.php</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">What impact has … remain price competitive. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Turns Chinese war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Shirk and Lam 7</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> Susan Shirk (director of the University of California system-wide Institute on Global Conflict and Cooperation) and Ho Miu Lam (professor of China and Pacific Relations at IR/PS and Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau of East Asia and Pacific Affairs) 2007 Fragile China</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">As China’s leaders … endanger Party rule.”</span>

=====**2NC Link Wall**===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">New transportation bill had a Buy America provision—proves the tradeoff</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Ngai 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> Catherine 3/15/12 (“US Senate passes transportation funding bill”, Metal Bulletein, lexis, accessed 10/18/12) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The US Senate … $260-billion transportation bill.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">More evidence—MAP-21 requires Buy America if a project has any federal funding.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Morton 12 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Peter 5/10/12 (“Buy American revision reopens threat to Canadian economy”, [[http://www.thestar.com/business/article/1175885--buy-american-revision-reopens-threat-to-canadian-economy]], accessed 10/18/12) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">WASHINGTON—Canadian companies…economic stimulus bill. </span>

===Counterplans=== 
====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Earmarks CP</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The United States federal government should appoint a conference committee for FY2014 appropriations legislation for Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Programs. The conference committee should recommend an earmark in FY2014 continuing appropriations legislation for the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Programs which provides _.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Earmarking in the budget conference committee guarantees the plan gets done without fiating passage, and doesn’t link to elections</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Kerpen 07 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Phil Kerpen**,** policy director for Americans for Prosperity, 5-24-2007, “Democrats Fail on Earmark Reform,” Human Events, http://www.humanevents.com/article.php?id=20856]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">When Democrats announced …or congressional debate.</span>
=====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NC AT Links to Elections</span>**===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Conference earmarks ensure passage without controversy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Crespin 09 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Michael H. Poly Sci Prof @ UGA, et al, 1-1-</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2009</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, “Perception and Reality in Congressional Earmarks,” University of South Carolina Scholar Commons, http://scholarcommons.sc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1052&context=poli_facpub</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The third myth … bloated spending bills. </span>

=====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NC AT Theory</span>**===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Specifically, learning about earmarks is key to real world education.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Clemens et al 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Austin Christopher and Michael H. Crespin, Department of Political Science, School of Public and International Affairs, The University of Georgia, and Charles Finocchiaro, Department of Political Science, University of South Carolina, Columbia, “Earmarks and Subcommittee Government in the U.S. Congress”, 1-9-2010, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://crespin.myweb.uga.edu/spsa_earmarks.pdf]]</span></span>
__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Despite</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> a recent … __of congressional budgeting.__</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Counterplan allows understanding the budgeting process--that's key to informed decision making.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dietz 08</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Jennifer L. </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dietz</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**,** GMU**, <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">2008</span>**, “The Importance of Education, Transparency and Accountability,” Facing Up, http://www.facingup.org/the-importance-education-transparency-and-accountability-us-budget-process-0</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">During the heightened …and moving forward.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Earmarks were first used in transportation infrastructure—makes the counterplan real world.</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Rohatyn and Ehrlich, 8 </span>**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Felix/Everett, A New Bank to Save Our Infrastructure, The New York Review of Book, October 8, accessed at</span> <span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[@http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2008/oct/09/a-new-bank-to-save-our-infrastruct]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">So __the “modal” …__ ten in 1982.</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Alaska CP</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Text: The Alaskan state government should invest in the construction of two new polar icebreakers. The Alaskan state government should lease its icebreakers to the United States Coast Guard and the National Science Foundation to ensure that the POLAR SEA remains capable and that the POLAR STAR remains available for reactivation</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">That solves</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">DeMarban 12 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Should Alaska take the lead in financing icebreakers?” http://www.alaskadispatch.com/article/should-alaska-take-lead-financing-new-icebreakers Alex DeMarban | Apr 11, 2012</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Gov. Sean Parnell says … returned Wednesday evening.</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Space Elevator CP</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">CP Text: The United States federal government should construct a space elevator. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">That solves all their launch internal links and avoids space accidents</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Edwards and Ragan 6 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(“Leaving the Planet by Space Elevator”, Bradley Ph.D. is the president of Carbon Designs Inc., the Director of Research at the Institute for Scientific Research and Philip, pg. 82)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">First, we should … problems of a rocket.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Accidents guarantee the death of millions</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Grossman 1</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Karl, Professor of Journalism – State University of New York, “No Nukes in Space”, http://www.ecomall.com/activism/karl.htm)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Cassini is supposed to … thousands or millions dying.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Debris is at the tipping point now – spills over and turns the case </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Carreau 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Mark Carreau, staff writer at Aviation Weekly, “Orbital Debris Expert Urges Retrieval,” Aerospace Daily and Defense Report, 12/1/11, http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_channel.jsp?channel=space&id=news/asd/2011/12/01/11.xml&headline=Orbital%20Debris%20Expert%20Urges%20Retrieval)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Efforts over the past … another country’s spacecraft. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And the plan __exponentially__ magnifies debris </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Australian Space Academy</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **7** (“Briefing on Space Law,” ASA, http://www.spaceacademy.net.au/spacelaw/spacelaw.htm)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Since the start of the …__hazards to active spacecraft__.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Thomas 6</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (William Thomas, Investigative Journalist, 8-7-2006, “Scientist Says Chemtrails, Shuttle Launches Endangering Earth,” Chem Trails, http://www.chemtrails911.com/docs/Space%20Shuttle%20Launch-Ozone%20Layer.htm)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A Canadian atmospheric …__but the stratosphere itself.__</span>
====**States CP**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">CP Text: The 50 states and all relevant territories of the United States should form interstate advisory compacts to facilitate development of regulated pipeline transportation of captured carbon sequestration in the United States.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Interstate compacts solve pipelines better and faster.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bliss et al. 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – Kevin, Interstate Oil and Gas Compact Commission, with Darrick Eugene, Consultant, Robert W. Harms, The Harms Group, Victor G. Carrillo, Texas Railroad Commission, Kipp Coddington, Mowrey, Meezan, Coddington, Cloud, LLP, Mike Moore, VP External Affairs, Blue Source LLC, John Harju, Associate Director for Research at the University of North Dakota Energy & Environmental Research Center, Grand Forks, North Dakota Melanie Jensen, University of North Dakota Energy & Environmental Research Center, Grand Forks, North Dakota Lisa Botnen, University of North Dakota Energy & Environmental Research Center, Grand Forks, North Dakota Philip M. Marston, Marston Law, Doug Louis, Director, Conservation Division, Kansas Corporation Commission, Steve Melzer, Melzer Consulting, Colby Drechsel, Wyoming Pipeline Authority, Jack Moody, Director, State Mineral Lease Program, Jackson, Mississippi Lon Whitman, Enhanced Oil Recovery Institute, University of Wyoming (“A Policy, Legal, and Regulatory Evaluation of the Feasibility of a National Pipeline Infrastructure for the Transport and Storage of Carbon Dioxide,” Southern States Energy Board, 9/10/10, http://www.sseb.org/downloads/pipeline.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(c) Multi-State Authority138 In addition to … and interaction among states</span>

====**Land Grants CP**==== 
**CP Text: Elliot and I ask you to imagine that the United federal government increases its land grants to investors to invest in transportation infrastructure in the United States in order to complete a fixed link Bering Strait crossing**

**Only the counter plan solves**
**Burroughs 9** (Craig Burroughs MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University's Kellogg School, B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University, is Chairman and CEO of Northern Inter-Continental Enterprises, Inc., (NICE, Inc.) an Alaska Corporation chartered for the purpose of building the Bering Strait railway tunnels and connecting trackage between the North American and Asian rail systems. He has been CEO of several short-line and regional railroads pg online @ [[http://www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.html]] ghs-ef)
The big question in any … the railroad’s bonds.

**And it competes—**
**Land grants are gifts, not investments**
**US Legal 6** – US Legal Dictionary (US Legal, “Land Grant Law & Legal Definition”, US Legal Dictionary, March 18 of 2006, http://definitions.uslegal.com/l/land-grant/)//AW
The term … the Morrill Acts.

**Distinct from federal funding**
**Warner, 11** – US Senator who introduced this bill into the Senate (introduced by Mark Warner and Mark Kirk, “S. 1968: A bill to require the Secretary of Transportation to establish a pilot program to increase accountability with respect to outcomes of transportation investments, and for other purposes,” December 8, 2011, [[http://www.govtrack.us/congress/bills/112/s1968/text)/RD|http://www.govtrack.us/congress/bills/112/s1968/text)//RD]]
‘(5) TRANSPORTATION INVESTMENT- The term … or 135 of title 23.

====**NMS CP**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Text – The Chair of the Joint Chiefs of Staff of the United States should issue a national military strategy, and corresponding strategic concept focused on implementation, that _ is necessary to achieve the national security goals of the United States. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">NMS solves and rejuvenates CMR</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Meinhart 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Dr. Richard M., Professor of Defense and Joint Processes at the U.S. Army War College, “National Military Strategies: 1990 to 2007”, National Security Policy and Strategy, Ed. Bartholomees, June, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTR Doc?AD=ADA482688&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">To meet these … global security environment. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Independent action causes military backlash—tanks heg</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Baker 8 (</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Anni P., Assistant Professor of History – Wheaton College, Life in the Armed Forces: (Not) Just Another Job, p. 192-195)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">THE INFLUENCE OF … other military considerations.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And military resistance tanks solvency</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Sulmasy 7</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> - Glenn Sulmasy, Judge Advocate, Associate Professor of Law, U.S. Coast Guard Academy, and John Yoo, Professor of Law, Boalt Hall School of Law, University of California, Berkeley; Visiting Scholar, American Enterprise Institute, 54 UCLA L. Rev. 1815, August, 2007, Lexis</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Military resistance …pursue its own preferences.</span>


====**Dumping Ban CP**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Text: The United States federal government should ban all nuclear waste dumping on indigenous lands. </span>**

===Kritiks=== 
====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Security</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The affirmative’s fixation on national interests and enemy creation is empirically the greatest cause of conflicts, facilitates dictatorial control, makes the use of nuclear weapons inevitable, and requires hysteria and willful strategic blindness that makes it a flawed way of viewing the world -- vote neg as an intellectual criticism of the 1ac’s securitizing representations</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Shapiro 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Iraq vs. U.S.: Total War Meets Pure War, [[http://www.alan-shapiro.com/iraq-vs-u-s-total-war-meets-pure-war/]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Since at least …and their institutions</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>__

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Heidegger </span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The affirmative’s cosmological representation of space as a one dimensional region to be utilized for human gain denies richer ontologies and transforms space into a subject of the technik. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Turnbull 06</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, [Neil, “the ontological consequences of Copernicus: global being in the planetary world”, 2006, http://tcs.sagepub.com/content/23/1/125.full.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">As one commentator has …within which ‘man dwells’). </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The object that space becomes exemplifies the essence of technology—this reduction of space to a standing reserve denies natural identity and allows infinite domination.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Beckman 2000</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, [Tad, Havey Mudd College, martin Heidegger and environmental ethics, 2000, http://www2.hmc.edu/~tbeckman/personal/Heidart.html]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In our present point … for human design. [[http://www2.hmc.edu/~tbeckman/personal/Heidart.html#N_8_|(8)]]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Thus, the alt: Endorse and engage in meditative thought by rejecting the aff’s technological calculus. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Calls to act upon so-called urgent problems inevitably spawn more problems than solutions—only a rejection of the interventionist mindset mandated by technological calculus reclaims multifaceted ontologies.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">McWhorter 92</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, [Ladelle, professor of philosophy and women’s studies department of philosophy at the university of Richmond, 1992, Heidegger and the Earth: Essays in Environmental Philosophy, page 7-9, http://books.google.com/books?id=rVxSkV511dcC&printsec=frontcover#v=onepage&q&f=false]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Thinking today must … allowed to dissipate. </span>

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Fear of Death</span>**==== 
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">They unquestioningly view death as the ultimate impact—their preoccupied deferral creates a simulation of life that renders it meaningless</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">Baudrillard 94</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; text-align: start;">, JeanProfessor of Philosophy of Culture and Media Criticism at the European Graduate School, 1994, The Illusion of the End, p. 87-88</span>
__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">It is generally thought … scientific euphoria sustained by drip-feed.</span>__

**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This annihilates morality itself—destroys value and makes all their impacts inevitable</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Baudrillard 94</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Jean, Professor of Philosophy of Culture and Media Criticism at the European Graduate School, 1994, The Illusion of the End, p. 84-85</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">A contradictory dual … its biospheric density. </span>

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Kappeler</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Vote neg on presumption – they aren’t the government and don’t policy—that mindset collectively diffuses responsibility and trades off with individual agency making their impacts inevitable</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Kappeler 95</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – Susanne, associate professor at Al-Akhawayn University, //The Will to Violence: The Politics of Personal Behaviour//, p. 10-11</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">'We are the war' … war and violence.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And identifying with the state flips their impacts and facilitates global war and genocide</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Shaffer 7</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Butler teaches at the Southwestern University School of Law. B.S., Law, 1958, University of Nebraska, Lincoln; B.A., Political Science, 1959, and J.D., 1961, University of Chicago; Member, Colorado and Nebraska State Bars. “Identifying With the State” June 29th 2007. http://www.lewrockwell.com/shaffer/shaffer159.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">One of the deadliest …have for “their” state.</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ableism</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The underside of privileging the idea of mobility is the exclusion of those who do not move in “normal” ways – the aff contributes to the systematic exclusion of disabled people, othering them and excluding them from normal citizenship</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Cresswell 06 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">prof geography @ U London (Tim, “The Right to Mobility: The Production of Mobility in the Courtroom” Antipode vol 38 no 4)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A number of geographers … this process becomes doubly powerful.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The politics of mobility necessitate the eradication of those who are not mobile </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Imrie 2k </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">prof geography @ U London (Rob, “Disability and discourses of mobility and movement” Environment and Planning A 2000, volume 32, pages 1641-1656)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Such discourses see … amplification of these points].</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The alternative is to reject their ableist scholarship—using academia is __uniquely key__</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bérubé 5</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Michael, Phd literature, Penn State, “College Makeover”, http://www.slate.com/id/2130329/)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">But I can dream, and … disabled, a positive service.</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Automobility</span>**==== 
**Efficient transport processes reduce travelers to economical units and justifies the further expansion of biopolitical managerial power and social exclusion**
**Bonham and Cox 10 (**Jennifer Bonham is a lecturer in Geographical and Environmental Studies at theUniversity of Adelaide. Peter Cox teaches in the Faculty of Social Science at the University of Chester as a Senior Lecturer, specialising in the area of social change and sustainability and theimpacts and processes of globalisation. He is author of Moving People: Sustainable Transport Development (Zed Books 2010). “The disruptive traveller?A Foucauldian analysis of cycleways”, June 2010, [[http://adelaide.academia.edu/JenniferBonham/Papers/372359/The_Disruptive_Traveller_A_Foucauldian_Analysis_of_Cycleways]])
In contrast to the …and travel energy consumption

**The impact is ecological collapse, endless war, and the glossing over of systemic deaths – permutations fail because antagonisms are intrinsic to every version of the automobile system – attempts at solving within the system fail**
**Böhm et al 6** (Steffen Böhm, Ph.D., Director of the Essex Sustainability Institute and Professor in Management and Sustainability at the University of Essex, Campbell Jones, Director of the Centre for Philosophy and Political Economy and Senior Lecturer in Critical Theory and Business Ethics at the University of Leicester, Chris Land, Lecturer in Management at the University of Essex, and Mat Paterson, Professor of Political Science at the University of Ottawa. “Part One Conceptualizing Automobility: Introduction: Impossibilities of automobility”, September 18, [[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1467-954X.2006.00634.x/full]])
If we are to move …has been organized.

**Vote neg – only by exposing the fragilities of the regime can we create a radical new space to envision future social possibilities. And, the permutation fails – reform is another link**
**Böhm et al 6** (Steffen Böhm, Ph.D., Director of the Essex Sustainability Institute and Professor in Management and Sustainability at the University of Essex, Campbell Jones, Director of the Centre for Philosophy and Political Economy and Senior Lecturer in Critical Theory and Business Ethics at the University of Leicester, Chris Land, Lecturer in Management at the University of Essex, and Mat Paterson, Professor of Political Science at the University of Ottawa. “Part One Conceptualizing Automobility: Introduction: Impossibilities of automobility”, September 18, [[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1467-954X.2006.00634.x/full]])
In our view, reforming …of moving beyond it.

=====**2NC Overview**===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Culminates in extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Packer 7</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> [Jeremy, Associate Professor in the Department of Communication and the Director of the Communication, Rhetoric, and Digital Media PhD Program. He is also a faculty member in the Science Technology and Society program. He teaches undergraduate courses in critical media analysis and cultural studies, though he has also taught courses in surveillance, cinema, and media history. His graduate courses cover such topics as cultural studies, communications theory, qualitative research methods, network society, technology, and the work of Michel Foucault. Dr. Packer's research areas are cultural studies and communication technologies. More specifically, he has considered the interrelationships of communications and transportation technologies and the political implications that arise from their use and governance. In particular he has looked at the historical formations of safety and security as the means for justifying and organizing automotive governance. He has published on these and other topics in Cultural Studies, Communication and Critical/Cultural Studies, The Communication Review, and a number of collected volumes. He serves as the Book Review Editor for the journal Communication Review and serves on the Editorial Boards of Communication and Critical/Cultural Studies and Communication Inquiry “Conference lectured at the Symposium "Architectures of fear. Terrorism and the Future of Urbanism in the West", May 17th, 2007, http://www.publicspace.org/en/text-library/eng/b032-automobility-and-the-driving-force-of-warfare-from-public-safety-to-national-security</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">“Automobility and the …such perceived threats.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Turns exclusion and inequality</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Jensen ’11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Anne, March 23, 2011 Department of Policy Analysis, National Environmental Research Institute, Aarhus University, Denmark “Mobility, Space and Power: On the Multiplicities of Seeing Mobility, Mobilities, 6:2, 255-271” http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1080/17450101.2011.552903)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Practising and making … in particular automobility.</span>

=====**2NC Framework**===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">We achieve topic specific education—examination of power relations in transportation discourse is uniquely educational—that reveals state conflicts on interests that undermine their truth claims</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Richardson 1 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">(Tim Richardson is a lecturer in the Department of Town and Regional Planning, University of Sheffiel, “The Pendulum Swings Again: In Search of New Transport Rationalities”, The Town Planning Review, Vol. 72, No. 3 (Jul., 2001), pp. 299-319, [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/pdfplus/40112456.pdf?acceptTC=true]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Clearly, there are …sectors and citizens.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Framework is a link--the Aff’s vision of governmental politics as circulating around the USFG is a disastrously disabling politics that facilitates the normalization and discipline that underpin biopower</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Halperin 97</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> David Halperin, Professor of English Language and Literature at Michigan, Saint Foucault, 1997, p 16-19</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">First of all, … minds and bodies.</span>

=====**2NC Link--Highways**===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The interstate highway system forces physical and ideological constraints onto individuals—destroys autonomy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Packer ’10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Jeremy, 2010 Automobility and apparatuses: commentary on Cotten Seiler’s Republic of Drivers , History and Technology: An International Journal, 26:4, 361-368http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1080/07341512.2010.528619)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Seiler argues that during both periods driving functioned to iron-out the ideological inconsistencies in the uniquely American contradiction between … relation to technology.</span>

=====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">2NC AT Inevitability</span>**===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Inevitability is an illusion— automobility can be broken down</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Urry 4</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> [John Urry, Professor of Sociology at Lancaster University, 2004, Theory Culture Society, [[http://books.google.com/books?id=lbGs2laJQNoC&pg=PA27&lpg=PA27&dq=This+system+of+automobility+stemmed&source=bl&ots=43c_AZ7B72&sig=9LPPUc8VQlVg2daLK8JKFpy6E-c&hl=en&sa=X&ei=HFIMUKLSMM32rAHEu6zrCg&ved=0CEYQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=This%20system%20of%20automobility%20stemmed&f=false|http://books.google.com/books?id=lbGs2laJQNoC&pg=PA27&lpg=PA27&dq=This+system+of+automobility+stemmed&source=bl&ots=43c_AZ7B72&sig=9LPPUc8VQlVg2daLK8JKFpy6E-c&hl=en&sa=X&ei=HFIMUKLSMM32rAHEu6zrCg&ved=0CEYQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=This%20system%20of%20automobility%20stemmed&f=false]]] </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The system of automobility … complex system changes.</span>

====**Bataille**==== 
=====**1NC**===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The affirmative embodies a will to knowledge that ignores the inevitability of thought’s self-imposed destruction—that corrupts the sovereignty of the inner experience. The alternative is an abandonment of the will to certainty and a letting go from attempts to control misfortune.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Bataille 45 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">(Georges, On Nietzsche, Pantheon Books, pp. 184-187)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">“Life,” I said, “is bound …used for impalement.</span>

=====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">2NC Overview</span>**===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Ownership of truth causes mass violence</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Lifton 3</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Robert Jay Lifton, American psychiatrist and author, chiefly known for his studies of the psychological causes and effects of war and political violence and for his theory of thought reform. He was an early proponent of the techniques of psychohistory, 2003, Superpower Syndrom: America’s Violent Confrontation with the World, book ocr.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Stepping out of … our historical legacy.</span>

=====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">2NC Framework</span>**===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Your position as a political problem solver fractures existence </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Bataille 45</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Georges, On Nietzsche, Pantheon Books, pp. xxii-xxvi)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">But what does … a mutilated existence. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Your framework and calculus causes passivity and makes your truth claims suspect.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Antonio 95</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> [Nietzsche's Antisociology: Subjectified Culture and the End of History American Journal of Sociology, Vol. 101, No. 1 (Jul., 1995), pp. 14-15]</span>
__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The "problem of …</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> only an actor?</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The ideal of academic research and denial of alternative forms of knowledge production mutilates meaning and makes understanding impossible, fostering indifference. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Cohen 5 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">[Sande, Professor of Philosophy and Critical Theory at Cal “Academia and the Luster of Capital” pg 7-8] </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">What is continuous…“proper” academic opposition.</span>

=====**2NC Alt Solves**===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The personal focus of the alt subsumes your ethical claims. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Conway 97,</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> Daniel, Professor and Department Head 19th Century Philosophy at Texas A&M, 1997, Nietzsche and the Political, pg. 54</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Nietzsche’s moral perfectionism … perfection of others. </span>

=====**2NC AT Predictions**===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The paradox of knowing—a prediction requires a starting position that assumes the truthfulness of its end—that ignores most of the possible outcomes, making truth claims impossible</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Glanville 6</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> [Ranulph, PhD in cybernetics , Adjunct Professor at the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology, has published more than 170 articles and papers, President of the American Society for Cybernetics, “Construction and Design”, Systems Paper, http://www.asc-cybernetics.org/systems_papers/construction%20and%20design.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">In much of … and transcend it.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Objectivity is a myth—the aff is a mirror with delusions of grandeur. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Baudrillard 05</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> Jean, “On the World in Its Profound Illusoriness” in The Intelligence of Evil or The Lucidity Pact p. 39</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The invention of … the fundamental rule.</span>

=====**2NC AT Util**===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Utilitarianism produces a psychopathic world view—it’s self-effacing nature means rejection is a necessity</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> Willkinson 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> Will, research fellow at the Cato Institute where he worked on a variety of issues including Social Security reform and, most notably, the policy implications of happiness research, citing a study performed by Daniel Bartels from Columbia University and David Pizarro at Cornell, September 27, 2011, “The wicked souls of utilitarians,”([[http://bigthink.com/ideas/40399?page=1]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Dr Bartels and Dr … think is best.</span>

===Impact Turns=== 
====**Dedevelopment**==== 
=====**1NC**===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Economic growth is unsustainable-- resource scarcity, land use, and overconsumption</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Trainer 07</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> **–** Visiting Fellow in the Faculty of Arts at the University of NSW (Ted, “We can't go on living like this”, http://www.onlineopinion.com.au/author.asp?Id=1973) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Several lines of argument …level is grossly unsustainable.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Growth is unsustainable and collapse now is key.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Barry ‘9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Glen, President and Founder of Ecological Internet. Ph.D. in "Land Resources" from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, a Masters of Science in "Conservation Biology and Sustainable Development" also from Madison, and a Bachelor of Arts in "Political Science" from Marquette University, “New Green Deal or Not: Industrial Capitalism Is Assured Death”, March 21, 2009, http://www.newearthrising.org/2009/03/continued-industrial-capitalism-is-assured-death.asp) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">We are not going …an operable biosphere. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">That prevents runaway warming which causes extinction. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Li 10,</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Dr. Minqi, Assistant Professor Department of Economics, University of Utah, “The 21st Century Crisis: Climate Catastrophe or Socialism” Paper prepared for the David Gordon Memorial Lecture at URPE Summer Conference 2010)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The global average surface temperature is now about 0.8C (0.8 degree Celsius) higher than the pre-industrial time. Under the current … society-wide planning (Section 6).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Growth is unsustainable and will cause agricultural collapse, environmental destruction, and nuclear war culminating in extinction–only economic collapse causes cultural shift that solves.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Djordjevic ’98</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Johnny, BA Global Economics, Paper in Global Sustainability at UC, Irvine. “Sustainability,” Senior Seminar for Instructor: Peter A. Bowler, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dbc.uci.edu/~sustain/global/sensem/djordj98.html]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Max Weber believed … will cease to support life.</span>

=====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NC Overview</span>**===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Warming outweighs.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">NYET 6 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(The New York End Times is a non-partisan, non-religious, non-ideological, free news filter. We monitor world trends and events as they pertain to two vital threats - war and extinction. We use a proprietary methodology to quantify movements between the extremes of war and peace, harmony and extinction.http://newyorkendtimes.com/extinctionscale.asp)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">We rate Global Climate …incorporate the dangers here.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">It causes wars between nuclear nations</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Johnson 10</span>**—bachelor’s degree in math and physics from Amherst College and master’s degree in geosciences from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (Brad, 6 August 2010, “Global Boiling Fuels Disasters in Nuclear Nations”,<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.progressiverealist.org/blogpost/global-boiling-fuels-disasters-nuclear-nations]]**,)**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Fueled by the … instability or conflict.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Growth causes oxygen and ozone collapse </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Alteri 2k </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Miguel, Ph.D in Entomology, Division of Insect Biology, U.C. Berkeley http://www.cnr.berkeley.edu/~agroeco3/modern_agriculture.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The specialization of production … and rural communities (10).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">That causes extinction—</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">First oxygen</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Tatchell 8 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">human rights activist who campaigns with OutRage! He is a regular contributor to PinkNews.co.uk and The Guardian, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/13/carbonemissions.climatechange</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Compared to prehistoric … global fish supplies.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**Second ozone**</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Greenpeace</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, **95**. “Full of Homes: The Montreal Protocol and the Continuing Destruction of the Ozone Layer,” http://archive.greenpeace.org/ozone/holes/holebg.html.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">When chemists Sherwood … life on earth.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Growth destroys reproduction, causes extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Douthwaite 99</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Richard Douthwaite, economist employed by Jamaica and Montserrat, journalist, 1999, in Critical Development Theory, ed. Munck and O’Hearn, p. 158</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A third reason…its economic system.</span>

=====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NC Disease</span>**===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Growth causes disease spread and mutation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hamburg 8—</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">FDA Commissioner.Senior Scientist Nuclear Threat Initiative. MD (Margaret, Germs Go Global: Why Emerging Infectious Diseases Are a Threat to America, http://healthyamericans.org/assets/files/GermsGoGlobal.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Globalization, the worldwide movement … tourism in 2003.</span>

=====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NC Terrorism</span>**===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Growth causes CBNR terror attacks against the United States</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Cronin 3</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Audrey Kurth, Senior Associate at the Oxford Leverhulme Programme on the Changing Character of War, “Behind the Curve: Globalization and International Terrorism”, Project MUSE)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The objectives of international …and information resources.</span>

=====**2NC Growth Causes Warming**===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Statistics go neg.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Speth 08</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – Rhodes Scholar @ Oxford University, Chairman of Council on Environmental Quality for Executive Office, Founder of World Recourses Institute (Think-Tank), Led the Western Hemisphere Dialogue on Environment and Development, Administrator of United Nations Development Program, Dean of Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies, Leader of the President’s Task Force on Global Recourses and the Environment, Holds multiple awards—National Wildlife Federation’s Recourse Defense Award and Lifetime Achievement Award of Environmental Law Institute, and Blue Planet Prize James, “The Bridge at the Edge of the World”, pg 21 </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In short, there is … a good example. </span>

======**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NC AT Not Anthropogenic </span>**====== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Scientific consensus goes neg.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">EDF 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Environmental Defense Fund, leading national nonprofit organization representing more than 700,000 members. Citing Science and the IPCC, as well as other multinational climate organizations, “Scientific Consensus on the Basic Facts of Global Warming)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The most respected … on solutions is now. </span>

======**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NC AT Irreversible </span>**====== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Warming is anthropogenic and reversible if we act now.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Pew Center 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Pew Center on Global Climate Change, The Pew Center on Global Climate Change is as a non-profit, non-partisan, and independent organization dedicated to providing credible information, straight answers, and innovative solutions in the effort to address global climate change. The Center engages business leaders, policy makers, and other key decision makers at the international, national, regional, and state levels to advance meaningful, cost-effective climate policy and action, “Climate Change 101: Understanding and Responding to Global Climate Change,” January 2011)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The scientific evidence …of climate change.” </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">It hits a tipping point within the decade and causes extinction—now is key.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Brown 8—</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Director and Founder of the global institute of Environment in the U.S.,2008[Lester E. Brown, “Plan B 3.0: Mobilizing to Save Civilization”] </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In 2004, Stephen Pacala … these extreme stresses</span>

======**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NC AT Crops Turn</span>**====== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Warming stops photosynthesis and pollination </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Brown 08</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> - Director and Founder of the global institute of Environment in the U.S. [Lester E. Brown, “Plan B 3.0: Mobilizing to Save Civilization”] </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Higher temperatures can … Celsius, leading to crop failure.IR '' </span>

=====**2NC Growth Causes War**===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Warmongering leaders and militarization </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Edwards 03 (</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">George Edwards, Chief Executive Officer of Economic Miracles Limited <span style="color: blue;">[[http://economicmiracles.org/inv_cred_&_cult_diversity.htm.%20d.a.%207-5-10|http://economicmiracles.org/inv_cred_&_cult_diversity.htm. d.a. 7-5-10]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">But investment credit … time in history.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Supercharges arms races.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Chase-Dunn 89</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Christopher Distinguished Professor of Sociology and Director of the Institute for Research on World-Systems at the University of California-Riverside, and Kenneth O’Reilly, Professor of History at the University of Alaska, Anchorage, 1989, in War in the World System, p. 48</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In McNeill’s analysis …more destructive weapons.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Statistics prove</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bennet and Stam 03</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (D. Scott Bennett is Professor of Political Science at the Pennsylvania State University. Allan C. Stam is Associate Professor in the Government Department at Dartmouth College. The Behavioral Origins of War <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.press.umich.edu/pdf/0472098446-ch5.pdf%20%20%20D.A|http://www.press.umich.edu/pdf/0472098446-ch5.pdf D.A]]</span></span>__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> 7-15-10)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Consistent with Goldstein’s …and rather dramatically so. </span>

======**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NC AT Royal</span>**====== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Their part of the Royal evidence is just a review of other peoples arguments- the conclusion votes neg</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Royal ‘10 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, ECST=Economic Cost Signaling Theory)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Conclusion. The logic of … an economic crisis.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">And Royal has three warrants:</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">1. Expectation of trade—but continued trade causes war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Staples ‘3</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – Director of the Polaris Institute's Project on the Corporate-Security State (Stephen, August 29, “How Globalization Promotes War”, [[http://www.unitedforpeace.org/article.php?id=1948]], )</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Globalization, more correctly … greater public good. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2. Conflict and diversionary theory—that flows neg</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bennett and Nordstrom, 2K </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[D. Scott Bennett and Timothy Nordstrom, Department of Political Science Professors at Pennsylvania State. “Foreign Policy Substitutability and Internal Economic Problems in Enduring Rivalries,” February 2000, Journal of Conflict Resolution]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">When engaging in …experiencing economic problems.</span>

=====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NC Unsustainable </span>**===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Population, environment, resources, and food make growth unsustainable.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Lewis 2 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Chris H., Instructor, UC-Boulder, “Global Industrial Society: The Necessary Collapse,” ON THE EDGE OF SCARSITY, ed. M. Dobkowski & I. Walliman, Syracuse University Press, p. 21-22.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Thus, the rapid … such catastrophic results?</span>

======**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NC AT Tech Solves</span>**====== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Tech will never solve—we’ll cross the threshold in 10 years—it’s try or die and multiple, empirical models prove this</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Martenson, PhD Economist, 9 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Dr. Chris Martenson is an independent economist and author of a popular website, ChrisMartenson.com. Chris earned a PhD in neurotoxicology from Duke University, and an MBA from Cornell University. A fellow of the Post Carbon Institute, Chris's work has appeared on PBS and been cited by the Washington Post. He is a contributor to SeekingAlpha.com and FinancialSense.com, and former VP of Pfizer and SAIC “Copenhagen & Economic Growth - You Can't Have Both,” Dec 24 [[@http://www.energybulletin.net/node/51229]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">I want to point … things very differently.</span>

======**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NC AT Space Colonization Solves</span>**====== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Space colonization won't prevent ultimate collapse</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bova 81</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> {Ben, President of NSS, The High Road, p.243}</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">When the L-5 … or six billions.</span>

======**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NC AT Infinite Resources</span>**====== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Even if resources become infinite –pollution and behavioral models prove collapse is inevitable</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bardi 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[UgoBardi- professor of Physical Chemistry at the University of Florence in Italy, “The Limits to Growth Revisited “ pg 43-44]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The first set …of agricultural yields.</span>

=====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NC Transition</span>**===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dedevelopment forces a shift to sustainable local economies.</span>**
<span class="reduce2">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Lewis 02 </span>**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Chris H., Instructor, UC-Boulder, “Global Industrial Society: The Necessary Collapse,” ON THE EDGE OF SCARSITY, ed. M. Dobkowski & I. Walliman, Syracuse University Press, p. 25-26.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The First World’s … web of life on earth.</span>

======**2NC AT Violent Transition**====== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dedevelopment forces a shift to sustainable local economies.</span>**
<span class="reduce2">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Lewis 02 </span>**</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Chris H., Instructor, UC-Boulder, “Global Industrial Society: The Necessary Collapse,” ON THE EDGE OF SCARSITY, ed. M. Dobkowski & I. Walliman, Syracuse University Press, p. 25-26.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The First World’s … web of life on earth.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Planning avoids violence.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Pirages 03 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dennis Pirages, Professor, Political Science, University of Maryland, “Building Sustainable Societies,” EXPLORATIONS IN ENVIRONMENTAL POLITICAL THEORY, ed. J.J. Kassiola, 2003, p. 65.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Homo sapiens is …and social dislocation</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Warming</span>**==== 
=====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">1NC Russian Trade</span>**===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Warming opens a new Artic trade route—that’s key to Russian economic revival.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Red Orbit 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Source and destination for space, science, health, and technology news, citing Reuters news report, “Warmer Temps, Increased Sea Access Key To Russian Maritime Resurgence”, 1-28-12, http://www.redorbit.com/news/science/1112463936/warmer-temps-increased-sea-access-key-to-russian-maritime-resurgence/]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Rising temperatures and … would have arrived. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Russian economic decline causes extinction </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Filger 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Sheldon, author and blogger for the Huffington Post, “Russian Economy Faces Disastrous Free Fall Contraction” http://www.globaleconomiccrisis.com/blog/archives/356)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In Russia historically, …least dangerous consequence.</span>

======**2NC Overview**====== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Timeframe is immediate--economic benefits start in 2013.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Borgerson 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Scott, International Affairs Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and a former Lieutenant Commander in the U.S. Coast Guard, Foreign Affairs, March/April)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Arctic has … early as 2013.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Accidental launch causes extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Speice 6</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Patrick, JD Candidate – College of William and Mary, “Negligence and Nuclear Nonproliferation: Eliminating the Current Liability Barrier to Bilateral U.S.-Russian Nonproliferation Assistance Programs”, William and Mary Law Review, 47 Wm and Mary L. Rev. 1427, February, Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Terrorist groups could … of nuclear weapons. 53 </span>

======**2NC Piracy Module**====== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">New Artic trade routes solves piracy</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Terry **Macalister 11**, He is a law graduate and has just completed a research fellowship at Wolfson College, Cambridge, focusing on the opportunities and threats posed by industrialisation of the Arctic. He was awarded an international journalism prize by the Russian Academy of Sciences at the St Petersburg International Economic Forum 2011. 7/5/11, Guardian.co.uk, http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2011/jul/05/arctic-shipping-trade-routes </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Cold is the … $180,000 in fuel costs.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Piracy kills African stability.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">World Beat ‘9</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – Publication of Foreign Policy in Focus Think tank (Ed. John Feffer, co-director of Foreign Policy In Focus at the Institute for Policy Studies. World Beat vol. 4, num. 5, Feb 3, 2009. “Our Pirates and Theirs.” http://www.fpif.org/articles/our_pirates_and_theirs) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Hussein Yusuf disagrees. …on this topic.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Global nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Deutsch 02</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> PhD and political risk consultant 02 Jeffrey, and Founder, Rabid Tiger Project, 11/18/02 (http://www.rabidtigers.com/rtn/newsletterv2n9.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The Rabid Tiger … to go fishing. </span>

======**2NC AT No Russia War**====== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Economic decline destroys checks</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ruddy 99</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Christopher, newsmax Russia expert, march 12, http://www.newsmax.com/articles/?a=1999/3/12/53227)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The collapse of …are literally hungry."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">It causes miscalc</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Forden 1</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Geoffrey, senior research fellow at the Security Studies Program at MIT, Policy Analysis, May 3)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Because of that …nuclear-tipped missiles.</span>

=====**1NC Chinese Rice**===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Warming increases Asian rice production—that’s key to global food security.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">NIPCC 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Nongovernmental International Panel on Climate Change, Robert Carter, PhD, Adjuct Research Fellow, James Cook University, Craig Idso, PhD, Chairman at the Center for the Study of Carbon Dioxide and Global Change, Fred Singer, PhD, President of the Science and Environmental Policy Project, Susan Crockford, evolutionary biologist with a specialty in skeletal taxonomy , paleozoology and vertebrate evolution, Joseph D’Aleo, 30 years of experience in professional meteorology, former college professor of Meteorology at Lyndon State College, Indur Goklany, independent scholar, author, and co-editor of the Electronic Journal of Sustainable Development, Sherwood Idso, President of the Center for the Study of Carbon Dioxide and Global Change, Research Physicist with the US Department of Agriculture, Adjunct Professor in the Departments of Geology, Botany, and Microbiology at Arizona State University, Bachelor of Physics, Master of Science, and Doctor of Philosophy, all from the University of Minnesota, Madhav Khandekar, former research scientist from Environment Canada and is an expert reviewer for the IPCC 2007 Climate Change Panel, Anthony Lupo, Department Chair and Professor of Atmospheric Science at the University of Missouri, Willie Soon, astrophysicist at the Solar and Stellar Physics Division of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, Mitch Taylor (Canada) [“Climate Change Reconsidered 2011 Interim Report,” September, Science and Environmental Policy Project, Center for the Study of Carbon Dioxide and Global Change, Published by The Heartland Institute] </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The four researchers … atmospheric CO2 increases.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Failure to increase Asian rice production causes global price spikes.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">AFP 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Associated Free Press, “UN calls for rice production boost in Asia”, 3-11-11, http://www.channelnewsasia.com/stories/afp_asiapacific/view/1115372/1/.html]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">BANGKOK : The UN's …Indonesia, Konuma noted.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Nuke war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Cribb 2010</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Julian, Julian Cribb is a science communicator, journalist and editor of several newspapers and books. His published work includes over 7,000 newspaper articles, 1,000 broadcasts, and three books and has received 32 awards for science, medical, agricultural and business journalism. He was Director, National Awareness, for Australia's science agency, CSIRO, foundation president of the Australian Science Communicators, and originated the CGIAR's Future Harvest strategy. He has worked as a newspaper editor, science editor for "The Australian "and head of public affairs for CSIRO. He runs his own science communication consultancy, “The coming famine: the global food crisis and what we can do to avoid it,” p. 26)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">This is the … to secure them.</span>

======**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NC Overview</span>**====== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Food security outweighs warming’s negative impacts on probability and timeframe.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Idso 01 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Climatologist, ASU & Pres., Center for the Study of Carbon Dioxide & Global Change) 10/17/01</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[Dr. Keith & Dr. Sherwood B., “There Are Bigger Environmental Fish to Fry Than Anthropogenic CO2 Emissions”, http://co2science.org/edit/v4_edit/v4n42edit.htm htm]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In concluding his … imaginary climate changes."</span>

======**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NC CO2 Key to Rice</span>**====== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">1. PPB</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">NIPCC 11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [Nongovernmental International Panel on Climate Change, Robert Carter, PhD, Adjuct Research Fellow, James Cook University, Craig Idso, PhD, Chairman at the Center for the Study of Carbon Dioxide and Global Change, Fred Singer, PhD, President of the Science and Environmental Policy Project, Susan Crockford, evolutionary biologist with a specialty in skeletal taxonomy , paleozoology and vertebrate evolution, Joseph D’Aleo, 30 years of experience in professional meteorology, former college professor of Meteorology at Lyndon State College, Indur Goklany, independent scholar, author, and co-editor of the Electronic Journal of Sustainable Development, Sherwood Idso, President of the Center for the Study of Carbon Dioxide and Global Change, Research Physicist with the US Department of Agriculture, Adjunct Professor in the Departments of Geology, Botany, and Microbiology at Arizona State University, Bachelor of Physics, Master of Science, and Doctor of Philosophy, all from the University of Minnesota, Madhav Khandekar, former research scientist from Environment Canada and is an expert reviewer for the IPCC 2007 Climate Change Panel, Anthony Lupo, Department Chair and Professor of Atmospheric Science at the University of Missouri, Willie Soon, astrophysicist at the Solar and Stellar Physics Division of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, Mitch Taylor (Canada) [“Climate Change Reconsidered 2011 Interim Report,” September, Science and Environmental Policy Project, Center for the Study of Carbon Dioxide and Global Change, Published by The Heartland Institute] </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The seven scientists … and decades ahead.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2. **Photosynthesis and biomass** </span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Idso 06</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Drs. Sherwood, Keith and Craig Idso, “Can the World Produce 40% More Rice by 2030,” CO2 SCIENCE MAGAZINE v. 9 n. 9, 3-1-06, http://co2science.org/articles/V9/N9/EDIT.php, accessed 5-3-08.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">We agree that …unimaginable negative consequences.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">3. **Solves parasites**</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">CO2 Science Magazine ’01</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [”The Deleterious Effects of a Major Root Parasite of Rice Are Greatly Reduced by Atmospheric CO2 Enrichment”, May 2, 2001, Review of Watling, J.R. and Press, M.C. 2000. Infection with the parasitic angiosperm Striga hermonthica influences the response of the C3 cereal Oryza sativa to elevated CO2. Global Change Biology 6: 919-930. http://www.co2science.org/journal/2001/v4n18b2.htm //wyo-pinto]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Background According to … increasing CO2 emissions.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">4. **Low temperature survival**</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Idso ‘02</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Sherwood, Pres. Ctr for Study of CO2 and Global Change, frmr Res. Phys. w/U.S. Dept of Ag's Agr Research Service at U.S. Water Conservation Laboratory Adjunct Professor Depts Geology, Geography, and Botany and Microbiology @ ASU, author of over 500 scientific publications, Keith, Vice Pres. Ctr Study CO2 and Global Change, Ph.D. in Botany @ ASU, won several top awards while instructing students in biological and botanical laboratories and lectures at ASU, and Craig, Chrmn Brd of Ctr for Study CO2 & Global Change, Ph.D. in Geog. ASU, “Reducing Chilling Injuries in Plants: The Role of Elevated CO2,” Volume 5, Number 46: 13 November 2002, pg. Online @ http://www.co2science.org/edit/v5_edit/v5n46edit.htm)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In a closely …decades ahead (Wallace, 2000; Tilman et al., 2001).</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">5. **More reproduction and seeds.**</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Curtis 2</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Peter, Department Chair Evolution, Ecology & Organismal Biology, Ohio State, Ohio State Research, 10-2, http://researchnews.osu.edu/archive/co2plant.htm, 7-1-11, SRF)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Under higher CO2 … finally, corn (5 percent increase).</span>

======**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NC AT Photosynthesis </span>**====== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">CO2 increases photosynthetic efficiency and decreases water loss</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Wittwer 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Sylvan, Professor of Horticulture at Michigan State University, 11-6, http://intranet.wcastl.org/sites/wsmith/upload/4914610a2dea4.PDF, 7-1-11)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">There are two … in arid climates.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">CO2 increases water use efficiency of crops</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Idso and Idso</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Sherwood, former researcher for the US department of agriculture, and Keith http://co2science.org/articles/V5/N15/EDIT.php, 6-30-11, SRF)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">More crop per … by extra CO2? </span>

======**2NC AT Weeds**====== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">C02 infused plants will overpower weeds and weed competition doesn’t stop growth. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Wayne et al 99</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (P.M., Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology, Harvard, A.L. Carnelli, J. Connolly, F.A. Bazzazz, CO2Science, http://co2science.org/articles/V2/N20/B2.php, 6-30-11, SRF)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Early in stand …some have hypothesized. </span>

=====**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">1NC Feedback</span>**===== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">C02 solves their offense. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Idso 5 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Craig, president of CO2 Science, Keith, Vice president of CO2 Science, Sherwood, Will Farming Destroy Wild Nature? http://www.co2science.org/articles/V8/N15/EDIT.php</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The first of …of this essay.</span>

======**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2NC Overview</span>**====== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The best recent and qualified study confirms.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Idso 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Sherwood, Keith and Craig, The Increasing Vigor of Earth's Terrestrial Plants, Volume 13, Number 30: 28, July 2010, http://www.co2science.org/articles/V13/N30/EDIT.php</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In a study …persuasions of man.</span>