[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Gas Tax 1AC - Niles== 


Plan:
The United States federal government should substantially increase Highway Trust Fund transportation infrastructure investment by increasing the federal gasoline tax by one dollar.

Contention One: Growth

The transportation bill passed in the summer allocated billions for infrastructure. This should trigger the neg’s DAs but it doesn’t solve the problem – increasing the gas tax is key to sustainable transportation policy.
Wagner, 7/3/12 (Jason, Director of Policy and Government Relations at Associated Pennsylvania Constructors and Managing Director of the Pennsylvania Highway Information Association, “Transportation funding remains states’ problem,” http://pahighwayinfo.org/2012/07/transportation-funding-remains-states-problem/, bgm)

We don’t like to rain on anyone’s parade … driven decreasing to all-time lows.


Transportation infrastructure spending is unsustainable – only increasing revenue for the HTF by raising the gas tax solves – it’s the biggest issue
Thomasson, ’12 (Scott, president of NewBuild Strategies LLC, an energy and infrastructure consulting firm in Washington and director of domestic policy for the Progressive Policy Institute, “Encouraging U.S. Infrastructure Investment,” April, http://www.cfr.org/infrastructure/encouraging-us-infrastructure-investment/p27771, bgm)

The Problem The United States has huge … new taxes to be political nonstarters.


Three internal links to growth

First is broken infrastructure
US transportation is deteriorating rapidly – kills the economy. Only increasing revenue sources for federal funding solves – comparative to their CP.
Kavinoky, ’12 [Janet, executive director of transportation and infrastructure at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “Long-Term funding needs to hit the road, Jack.” May 13, lexis]

The two commissions created by Congress … infrastructure and promotes economic stability.


Second is manufacturing

Investment in HIGHWAY transportation infrastructure is particularly critical – ensures long-term growth of Steel and the Manufacturing base
AISI, ’12 (American Iron and Steel Institute, “AISI Public Policy Priorities – Promoting a Pro-Manufacturing Agenda,” http://www.steel.org/en/Public%20Policy/~/media/Files/AISI/Public%20Policy/Agenda/AISI2012PublicPolicyAgenda%20_%20Final%20020212.ashx)

Transportation and Water Infrastructure Background. A globally competitive … highways and specifically bridges.



American steel and manufacturing are key to the economy – timeframe is now
Gibson, ’12 (Thomas, President And Ceo American Iron And Steel Institute, “American Iron And Steel Institute President And Ceo Mr. Thomas Gibson, Prepared Testimony Before The Senate Energy And Natural Resources Committee Hearing On The Clean Energy Standard Act Of 2012, As Released By The Committee,” 5/28, lexis)

Steel and other manufacturing … ability to remain competitive.


Third is the auto industry

CAFÉ standards are coming and will crush the auto industry – forces them to work against demand
Witzenburg, ’12 (Gary, contributing editor and writer for Kelley Blue Book, The Robb Report, Automobilemag and Auto Media, “Future Fuel Economy Mandates, Part I: 54.5 mpg is going to be hard to reach,” 1/26, http://green.autoblog.com/2012/01/26/future-fuel-economy-mandates-part-i-54-5-mpg-is-going-to-be-ha/, bgm)

Ask the average driver whether … business while implementing it."



Auto industry key to the economy – massive spillover
Hill, et al., ’10 (Kim, Sustainable Transportation and Communities Group and Project Lead, Project Manager of the center for automotive research, Research Associate at the center for automotive research, Debbie Menk, Adam Cooper, “Contribution of the Automotive Industry to the Economics of All Fifty States and the Unites States”, http://www.oesa.org/Doc-Vault/Industry-Information-Analysis/CAR-Economic-Significance-Report.pdf0)

The auto industry is one … manufacturing surviving in this country.


Impacts

This recession is different – spills over to other sectors and is permanent
Hall, 9/11/12 (Keith, senior research fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University, and former commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, “The Serious Cost of a Slow Economic Recovery,” http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/economic-intelligence/2012/09/11/the-serious-cost-of-a-slow-economic-recovery, bgm)

The weakest economic recovery on record … answer may forever be "no."

Studies prove economic collapse causes global wars
Royal, '10 (Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction Program -- DOD, Economics of War & Peace: Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith & Brauer, p. 213-15)

Less intuitive is how periods of economic … debate and deserves more attention.


And, this results in great power conflict—economic growth is vital to prevent the collapse of U.S. hegemony.
Khalilzad, ’11 (Zalmay, Counselor at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, served as the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush, served as the director of policy planning at the Defense Department during the Presidency of George H.W. Bush, holds a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago, “The Economy and National Security,” National Review, February 8th, http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/print/259024)

Today, economic and fiscal trends … dangerous era of multi-polarity.



Decline makes all problems worse – transition will be violent and the US won’t give up without a fight
Brzezinski ’12 (Zbigniew Brzezinski, national security advisor under U.S. President Jimmy Carter, is author of the forthcoming book Strategic Vision: America and the Crisis of Global Power, Foreign Policy, After America
http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/01/03/after_america?page=0,1)

For if America falters, the world … slide into global turmoil.

Contention Two: Transition

US renewables crashing now – federal programs are expiring which will create unpredictability and shift the balance back toward fossil fuels – now is key
Handwerk, 6/22/12 (Brian, writer for National Geographic, “Is the Clock Ticking Towards U.S. Clean Tech Crash?” http://newswatch.nationalgeographic.com/2012/06/22/is-the-clock-ticking-towards-u-s-clean-tech-crash/, bgm)

The U.S. renewable energy industry … will require a fine balance, Muro cautioned.

Increasing the gas tax solves both of these problems – removes the need for subsidies and creates predictability
Washington Post, 5/25/12 (Washington Post editorial board, “Raise the gas tax,” http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/raise-the-gas-tax/2012/05/25/gJQA46siqU_story.html, bgm)

And a higher gas tax would accomplish … which lawmakers pick favorites.

Plan solves the transition
Worstall, ’12 (Tim, Forbes, Senior Fellow @ the Adam Smith Institute in London, “Of Course Politicians Prefer CAFÉ to Gas Taxes”, February 22nd, 2012, http://www.forbes.com/sites/timworstall/2012/02/22/of-course-politicians-prefer-cafe-to-gas-taxes/)

I do have to admit that I’ve been … a gallon on gas anyway.


Increasing the gas tax is key – change consumption and enables
Turgeon, ’10 (Evan, Legal Associate at the Cato Institute; J.D.University of Virginia School of Law 2009; B.A. Tufts University 2004, “Triple-Dividends: Toward Pigovian Gasoline Taxation,” Journal of Land, Resources, & Environmental Law 2010, lexis)

Significantly increasing federal taxes …than the sword; it is cheaper to use.

Specifically, U.S. auto emissions are the main contributor to global warming
West 12 (Larry, 20-year professional writer and editor who has written many articles about environmental issues for leading newspapers, magazines and online publications citing from: John DeCicco, author of the report and senior fellow at Environmental Defense, “U.S. Autos Account for Half of Global Warming Linked to Cars Worldwide,” http://environment.about.com/od/globalwarming/a/autoemissions.htm)

U.S. automobiles and light trucks are responsible … according to the report.



Global warming is real, feedbacks cause rapid escalation, and it causes population migrations fueling political instability and failed states, escalating to nuclear war and extinction
Kaku, ’11 (Michio, co-creator of string field theory, a branch of string theory. He received a B.S. (summa cum laude) from Harvard University in 1968 where he came first in his physics class. He went on to the Berkeley Radiation Laboratory at the University of California, Berkeley and received a Ph.D. in 1972. In 1973, he held a lectureship at Princeton University. Michio continues Einstein’s search for a “Theory of Everything,” seeking to unify the four fundamental forces of the universe—the strong force, the weak force, gravity and electromagnetism. He is the author of several scholarly, Ph.D. level textbooks and has had more than 70 articles published in physics journals, covering topics such as superstring theory, supergravity, supersymmetry, and hadronic physics. Professor of Physics — He holds the Henry Semat Chair and Professorship in theoretical physics at the City College of New York, where he has taught for over 25 years. He has also been a visiting professor at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton, as well as New York University (NYU). “Physics of the Future” http://213.55.83.52/ebooks/physics/Physics%20of%20the%20Future.pdf)

By midcentury, the full impact …cycle of global warming.



Contention Three: Solvency


A one dollar gas tax increase solves all the advantages
Mankiw, ’06 (Gregory, professor and chairman of the economics department at Harvard University, “Raise the Gas Tax,” 10/20, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB116131055641498552.html, bgm)

With the midterm election around … spillovers to foreign affairs.

And, increasing the gas tax provides a price signal for renewable transition and gives the US leverage for global climate change action
Friedman, ’08 (Thomas, three-time Pulitzer Prize winning foreign affairs columnist for the New York Times, attended St Antony's College at the University of Oxford on a Marshall scholarship, earning an M.Phil. in Middle Eastern studies, “Wanted: higher gas prices,” The Telegraph-Journal (New Brunswick), lexis)

That is why I believe the second biggest … isn't blowing or the sun isn't shining.

States can’t control highways – won’t have necessary money and puts our entire transportation system at risk
Klain, ’11 (Ron Klain, President of Case Holdings, and General Counsel of Revolution LLC., former partner and National Practice Group Chair at O'Melveny & Myers LLP, former Chief of Staff or Staff Director for Vice President Al Gore, Attorney General Janet Reno, the Senate Democratic Leadership Committee, and the Senate Judiciary Committee, Associate Counsel to President Clinton, and a law clerk to Supreme Court Justice Byron White, former chief of staff to Vice President Joe Biden and senior adviser to President Barack Obama on the Recovery Act, Bloomberg News, August 22, 2011, “Tea Party Gas Tax Fix Is Bad Economics, Worse History: Ron Klain”, http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-23/tea-party-gas-tax-fix-is-bad-economics-worse-history-ron-klain.html)

As transportation policy, the notion … Tea Party wants to unwind in the U.S.

==China Manufacturing Add-on== 

Manufacturing key to check Chinese hege
Mosher, ’06 (Steven, President of the Population Research Institute, CQ Congressional Testimony, “Chinese Influence on U.S. Foreign Policy” 2/14, pg lexis)

The ruthless mercantilism … China's drive for Hegemony.

Global nuclear war
Walton ‘07 – lecturer in international relations and strategic studies at the University of Reading (C. Dale. G. Geopolitics and the Great Powers in the 21st Century: Multipolarity and the Revolution in Strategic Perspective, p. 49.)

Obviously, it is of vital importance … close great power alliances.

=Negative= 
==DAs== 

===Obama Good Elections DA=== 

Obama will win but it’s close
Klein, 9/11/12 (Ezra, editor of Wonkblog and a columnist at the Washington Post, as well as a contributor to MSNBC and Bloomberg, “The economy (slightly) favors Obama, not Romney,” http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/ezra-klein/wp/2012/09/11/the-economy-slightly-favors-obama-not-romney/, bgm)

“It is becoming clear that if … that guarantees him a victory.


Funding Transportation infrastructure unpopular with the public – fear of waste and don’t see the upside.
Orski ‘12
Ken Orski is editor and publisher of Innovation NewsBriefs, an influential and widely read transportation newsletter, now in its 20th year of publication. Orski has worked professionally in the field of transportation for close to 40 years. He served as Associate Administrator of the Urban Mass Transportation Administration under President Nixon and President Ford. He is a magna cum laude graduate of Harvard College and holds a J.D. degree from Harvard Law School. NewGeography – 02/05/2012 – http://www.newgeography.com/content/002662-why-pleas-increase-infrastructure-funding-fall-deaf-ears

Finding the resources to keep … few and far between.


Even tiny shifts matter – our link is low threshold and linear
Silver, 12 (Nate, 5/15, chief pollster for New York Times’ 538 election polling center. Regarded as top-level pollster based on distinct mathematical modelshttp://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/05/15/a-30000-foot-view-on-the-presidential-race/)
The last thing to remember … odds at the margin.


Romney strikes Syria – causes great power war
Pangburn, 9/4/12 (DJ, editor at Death and Taxes, “6 countries Mitt Romney could antagonize if elected,” http://www.deathandtaxesmag.com/188055/6-countries-mitt-romney-could-antagonize-if-elected/, bgm)

Last but certainly … everyone to simply remain neutral.

===Farm Bill Politics DA=== 
====UMich 1NC==== 
The farm bill will pass in the lame duck – now is key – farmers need certainty before planning for next season
Stiers, 10/29/12 (Joanie, The Register-Mail, “Farmers express uncertainty as Farm Bill expires,” http://www.galesburg.com/opinions/x470413221/Farmers-express-uncertainty-as-Farm-Bill-expires, bgm)

Farmers fertilize fields and … would be better than nothing.”


Plan guarantees a loss of capital – Obama will have to convince others to spend money
Rubinstein, ’12 [Dana Rubenstein, Reporter for Capital New York, has written for Bloomberg Businessweek, the Wall Street Journal, the New York Times, the New York Observer, and the Brooklyn Paper, “When is Obama going to have his Eisenhower moment?” March 27, 2012 http://www.capitalnewyork.com/article/politics/2012/03/5524547/when-obama-going-have-his-eisenhower-moment]

Ask a transportation expert … entirely from the gas tax.


Obama’s PC key to forge agreement between House and Senate
Wasson 10-9 (Erik Wasson - 10/09/12, The Hill, http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/economy/261015-romney-blames-obama-for-failure-to-pass-farm-bill, jj)

People have been waiting … hold a vote on the measure.


Farm bill in the lame duck key to prevent food price volatility
BMO 10-1 (Business Monitor Online, 10-1-12, Temporary Extension Likely For 2012 US Farm Bill, http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.lib.wayne.edu/hottopics/lnacademic/?, jj)

BMI View: We believe the most likely … upside risk to our price views.


Food price spike kills billions
Brown, ’96 (Lester, founder of the Worldwatch Institute, honorary professor at the Chinese Academy of Sciences, and holder of 26 honorary degrees and a MacArthur Fellowship, “Scarcity Facing the Prospect of Food Scarcity,” http://www.utep.edu/its3350/readings/facing.html)

On the demand side, there … unprecedented degree of political instability.

====Link Extensions==== 

The plan pushes the farm bill out of the lame duck – the schedule is tight
Bennett, 10/30/12 (David, “Nov. 1: farm bill workshop set for Clarksdale, Miss.,” http://deltafarmpress.com/government/nov-1-farm-bill-workshop-set-clarksdale-miss, bgm)

Looming over everything is … whether that will occur.”


No one wants new transportation spending
Orski, 9/18/12 (C. Kenneth Orski, public policy consultant and former principal of the Urban Mobility Corporation, “Confronting the Reality of Declining Federal Transportation Funding,” http://www.infrastructureusa.org/confronting-the-reality-of-declining-federal-transportation-funding/, bgm)

“There is no appetite in Congress … size of the federal contribution.


No link turns – the rank-and-file don’t care
Nichols and Holeywell, ’11 (Russell and Ryan, staff writers for GOVERNING in the states and localities, GOVERNING in the states and localities provides intelligence and analysis on management, policy and politics to help guide and inspire innovative leaders across state and local government, “Six Ideas for Fixing the Nation's Infrastructure Problems,” http://www.governing.com/topics/transportation-infrastructure/six-ideas-for-fixing-the-nations-infrastructure-problems.html, bgm)

For federal lawmakers on a … the interest, and it’s absurd.”

====CCP Impact==== 

High food prices collapse Chinese economic growth
Carlson 7/26/12 (Benjamin, Writer for Global Post; “US agricultural exports become costly amid drought”, http://www.salon.com/2012/07/26/us_agricultural_exports_to_china_become_costly_in_times_of_drought_salpart)

As the world’s largest importer … dependence on the global market.


Economic growth is key to CCP stability
Chang, ’11 (Gordon, author of The Coming Collapse of China and Nuclear Showdown: North Korea Takes On the World, his writings have appeared in the New York Times, Wall Street Journal, International Herald Tribune, Commentary, the Weekly Standard, National Review, and Barron’s, he has given briefings at the National Intelligence Council, the Central Intelligence Agency, the State Department, and the Pentagon, he has also spoken before industry and investor groups and at universities and think tanks and appeared before the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and the US-China Economic and Security Review Commission, “China’s Communist Party: We Will Rule Forever,” 6/14, http://www.worldaffairsjournal.org/blog/gordon-g-chang/china%E2%80%99s-communist-party-we-will-rule-forever, bgm)

Economic failure—or perhaps even … to resuscitate Maoist values.”


CCP collapse triggers a nuclear civil war and regional conflicts
Yee and Storey, ’02 (Herbert Yee, Professor of Politics and International Relations at the Hong Kong Baptist University, and Ian Storey, Lecturer in Defence Studies at Deakin University, The China Threat: Perceptions, Myths and Reality, RoutledgeCurzon, pg 5)

The fourth factor contributing … neighbours and the world.

==Ks== 
===Virilio=== 
====1NC==== 

The drive to improve transportation infrastructure is rooted in a worship of speed—time conquers space as we seek endless acceleration which dissolves politics
Virilio, 1997 – Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School (Paul, Open sky, verso, print, 81-83)

But let us get back to Europe’s great … long-distance to be connected.


Our worship of acceleration makes a catastrophic Accident inevitable—the politics of speed turn the case and guarantee war and extinction. Voting neg and slowing down opens up the possibility of alternative methodologies to solve the 1AC harms.
Sykes, 2009 – graduate student at the university of north texas (Jason, “Paul Virilio’s critique of speed, technology, and institutions”, pdf available online)

In Virlio’s view, the war machine … must politicize speed. (Virilio, 1983, pg. 35)”

===Cap=== 
====1NC==== 

The aff uses investment in transportation infrastructure to paper over class differences – this results in social exclusion and violence.
Patnaik, ’10 (Prabhat, professor at the Centre for Economic Studies and Planning in the School of Social Sciences at Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi, “The Sacred Cow,” 8/23, http://mrzine.monthlyreview.org/2010/patnaik230810.html, bgm)

The early years of the Left Front … the benefit of the few.

The role of the ballot is to resist this social exclusion – it’s our ultimate ethical responsibility
Zizek and Daly 2004
(Slavoj, professor of philosophy at the Institute for Sociology, Ljubljana, and Glyn, Senior Lecturer in Politics in the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences at University College, Northampton, Conversations with Zizek, page 14-16)

For Zizek it is imperative that … an otherwise sound matrix.


The alternative is to vote neg to reject capitalism – abandoning capitalist structures is the only way to solve inevitable extinction
Herod, 2007 [James, Getting Free: Creating an Association of Democratic Autonomous Neighborhoods, May, pp. 38-40]

It is time to try to describe … possibly even to extinction.

===Positive Peace=== 
====1NC==== 

**<span class="Underline">Focus on war as an isolated event produces a politics of crises control that attempts to manage outbreaks of violence from flashpoint to flashpoint. This mode of being reproduces militarism and perpetuates the structural violence of “peacetime militarism” </span>**
<span class="Underline">**__Cuomo, ’96__** (Chris, Ph.D., 1992, University of Wisconsin-Madison Department of Philosophy University of Cincinnati Hypatia Fall 1996.Vol.11, Iss. 4; pg. 30)</span>

<span class="Underline">In "Gender and `Postmodern' War," Robin Schott … inevitability of war and militarism.</span>

**<span class="Underline">Structural violence kills more than any war- our impact outweighs</span>**
<span class="Underline">__**Gilman, ’83**__ (Dr. Robert C., Ph.D. President of Context Institute Founding Editor of IN CONTEXT, A Quarterly of Humane Sustainable Culture One of the articles in The Foundations Of Peace (IC#4) Autumn, Page 8, http://72.14.203.104/search?q=cache:p_T2jwNn8g4J:www.context.org/ICLIB/IC04/Gilman1.htm+nuclear+war+%22structural+violence%22&hl=en)</span>

<span class="Underline">THE HUMAN TENDENCY toward, and preparations for … by far our most serious flaw.</span>

**<span class="Underline">The affirmative made a conscious choice to prioritize negative peace. We ask you to make another conscious choice and endorse a more pacific discourse that promotes positive peace and social justice. It’s not what they do it’s what they justify- vote negative to reject the affirmatives description of peace as the absence of war </span>**
<span class="Underline">__**Gay, ’98**__ (William C., Ph.D. in Philosophy from Boston College, Prof. UNC, Peace Review, Dec 1998.Vol.10, Iss. 4; pg. 545-8)</span>

<span class="Underline">Many times the first step in reducing … linguistic violence and social injustice.</span>

**<span class="Underline">This change in calculus is critical to open the door to new structures and avoid extinction.</span>**
<span class="Underline">__**French, ’92**__ (Marilyn, PhD from Harvard, Beyond Power: On Women, Men, and Morals, pp.494-5)</span>

<span class="Underline">Just as our present morality … in biology and ecology.</span>

**<span class="Underline">Representation must be evaluated prior to questions of policy </span>**
<span class="Underline">__**Doty, ’96**__ (Roxanne Lynn, assistant professor of political science at arizona state university, imperial encounters, p. 5-6)</span>

<span class="Underline">This study begins with the premise …political, military, and economic power.</span>

==CPs== 
===Seabasing CP=== 
====1NC==== 

The United States federal government should shift to a seabasing strategy for relevant naval operations.

Seabasing solves power projection, humanitarian aid, and naval readiness best
Parker 10 (CMDR. GREGORY J. Parker is a career naval aviator and recent Federal Executive Fellow at the Brookings Institution. He works on the OPNAV (Navy) staff at the Pentagon, “The future of seabasing”, http://www.armedforcesjournal.com/2010/12/4997685/, Hemanth)

2010 was an important milestone … send foreign policy back to sea.

===XO CP=== 
====1NC==== 

Text:


Executive orders are effective policy tools and cause momentum and defuses opposition
Cooper, ’02 [Phillip, Professor of Public Administration @ Portland State University, By Order of the President: The Use and Abuse of Executive Direct Action”

Executive orders can also be used … find themselves reactive and defensive.

Executive orders control policy and set agendas – key to presidential power
Mayer, ’01 [Kenneth, Professor in the Department of Poli Sci @ University of Wisconsin-Madison, Executive Orders and Presidential Power, pg. 28-29]

This theoretical perspective offered … which they have no control.

That causes nuke war --- now is key for Obama to show leadership
Coes, 9-30-11 (Ben, former speechwriter in the George H.W. Bush administration, managed Mitt Romney’s successful campaign for Massachusetts Governor in 2002 & author, “The disease of a weak president”, The Daily Caller, http://dailycaller.com/2011/09/30/the-disease-of-a-weak-president/)

The disease of a weak president … quo is simply not an option.

==Impact Turns== 
===DeDev=== 
====1NC==== 

Economic collapse causes peaceful shift away from globalization and industrialization
Lewis, ‘98 (Chris, June 2000. PhD American Studies Univ of Colorado Boulder. “The Paradox of Global Development and the Necessary Collapse of Global Industrial Civilization,” www.cross-x.com/archives/LewisParadox.pdf)

With the collapse of global ... themselves face collapse and ruin.

It’s try or die for the Earth – failure to transition away from growth guarantees extinction.
Barry, ’11 (Glen, PhD in Land Resources from UW-Madison and President and Founder of Ecological Internet, “Being Green and Meaning It,” http://www.ecoearth.info/blog/2011/01/ecological_internet_being_gree.asp, bgm)

Humanity’s fate is completely one ... population and over-consumption (albeit inequitable).


Economic decline doesn’t cause war
Deudney 91 – Hewlett Fellow in Science, Technology, and Society at the Center for Energy and
Environmental Studies, Princeton (Daniel, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists)

Poverty Wars. In a second scenario, declining ... industrial products and surplus wealth.




=Negative Round Reports= 
==Niles== 
**__Rd 2 - vs. Maine East HM (HSR)__**
Obama Good Elections DA (2NR)
Virilio
PPP CP (2NR)
Case (Auto Tradeoff, Fed Investment Bad Turns, Defense)

__**Rd 4 - vs. Maine East LP (HSR)**__
Obama Good Elections DA (2NR)
Virilio
PPP CP (2NR)
Case (Auto Tradeoff, Fed Investment Bad Turns, Defense)

__**Rd 5 - vs. GBS AH (Mayport)**__
Virilio (2NR)
Seabasing CP
Obama Good Elections DA
Case


==DCD== 
__**Rd 2 - vs. Dow BS (Native Infrastructure Bank)**__
Virilio (2NR)
Obama Good Elections DA
XO CP
Case

__**Rd 4 - vs. Portage Northern SH (Title XI)**__
ASPEC
Multi-plank Adv CP
Virilio (2NR)
Obama Good Elections DA
Case

__**Rd 5 - vs. TCC CP (HSR)**__
ASPEC
Housing Conditions CP
Obama Good Elections DA (2NR)
Virilio
Case (2NR)

==New Trier== 

__**Rd 2 - vs. Appleton East SM (HSR)**__
Virilio (2NR)
Housing Conditions CP
Obama Good Elections DA
Case
-DeDev
-Defense

__**Rd 4 - vs. GBN KM (Port Dredging)**__
Obama Good Elections DA
PPP CP
Virilio (2NR)
Case
-DeDev
-Defense (2NR)

__**Rd 6 - vs. Lane Tech BC (HSR)**__
Housing Conditions CP
Virilio
Obama Good Elections DA
Case
-DeDev (2NR)
-Defense (2NR)

==Wayne State== 

__**Rd 1 - vs. DCD (Offshore Port Security)**__
Virilio
Obama Good Elections DA
XO CP
Case
-DeDev (2NR)
-Defense


__**Rd 3 - vs. TCC CP (HSR)**__
Virilio (2NR)
Obama Good Elections
XO CP
Case
-DeDev
-Defense

__**Quarters - vs. Dexter SM (CCS)**__
Virilio
XO
Obama Good Elections (2NR)
Case
-Natural Gas Turn (2NR)
-DeDev
-Defense (2NR)


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]