[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
===Checks AC=== 

Extend is about rights citizens currently have (Merriam Webster definition)


Definition of accused means trial through conviction:


[West's Encyclopedia of American Law, edition 2. Copyright 2008 The Gale Group, Inc.]

The generic name
AND
whichever occurs first.


Current system:

The Congressional Research Service 2012 [Jennifer K. Elsea Legislative Attorney “Comparison of Rights in Military Commission Trials and Trials in Federal Criminal Court” The Congressional Research Service. May 9, 2012]

U.S. law provides for the trial of suspected terrorists, including those
AND
procured by plea agreement. A few commission rulings have been appealed.¶ 50

I advocate that non-citizens accused of terrorism be tried, and granted the rights afforded to defendants in Article III federal courts.

V: Justice

Political philosophy, must be practical.

MARTIN RHONHEIMER [Prof Of Philosophy at The Pontifical University of the Holy Cross in Rome. “THE POLITICAL ETHOS OF CONSTITUTIONAL DEMOCRACY AND THE PLACE OF NATURAL LAW IN PUBLIC REASON: RAWLS’S “POLITICAL LIBERALISM” REVISITED” The American Journal of Jurisprudence vol. 50 (2005), pp. 1-70]

It is a fundamental feature of political philosophy to be part of practical philosophy
AND
, but who potentially at the same time are also the rulers.

“Public reason” provides the only reasonable basis for justification.

John Rawls [Emeritus Professor of Philosophy, Harvard University “The Idea of Public Reason Revisited” The University of Chicago Law Review, Vol. 64, No. 3 (Summer, 1997), pp. 765-807.]

The idea of public reason, as I understand it,' belongs to a
AND
India-finding a suitable idea of public reason is a concern that faces

Basic standards are necessary to ensure citizens accept the decisions that result from the agreed upon structure of the state, a prerequisite to any system of social cooperation.

Rawls 2 [James Bryant Conant Professor of Philosophy at Harvard University. A Theory of Justice. The Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College. Cambridge, MA. 1971. 233-236]

I now turn to a discussion of what I have labeled the third, fourth
AND
be reasonable, political conceptions must justify only constitutions that satisfy this principle.

The rule of law is necessary to maintain the states role as the legitimate arbiter of the rules.

Rawls 3 [James Bryant Conant Professor of Philosophy at Harvard University. A Theory of Justice. The Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College. Cambridge, MA. 1971. 233-236]

I now wish to consider rights of the person as these are protected by the
AND
the basic structure, but ones that are not by any means negligible.¶

CR: Maintaining rule of law

1) Prerequisite – can’t enforce ethics without rule of law
2) Without rule of law, pluralism is denied – arbitrary imposition of values


Contention I.



Military commissions are susceptible to unlawful command influence.



Glenn Sulmasy 09 [National Security and Human Rights Fellow, Harvard University, and Professor of Law, Commander and Judge Advocate, U.S. Coast Guard Academy. The National Security Court System: A Natural Evolution of Justice in an Age of Terror. Oxford University Press. New York, NY. 2009]



Along that same line of reasoning, it is critical that the Department of Defense

AND

military environment, I would suggest that is more than simply the norm.



The commissions are designed so that the military serves as prosecutor, judge, and jury.



Maogoto and Sheehy 07 [Jackson Maogoto, Professor of Law at The University of Manchester; Benedict Sheehy, Senior Lecturer in Business and Law at RMIT University. “Torturing the Rule of Law: USA and the Post 9-11 Legal World” Journal of Civil Rights and Economic Development. Volume 21, Issue 3 Volume 21, Spring/Summer 2007.]



It is of note that America's move to create a different judicial process to

AND

space within w[here]hich no rule of law obtains.

Contention II.

Forum choice facilitates abuses of power.



JANET ALEXANDER 2012 [Frederick I. Richman Professor of Law, Stanford Law School. “MILITARY COMMISSIONS: A PLACE OUTSIDE THE LAW’S REACH” Stanford Public Law Working Paper No. 2115073. July 21, 2012]



More deeply troubling is the apparent assumption that the government can choose the level of

AND

habeas corpus was to prevent executive detention without trial.241 AND, only article III courts can provide the transparency necessary to conform to the rule of law.


Checking executive abuses is a model of separation of powers; the impact is nuclear war and extinction. Adler, 96
(David, professor of political science at Idaho State, The Constitution and Conduct of American Foreign Policy, p. 23-25)


"The structure of... representatives in Congress."


==Negative== 
===Targeted Killing DA=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A. Aff increases targeted killing</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Scarborough 2011 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[Rowan Scarborough. Reporter, Media Fellow at the Hoover Institute “Al-Awlaki would have been difficult to try as a civilian; U.S. killed American-born terrorist.” The Washington Times. October 4, 2011. Pg. 8.]</span>

"Taking Anwar al-Awlaki..."Mark my words.


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Leads Admin to use Targeted Killing</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Steve Coll 2012</span> [Writer for the New Yorker, President of the New America Foundation. “KILL OR CAPTURE” AUGUST 2, 2012. The New Yorker. http://www.newyorker.com/online/blogs/comment/2012/08/kill-or-capture.html]

<span style="font-size: 12px;">"Klaidman’s reporting suggests... </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16px; text-align: start;">toward making an arrest?</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">B. Targeted killing increases terrorism</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">1. Organization strength</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">JENNA JORDAN 09</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [“When Heads Roll: Assessing the Effectiveness of Leadership Decapitation” Security Studies, 18:719–755, 2009 Copyright © Taylor & Francis Group, LLC]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">2. Recruitment</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Glenn Johnson 2007</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [NAVAL POSTGRADUATE SCHOOL. MONTEREY, CALIFORNIA THESIS. MORTUS DISCRIMINATUS: PROCEDURES IN TARGETED KILLING. by Glenn Johnson June 2007. [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA469936&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">3. Intelligence</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Marc Thiessen 2010</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> [Marc Thiessen “Dead Terrorists Tell no Tales? Foreign Policy, 2/8/10,[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/02/08/dead_terrorists_tell_no_tales?page=0,1]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Intelligence is key.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 10pt;">Ely Karmon 2006. [“The Role of Intelligence in Counter-Terrorism.” [[http://www.kida.re.kr/data/2006/04/14/ely_karmon.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">C. Impact of terrorism</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Mohamed Sid-Ahmed</span> [staff writer, Al-Ahram Issue 705, September 1, 2004, http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]

"We have reached... winners and losers."

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]