[[toc]]
=Zombies Good K= 
**They represent zombies and understand them in a bad way—even if it’s not literal the invocation of such a creature as a negative way of being or a bad part of culture, they chose away of representing zombies. We think zombies are good and we should all become zombies.**

**The coming of the zombies is inevitable and AWESOME.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">HHC No Date</span>, http://www.cracked.com/funny-6256-4-reasons-why-zombie-apocalypse-would-benefit-humanity-in-long-run/ Just The Facts, VJ
The world is going to end and it is going to be from Zombies
AND
simple things in life again. Like fishing. Wouldn't that be nice?


**HERE ARE MORE REASONS THE APOCALYPSE WOULD BE SWEET. turns and solves the chaos of the aff**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Subversify</span>, 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">11</span>, [[http://subversify.com/2011/11/04/the-benefits-of-a-zombie-apocalypse/]], VJ
Yes folks, you read that right – not every aspect of an undead plague
AND
to give us all a much-needed rebirth – who’s with me?
=Security K= 
==1NC Shell== 
**The aff’s threats are inherently subjective – their construction of threats marginalizes Others to legitimize violence**
David, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Grondin</span> (master of pol sci and PHD of political studies @ U of Ottowa) 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">04</span> “(Re)Writing the “National Security State”: How and Why Realists (Re)Built the(ir) Cold War,” online @ http://www.er.uqam.ca/nobel/ieim/IMG/pdf/rewriting_national_security_state.pdf
Adopting a more critical stance, David Campbell points out that "[d] anger
AND
danger through foreign policy that the states very conditions of existence are generated18.

**Security discourse is performative, not natural. The rhetoric of impending risk is used to ensure astonishing violence – whole populations are eliminated in the name of stability**
David <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Campbell</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">,</span> professor of international politics at the University of Newcastle. Writing Security, 19<span style="font-size: 12pt;">98</span>, p. 199 – 202
Security and subjectivity are intrinsically linked, even in conven­tional understandings. Traditional discourses of
AND
treatise of the period declared: "The police's true object is man."

**The alternative is to reject the affirmative’s security discourse – the act of situating ourselves against security in all forms through the means of debate is the only way to be emancipated from the deep entrenchment of security in our minds and society.**
Mark <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Neocleous</span>, Professor of Political Economy at Brunel University, 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">08</span>, “Critique of Security”, McGill-Queen’s University, pp. 184-186, Published 2008
The only way out of such a dilemma, to escape the fetish, is
AND
; it requires us to be brave enough to return the gift.143
==Links== 
===Terrorism=== 

**Terrorism discourse masks state violence and represents the legitimation of the international security crisis.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Der Derian</span>, 19<span style="font-size: 13pt;">95</span> (James Der Derian, Director of the Global Security Program and Research Professor of International Studies at the Watson Institute for International Studies at Brown University, “Arms, Hostages, and the Importance of Shredding in Earnest: Reading the National Security Culture”)
Just as Nietzsche
AND
the neo-medievalism alluded to earlier.
===Environment=== 

**The affirmative harms expand the concept of security from traditional issues like war to include the environment, this framing of the environment spills over massively expanding government power and justifying militarism and the most authoritarian responses to environmental problems.**
Ole <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Waever</span>, Senior Researcher @ the Center for Peace& Conflict Research, 19<span style="font-size: 13pt;">95</span>, On Security, p 63.-64
Central to the arguments
AND
name of the environment.
===Environmental Psychoanalysis=== 

**The affirmatives environmental representations project nature as good and humanity as the evil cause of crisis- this results in passivity that prevents effective political mobilization**
Peter <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dickens</span>, Affiliated Lecturer in the Department of Sociology, Faculty of Politics, Psychology, Sociology and International Studies, University of Cambridge, 8/12/20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">09</span> [“Split Psyche, Split Cosmos, Split Society”, [[http://thule.oulu.fi/suomi/tutkimus/documents/Dickens.pdf]]] MW
A central reason why
AND
afflict left-leaning politics.
===Hegemony=== 

**Hegemony is founded upon a fantasy of control that must endlessly strike any potential threat- this aggressive stance turns perceived foes into real ones and makes war and overstretch inevitable- endless war isn’t a ‘necessary evil’, its exactly what the neocons want**
Ira <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Chernus</span>, Professor of Religious Studies and Co-director of the Peace and Conflict Studies Program at the University of Colorado-Boulder, 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">06</span>, Monsters to Destroy: The Neoconservative War on Terror and Sin
The end of the cold
AND
enact the neocon story.
==Impacts== 
===VTL=== 

**External threats are not unique; terrorism is in our neighborhoods and there might just be poison in our children's Halloween candy. Insecurity is part of human life- rather than come to terms with this the affirmative encourages us to stay glued to the television stocking up on duct tape and water. At issue here is not just life but what makes that life livable.**
James <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Der Derian</span> is a Professor of International Relations at Brown University, 19<span style="font-size: 13pt;">95</span> [“On Security”] JXu
The will to power, then, should not be confused with a Hobbesian perpetual desire for power.
AND
he owes this artificial strength to the illusion of being protected by a god." 40

==Alternative== 
===2NC Solvency=== 

**Rejecting specific policies is key to challenging securitizing institutions**
Burke, 2002 (Anthony, Senior Lecturer in International Relations at the University of New South Wales, Sydney, Alternatives 27)
It is perhaps easy
AND
possibilities might be.

==Blocks== 
===AT: Threats Real=== 

**Their impacts are manufactured and distorted by the threat industry.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pieterse 7</span> (Jan, Professor of Sociology – University of Illinois (Urbana), “Political and Economic Brinkmanship”, Review of International Political Economy, 14(3), p. 473)
Brinkmanship and producing instability carry several meanings.
AND
since it concerns classified information and covert ops, limited checks on its functioning.

=Cap K= 
==1NC Shell== 

**Their politics reinforce capitalism - movements become specialized markets to remedy guilt while nothing actually changes.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dean 5</span> —Prof PoliSci @ William Smith College, PhD PoliSci @ Columbia (Jodi, “Zizek Against democracy,” ebsco)
Unlike most critical thinkers identified with the Left, Zizek rejects the current emphasis on
AND
realization of rational inclusion and tolerance coincides with contingent, irrational, violence.

**The primary ethical directive of politics is to fight against global capitalism. The large scale social exclusion and exploitation of entire groups of people is rendered incalculable and hidden within the framework of capital.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zizek and Daly 04</span> (Slavoj, professor of philosophy at the Institute for Sociology, Ljubljana, and Glyn, Conversations with Zizek, pg 14-16) JXu
For Zizek it is imperative that we cut through this Gordian knot of postmodern protocol
AND
the abject Other to that of a 'glitch' in an otherwise sound matrix.

**Our alternative is to reject both reform and postmodern intellectualism and instead demand a radical destruction of the capitalist system.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Poitevin</span>, Assistant Professor at the Gallatin School of Individualized Study, 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">01</span> (Rene Francisco, “The end of ant-capitalism as we knew it,” Socialist Review, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_qa3952/is_200101/ai_n8932891)
Let me finish by addressing the "vision thing" in Marxist theory, and
AND
hijack Marxism for some reformist agenda is not going to do it either.

==Impact== 
===Extinction=== 

**It’s try or die for the revolution – capitalism will inevitably cause extinction, reform and incrementalism only hide this fact**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kovel</span>, Alger Hiss Professor of Social Studies at Bard College, awarded Fellowship at the John Guggenheim Foundation, 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">02</span> (Joel, //The Enemy of Nature,// pages 5-7)
As the world
AND
addressed in the chapters to come.

===Environment=== 

**Capitalism’s expansion requires the subordination of nature to resources to be exploited, making ecological destruction of massive proportions inevitable**
John <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Foster</span> is a professor of Sociology at the University of Oregon, February 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">07</span> [“The Ecology of Destruction http://www.monthlyreview.org/0207jbf.htm]
In the almost
AND
other than its own drive to exponential expansion.

**Capitalism destroys the environment**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Andrew <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schenkel</span> is a political reporter in Washington D.C. and he started reporting on energy issues while working as reporter for an NBC, 6-10-20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">11</span> [“Iranian president blames global warming on capitalism” Mother Nature Network http://www.google.com/search?aq=2&oq=Andrew+Schen&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8&q=andrew+schenkel] vpotluri</span></span>
While speaking in Copenhagen
AND
is playing the green card.

===Root Cause - Automobility=== 

**Capitalism is the root cause of America’s car culture – the elites control choices regarding transportation and mobility**
Zack <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Furness</span>, Assistant Professor of Cultural Studies in the Department of Humanities,20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">11</span>[History and Social Sciences at Columbia College Chicago, One Less Car: Bicycling and the Politics of Automobility, 2011, pgs. 7-8]
The historical transformation
AND
and “civilized” peoples.29

===Take the Risk=== 

**Take the risk of their impact. Some things – like the prioritization of people over profit-are worth dying for.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zizek</span>, Prof. of Sociology, University of L 200<span style="font-size: 12pt;">3</span> (Slavoj, The Puppet and the Dwarf)
Insofar as "death" and "life" designate
AND
death like wine

==Blocks== 
===AT: Ethics First=== 
**Capitalism precludes ethics because it preferences economic valuation to any other method of judging the world**
Morgareidge 98 (Clayton, HE is Assistant Professor of Philosophy at Lewis and Clark College, “Why Capitalism is Evil,” Radio Active Philosophy, http://legacy.lclark.edu/~clayton/commentaries/evil.html-Singh
In recent commentaries
AND
a seat at the table.

===AT: Perm - Generic=== 
**Perm fails – the combination results in a refusal to privilege class as the primary exclusion**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Poitevin</span>, Assistant Professor at the Gallatin School of Individualized Study, 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">01</span>(Rene Francisco, “The end of ant-capitalism as we knew it,” Socialist Review, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_qa3952/is_200101/ai_n8932891)
Because of the
AND
a Marxist conference.8

**Post structuralism covers the claws of true Marxism and cedes true anti-capitalism.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Poitevin</span>, Assistant Professor at the Gallatin School of Individualized Study, 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">01</span> (Rene Francisco, “The end of ant-capitalism as we knew it,” Socialist Review, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_qa3952/is_200101/ai_n8932891)
And it is Marxist legitimacy
AND
Althusserian Marxism.

**Abandon caplitalism to destroy it from within – It’s the only effective resistence**
Herod, 04 (James, [[http://site.www.umb.edu/faculty/salzman_g/Strate/GetFre/4thEd/4-index.htm]], Getting Free, 4th Edition A sketch of an association of democratic, autonomous neighborhoods and how to create it, Fourth Edition, January 2004
It is time
AND
with a new civilization.

**Concerns of tolerance and equality subordinate and mystify capitalism as the fundamental antagonism**
Slavoj <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zizek</span> is a senior researcher at the Institute of Sociology University of Ljubljana, Slovenia, and a professor at the European Graduate School 10-5-19<span style="font-size: 13pt;">99</span> [“Psychoanalysis and the post-political”
SZ: Right. But the point is that we now seem to believe that
AND
our ultimate horizon? I just take note that certain concerns have disappeared.

**Any action from within doesn’t resist and fails to locate capitalism’s contradictions**
Fred <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Magdoff</span>, professor emeritus of plant and soil science at the University of Vermont, 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">11</span>, What Every Environmentalist Needs to Know about Capitalism: A Citizen's Guide to Capitalism and the Environment. New York: Monthly Review, 2011. Print.
But there is one box from which it is impossible to escape without confronting it
AND
go out of business. This is the simple truth.’*7

===AT: Perm - Racism=== 
**Their reformist movement within the system fails to the racism inherent in capitalism**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Freeman, 98 </span>Alan Freeman (Visiting Research Fellow at University of Manitoba, Principal Economist at Greater London Authority, Visiting Research Fellow at University of Manitoba, Senior Lecturer at University of Greenwich, Analyst at Economist Intelligence Unit, Alan Freeman is an economist who works for GLA Economics, the Mayor of London's Economic Analysis Unit) 1998 “The Material Roots of Western Racism” http://mpra.ub.uni-muenchen.de/2216/1/MPRA_paper_2216.pdf
Ignoring this, Leiman sets up a series of classic
AND
more money.

===AT: Ethics First=== 
**Capitalism precludes ethics because it preferences economic valuation to any other method of judging the world**
Morgareidge 98 (Clayton, HE is Assistant Professor of Philosophy at Lewis and Clark College, “Why Capitalism is Evil,” Radio Active Philosophy, http://legacy.lclark.edu/~clayton/commentaries/evil.html-Singh
In recent commentaries
AND
a seat at the table.

===AT: Cap Inevitable=== 

**The fall of the capitalist system that undergrids all relations is inevitable – Letting it collapse causes conflict**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Battersby 9 </span>(Benjamin Battersby, writer, text from the book "CAPITALISM: UNJUST, UNSTABLE, & UNSUSTAINABLE" 2009 http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=XOm8pTNXgUYC&oi=fnd&pg=PR5&dq=%22unsustainable%22+AND+%22capitalism%22&ots=JrcB6dzf2j&sig=3K-qylDJoMC3epH3HfJ-pFRZW0Y#v=onepage&q=unsustainable&f=false)
The scenario
AND
have demonstrated.

=Heidegger K= 
==1NC Shell== 
===1NC Generic=== 
**Transportation technology’s fixation with speed manipulates nature draining it of value**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Nadis,</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> History professor at California State University, 20</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">06</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Fred, “</span>//The Enchantments of Technology (review)”,// <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Technology and Culture, Project Muse)</span>
In this intriguing synthesis, Lee Worth Bailey proposes that the apparent "disenchantment
AND
the realm of hidden enchantments that Bailey unveils, would be ideal readers.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This technological framing poses the world as standing reserve and removes the essence of humanity</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Idhe,</span> Professor of Philosophy and the Director of the Technoscience Research Group at Stony Brook, 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">10</span> (Don, //Heidegger’s Technologies//, Project Muse, Pg 54-55
Now the concept of technology that pervades the lecture clearly combines elements from both
AND
for an interpretation that sees him as dominantly pessimistic regarding humanity’s future.

**That outweighs extinction – it’s better to die than to live as slaves to technological thought**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rojcewicz, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor of Philosophy at Point Park University</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">, 06</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Executive Director of the Simon Silverman Phenomenology Center at Duquesne University, cotranslator of Heidegger’s work. Richard, The Gods and Technology: A Reading of Heidegger, page 140-141)</span>
Heidegger now launches an extended discussion of the danger inherent in modern technology. It
AND
the earth," and yet their self-blindness would make them slaves.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Our alternative is to suspend technological thought.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Questioning is a pre-requisite to effective action and is the only way to restore Being</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Babich,</span> Professor of Philosophy Fordham University, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2012</span> (Babette, “Heidegger’s Philosophy of Sicence and the Critique of Calculation: Reflective Questioning, Gelassenheit, and Life”, //Heidegger on Science// edited by Trish Glazebrook, Project Muse, Pg 165-166
What Heidegger means by questioning remains more elusive than even his more attentive readers
AND
of the question, we are hard pressed to consider alternative solutions.

===1NC Environment=== 
**Expanding energy production is caused by an ontology that subordinates nature to manipulation---that obscures consumption that’s the root cause of the case**
Gary <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Backhaus 9 </span>Phil @ Loyola Maryland, "Automobility: Global Warming as Symptomatology" April 2009, [[http://www.mdpi.com/2071-1050/1/2/187|www.mdpi.com/2071-1050/1/2/187]]
Gore unwittingly bases his exposition on unwarranted epistemological assumptions that comprise an ordering function in
AND
us from our environmental degradation while economic expansion continues on its same course.

**That results in destructive practices that make their impacts inevitable---ensures serial policy failure and extinction**
Gary <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Backhaus 9</span>Phil @ Loyola Maryland, "Automobility: Global Warming as Symptomatology" April 2009, [[http://www.mdpi.com/2071-1050/1/2/187|www.mdpi.com/2071-1050/1/2/187]]
Many environmental thinkers have questioned the presupposed tenets, e.g., the doctrine
AND
terms), are destroying the life of, and on, the planet.

**This requires a rejection of their symptom-focus in favor of an ontological reconfiguration of our relationship to nature that does not render it a standing reserve**
Gary <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Backhaus 9</span> Phil @ Loyola Maryland, "Automobility: Global Warming as Symptomatology" April 2009, [[http://www.mdpi.com/2071-1050/1/2/187|www.mdpi.com/2071-1050/1/2/187]]
The twentieth-century philosopher Martin Heidegger provides an approach that allows us to transcend
AND
order to come to terms with the disease rather than its symptomatic manifestation.
==Blocks== 
===AT: Perm=== 
**Meditative and Calculative thought are mutually exclusive- calculative thought crowds out the possibility of questioning**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Idhe</span>, Professor of Philosophy and the Director of the Technoscience Research Group at Stony Brook, 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">10</span> (Don, Heidegger’s Technologies, Project Muse, Pg 40-41
But what is the danger?
AND
For questioning is the piety of thought. (QT 317)

**Technology perpetuates a tie to the military industrial complex- independent disad to the permutation**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Idhe</span>, Professor of Philosophy and the Director of the Technoscience Research Group at Stony Brook, 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">10</span> (Don, Heidegger’s Technologies, Project Muse, Pg 89-90
This engineering science
AND
even be increased.

=Taoism K= 
==1NC Shell== 

**Death and misfortune are inevitable. The joy of life comes in accepting things as they are. Plans to fix the world only destroy us spiritually-**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Slabbert, 01</span> [Jos, Taoist teacher and philosopher, “Tao te Ching: How to Deal with Suffering” http://www.taoism.net/theway/suffer.htm]
Dealing with loss Express yourself completely, then keep quiet. Be like the forces
AND
the more we tamper with it, the more damage we will do.

**No one knows what is good and bad. Reject the aff’s judgments, even if we lose all life on earth**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kirkland</span>, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">98</span> [Russell Kirkland, Associate Professor of Religion (and Asian Studies), “"Responsible Non-Action" In a Natural World: Perspectives from the Nei-Yeh, Chuang-Tzu, and Tao-Te Ching,” 1998, University of Georgia, http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/ECO.pdf]
Why It Is Wrong to Resent Unexpected Changes In Chuang-tzu 18, we
AND
takes the morally responsible course of simply accepting the new state of things.

**The alternative is to forego all action to achieve desired ends.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kirkland</span>, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">96</span> [Russell Kirkland, Associate Professor of Religion (and Asian Studies), “The Book of the Way,” 24-29, http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/DAODE.pdf]
The Teachings of the Daode jing The focus of the Daode jing is something called
AND
most powerful force in existence, and nothing can thwart its unceasing operation.

==Links== 
===Morality=== 
**The Tao demands that even in the face of moral imperatives, we do nothing – human nature is incapable of comprehending the true nature of our actions and drives.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kirkland 98</span> - (1996, Russell Kirkland, Ph.D. in East Asian Languages and Cultures, specialist in Asian Religions, Associate Professor of Religion at UGA, "’RESPONSIBLE NON-ACTION’ IN A NATURAL WORLD : PERSPECTIVES FROM THE NEI-YEH, CHUANG-TZU, AND TAO-TE CHING" HARVARD CONFERENCE ON TAOISM AND ECOLOGY)
Once upon a time, several years ago, I had the opportunity to engage
AND
and can probably not fully effect our will, despite our best intentions.

===Intervention=== 
**A deeper understanding of life precludes intervention**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kirkland</span>, professor of Asian religions and Taoism at the University of Georgia, 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">01</span>
(Russell, “'Responsible Non-Action' in a Natural World: Perspectives from the Neiye, Zhuangzi, and Daode jing,” Daoism and Ecology: Ways within a Cosmic Landscape, http://kirkland.myweb.uga.edu/rk/pdf/pubs/ECO.pdf)
Solicitude for Non-Human Life in Taoism A traditional interpretive error regarding Taoism should
AND
as a sign of what we might call both moral and spiritual immaturity.

===“Other”=== 
**The Aff’s Actomania serves to salve our conscious- it doesn’t establish an authentic ethical relationship to the other**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rahnema, 97</span> [Rahnema, professor of political science at York University, 1997, The Post Development Reader, p. 392]
A first condition for such a search is to look at things as they are
AND
all its difference and uniqueness, to start its journey into the unknown.

===Ethics=== 
**The aff’s attempt at compassion is just a hollow attempt to salve their conscious spurring disharmony with the Tao.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Slabbert, 01</span> [Jos, Taoist teacher and philosopher, “Tao te Ching: How to Deal with Suffering” http://www.taoism.net/theway/suffer.htm]
"Virtue" as suffering When the great Tao is forgotten, goodness and piety
AND
service of the ego, and as such they are corruptive and harmful.

==Impacts== 
===No Impact=== 
**Good versus bad is a false dichotomy – the subjectivity of values means one can never know.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">McClellan</span>, lecturer at University of Colorado at Boulder, August 19<span style="font-size: 13pt;">93</span>
(John, “Nondual Ecology: In Praise of Wildness and in Search of Harmony with Everything That Moves,” http://spot.colorado.edu/~mcclelr/NondualEcologyLight.htm)
Deep ecology is good, but not always useful in everyday life. We need
AND
illusion, and in the end, from the wrong sort of despair.

===Turns Case=== 
**Turns case Living according to the Tao is the only moral form of being in the world, cant make moral decisions, causes serial policy failure**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kirkland 98</span> - (1996, Russell Kirkland, Ph.D. in East Asian Languages and Cultures, specialist in Asian Religions, Associate Professor of Religion at UGA, "’RESPONSIBLE NON-ACTION’ IN A NATURAL WORLD : PERSPECTIVES FROM THE NEI-YEH, CHUANG-TZU, AND TAO-TE CHING" HARVARD CONFERENCE ON TAOISM AND ECOLOGY)
But doesn't such a position leave us with an apparent moral quandary? Wouldn't it
AND
and must rely upon his human creations to do that job for him.
==Alternative== 
===Solves Case=== 

**The K solves the case. We don’t reject solving problems, we reject the flawed interventionism that problem solving consists of today. The process of conforming to the Tao, rejecting action, and becoming a sage has a tremendous effect on the world around us and allows it to revert back to the natural state of the universe.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kirkland 98</span> - (1996, Russell Kirkland, Ph.D. in East Asian Languages and Cultures, specialist in Asian Religions, Associate Professor of Religion at UGA, "’RESPONSIBLE NON-ACTION’ IN A NATURAL WORLD : PERSPECTIVES FROM THE NEI-YEH, CHUANG-TZU, AND TAO-TE CHING" HARVARD CONFERENCE ON TAOISM AND ECOLOGY)
But by this definition,
AND
taking such actions.

===Kritik First=== 
**The 1AC’s rationalist attempt to anticipate the effects of foreign policy will fail. Emptying oneself of being is a prerequisite to true understanding.**
Ralph <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pettman</span>, Professor in the School of History, Philosophy, Political Science and International Relations at Victoria University of Wellington, 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">05</span> (“Taoism And The Concept Of Global Security,” International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, Volume 5, Number 1, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Oxford Journals Online, p. 72-75)
How does moving onto Taoist ground, and immersing ourselves in Taoist experience, play
AND
something we might need to know if we are to understand global security.

=Ableist Discourse K= 
==1NC Shells== 
===Crazy & Paralysis=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Even if their rhetoric is not targeted at a specific person, disability metaphors perpetuate the disability stigma and oppression of people with disabilities.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Moshe 5 (Liat, PhD Student in Sociology, Disability Studies and Women Studies at Syracuse University, “’Lame Idea: Disabling Language in the Classroom’”, Building Pedagogical Curb Cuts: Incorporating Disability in the University Classroom and Curriculum)</span>
As educators, we must bear in mind that disability labels have a history,
AND
the umbrella of “mental retardation” (Clark & Marsh, 2002).

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ableist language upholds the notion of the “ideal body” and perpetuates the medical model.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Elin et al 9 (Lindsay Elin: graduate student pursuing Master of Social Work at the University of Toronto; Yahya El-Lahib: Bachelor of Social Work student at Ryerson University and long-term disability rights activist; Samantha Wehbi: is an Associate Professor, School of Social Work; “Neo-colonial discourse and disability: the case of Canadian international development NGOs”, Community Development Journal, July 22)</span>
Second, ableist language used in the reports, with its focus on vulnerability,
AND
individualized discourses shift the focus away from the injustices experienced by these women.
Finally, ableist language used in the NGO documents promotes the ideal of normalcy.
AND
‘unhealthy’, which are also used in the documents from Canadian NGOs.
==2NC Blocks== 
===Discourse First=== 
**Language has a direct tie to being- the discourse of the 1ac should be rejected if it enables the loss of being of the disabled—they become useless and nameless and the other**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hatab</span>, professor at Old Dominion University, 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span> (Lawrence, “From Animal to Dasein: Heidegger and Evolutionary Biology”, Heidegger on Science edited by Trish Glazebrook, Project Muse Pg 109-110
I close
AND
tracked in the earth.

=Death Cult K= 
===1NC Shell=== 

**1. Agenda: the aff frames the ballot in strategies to avoid death. This turns debate into a death cult and terminates the joy of living.**
Ted <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lumley 98</span> – “the sinking myth of progress: the final plunge.” the matran school, www.goodshare.org/progress.htm
The conflict between western man's 'rational' euclidian projection of immortality and his sensory projection of
AND
and cannot be dealt with on time-and-thing independent bases.
**2. Vote neg. You should reject the aff because they use the plan to avoid death. We agree that we should use the best policy option, but first we should establish limits. This is a theory argument about how we should debate that sets limits on how we justify action. We won't make cross-applications from other flows to prove the link.**

===**AT: Death Bad**=== 

**It trivializes death and makes it okay. Death debating causes an aesthetic fascination with the spectacle of death. This turns debate into a death cult and denies the choice to avoid death impacts.**
Jean Baudrillard, Dartmouth BM Hack, ‘93 (Symbolic Exchange and Death trans Iain Grant, p. 185-7)
Pursued and censured
AND
can put an end to political economy.

**Body Counts. Death debating reduces peoples’ lives to mere numbers for debaters to consume in their game.**
Jean Baudrillard, Dartmouth BM Hack, ‘93 (Symbolic Exchange and Death trans Iain Grant, 162-3, 173-5, “manpower” is left deliberately in)
2. More importantly, that
AND
consumption in social input and output?

=Scorpion Death= 
===1NC Shell=== 

**The aff is a feeble attempt at revolution—you will change nothing. The only hope for escape is a radical paradox—turn the principles of power on power itself. We are taking the 1AC hostage. Our demand is an immediate negative ballot—30 speaker points and everything. The system cannot respond. We are the scorpion poisoning itself. We refuse to negotiate until you meet our demands.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Baudrillard 76</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">We will not destroy the system by a direct</span>, dialectical <span style="font-size: 11pt;">revolution of the</span> economic
AND
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">forbidden it, the only violence it cannot exert: its own death</span>.

=Atchison and Panetta K= 
===1NC Shell=== 
**Using the debate space for social change creates backlash and fractures coalitions. The opponent becomes the scapegoat for broader ideological currents and losses create hostile situations and undermine productive discussion.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Atchison and Panetta 9</span> (Jarrod Atchison, PhD. In Speech Communication. Edward Panetta, Ph.D. in Communication. “Intercollegiate Debate Speech Communication: Historical Developments and Issues for the Future”; The SAGE Handbook of Rhetorical Studies, Pg. 28-9)
The larger problem with locating the "debate as activism" perspective within the competitive
AND
long community problems requires a tremendous effort by a great number of people.

**The affirmative team sacrifices the “community” portion of community change through their use of individual debate rounds as activist strategy.**
Atchison and Panetta 9 (Jarrod Atchison, PhD. In Speech Communication. Edward Panetta, Ph.D. in Communication. “Intercollegiate Debate Speech Communication: Historical Developments and Issues for the Future”; The SAGE Handbook of Rhetorical Studies, Pg. 28)
The final problem with an individual debate round focus is the role of competition.
AND
of the debate community to dismiss competition in the name of community change.

**Our alternative does not preclude their speech act. Instead, we should advocate it during a moderated discussion or public debate during a tournament banquet or awards ceremony.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Atchison and Panetta 9</span> (Jarrod Atchison, PhD. In Speech Communication. Edward Panetta, Ph.D. in Communication. “Intercollegiate Debate Speech Communication: Historical Developments and Issues for the Future”; The SAGE Handbook of Rhetorical Studies, Pg. 30-32)
Tournaments that already have banquets scheduled present an easy opportunity for the beginnings of community
AND
may prefer to start community and test the idea of the forum first.

**Public dialogue is the only format by which we can ever hope to create change within the debate community, and coalitions between debaters and the “real world.” This ensures a broader, more productive impact for their movement.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Atchison and Panetta 9</span> (Jarrod Atchison, PhD. In Speech Communication. Edward Panetta, Ph.D. in Communication. “Intercollegiate Debate Speech Communication: Historical Developments and Issues for the Future”; The SAGE Handbook of Rhetorical Studies, Pg. 27-8)
A second problem with attempting to create community change in individual debates is that the
AND
individual participants and can achieve better reform through public dialogue than individual debates.

=Anthropocentricsm K= 
==1NC Shells== 
===1NC vs Race Affs=== 
**There is no neutral stance towards anthropocentrism – Humanism is a performative factory that constantly produces an empty human sovereignty. The affirmative reifies anthropocentric exceptionalism by locating the particular antagonism of slavery. Rather, the foundational political conflict has always been between the human and the animal**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wolf-Meyer</span>20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">04 </span>Matthew, Asst Prof of Anthropology at the UC, Santa Cruz “The Open: Man and Animal.” http://reconstruction.eserver.org/BReviews/revTheOpen.htm
<1> With no mention of his prior work on the issues of sovereignty
AND
be articulated, alongside bare life and the simplicity of "letting be."

**Despite claiming to rupture humanism, they only foster a more insidious form Situating the Black Body as the inhuman denied gratuitious freedom maintains the human/subhuman binary as an analytic – that merely shifts the locus of genocidal violence**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Deckha 2010</span> Maneesha, Assc professor of law at the U of Victoria. “The Subhuman as a Cultural Agent of Violence” Journal for Critical Animal Studies 8.3 http://www.criticalanimalstudies.org/wp-content/uploads/2009/09/JCAS-Special-Issue-Women-of-Color-November-FINAL-20101.doc
The first part of this paper has established the importance of the subhuman figure in
AND
only for humans made vulnerable by their dehumanization, but nonhumans as well.

**The affirmative is only a partial history – treating slavery as a singular instance of world-changing history obscures the continuum of violence produced by anthropocentrism Slavery emerged from a matrix of oppression that BEGAN with the domestication of animals. The alternative is to eradicate the hierarchy of species.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Heydt ‘10</span> [samantha, american abattoirs, December 20th, http://samheydt.wordpress.com/2010/12/20/224/, BA Communications New School and Universitat van Amsterdam ]
The American abattoir paved the road to Auschwitz. The industrialization of death developed at
AND
has only advanced, while the notion of ‘human’ remains increasingly obscured.