<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[toc]]
</span>











=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Info</span>= 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Adam Pease = the 2n adampease1 (at) gmail.com</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Robbie Manley = the 2a robbiemanley (at) gmail.com</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">E-mail us for full text if you want it. We'll post the neg cites for any offense we read. 2ac materials will not be posted, and I reserve the right to ignore emails asking for them. If you email me requesting the "2ac block" to an argument, you are not likely to get a response. Requests for the cite or full text of a specific card or two have a much higher chance of receiving a response.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We usually go for the politics DA or the Kagan good K.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">hmu:</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[media type="custom" key="20991456"]]</span>
=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Affirmative</span>= 
==<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">Roadkill Aff</span>== 

===<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">1AC Berkeley - Doubles</span>=== 

**<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">THE DEFINING CHARACTERISTIC OF MODERNITY HAS BEEN THE SUSTAINED, DELIBERATE, AND INVISIBLE MURDER OF PLANET EARTH. CIVIL SOCIETY IS COMPLICIT IN THE REPRODUCTION OF AN ONTIC ORDER PREMISED ON THE CONSTITUTIVE XENOCIDE OF ALL OTHER FORMS OF LIFE. THE POLITICAL IS EMPTY AND VACUOUS—LIBERAL AND CONSERVATIVE HAVE BECOME TWO SIDES OF THE SAME COIN—EVERYONE HAS A DIFFERENT FLAVOR OF ACADEMIC PARLANCE BUT EVERYONE MURDERS OUR CLOSEST BROTHERS AND SISTERS IN THE SAME WAY. </span>**

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">Best 2007 (Steven Best, Associate Professor of Philosophy, University of Texas, El Paso – Working in areas such as philosophy, social and political theory, cultural studies, science and technology studies, animal rights, and environmentalism, he has written and edited eight books and published over 100 articles and reviews Fast Capitalism, Vol. 2, No. 2, 2007, “The Killing Fields of South Africa: Eco-Wars, Species Apartheid, and Total Liberation,”</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Helvetica;">[[http://www.uta.edu/huma/agger/fastcapitalism/2_2/best.html]]</span></span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">, azp) </span>

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">"This hell made …. relations to animals.</span>

**<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">NO EXCUSES. NO SHYING AWAY. NO TURNING BACK. THIS IS THE WORLD WE HAVE CREATED FOR OURSELVES—FOR EACH LIVE ANIMAL SEEN BY THE AVERAGE MOTORIST THAT MOTORIST IS LIKELY TO SEE TWENTY-FIVE MORE DEAD ANIMALS PLASTERED TO THE HIGHWAY. THE NETWORKS OF ASPHALT THAT GRID THE LAND EXIST AS MONUMENTAL TOMBSTONES FOR THE ANIMAL DEAD. THE INERT SPECTACLE OF ROADKILL IS A GORY MICROCOSM FOR THE VIOLENCE OF AUTOMOBILITY.</span>**

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">Soron 2011 (Dennis Soron, Assistant Professor in the Department of Sociology at Brock University, 2011, “Road Kill: Commodity Fetishism and Structural Violence,” Critical Theory and Animal Liberation ed. Sanbonmatsu, 65-69, azp)</span>

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">The idea of … empathy or concern. </span>

**<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">THE HISTORY OF OUR TRANSPORTATION AND OUR FOOD IS MORE CLOSELY LINKED THAN IT MIGHT SEEM. THINK ABOUT IT: PUTTING TOGETHER A CAR IS JUST TAKING APART A COW IN REVERSE. FROM ITS INCEPTION THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY HAS MOVED IN TANDEM WITH THE MEAT INDUSTRY—THE TECHNOLOGIES OF EFFICIENCY AND CONTROL PIONEERED BY HENRY FORD WERE MIRRORED IN THE FACTORY FARM IN ORDER TO PRODUCE A TIGHTLY WOUND NETWORK OF RAILWAYS, CONVEYOR BELTS, AND SLAUGHTERHOUSES. </span>**

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">Safran Foer 2009 (Jonathan Safran Foer, Professor in the Graduate Creative Writing Program at New York University, 2009, Eating Animals, pp. 54-55, azp)</span>

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">Beginning in Cincinnati … animals like dead ones. </span>

**<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">TO BE THE ANIMAL IS TO BE ALWAYS ALREADY SOCIALLY DEAD. SOCIAL DEATH IS TO AWAKEN EACH DAY TO A NEW HORROR MORE OBSCENE THAN THE LAST. SOCIAL DEATH IS TO BE TRANSFIGURED INTO MEAT THE MOMENT AFTER YOU LEAVE THE WOMB. SOCIAL DEATH IS TO SPEND EVERY WAKING MOMENT BURIED ALIVE IN A BURNING COFFIN. SOCIAL DEATH IS THE ONTOLOGICAL CONDITION OF IRRETRIEVABLE NEGATION.</span>**

**<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">EATING MEAT IS FARMING BY PROXY. WHENEVER WE CONSUME THE FLESH OF AN ANIMAL WE HAVE SUBSIDIZED ITS SERIAL MURDER. EVERY SHRED OF HAPPINESS IS TORN FROM EVERY SECOND OF ITS LIFE. HERE IS A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE WAY NINETY-NINE PERCENT OF THE CATTLE IN THIS COUNTRY ARE ASSASSINATED:</span>**

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">Safran Foer 2009 (Jonathan Safran Foer, Professor in the Graduate Creative Writing Program at New York University, 2009, Eating Animals, pp. 115-118, azp)</span>

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">At a typical …. to get out. . . </span>

**<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">FOR SUCH A PURPORTEDLY PROGRESSIVE GROUP THE DEBATE COMMUNITY HAS DONE NOTHING TO ADDRESS THE QUESTION OF ANIMAL EXPLOITATION. THE PERFORMATIVE AND STRUCTURAL ELEMENTS OF OUR ACTIVITY ARE PREMISED ON THE WHITEWASHING OF ANTHROPOCENTRIC CALCULUS. DEBATE HAS BECOME A FACTORY FARM OF KNOWLEDGE PRODUCTION—WHILE PUTTING FORTH A PASTORAL IMAGE OF IDEAL COMMUNICATION DEBATE VIOLENTLY CONCEALS ITS ADDICTION TO TECHNICITY AND OBJECTIFICATION, WHERE BODIES AND ARGUMENTS ARE COMMODIFIED AND REDUCED TO THEIR BASE PRODUCTIVE CAPACITY. HEG IMPACTS AND POLITICS DA’S ARE THE EXPORTS OF OUR INDUSTRY; THE FRAMEWORK ARGUMENT IS THE BUREAUCRATIC CLOAK THAT CAMOUFLAGES OUR DISCUSSIONS IN LEGALISTIC DIALECT. </span>**

**<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">THE ANTHROPOCENTRIC TENDENCIES OF OUR COMMMUNITY EXIST NOT JUST IN THE DISCURSIVE REALM OF THE DEBATE ITSELF BUT ALSO IN THE MACHINERY OF THE TOURNAMENT AS A WHOLE. THE ENTRY FEES WE PAY TO ATTEND DEBATE TOURNAMENTS ARE TRANSLATED INTO PROFITS FOR THE FACTORY FARM. THE ANIMAL BECOMES THE ABSENT REFERENT THAT TIES TOGETHER OUR COMMUNITY, THE EMPTY SIGNIFIER THAT PRESCRIPTS OUR DISCUSSIONS AND YET REMAINS INVISIBLE WITHIN THEM. </span>**

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">Leeson-Schatz 2012 (Joe Leeson-Schatz, Professor of English at feminist evolutionary theory at Binghamton University and Director of Debate at Binghamton University, Thread on CEDA forums, 2012 –Note: The forum post itself is not timestamped, though Schatz’ post was reblogged by several sites in late 2012 which makes me feel comfortable extrapolating that year as the date of the article, “Animals, Allies, and Race,” </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Helvetica;">[[http://www.cedadebate.org/forum/index.php?topic=4217.0;wap]]</span></span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">, azp)</span>

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">So what is …. have begun online. </span>

**<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">DEBATE SUSTAINS ITS COMMITMENT TO SPECIESISM THROUGH PRAXIS OF DISINTERESTED SCHOLARSHIP. ARGUMENTS AND WAYS OF THINKING ARE IDEALIZED AND WORSHIPPED IN A FORM OF COMMODITY FETISHISM WHEREBY SIMULATED NOTIONS OF “POLICY RELEVANCE” CROWD OUT AUTHENTIC RELATIONSHIPS TO THE WORLD AROUND US. THIS IS THE SAME FANTASY THAT UNDERGIRDS THE DE-ANIMALIZATION OF ROADKILL, WHEREBY THE EXHIBITION OF THE FLATTENED CORPSE IS EXTRICATED FROM ITS LIVING REFERENT AND PRESUMED TO FLOAT IN SPACE—ANY EMOTIONAL CONNECION SANITIZED BY ITS CONSTRUCTION AS AN “UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCE” OF CAR CULTURE. TRADITIONAL APPROACHES TO THE TOPIC FAIL BECAUSE THE SEEK REFORM INSTEAD OF REVOLUTION—THEY CONCEIVE OF PROBLMES WITH TRANSPORATION AS DISCRETE “ACCIDENTS” THAT CAN BE FIXED WITH SOFT POLICIES—THIS APPROACH MASKS SYSTEMIC VIOLENCE AND PREVENTS A RECOGNITION THAT THE ENTIRE SYSTEM IS BROKEN. TO UNDERMINE ANTHROPOCENTRISM WE MUST TEAR DOWN THE WALLS OF THE SLAUGHTERHOUSE AND REPLACE THEM WITH GLASS. WE WILL BEGIN BY MAKING VISIBLE THE SEEABLE SPECTACLE OF ROADKILL—IN ORDER TO AUTHENTICALLY INVEST OUR ENERGIES AS ACTIVE AND INTERESTED SCHOLARS IN THE CONCEPTUAL SPACE OF TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE WE MUST REJECT THE ANTHROPOCENTRIC MYTHOLOGY OF AUTOMOBILITY. </span>**

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">Soron 2011 (Dennis Soron, Assistant Professor in the Department of Sociology at Brock University, 2011, “Road Kill: Commodity Fetishism and Structural Violence,” Critical Theory and Animal Liberation ed. Sanbonmatsu, 65-69, azp)</span>

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">NOTE: Evidence has been slightly edited for syntax. All original text remains and changes are denoted by [brackets].</span>

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">In one sense, … of human domination. </span>

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;"><<Soron Continues>></span>

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">Despite its cultural … own animal being.</span>

**<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">OURS IS A CALL FOR TOTAL LIBERATION. POLICY REFORM CAN NEVER ENCOMPASS THE GRATUITY OF OUR DEMAND FOR FREEDOM. THE MOVEMENT MUST BE GLOBAL IN ITS SCOPE BUT LOCAL IN ITS ROOTS. OUR ACT OF SUBJECTIVE DECOLONIZATION IS AN ESSENTIAL STARTING POINT FOR THE REJECTION OF ALL FORMS OF EXPLOITATION.</span>**

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">Best 2007 (Steven Best, Associate Professor of Philosophy, University of Texas, El Paso – Working in areas such as philosophy, social and political theory, cultural studies, science and technology studies, animal rights, and environmentalism, he has written and edited eight books and published over 100 articles and reviews Fast Capitalism, Vol. 2, No. 2, 2007, “The Killing Fields of South Africa: Eco-Wars, Species Apartheid, and Total Liberation,”</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Helvetica;">[[http://www.uta.edu/huma/agger/fastcapitalism/2_2/best.html]]</span></span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">, azp)</span>

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 10pt;">"Let there be … worth its name.**</span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Pirates Aff</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC Gonzaga - Quarters</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The First Plank is the Jolly Roger:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Near the dawn of the 1700’s, radical pirate culture emerged as an egalitarian community defined by its opposition to the rule of sovereignty. In defiance of the authoritarian regimes of the state, merchant captains and royal officials, the pirate ship became an early beacon of inclusion, democracy and freedom. For the numerous marginalized groups, the pirate ship served as an escape from the dominant paradigm of exclusion. Once aboard, all pirates were equal within the democratic community, from the decision-making process to the spoils of battle.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Land, 07** (Chris Land, Lecturer in Management at the University of Essex, “Flying the black flag: Revolt, revolution and the social organization of piracy in the ‘golden age’”, May 29, 2007, [[http://moh.sagepub.com/content/2/2/169]], rm) *ALTERED SLIGHTLY FOR GENDERED LANGUAGE</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Although the pirates ... of pirate life.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The nomadic war machine established by golden age pirate society represented a direct challenge to the states authority. Sailing upon the smooth space of the ocean, the pirate ship was the perfect rhizome - able to sail unpredictably between secret coves and uncharted islands. With each operation against the state, pirates established nomadic potential and reconstituted the ocean as smooth space. In response, the state attempted reterritorialize the resistance – the royal navy hired privateers which acted as state sanctioned marauders upon the sea. However, once these privateers served their purpose they were abandoned and many joined the pirate communities they had once left, setting the stage for the further deterritorialization of state monopoly over the high seas.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> **Kuhn, 10** (Gabriel Kuhn, “Life Under the Jolly Roger”, Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of Innsbruck and general badass, “Life Under the Jolly Roger: Reflections on Golden Age Piracy”, Pg 98-100, rm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> The French philosopher-psychoanalyst ... golden age pirate…</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Eventually the state ceased its focus on privateering and shifted to an even more control-oriented regime. The golden age of piracy was brought to an end when the state annexed the ocean – imposed counter-hydraulic shipping lanes and a grid of intelligibility which defined the ocean as a theatre for warfare. The modern Navy destroyed pirate culture by restricting its mobility and striating the ocean.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kuhn, 10** (Gabriel Kuhn, “Life Under the Jolly Roger”, Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of Innsbruck and general badass, “Life Under the Jolly Roger: Reflections on Golden Age Piracy”, Pg 27-30, rm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> If it is ... lives at home.23</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The history of Golden Age piracy is but one example in a historical trajectory of fascism. The attempt to impose order on a chaotic world has characterized politics for as long as the state has existed. Systems of domination are supported by a supple and flexible regime of microfascism – individuals complicit in totalizing and essentialist logic deny personal freedom and prop up state sponsored violence.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Deleuze & Guattari, 80 (A Thousand Plateaus1980. p214-5.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Doubtless, fascism invented ... personal and collective.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Second Plank is the Treasure Chest:</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Concurrent with the end of the Golden Age came the advance of technologies designed to striate the sea - shipping lanes, naval blockades, and advanced cartography channeled the smooth space of the sea into a conduit for the expansion of European hegemony. Like the ocean, debate represents the potential for a smooth space; our activity has no rules, it is malleable and formless, historically it has been subject to immense change. We believe that this potential for change is not lost. Unfortunately, conventional debate, like the ocean, has been gridded and mapped by bureaucratic and fascist practices. Just as the seas are now a mere theatre for warfare, the ocean of debate represents nothing more than the backdrop for the elites of our community to project their own hegemony. Rather than bothering to motivate change in our activity we are preoccupied with discussions of economic collapse and nuclear war. These stale discussions function to consolidate power in an elite group of debaters and schools - teams with the funding to go to summer camps, to pay coaches to cut evidence, to make connections with other teams, while they rob us of the potential for education – instead of discussions of transportation, traditional debates take place over the comparison of impacts, or the president’s political capital. The ultimate in stale discussions is the framework argument – used to police the seas, to forcibly and preemptively exclude any inadequate, inconvenient, or potentially educational discussion. The racilialized, queered, animalized, differently-abled members of debate are externalized from the elite community and used as the constitutive backdrop against which elitist subjectivities are constructed. The Jolly Roger is a means of motivating authentic dialogue within debate, both about the topic and about equity. We are the wretched flotsam and jetsam expulsed by the busted rudder of this community.** </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Traditional revolutions are prefigured to fail – state power is too diffuse and pervasive. This is not a revolution, this is an insurrection. The difference between our aff and traditional alternative is the distinction between transcendence and immanence. Conventional revolutions are grounded in a transcendent set of principles that exist outside of history. They assume that the particular set of circumstances is ontologically inescapable; consequently they see only a single outlet for resistance. Our immanent attitude towards change sees the potential for progress everywhere; resistance is diffuse and exists on a thousand different plateaus we can travel between. Obviously our affirmation won’t change politics as a whole, but we have the potential to make the space we are in right now a more free and fluid forum for discussion. We are a mutiny on the debate community, an inversion of hierarchy. Pirates would steal from the rich, it’s not as if we can literally go out and take everyone’s tubs, this debate represents the only space for genuine intervention. Ballots are the currency of our activity, the proverbial treasure chest that keeps us sailing from round to round. Our advocacy represents a performative theft of the ballot, a discursive looting that reclaims this space as a temporary autonomous zone of freedom, creativity and inclusion. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Bey, 85** (Hakim Bey – a pseudonym under which the writer Peter Lamborn Wilson writes, Terrorist Poet, “T. A. Z.: The Temporary Autonomous Zone, Ontological Anarchy, Poetic Terrorism”, 1985, [[http://hermetic.com/bey/taz3.html#labelTAZ|http://hermetic.com/bey/taz3.html#labelTAZ]], rm)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">*NOTE: TAZ = Temporary Autonomous Zone</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Pirate Utopias THE ... act of realization.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our argument isn’t that we should act just like pirates. We’re fully aware that some pirates were racist, sexist, violent, assholes – we’re not going to try and hide that. Our politics does not claim ownership of the pirates, but uses their legacy as an inspiration for a movement. This debate does not end after the 1ac, the question of exclusion and fascism within our community should continue inside and outside the round. Just as pirates subtracted themselves from the transportation communities of the 1700’s – we separate ourselves from the dominant transportation community of debate. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kuhn, 10** (Gabriel Kuhn, “Life Under the Jolly Roger”, Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of Innsbruck and general badass, “Life Under the Jolly Roger: Reflections on Golden Age Piracy”, Pg 174-180, rm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In short, the ... a short time.”43</span>
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC Stanford - New Cards</span>=== 
**The way the state approached the anomaly of Golden Age Piracy is but one example of a historical trajectory of fascism. There is no one way forward in history, but a transcendent outlook on change, that sees the shallow Western modality of thought as the only way to create progress is what justified the destruction of pirate culture. Resist the urge to __suspend history__. Change may be scary but stasis is infinitely more terrifying. My fear is that we will wake up one day and forget who we really are. In so many debates I’m asking to slip myself in my back pocket whenever I give a speech, to become disinterested and disconnected, aspiring to a perfected subjectivity that nobody can actually fit into. The world around us is failing—we live on a planet teetering over the precipice of ecological collapse, balanced on the __knife-edge__ of cultural destruction. The answer is not more alienation, more of the same, but a plural outlook that exists on a thousand different plateaus.**

<span class="Underline">**Davis** **09** (Wade Davis, Wade Davis is the best-selling author of several books, including The Serpent and the Rainbow, Light at the Edge of the World, One River, and The Clouded Leopard. He is an award-winning anthropologist, ethnobotanist, filmmaker, and photographer, and his writing and photographs have appeared in numerous publications, including the Globe and Mail, Maclean’s, Newsweek, National Geographic, the Wall Street Journal, and the Washington Post. He currently holds the post of Explorer in Residence at the National Geographic Society, November 2009, //The Massey Lecture Series,// The Wayfinders: Why Ancient Wisdom Matters in the Modern World, pp. 192-197, //azp//)</span>

<span class="Underline">Before she died, **...** **that goes nowhere.** </span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hitchhiking Aff</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC Scranton - Quarters</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Part one is Thumbs Up:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hitchhiking emerged as a mode of transportation for youths who couldn’t afford cars. As such, a culture of free love, spirituality, and peaceful protest emerged from hitchhiking. A crucial element of this culture was storytelling; hitchhikers would trade stories and found entire communities on the basis of shared narrative.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Packer 2008** (Jeremy Packer, Associate Professor in the Department of Communication and the Director of the Communication, Rhetoric, and Digital Media PhD Program at North Carolina State University, February 2008, Mobility Without Mayhem: Safety, Cars, and Citizenship, Duke University Press, G0ogle Books, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">My argument here ... motorcycling as well.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The free-spirit of hitching was a boon to the anti-war movement but an attack on the state, the FBI cracked down and vilified hitchhikers as murderers and lunatics to criminalize mobility itself. The state preemptively excluded the movement and stratified modes of travel.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Packer 2008** (Jeremy Packer, Associate Professor in the Department of Communication and the Director of the Communication, Rhetoric, and Digital Media PhD Program at North Carolina State University, February 2008, Mobility Without Mayhem: Safety, Cars, and Citizenship, Duke University Press, G0ogle Books, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hitchhiking was one ... method of politics.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Likewise, the conventional structure of policy debate operates to exclude marginalized social groups. Just as disenfranchised youth hitchhiked to respond to the exclusionary structures of capitalism, disenfranchised debaters use storytelling and personal narrative as a means of negotiating exclusion in the community.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Reid-Brinkley 2008** (Shanara Rose Reid-Brinkley, Assistant Professor of African American Studies and Communications as well as the Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh, “THE HARSH REALITIES OF “ACTING BLACK”: HOW AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICY DEBATERS NEGOTIATE REPRESENTATION THROUGH RACIAL PERFORMANCE AND STYLE,” 2008. [[http://www.comm.pitt.edu/faculty/documents/reid-brinkley_shanara_r_200805_phd.pdf]], azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The “stylistic procedures” ...national policy debate.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"><<Reid-Brinkley Continues>></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Louisville debaters ...Project is warranted.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Debate, like many “liberal” democracies, insulates itself from criticism by perpetuating a myth of free speech and polyrationality. In reality, the peripheral opinions held by debaters and hitchhikers are caged and separated from public discourse. This “act now, think later” form of faith-based preemptive politics is the basis for endless war.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Elmer and Opel 2008** (Greg- Director of the Infoscape research lab and Bell Globemedia Research Chair @ Ryerson University, and Andy, associate professor Dept. of Communication @ Florida State University, Preempting Dissent: The Politics of an Inevitable Future, p. 9-16)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">IN 2003 THE ... fear and insecurity.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Just as hitchhikers were vilified by the FBI to contain the youth movement, American political leaders today construct entire populations as “guilty until proven innocent.” This logic is a form of geopolitical apartheid that seeks to contain difference in easily annihilable categories. The terminal impact is the death of debate, if we don’t contest this sequestration of otherness authentic communication and change will never emerge. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Elmer and Opel 2008** (Greg- Director of the Infoscape research lab and Bell Globemedia Research Chair @ Ryerson University, and Andy, associate professor Dept. of Communication @ Florida State University, Preempting Dissent: The Politics of an Inevitable Future, p., GAL)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">With no spatial ... mainstream political stage.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Part two is a Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Resolution:</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our interpretation of the topic: In posing the question of transportation infrastructure the resolution asks us to be planners, it asks us to build cities, it asks us to think about travel, the immanent question at the heart of the resolution has to do with how we relate to mobility. Additionally, the resolution poses the question of community; when choosing an affirmative we are asked by the resolution to posit a vision of the topic, an understanding of its implications for the education of our community. In a sense, we are not just the planners of roads and the builders of cities, but we are the builders of community. We need to break down the preemptive politics in our community that make true dialogue impossible.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">So, when faced with the question of transportation we turn to the transportation community that surrounds us, in the real world and in debate. Like much of debate, status quo spatial planning discourse has been coopted by a monorational approach, one that alienates deviant or undesired voices. We ignore everything and everyone that doesn’t fit into our understanding of a perfect world, we pretend as if they don’t exist. This monorationality prefigures transportation policy to alienate under-privileged voices, an interrogation of community planning is essential.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Davy 2008** (Benjamin Davy, Benjamin Davy is Professor for land policy and land management in the School of Spatial Planning, Technische Universität Dortmund, Germany. His academic and professional interests include property and planning, consensus building, and the politics of real estate. Among his books are Essential Injustice (1997) and Die Neunte Stadt (2004), “Plan It Without a Condom!,” October 20 2008, Planning Theory, Vol. 7, No. 3, [[http://plt.sagepub.com/content/7/3/301]], sagepub, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">People, who associate ...recognize their existence. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Like the hitchhiking communities of the road our debate community is built on the basis of an evolving narrative. The 1ac begins with a genealogy of hitchhiking and performance in transportation communities. The critical interrogation of stories like these enables us to rupture monorational outlooks, and form more authentic, inclusive dialogues about the topic. If we ever expect to be ethical, engaged decision makers we need to incorporate an inclusive approach to storytelling in our discussions. The role of the ballot in this debate should be to improve the way we relate to community.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Van Hulst 2012** (Merlijn, Tilburg School of Politics and Public Administration, The Netherlands “Storytelling, a model of and a model for planning” Planning Theory 11(3) 299–318)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Researchers like Forester, ...benefit from storytelling.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">One of our key claims in this debate will be that the world is inevitably complex and chaotic – rather than trying to hermetically seal the present state of things, like so many preemptive decision-makers do, we think it’s better to respect the primacy of uncertainty and dive into the ocean of risk. Recognize that while we do have some control over the world around us, oftentimes we’re left with our thumbs up on the side of the road, at the mercy of the driver who decides whether or not to stop.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our advocacy is a process of making boundaries turbulent – we don’t say that we should dissolve distinctions, just that we should play with them. Like hitchhikers we have chosen to break up the monotony of the social order, to work with uncertainty, dialogue, and to build communities based on storytelling.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Yes, our 1ac might be a little hard to respond to, and yes it’s probably thrown you off your guard – but you have a choice in the 1nc, you can stick to your guns and read framework like so many others will, or you can take a leap of faith and try to actually learn something for once. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Davy 2008** (Benjamin Davy, Benjamin Davy is Professor for land policy and land management in the School of Spatial Planning, Technische Universität Dortmund, Germany. His academic and professional interests include property and planning, consensus building, and the politics of real estate. Among his books are Essential Injustice (1997) and Die Neunte Stadt (2004), “Plan It Without a Condom!,” October 20 2008, Planning Theory, Vol. 7, No. 3, [[http://plt.sagepub.com/content/7/3/301]], sagepub, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Turbulent boundaries create... voices, different rationalities. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">So we’ll start by shaking up some boundaries, telling some stories, and creating some active scholarship. We shouldn’t kid ourselves into thinking what we say here will immediately map onto politics. First and foremost we have a duty to the transportation community around us; we call for an increase in diversity within our transportation community. We should further our personal investment in the mobility of opinions and fluid dialogue. We should wander through the topic and experience all the diverse voices it has to offer. So, when faced with the question of transportation infrastructure, Robbie and I release ourselves and affirm an ontology of wanderlust.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And so we end where we began, at the seams, the interstices, the clefts, the gaps, and the apertures. We begin and we end in the middle, intermezzo, in media res, the space of the in-between, that liminal moment that is always-already embedded in our travels. We end where we began, on the open road, backpacking from city-to-city, debate-to-debate, topic-to-topic, we are here to learn, to create, to explore, to rejoice, and to renew – so we return once more to the manifesto of a hitchhiker, this time we quote from two Argentinian backpackers, who lived moment-to-moment, meeting the world one pair of battered headlights at a time:</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Backpacker Manifesto No Date (“The Backpacker Manifesto,” [[http://wanderlusteverywhere.wordpress.com/2012/10/21/the-backpacker-manifesto-a-text-to-release-yourself/]], azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We believe…</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That the human condition admits more possibilities than the diploma and the office. Our society sees people like specialized tools. Efficiency and productivity are prevailing values. Given this cut we propose to revalue knowledge and experience as values, and the journey as a privileged mean to access them…</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That a society of individuals trained to be self-sufficient and not ask the hour to anyone is a neurotic hatchery. Of neurotic and future consumers of alarms and stress pills. When travelling as a backpacker, hitchhiking, we reestablish human contact, the shameful flame…</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That to be responsible is to realize that life is one that is lived day by day, and that an old age pension does not justify an old youth. Being responsible not only means to assume obligations, but also to assume freedom and not unnecessarily tie down to things beyond our essence…</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That nobody is old while they do not take charge of their age. It’s never too late for anything. Old is who does things that are expected of an old man, just because others expect that from him…</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That the world is not a static place but a tangle of roads that thousands of people walk daily. Crossing frontiers, fording streams and climbing mountains…</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That this world is still a good place to live, people who pass it share something that is much stronger than their differences, whether of race, religion or profession. These people are inherently good…</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We believe that the universe takes care of us, and that a working day of 12 hours is more dangerous than hitchhiking… that no one is endangered by being away from home, we believe that cities are definitely more dangerous than routes, hills and lakes.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That money is an optional part of the luggage, because nobody eats money. Not only do things in exchange for money. To think that would arbitrarily carry trade relations to human relations. A timely smile can be worth millions…</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That all travelers can learn from each other, no one is born knowing, that there is always someone going for the first time to that place we know like the back of our hand…</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">que el viento que nos da de lleno en la caja de una chata puede ser la vacuna contra la rutina… (<–HELP!)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That simplicity is something to be claimed, and is closer to a homemade bread on a side of a road than of a mortgage or two weeks paid vacations in three years…</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That the goal is an excuse to let ourselves be rocked by chance and expose us to unexpected stops, hidden villages, thousands of intermediate possibilities, transforming each point of the map into an anecdote…</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That with every car that stops in a side of the road we shuffle and give back, that exact moment somehow changes our trip and in that way, our lives.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We believe that the road is life (Jack Kerouac 1922 -1967)…</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">that hitchhiking is a beautiful way to learn about the lands we travel, its people and customs. Saving money is not the goal of hitchhiking, but rather the side result..</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">that a roadmap contains more adrenaline than Big Brother, that happiness does not depend on a heritage or a supermarket that “save” us and open the door to the DVD…</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">that constant happiness is one of the hidden ways in which death works. (Julio Cortázar, 1914- 1984)…</span>


==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Airports Aff</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC Greenhill</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The airport is a liminal space. A zone of intermediation, the threshold between home and away-from-home, the procedures that we are subjected to in the airport serve as a rite of passage, a preparation for mobility. The atmosphere of airport security forces the subject to internalize security logic – the technologies of submission and humiliation intrinsic to airport profiling striate transportation, inscribing the individual with a deep, existential anxiety. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Adey 2009** (Peter Adey, School of Physical and Geographical Sciences, Research Institute for Law, Politics and Justice Keele University, Keele ST5 5BG, England, Received 5 January 2008; in revised form 1 September 2008; published online 23 February 2009, Environment and Planning D: Society and Space, Vol. 27, pages 274-295, “Facing airport security: affect, biopolitics, and the preemptive securitisation of the mobile body,” azp)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Airport security is premised on a regime of absolute visibility. Clear plastic bags, naked body scanners and invasive pat-downs all make up a system that compels passengers to ritually perform submissiveness and transparency. These practices are technological vivisection. Under the soft gray light of the x-ray screen the body is a-sexed, reduced to an assemblage of dismembered organs. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Adey 2009** (Peter Adey, School of Physical and Geographical Sciences, Research Institute for Law, Politics and Justice Keele University, Keele ST5 5BG, England, Received 5 January 2008; in revised form 1 September 2008; published online 23 February 2009, Environment and Planning D: Society and Space, Vol. 27, pages 274-295, “Facing airport security: affect, biopolitics, and the preemptive securitisation of the mobile body,” azp)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">When the maximization of security becomes the sole criterion for political action, politics become murderous— the only option becomes the extermination of all life.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Duarte 2005** (Duarte, nofessor of Philosophy at Universidade Federal do Paraná, 05 André,” Biopolitics and the dissemination of violence: the Arendtian critique of the present.” [[http://hannaharendt.net/research/biopolitics.html]])</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Modern power no longer operates through rigid discipline – it has become flexible. This new mode of modulation seeks to suspend history itself – to expunge unpredictability from the public sphere.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Tiessen 2011** (Matthew Tiessen, Infoscape Research Lab: Centre for the Study of Social Media Faculty of Communication and Design, Ryerson University 2011, Surveillance and Society, Vol. 9, No. ½, pp. 167-184, “Being Watched Watching Watchers Watch: Determining the Digitized Future While Profitably Modulating Preemption (at the Airport),” [[http://library.queensu.ca/ojs/index.php/surveillance-and-society/article/viewFile/modulating/modulating]], azp)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Resolutions change every year but discussions do not – in debate we find ourselves locked in the same zombified routines of production and consumption. Debate is obsessed with prolonging its stasis, with extending the moment of the present into perpetuity. We crave this deadening torpor because, like in the airport, it gives us the illusion that we can control the future. The discussions you will hear in most debates are decoupled from the resolution – focused on questions of nuclear violence and terrorism – these are recycled discussions – the resolution is no longer a topic but a stale conduit for security logic. When this model of debate is confronted with difference it attempts, by any means necessary, to preempt and exterminate that difference – framework arguments replicate the violence technologies of airport security – the obsession with “predictability” mirrors the airport’s addiction to transparency and absolute visibility. The constant attempts to exclude discussions based on what they might justify is an extension of the airport’s logic of preemption. Securitization denies the resolution its immanent potential. At its core the resolution is a discussion of transport, of mobility, of change – this stands in stark contrast to the way most debaters approach the resolution – as a means of freezing the present – “we must sustain American hegemony,” “we must prevent potential abuse.”</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Imagine debate as a turbulent ocean of problems and solutions. These flows of communication oscillate unpredictably like the waves. The 1ac’s genealogy of security logic in debate and in the airport reveals a map of the sea – we are the navigators that plot the path for potentiality. The resolution is about preparing us to approach transportation in life, pure policy analysis cannot be the only way we engage this topic. The vast complexity of the crashing waves before us demand that we have a roadmap for policy analysis, our analysis of the power relations within transportation and debate provides us with the necessary tools to make choices in life. Rather than clinging to the paranoiac structures of security logic we dive headfirst into the vast ocean of risk – Robbie and I affirm an understanding of the topic that understands the call to increase investment in transportation infrastructure as a call to create more fluid space for mobility and experience. Our decision to deterritorialize the familiar and reassuring maps of policy debate can equip us with the tools to make decisions about transportation in life. Our affirmation is of creative engagement with the resolution, we need to recognize the immanent revolutionary potential our space holds and harness it to open more authentic, meaningful ways of relating to the topic. We may not all turn out to be policy makers but we will all be decision makers. We are pirates! We are travelers! We are astronauts! We are tourists! We are nomads!</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Hillier 2011** (Jean, Associate Dean of the School of Global Studies, Social Science, and Planning @ RMIT University, Town Planning Review, Vol. 82, No. 5, 2011, “Strategic Navigation Across Multiple Planes: Towards a Deleuzean-inspired Methodology for Strategic Spatial Planning”)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Airport security is not the endpoint of our kritik – our kritik has no endpoint – we are an epistemic break –use your ballot to rip open the aporias of security logic within debate – to join us in refusing the ways in which this community banally regurgitates the knowledge produced by the military industrial complex, and to refuse the way we discipline and punish the fleeting emergence of difference. Our kritik is the stem for a rhizome. The point is not just to affirm a single line of flight, the point is to recognize the infinity of the lines and understand an overarching framework through which these lines become revolutionary. Vote affirmative not only because of our tactic for resistance, but also for the method by which our tactic turns the corner to become a strategy. Vote affirmative because our refusal makes the space we are in right now a more free and fluid forum for discussion.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Holloway 2010** (John, Professor in the Instituto de Ciencias Sociales y Humanidades of the Benemerita Universidad Autonoma de Puebla in Mexico, Crack Capitalism, 17-20)</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC St. Marks - New Cards</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, the airport’s existential guilt ossifies social relations – fascist models of knowledge production replace creative, diverse ways of understanding the world. The modulation of power has resulted in its widespread diffusion – the family, the school, the church, the hospital, the airport – fascism threatens all domains of life, debate included.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Conley 2006** (Verena Andermatt, professor of literature at Harvard, “Borderlines; Deleuze and the Contemporary World, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In addition to...the social world. </span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC Scranton - Narrative</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[we sometimes read this instead of Conley 2006]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our criticism of airport security reveals the nature of its racial foundations – the attempt to reduce a person’s body to its pure physical form in an attempt to see into their soul is a particular manifestation of pre-emptive politics that we criticize. This operation is illustrated by the story of a 26 year old Sikh female teacher:</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(SAALT is South Asian Americans Leading Together, a national, nonpartisan, non-profit organization that elevates the voices and perspectives of South Asian individuals and organizations to build a more just and inclusive society in the United States, “In Our Own Words Narratives of South Asian New Yorkers Affected by Racial and Religious Profiling,” [[http://www.saalt.org/filestore/Reports/In%20Our%20Own%20Words%20Web%20FINAL.pdf]], 3/12, rm)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The most recent [incident] was at LAX airport in April 2011. I was at security for the gate that leads to American Airlines and I was returning home to New York City [via] JFK airport. I was wearing a turban with Western-style clothing, like I always do. A TSA agent asked me to step aside for additional screening. She searched through all of my bags, unpacking everything. I asked her why I was being singled out, and she said it was because I was wearing a head covering. She said it would be the same if I were wearing a baseball [cap]. I told her my turban was religious and that I don’t take it off in public. She responded rudely and said “Some people call their baseball [cap] a religion.” Then, she put on gloves and started grabbing at my turban from all angles. It really felt like a violation. She was being so rough to [the] point where she almost took my turban off. She didn’t tell me I could have done it myself and she hardly warned me when she was going to start.</span>**

=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Negative</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Disadvantage</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Coast Guard Tradeoff</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Coast Guard is on the brink now – modernization is just barely getting through</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Slattery 9/11/12** (Brian Slattery, “Coast Guard’s Latest Battle: Underwater Drug Trafficking,” The Foundry, http://blog.heritage.org/2012/09/11/coast-guards-latest-battle-underwater-drug-trafficking/)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Yet the Obama ...original requirement of 16.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">But the Coast Guard is also working hard to implement the Deepwater acquisition program – preventing tradeoffs from new projects is key</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Lipowicz 11** (Alice Lipowicz, staff writer specializing in government, homeland security, and IT policies for Federal Computer Week, “Coast Guard's Deepwater Strategy Running Aground, Official Says,” http://fcw.com/articles/2011/10/04/coast-guard-may-have-to-give-up-system-of-systems-approach-on-deepwater.aspx)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hutton reaffirmed a ... current fiscal environment.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Failure collapses modernization</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**O’Rourke 10** (Ronald O’Rourke, Specialist in Naval Affairs, “Coast Guard Deepwater Acquisition Programs: Background, Oversight Issues, and Options for Congress,” Congressional Research Service, July 29, 2010, http://www.uscg.mil/history/docs/CRSDeepwaterRL33753.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The term Deepwater ... for Deepwater programs.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That’s key to fisheries and EEZ security</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Jones 08** (Matthew Jones, Lieutenant, US Coast Guard, J.D. Lewis & Clark Law School, “Enforcement of U.S. Fisheries Laws in the EEZ: An Illustration of the Value of the Coast Guard’s Deepwater Missions to the Nation and the Need to Provide it with Adequate Deepwater Resources,” Ocean and Coastal Law Journal, Vol. 13:2, pg. 285, 2008)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A strong, at-sea “... the entire program.29</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The impact is marine biodiversity</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**AOC 06** (America’s Ocean Challenge, “America’s EEZ – $ Value,” The Baum Foundation, The Ocean Project, Summerhays, 2006, http://www.americasoceanchallenge.com/pages/eez.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">America’s EEZ is ... on marine ecosystems.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Social Justice</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Transportation systems perpetuate inequality.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Bullard 4** – Professor of Sociology @ Clark</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Robert D. Bullard, Professor of Sociology and Director of Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University, Ph.D. in Sociology, "Highway Robbery," 2004, South End Press, page 3]SH</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Transportation systems do ...has been created.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Reject all forms of social injustice.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Nieutvenhuis 10** – Professor of Management and Policy Studies</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jan, “Social Justice in Education Today, Acta Academica, 43.1</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Accept the geo-historical ... the freedom of others//.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Impact Calc</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Social justice first</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kumar 9** – PhD, Professor and Head of the Department of Physical Planning at the School of Planning and Architecture, New Delhi</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ashok, “Technical Rationality, Equity and Transport Planning: Future Agenda for Research and Practice,” December, [[http://itpi.org.in/pdfs/oct6_09.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In this paper, ... these moral ends.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Voting negative is an act of criticism – it promotes reflection on transportation inequality and opens the black-box of transportation planning</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Willson 1**- Professor of Department of Urban and Regional Planning @ California State Polytechnic University</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Richard, “Assessing communicative rationality as a transportation planning paradigm,” Transportation, [[http://www.uvm.edu/~transctr/pdf/willson_article.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Purpose of planning. ... the planning activity.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - Mass Transit</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Mass transit link.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Bullard et al. 4** [Robert D. Bullard, Professor of Sociology and Director of Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University, Ph.D. in Sociology, "Highway Robbery," 2004, South End Press, page 5]//SH</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The subsidies paid ...urban transit needs.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - Experts</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Several empirical examples of how supposed “expert” knowledge recreates divisions and hierarchies that subjugate large portions of the population</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Harvey 7** – Professor of Anthropology</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Penelope, “Expertise, technology and public culture,” The Sociological Review, 55.1</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Maggie Bolton's paper ... the development paradigm.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Auto Industry</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Auto industry high now – is transitioning to fuel efficiency.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**CNBC, 4/23** (4-3-12, CNBC, “Auto Industry Shows Signs of Recovery as Car Sales Surge,” [[http://finance.yahoo.com/news/car-sales-show-strong-growth-131454900.html]], accessed 7-3-12, LH)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">U.S. auto sales... the whole year. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Mass transit trades off with the auto industry.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Eisenstein,** The Detroit Bureau, **6/28** (Paul A., The Detroit Bureau, "Shift to City Living Threatens Auto Industry," http://www.thedetroitbureau.com/2012/06/shift-to-city-living-threatens-auto-industry/, accessed 7-8-12, CNM)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A shift into ... cars are banned.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Auto industry key to reduce CO2 emissions and develop green technology.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Lenz 09** (Jim, Toyota, President and CEO 11-17-09, Vital Speeches of the Day, “Cars: Enriching Our Lives, Our Economy and Our Future,” Academic Search Complete, p. 77-78, accessed 7-6-12, LH)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Well, that leads ... increase over 2009!</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Extinction.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Mazo 10** – PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The best estimates ... and political changes.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Immigration Reform</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Comprehensive immigration reform is a top priority --- Obama will make an aggressive push to get it passed</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Volsky, 12/30** (Igor, 12/30/2012, “Obama To Introduce Immigration Reform Bill In 2013,” [[http://thinkprogress.org/justice/2012/12/30/1379841/obama-to-introduce-immigration-reform-bill-in-2013/]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">President Obama reiterated ...a broad bill. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[link]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">PC Key.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**DMN, 1/2** (Dallas Morning News, “Editorial: Actions must match Obama’s immigration pledge,” 1/2/2013, [[http://www.dallasnews.com/opinion/editorials/20130102-editorial-actions-must-match-obamas-immigration-pledge.ece]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">President Barack Obama ... action will count.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[impact]</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - Inland Waterways</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Politics is the biggest thing preventing inland waterways—massively unpopular</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Abbott 12**—Editor of American Association of Port Authorities Seaports Magazine (Paul, “Infrastructure investment holds key to prosperity” Summer 2012 http://www.aapaseaports.com/pdf_issues/AAPASeaports_Summer2012.pdf)//NJain</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Infrastructure investments necessarily ... America working again.</span>


====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - NIB</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">GOP hates NIB – perceived as redundant spending. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Zwilich 11’** [Todd, reporter who has covered science and health care politics and policy since 1996 for publications including Reuters and Science Magazine, “Infrastructure Bank Likely to Return as a Political Weapon”, 10/12/11, [[http://transportationnation.org/2011/10/12/infrastructure-bank-likely-to-return-as-a-political-weapon/]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">House Republicans are ... and Innovation Act.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Impact - Econ</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Econ impact.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Farrell 12/13/12** (Chris Farrell, economics editor of Marketplace Money, contributing editor for Bloomberg Businessweek, “Obama’s Next Act: Immigration Reform” http://www.businessweek.com/articles/2012-12-13/obamas-next-act-immigration-reform)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">More important from ... , homes, and community.”</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Impact - Racism</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Squo immigration laws represent institutionalized racism – must be rejected</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Hing 9** (Bill Ong, University of San Francisco - School of Law, December 18, 2009, “Institutional Racism, ICE Raids, and Immigration Reform,” University of San Francisco Law Review, Vol. 44, p. 1, 2009 )</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A. Institutionalizing Racism¶ The ... times, criminal liability.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Fiscal Cliff</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Deal on fiscal cliff now.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Krudy 11/28** (Ed Krudy, leads a team covering the U.S. equity market at Reuters, “US STCOKS-Wall St gains on hopes for 'fiscal cliff' deal”, Reuters, 11/28/2012, [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/11/28/markets-usa-stocks-idUSL1E8MS78A20121128]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Obama is meeting ... Bank, in Chicago.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[link]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Capital key to resolution and key to the economy.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Sullivan, 11/9** (The Daily Dish, “Now, Govern,” http://andrewsullivan.thedailybeast.com/2012/11/now-govern.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">I'm as amazed ... magnanimous. And fast.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[impact]</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - Generic</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">TI cost capital.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Freemark 12** Yonah Freemark, Strategic Initiatives Fellow at MTA New York City Transit, Urban Fellow at the Next American City, founder of The Transport Politic, “On Infrastructure, Hopes for Progress This Year Look Glum”, January 25, http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2012/01/25/on-infrastructure-hopes-for-progress-this-year-look-glum/</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The contributions of ... transit and roads.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - Mass Transit</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan saps capital.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Freemark 12** (Yonah, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Master of Science in Transportation, Yale University, Arts in Architecture, Bachelors, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, 2-6-12 ,“Time to Fight”, The Transport Politic, [[http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2012/02/06/time-to-fight/]], accessed 7-8-12, FFF)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The strange and ...in the House.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - Evacuation</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan costs PC – GOP battles.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Rason 11** Dina Rasor, an investigator, journalist and author Obama's FEMA: First Look at How It Worked Friday, 02 September 2011 05:23 By, Truthout | Solutions </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">However, this bipartisan ... when disaster struck.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - NIB</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan saps capital.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**AFP**, Agence France Presse, **2011** ( AFP, Nov 3 2011, "Republicans defeat Obama-backed infrastructure bill", AFP is a French publication that writes about foreign US policies, lexis, RR)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">US Senate Republicans...stifling economic growth.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Impact - AIDS</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cuts devastate Medicaid.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Huffington Post 11/11** (Huffington Post, 11/11/12, “Fiscal Cliff Talks Will Likely Target Medicare, Social Security, Programs For The Poor,” [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/11/11/fiscal-cliff-talks-medicare-social-security_n_2113259.html]], azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">To make a ... and the elderly.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Medicaid’s key to HIV treatment and antiretroviral therapy — cuts leave the poor to die.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Perlino 7** Courtney, MPP and Health Policy Analyst for the American Public Health Association, “Prevention and Public Health: Invest Today for a Healthier Tomorrow”, American Public Health Association, Sept 26, [[http://www.apha.org/NR/rdonlyres/675F96CD-7701-4049-89BD-D96625A6A3BE/0/MedicaidReport.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Medicaid is the ... morbidity and mortality. </span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">MDA</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Maritime domain awareness is improving now – new automatic identification system tech will help provide a global picture if cooperative outreach continues. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kaur 7/25** (Kalwinder Kaur, Writer for “A-Z Robotics” who is quoting Northrup-Grumman, July 25 2012 “U.S. Coast Guard Receives Automatic</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Identification System from Northrop Grumman,” [[http://www.azorobotics.com/news.aspx?newsID=3035]], azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Northrop Grumman, a ... and rescue operations.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, unilateral exercises of naval power step on the toes of our allies which crushes the potential for collaboration in the maritime domain – only a UN mandate like the counterplan can solve.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Uhls 2006** (Dan Uhls, US Naval Academy, 23/10/06 “Realizing the 1000-Ship Navy,” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA463750]], azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The first would ... as US intrusion.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cooperation is the key internal link to effective maritime domain awareness – there are no link turns and only a risk of a link.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Mullen 2007** (M. G. Mullen, Admiral – US Navy, 2007, “Navy Maritime Domain Awareness Concept,” Online, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">No nation, let ... these primary elements:</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Effective MDA breaks through the maritime culture of secrecy – prevents war and terrorism, lets trade flourish and creates securitizing interdependencies. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Goward 2007** (Captain Dana A. Goward, executive secretary for the National MDA Implementation Team and the Coast Guard’s Director of MDA Program Integration, Commandant CG-52, “Maritime Domain Awareness: The Key to Security” US Naval Institute, [[http://00ec36c.netsolhost.com/USCG%20MDA%20Policy.pdf]], azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">An important part ... flow of commerce.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Overview Card</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That leads to extinction.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Sid-Ahmed**, political analyst **04** (Mohamed, Managing Editor for Al-Ahali, “Extinction!” August 26-September 1, Issue no. 705, [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">What would be ... all be losers.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - Icebreakers</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The plan pisses off Russia.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Byers 2012** (Michael Byers, The Moscow Times, Canada Can Help Russia With Northern Sea Route, [[http://byers.typepad.com/arctic/2012/06/canada-can-help-russia-with-northern-sea-route.html#more|http://byers.typepad.com/arctic/2012/06/canada-can-help-russia-with-northern-sea-route.html#more]] 06/08/2012)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Arctic Ocean's... it's too late.</span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kritik</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Orientalism</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 
**The 1ac exhibits the commonsense racism of Islamophobia. Their rhetorical silence on the cultural or spiritual relationship with the Middle East reflects the broader antagonism implicated in their advantages. Their supposedly value neutral framing of security conflicts between the East and West is a racist representation that __must be interrogated__.**
**Kumar** **10** (Deepa Kumar, Rutgers University, 2010“Framing Islam: The Resurgence of Orientalism During the Bush II Era,” Journal of Communication Inquiry 34(3) 254–277)

__Since the events ...____how this works.__

**The representations of the 1ac are intimately tied to violence. Apocalyptic violence is justified by Orientalist language.**
**Chow <span class="cite">06</span>** (PHD in Modern Thought and Literature from Stanford University also professor in the Comparative Literature Program at the University of California, Irvine,(Rey __The Age of the World Target__, Published Duke university press p. 40-1)

<span class="underline">__Language matter in **...**__ **__effects of violence.__**</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">There is no one way forward in history. The aff will try and argue that the future is scary, that in the face of change we must cling to the static structures of the Old. This is a reactionary impulse. The future may be terrifying, but the present is untenable. We live in a world balanced on the knife edge of cultural destruction, teetering over the precipice of ecological collapse. Modernity is but one pulse in a historical trajectory of change. Resist the urge to sacrifice difference on the altar of stability.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Davis 09** (Wade Davis, Wade Davis is the best-selling author of several books, including The Serpent and the Rainbow, Light at the Edge of the World, One River, and The Clouded Leopard. He is an award-winning anthropologist, ethnobotanist, filmmaker, and photographer, and his writing and photographs have appeared in numerous publications, including the Globe and Mail, Maclean’s, Newsweek, National Geographic, the Wall Street Journal, and the Washington Post. He currently holds the post of Explorer in Residence at the National Geographic Society, November 2009, The Massey Lecture Series, The Wayfinders: Why Ancient Wisdom Matters in the Modern World, pp. 192-197, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Before she died, ... that goes nowhere. </span>

**The alternative is to vote negative to reject their Orientalist epistemology. Our task as critical intellectuals should be to reject the straitjacket of expert knowledge and open up a space where more critical modes of questioning are possible.**
**Biswas 07** (Shampa Biswas, Associate Professor at Whitman College, Empire and Global Public Intellectuals: Reading Edward Said as an International Relations Theorist, //Millennium - Journal of International Studies// 2007)

__One of the ...__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">I turn next.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Epistemology</span>==== 
**Their “scientific certainty” about the future of the Middle East is a self-serving justification for the imperial war-mongering and state-sanctioned slaughter that makes nuclear war inevitable and destroys value to life– no tag could do the awesomeness of this card justice.**
**Ahmadinejad, yea THAT Ahmadinejad, in 2007** (Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Current President of the Islamic Republic of Iran, ex-mayor of Tehran, and PhD in transportation engineering and planning from Iran University of Science and Technology, 25 September 2007, "Ahmadinejad's speech @ Columbia university – a transcript,” [[http://ahmadinejadspeech.blogspot.com/]], //azp//)

My dear friends __...development__ as well.

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A/T: Perm</span>==== 
**__Cooption DA__** **­– Orientalism is flexible and nests in the permutation.**
**Olmsted 05** – assistant ag us micronesia jd ucla //Are things falling apart//, 27 loy. L.a. int’l & comp. L. Rev. 401

Viewed as a ... the next section. 148

**Refusing to acknowledge the impacts of our representations is __in itself__ a form of violence.**
**Kappeler 1995** (Susanne <span class="cite">Kappeler</span>, Associate Prof @ Al-Akhawayn University, __The Will to Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior__, <span class="cite">1995</span>, pg. 69-71)

The choice of ... <span class="underline">power in society.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - Terrorism</span>==== 
**__Terrorism__ – branding groups as terrorists divides the world in violent Manichean terms – politicizes policy and collapses relations with the Middle East.**
**Pillar 9/04** (Paul Pillar, ex-CIA member and professor of Security Studies at Georgetown University, 9/04/12, “Dividing the World into Terrorists and the Rest,” [[http://nationalinterest.org/blog/paul-pillar/dividing-the-world-terrorists-the-rest-7426]], //azp//)

__The common American ...__ different parts of it.

====Link - Heg==== 
**Discourse of US hegemony precipitates interventionist policies that produce the instability they seek to end—creates conditions for perpetual war and propagation of western centric international institutions that maintain patterns of international structural violence**
**Ritchie 2011** Nick,<span style="color: #000000;"> PhD, Research Fellow at the Department of Peace Studies @ University of Bradford, Executive Committee of the British Pugwash Group and the Board of the Nuclear Information Service.</span> “Rethinking security: a critical analysis of the Strategic Defence and Security Review” International Affairs Volume 87, Issue 2, Article first published online: 17 MAR 2011

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Third, the legitimating ... of British citizens.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Climate Adaptation</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 
**It is not coincidental that you just heard a 1ac about global warming that made __no__ attempt to actually solve the problem. Their choice to articulate environmental destruction __purely__ as a cost to economic progress reflects their privilege and their estrangement from the poor who are __most__ affected by the climate crisis. Climate adaptation is an attempt to find a compromise between the economy and the environment, a false solution that will __always__ subordinate the needs of the planet to those of the market, ensuring perpetual ecocide.**
**Agyemen and Carmin 2011** (Julian Agyemen, JoAnn Carmin, Agyemen is Professor and Chair of the Department of Urban and Environmental Policy and Planning (UEP) at Tufts University, Carmin is Associate Professor of Environmental Policy and Planning Department of Urban Studies and Planning “Environmental Inequalities Beyond Borders: Local Perspectives on Global Injustices,” April 4 2011, [[http://mitpress.mit.edu/sites/default/files/titles/content/9780262515870_sch_0001.pdf]], //azp//)

__The increasing distance **...**__ **__and environmental considerations__** ( Schnaiberg 1980 ; Gould, Schnaiberg, and Weinberg 1996 ).

**<span class="Underline">The rhetoric of sustainable transportation collapses the rapprochement between ecology and corporatism, allowing the “business as usual” approach of venture capital to continue devastating the environment.</span>**
<span class="Underline">**Baeten 2000** (Guy Baeten, //European Planning Studies, Vol. 8, No. 1,// 2000 [Paper first received, June 1998 in final form, November 1998], “The Tragedy of the Highway: Empowerment, Disempowerment and the Politics of Sustainability Discourses and Practices,” //azp//)</span>

__Sustainable development is **...**__ California’s industrial base.1

**Government resources and political capital are __zero sum__, if we expend our energy on triage solutions like the aff’s we’ll burn up our capacity to actually solve warming. The aff is environmental __triage__ for elites, they establish wealthy enclaves where the privileged can live in comfort while the poor die – this is __eco-apartheid__, and must be rejected.**
**Pulido 2012** (Laura Pulido, Professor of American Studies and Ethnicity at the University of Southern California, 1/27/12, //Social Text//, “The Future is Now: Climate Change and Environmental Justice,” [[http://www.socialtextjournal.org/periscope/2012/01/the-future-is-now-climate-change-and-environmental-justice.php#_ftn2|http://www.socialtextjournal.org/periscope/2012/01/the-future-is-now-climate-change-and-environmental-justice.php#_ftn2]], //azp//)

__On one side ...__ a desperate future.[3]

**__Moreover__, they fail to trace the complexity between the climate and the economy. Their uncritical valorization of US manufacturing sanitizes the way these practices emit greenhouse gasses. This means at best they’re only __whitewashing__ the environmental crisis; all of their impacts are doomed to resurface in the future absent the alt.**
<span class="Underline">**Ahmed 2012** (Nafeez Mosaddeq Ahmed, Prof. of International Relations – University of Sussex – UK, Published: 05 Jan 2012, //Global Change, Peace & Security: formerly Pacifica Review: Peace, Security & Global Change,// Vol.23, No. 3,“The international relations of crisis and the crisis of international relations: from the securitisation of scarcity to the militarisation of society,” </span>[[http://www.tandfonline.com/loi/cpar20]]<span class="Underline">, //azp//)</span>

This analysis demonstrates __... and services unsustainable.__

**The alternative is to mobilize the image of a fragile and radically changing biosphere. Only decoupling nature from their vision of American power can effectively mobilize coalitions to solve the environmental crisis.**
**Masco 2008** (Joseph Masco, Associate Professor of Anthropology. The University of Chicago “Bad Weather: On Planetary Crisis” Berkeley Environmental Studies Colloquium. November 14, 2008)

<span class="underline0">The terms of ... </span>of American power.

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Impact Framing</span>==== 
**Their triage solutions are uniquely bad – we haven’t passed the tipping point yet but our resources need to be directed towards pragmatic action which means warming is a DA to the aff.**
**RA, 10** (Repower America, July 22, 2010, [[http://repoweramerica.org/blog/to-save-our-climate-we-must-act-now/|To Save Our Climate, We Must Act Now]], [[http://repoweramerica.org/blog/to-save-our-climate-we-must-act-now/]])

What happens if __...__ __clean energy future.”__

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A/T: Framework</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our epistemological kritik is a prior question—their framework causes serial policy failure—prefer this evidence, it’s in the context of adaptation.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Hulme 09** (Mike Hulme, Professor of Climate Change in the School of Environmental Sciences at the University of East Anglia School of Environmental Science Climatic Change, 2009, “Are there social limits to adaptation to climate change?,” azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In contrast to ... to climate change. </span>

**They cede individual agency in politics.**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kappeler 95** (Susanne, The Will to Violence, p. 10-11)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We are the ... to human control. 12</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Deleuze </span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Debate’s epistemology is founded upon the elevation of sad affects. We are anxious, tragically addicted to our debates about nuclear war and agent specification. Our anxiety manifests in the way we debate, each second of speech time becomes a strategic artifice. We read 6 off because we’re scared of not having enough options; we hide blippy theory arguments like land-mines in between substance. We abolish our own agency within this space because we’ve been convinced that the weapons with which debate arms will be useful later. Like the nukes we argue about our militarized education is stockpiled and banked, the phantoms of future wars dictating the way we exist in the present. The profusion of sad affects has made our activity so depressed it has become suicidal, we are so afraid to live that we would rather extinguish our relevance. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Deleuze and Parnet 87** (Gilles Deleuze, Professor of Philosophy at the Sorbonne, Dialogues II, European Perspectives, with Claire Parnet, freelance journalist, translated by Hugh Tomlinson and Barbara Habberjam, 2002 pgs. 61-62)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">When Spinoza says ... affects and concepts.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In debate we are taught to desire fascism. Our degree of estrangement from the apparent world is measured by speaker awards and plaques, physical trophies to commemorate our metaphysical alienation. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Deleuze and Guattari 80** (A Thousand Plateaus1980. p214-5.) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Doubtless, fascism invented ... personal and collective.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">There is no one way forward in history. The aff will try and argue that the future is scary, that in the face of change we must cling to the static structures of the Old. This is a reactionary impulse. The future may be terrifying, but the present is untenable. We live in a world balanced on the knife edge of cultural destruction, teetering over the precipice of ecological collapse. Modernity is but one pulse in a historical trajectory of change. Resist the urge to sacrifice difference on the altar of stability.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Davis 09** (Wade Davis, Wade Davis is the best-selling author of several books, including The Serpent and the Rainbow, Light at the Edge of the World, One River, and The Clouded Leopard. He is an award-winning anthropologist, ethnobotanist, filmmaker, and photographer, and his writing and photographs have appeared in numerous publications, including the Globe and Mail, Maclean’s, Newsweek, National Geographic, the Wall Street Journal, and the Washington Post. He currently holds the post of Explorer in Residence at the National Geographic Society, November 2009, The Massey Lecture Series, The Wayfinders: Why Ancient Wisdom Matters in the Modern World, pp. 192-197, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Before she died, ... that goes nowhere. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rationalist philosophy starts with a conclusion then reasons backwards, their advantages are political constructs used to validate their predetermined conception of how politics must operate. We affirm the possibility of nomadic fluidity outside the fold of ideology. As the arbitrator of this round you should adopt the position of a radical empiricist, exploring the world around you like a scientist on an alien planet, discovering everything for the first time. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Deleuze and Parnet 87** (Gilles Deleuze, Professor of Philosophy at the Sorbonne, Dialogues II, European Perspectives, with Claire Parnet, freelance journalist, translated by Hugh Tomlinson and Barbara Habberjam, 2002, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">I have always ... only one aspect). </span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Risk</span>==== 
**4. __Complexity__ – uncertainty is inevitable and their attempts to manage the world will destroy the environment and destroy education.**
**Louth 09** (Nov. 2009, Jonathan, PhD, professor in the School of History and Politics, University of Adelaide, was a PhD candidate when this article was originally written, “Imagining a Complex World: Science, Order and International Relations,” [[http://digital.library.adelaide.edu.au/dspace/bitstream/2440/64044/1/02whole.pdf]], //azp//)

Order, as a ... as a group.

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A/T: Perm</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Perm links harder – the nomad must exist outside the state. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kuhn 10** (Gabriel Kuhn, “Life Under the Jolly Roger”, Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of Innsbruck and general badass, “Life Under the Jolly Roger: Reflections on Golden Age Piracy”, Pg 98-100, rm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The French philosopher-psychoanalyst ... in that space.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Epistemology is a prior question – it cannot be discounted. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Cheeseman and Bruce 96** (Graeme Cheeseman ,Snr. Lecturer @ New South Wales, and Robert Bruce, Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This goal is ... them, and why?</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A/T: Framework</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Roleplaying facilitates tyranny, ressentiment, and makes policy worse than useless.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Antonio 95**</span> (Nietzsche’s antisociology: Subjectified Culture and the End of History”; American Journal of Sociology; Volume 101, No. 1; July 1995, jstor, <span class="Underline">//azp//)</span>

<span class="Underline">According to Nietzsche, **...** **type of tyrant** (Nietzsche 1986, pp. 137, 168; 1974, pp. 117-18, 213, 288-89, 303-4).</span>

<span class="Underline">**Deleuze’s method is key to effective transportation planning – their approach destroys policymaking.** </span>
**Hillier 11** (Jean, Associate Dean of the School of Global Studies, Social Science, and Planning @ RMIT University, Town Planning Review, Vol. 82, No. 5, 2011, “Strategic Navigation Across Multiple Planes: Towards a Deleuzean-inspired Methodology for Strategic Spatial Planning”)

**__Conventional strategic planning ...__** **__be the unknown.__**

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - Russia</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The representation of Russia as an objective threat is drawn from a binary opposition between the totalized stable West and the equally totalized unstable East – these arborescent structures prefigure an antagonistic relationship with Russia.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Jæger 2k** (Øyvind Jæger, @ Norweigian Institute of International Affairs and the Copenhagen Peace Research Institute, 2000, Peace and Conflict Studies 7.2, “Securitizing Russia: Discoursive Practice of the Baltic States,” http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=18)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Russian war ... prime external enemy.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - Economic Rationality</span>==== 
**Prioritization of economic security guarantees unrepentant austerity which recreates recessions and culminates in a suicidal, genocidal state.**
**Buchanan and Ely 12** (Dr. Ian Buchanan (interviewee) is one of the world’s leading scholars of Deleuze and Guattari. He is a contributing editor to the “Deleuze Connections” series as well as editor of “Drain” magazine and a faculty member at the University of Wollongong in the Institution of Social Transformation Research, Michael Ely (interviewer) is an aspiring Deleuzian, graduate student, and debate coach at the University of Texas at San Antonio,10/11/12, //kdebate//, Vol. 1, No. 1, “The Suicidal State and the State of Debate,” [[http://kdebate.com/buchanan.html]], //azp//)

ME: Dr. Buchanan, first, **__...__** __**into this mess**.__

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Spivak</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 
Meinzerin, Kuhn, Klausmann, 97 (Marion Meinzerin, professor of history at Cambridge University, Gabriel Kuhn, Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of Innsbruck, Ulrike Klausman, freelance journalist, “Woman Pirates and the politics of the Jolly Roger”, Pg 18-22, //azp//)

**__Medusa is the Gorgon’s head threatening to emerge from the sea__. __This terrible monster was once a beautiful woman who was raped in a temple of Athena by the sea god Poseidon__.** According to Ovid, **__Athena was so enraged that she turned Medusa into an ugly creature, transforming her hair into a thousand snakes__**. After that **__Medusa was so ugly that any man who caught sight of her would turn to stone__**. Very much in keeping with modern»day court procedures in cases of rape, **__Athena let the rapist go unpunished__**. Why was **__Athena__** so hostile to women? Actually she **__was a very ancient wise goddess, of far older origin than the male Hellenic gods__.** But **__after the arrival of male gods to the mythology, she was transformed into a being birthed from Zeus’s__** __head__, who had swallowed her mother Metis, the Goddess of Wisdom, who was pregnant with Athena by parthenogenesis. Afterwards, **__Athena became the protective goddess of many a hero__. __One of them was Perseus the Destroyer.__ __He was sent to kill Medusa__. __Athena gave him a perfectly reﬂective bronze shield, so that he could see Medusa without looking at her__**. Thanks to this device, **__Perseus was able to behead Medusa, with Athena guiding his hand__. __He stuck Medusa’s head in a sack and gave it as a gift to Athena, who thereafter carried the snakes on her breastplate so as to strike fear into her enemies__**. The symbol of the snake always belonged to Athena, whose mother Metis was called “the wise counsel.” In prehistoric times the snake was a symbol of feminine wisdom, and not just of growth and fertility, as was later assumed. Metis and Medusa represent one and the same power. The name Medusa, a feminine form of medon (ruler), derives from the Sanskrit root medha (wisdom), which is also the root for the Greek metis (good counsel). **__The grimace of the grey-skinned snake’s head expresses the fury of those women who still remember__**. The Latin word for causing someone to think of something, to remind or to warn, is monere. Etymologically a “monster” is thus the “emblem of the gods in terrifying manifestation.” The monster Medusa reﬂects countless obsessive ideas about sea monsters. In mythological terms, **__the Medusa story relates the destruction of female culture__**; in psychoanalytic terms it describes the hero’s murder of his mother, and femininity as a psycho-symbolic monstrosity? In the end **__Perseus failed to achieve his goal, despite divine__** __protection__ and all manner of magical assistance, and although he killed his enemy in her sleep with his hand guided by Athena. **__Medusa lives on__, __the Gorgon’s head has grown back, and its fury has by no means burnt out__**__.__ The terror of men before Gorgo, who pulls ships into the depths by their bowsprit in the midst of a tempest, is fully justiﬁed. **__Gorgo is the Greek name not only for Medusa—petriﬁed through “ugliness”—but also for the mermaids, who are known to be beautiful and lovely. This may seem like a paradox, but corresponds to the ambivalence with which men view the female__**__.__ Aristotle’s hostility to women is far more consistent, and serves to clarify the connection. The relationship between femininity, ﬁsh, mermaids, and sea monsters lies in the attributes “wet” and “cold.” These beings all have a shortage of “heat,” and are thus also lacking in soul and reason. According to Aristotle, a mother only provides the passive material, while the father contributes the active soul endowed with reason. He bears the true species of humans (man). If a mother nonetheless brings a female being to the world, she has circumvented the reasoning species, and once again set loose upon the world a monster lacking in soul. In the legends of seafarers, mermaids also have no souls—but might be able to occasionally acquire one by adopting a respectable way of life among people, and falling in love with a man. Patriarchal **__stories of dragon-slaying show two different images of the female: the powerful, threatening mother in the form of the monster, and the desirable, submissive virgin__**. In the killing of the dragon, psychoanalysts like C.G. lung and Erich Neumann saw the liberation of **__the man from his terrible mother, and the conquest of a new image of the female in the form of the lovely virgin__. __The man becomes a hero by freeing the virgin from the claws of the mighty monster, in order to subordinate her to himself__**. In his book on the origins of consciousness, Erich Neumann writes: “the transformation of the male that occurs in the course of battling the dragon includes a change in his relationship to the female, symbolised in the liberation of the hostage from the power of the dragon; meaning a dissolution of the image of the female from that of the terrible mother.“ Neumann ignores that in antiquity, the life-giving femininity of the Earth and the cosmos was worshipped in the form of the Great Mother. In all her monstrosity she threatens the male need for recognition. That which psychologists understand as the liberation of man from the overwhelming power of mother is actually a desire in the collective male consciousness to subdue nature itself. **__The story__ __of__** our hero **__Perseus goes on to show how pointless these acts of violence actually are__. __Flying high on the trip home after his “glorious” beheading of Medusa__, __Perseus encounters a beautiful, naked virgin chained to a cliff__. __On the horizon a sea monster approaches__**. The unhappy girl is the daughter of an Ethiopian queen, who had boasted that she and her daughter were as beautiful as the Nereids. The Nereids promptly lodged a complaint with Poseidon, who sent out a ﬂood of storms and a female sea monster in retribution. An oracle declared that the queen’s daughter had to be chained to the cliffs. **__Perseus, a man of action__, __did not dilly-dally__**__.__ After quickly negotiating the dowry with the parents of the princess, **__he killed the monster in a bloody battle, and “as prize and cause of all the trouble the virgin strides up, released from her chains__**,” according to Ovid. Here **__Perseus seems to have won the battle of his life, acquiring a kingdom and a lovely princess__.** But closer observation shows that the action has gone subtly awry__. **The lovely and passive princess is called Andromeda**__: andro-mcda, meaning **__the “ruler of men.”__ __The information that her mother is an Ethiopian suggests a likely relationship to the Libyan Medusa__**. **__Apparently the beautiful virgin and her monstrous mother relate one and the same femininity__**. Leviathan poses the biblical counterpart to the Greek myth of Medusa. He is a sea serpent, appearing in the legends of sea travellers as the worst of all sea monsters, crushing ships and swallowing seafarers.

**The aff is reliant on a dual conception of Otherness. In the same way that Perseus sees Woman as split between antagonistic and alluring the aff maps out the coordinates of the subaltern and attempts to assign deterministic meaning to the needs and wants of the Other. On the one hand, the Other is terrifying, unknowable, radically different, like Perseus’ Medusa—the Other becomes something to be domesticated through rational inquiry and pragmatic prescription. On the other hand, the Other is a prize to be fought over, their role of the ballot claims situate this round as a contestation over the voice of the Other—“whoever liberates the oppressed better should win the ballot.” This is the subtle narcissism of masculine heroism, where the master narrative of Western supremacy over difference is reinstatiated through rhetoric of martyrdom and moral obligation. The ballot becomes the proverbial recognition that they have “won” the Other, relegated difference to a sphere of domesticity not unlike the fate of Andromeda, whose complexity and value as a being is collapsed into her imposed identity as virtuous virgin. The danger of this attitude towards the Other is its tragic inauthenticity; the subaltern is symbolically abolished, not only spoken for but ontologically displaced by the affirmative, who presume themselves to be an accurate representation of marginal viewpoints. Perseus’s reflective shield is a metaphor for their fear to engage Otherness directly; every encounter is mediated by a panoply of mirrors, by the end of the encounter the Other has been warped, like a reflection in fun-house glass their identity is made carnivalesque and convenient, subjectivity beholden to their alleged saviors. Like Perseus, who never looks Medusa in the eye, the affirmative will never experience the affective irruption of the Other’s encounter; they are instead doomed to sit around in their ivory tower, believing themselves liberators.**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contemporary radical Western criticism is the product of a desire to preserve the singularity of the Western intellectual as Subject. The subaltern becomes the epistemological backdrop against which the dramas of bourgeois subjectivity are played out. They start from the point of enlightened knowledge about the unenlightened Other, presumptuously assuming that if the subaltern were here, speaking, they would be on-board with the movement. Even if the subaltern could speak, the performance of the affirmative would already have torn out their vocal cords.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Spivak 88** (Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak, Indian literary theorist, philosopher and University Professor at Columbia University, Marxism and the Interpretation of Culture, 1988“Can the Subaltern Speak?,” Online, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">SOME OF THE ... the subaltern speak? . . . </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Is it not disconcerting that the aff merely stands alongside those who they purport to save? What can their profusion of theory and information possibly do to alleviate the material suffering of the subaltern? The answer is nothing. Their kritik is nothing revolutionary, their politics are not singular or unique, they represent the continual strategy of Western academia—tokenism and lip service to mask the betrayal at the heart of their politics.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Raskin 99** (Marcus Raskin, Professor of Public Policy at George Washington University, 1999, Transnational Law & Contemporary Problems, Fall)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">As I have ... few, demands recognition.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The subaltern becomes the stage upon which they project their own superiority and power throughout the debate community—the subaltern is reduced to nothing more than an object of knowledge, the vocabulary of their protest is stolen—the subaltern is denied the opportunity to speak. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Chow 93** (Rey, Andrew W. Mellon, Professor of the Humanities at Brown University, Writing Diaspora: Contemporary Tactics of Intervention in Contemporary Cultural Studies, Indiana University Press, pg. 12-13.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In the “cultural ... our consciousnesses “raised.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This act of surveillance contributes to the violent disempowerment of the subaltern – their attempt to render the Other intelligible is just a way to fill in the blindspots in our military map of alterity – the result is that we can only ever see the people they debate about as targets for US bombs.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Chow 06** (Rey Chow, Humanities and Modern Culture & Media Studies at Brown University, 2006 The Age of the World Target: Self-Referentiality in War, Theory, and Comparative Work, 40-1)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Often under the ... the vanishing object.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A vote for the alternative is an endorsement of our specific intellectual criticism that makes possible challenging the neutrality of the affirmative’s power relationships that form the root cause of their harms</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Edkins 06** (Jenny Edkins, International Politics, University of Wales, Aberystwyth, 2006 “The Local, the Global and the Troubling,” Critical Review of International Social and Political Philosophy Vol. 9, No. 4, 499–511)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rather than starting ... , brick by brick.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Overview Card</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their failure to recognize privilege as speaking subjects takes out any solvency and means there’s only a risk of a link.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Chow 93** (Rey Chow, professor of English and comparative literature and director of the comparative literature program at the University of California, Writing Diaspora: tactics of intervention in contemporary cultural studies, p. 118-9)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">For "third world" ... of the earth.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Impact Calc</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">3. Academic capital – the ballot becomes an addiction, they consciously profit from doing nothing to solve oppression which means there is real incentive for them to continue sitting around on their lazy asses stealing the vocabulary of the Other.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Chow 93** (Rey, Andrew W. Mellon Professor of the Humanities at Brown University, Writing Diaspora: Tactics of Intervention in Contemporary Cultural Studies, [[http://books.google.com/books?q=inpublisher:%22Indiana+University+Press%22&source=gbs_summary_r&cad=0|Indiana University Press]], pg. 16-17)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Why are “tactics” ... the academic sense?</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A/T: Perm v. Whiteness</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The affirmative presents a discourse of white supremacy and then attempts to use it as a tool to counter the very thing. It is these contradictions which give racist ideology its flexibility and power.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Nakayama and Krizek 95** [1995, Thomas K. Asst Prof, Dept of Communication @ Arizona State Univ -& Robert L.- KRIZEK Asst Prof, Dept of Communication @ St. Louis Univ ; “WHITENESS: A Strategic Rhetoric”; QUATERLY JOURNAL OF SPEECH, 81, 291-309]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Whether or not ... for communication researchers.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A/T: Perm</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">They cannot stray from their 1ac performance – the choice to exclude certain discussions is not value neutral but a consequence of narrative framing – the 1ac is a static artifact and their attempt to escape that initial framing is in itself a form of violence </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kappeler 95** (Susanne Kappeler, Associate Prof @ Al-Akhawayn University, The Will to Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior, 1995, pg. 69-71)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The choice of ... power in society.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - "Wise Whiteness"</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">They are the view from nowhere, selectively interrogating their privilege but concealing the most inconvenient parts of their performance in the debate community.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Yancy 05** [George, Associate Professor of Philosophy at Duquesne University, “Whiteness and the Return of the Black Body,” The Journal of Speculative Philosophy, 19(4), p. 215-216]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">I write out ... range of materials.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Revolutionary Nationalism</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">There is no such thing as nationalism; their myth of a homogenous people that can be grouped together and brought under a single flag perpetuates domination. Their conception of identity always already ties individuals to territories, a reductionist attempt to order the universe that effaces real identity.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Nietschmann 1998** [Bernard. Geography professor at UC Berkeley. Natural History, April, 1998. Review of The Myth of Continents: A Critique of Metageography http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m1134/is_n3_v107/ai_20485361/]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">According to the ... that transcend continents. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**The aff conditions the intelligibility of their resistance on the exclusion of alternative worlds. The foundational discourse of modernity is that of the nation-state as a bounded, geopolitical entity. Their revolution just redraws the map, replacing White supremacy with supremacy; the impact is global war and imperialism waged on the basis of antagonistic enmity.** </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our alternative is to reject the ontological frame of national identity and affirm pluralistic subjectivity.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Shapiro 97**(Michael, really smart dude, Violent Cartographies, pp. 124-129</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Michel Foucault was ... a "topographical amnesia."12 </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Specifically, the way they idealize groups like the Black Panther party enables them to create zones of exception where violence is sanitized in the guise of necessary revolution.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ciara **Torres,** African-American studies at Harvard, **1995** (http://www.digitas.harvard.edu/~perspy/old/issues/1995/mar/digplan.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">I spent first ... respect each other.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[continues]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The African American ... rebuild your own.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their xenophobic construction of identity sanitizes mass violence.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">George **Irbe,** Canadian Department of Environment and political journalist, 1/26/**01** (http://jonjayray.netfirms.com/irbe.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kuehnelt-Leddihn has conducted ... egalitarianism of the Leftist.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Link</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their demonization of Eurocentric logic is a form of self-segregation that redraws the map around them, this reterritorializes white supremacy and makes racism impossible to solve.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ciara **Torres,** African-American studies at Harvard, **1995** (http://www.digitas.harvard.edu/~perspy/old/issues/1995/mar/digplan.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">I have witnessed ...a racist supposition.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Impact</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our offense outweighs theirs</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1. Magnitude--- revolutionary politics is the single greatest source of human carnage in history</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Martin **Malia,** history at UC Berkeley, October **1999** (Black Book of Communism, p. X)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Pg X - The Black Book ... carnage in history.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">These divisive politics make solvency impossible.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Best and Kellner 02** (Steven Best, prof phil @ UT el paso and Douglas Kellner, prof phil @ UCLA “Postmodern Politics and the Battle for the Future” [[http://www.gseis.ucl...lder/kell28.htm]], azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Various forms of ... and alienated labor </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That short-circuits the aff.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Dillon 99[**Michael 4/99, Professor of IR @ Lancaster, “Another Justice” Political Theory, Vol. 27, No. 2, pp. 165]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Economies of evaluation... whatever exceeds measure."</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Invisible Cities</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Isaura - 1NC Shell</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The kritik is about transcendence: </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">From Calvino in Invisible Cities:</span>**

//**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Isaura, city of a thousand wells, is presumed to lie above a deep underground lake. All around, where the inhabitants have been able to find water by digging long vertical holes, up to there and no further the city extends: its verdant perimeter repeats that of the dark shores of the buried lake; an invisible landscape conditions the visible one; everything that moves in the sunlight is driven by the lapping wave enclosed beneath the rock's calcareous sky.</span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Consequently there are two types of religion in Isaura. Some say the city's gods live deep below in the lake which feeds the subterranean veins. Others say the gods live in the buckets which rise up hanging from rope, in the pulleys which turn, in the pump-levers, in the narrow arches of the aqueducts, in all the columns of water, the vertical pipes, the plungers, the drains, all the way up to the weathercocks that surmount the airy scaffoldings of Isaura, a city that moves entirely upward.</span>**//

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The two religions in this story, from Italo Calvino’s Invisible Cities, demonstrate two views of truth, of metaphysical possibility, and of change. The Affirmative subscribes to a model of truth that sees our historical subjectivities as transcended by a single meaning that shapes all of social and political space. Like the first religion of Isaura, they believe the gods live deep underground – that the Truth of our reality can be understood through a single sign deep beneath it, a sign that simultaneously transcends and codes the entire symbolic field.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The danger of such an approach is that it engenders a myopic worldview where possibility and agency are profoundly limited, when in fact nothing could be further from the case. Like the second religion of Isaura, we have a different view of the world: that the gods are everywhere, in all the scaffolding of a city that moves ever upward. This is a philosophy that resists the urge to universalize our historical moment, or define it along one axis that determines its totality. Access to truth, and to resistance, and to change are all immanent to the social field, at every point – not external to it.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Unlike the Affirmative, we don’t believe there’s only way forward in History. Their monolithic understandings of meaning and subjectivity justify fascist violence. We offer instead a view of the world that sees possibility as immanent. The element of magic in magical realist storytelling can be seen as a stand in for Deleuze’s notion of immanent possibility, along a plane of pure deterritorialization. There is always the possibility for resistance and change, though you’ll miss it if you’re only looking for the gods underground.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Eva Aldea writes:</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Gilles Deleuze enables ..., by the real.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Calvino again:</span>**

//**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Lips clenched on the pipe's amber stem, his beard flattened against his amethyst choker, his big toes nervously arched in his silken slippers, Kublai Khan listened to Marco Polo's tales without raising an eyebrow. These were the evenings when a shadow of hypochondria weighed on his heart.</span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">'Your cities do not exist. Perhaps they have never existed. It is sure they will never exist again. Why do you amuse yourself with consolatory fables? I know well that my empire is rotting like a corpse in a swamp, whose contagion infects the crows that peck it as well as the bamboo that grows, fertilized by its humours. Why do you not speak to me of this? Why do you lie to the emperor of the Tartars, foreigner?'</span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Polo knew it was best to fall in with the sovereign's dark mood. 'Yes, the empire is sick, and, what is worse, it is trying to become accustomed to its sores. This is the aim of my explorations: examining the traces of happiness still to be glimpsed, I gauge its short supply. If you want to know how much darkness there is around you, you must sharpen your eyes, peering at the faint lights in the distance.'</span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">At other times, however, the Khan was seized by fits of euphoria. He would rise up on his cushions, measure with long strides the carpets spread over the paths at his feet, look out from the balustrades of the terraces to survey with dazzled eye the expanse of the palace gardens lighted by the lanterns hung from the cedars.</span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">'And yet I know,' he would say, 'that my empire is made of the stuff of crystals, its molecules arranged in a perfect pattern. Amid the surge of the elements, a splendid hard diamond takes shape, an immense, faceted, transparent mountain. Why do your travel impressions stop at disappointing appearances, never catching this implacable process? Why do you linger over inessential melancholies? Why do you hide from the emperor the grandeur of his destiny?'</span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And Marco answered: 'While, at a sign from you, sire, the unique and final city raises its stainless walls, I am collecting the ashes of the other possible cities that vanish to make room for it, cities that can never be rebuilt or remembered. When you know at last the residue of unhappiness for which no precious stone can compensate, you will be able to calculate the exact number of carats towards which that final diamond must strive. Otherwise, your calculations will be mistaken from the very start.'</span>**//

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our critique is an attempt at bringing to the fore the ashes of the other possible cities that have vanished to make room for the Affirmative. Like the fictional Marco Polo in the text, we represent the view of a nomad, a traveler between and through epistemic boundaries. This nomadic feminist seeks to restructure our relationship to the Other and to difference in a way that is not doomed to violence.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rosi Braidotti, Professor of the Humanities, writes:</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Rosi Braidotti, Director of Center for the Humanities at Utrecht, Mothers, Monsters, and Machines, Writing on the body: female embodiment and feminist theory, Pg 75-76)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The term transdisciplinary ...and intellectual categories. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their transcendent interpretation of blackness grids social relations into established categories. This form of centering is</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Deleuze and Guattari 80** (ATP, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Information theory takes ...programs the signifiers.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Wilderson’s argument that blackness is ontological is premised on three assumptions about the slave body –</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1. Natal alienation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2. Gratuitous violence</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">3. General dishonorment</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We will win that there are other bodies in the world that access all of these characteristics that their method necessarily excludes.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Because totalizing truth claims are the only way they approach history they necessitate a dangerous semiotic fascism.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Deleuze and Guattari 80** (ATP, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Earlier, we encountered ..., the third eye.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">THE NATIVE BODY</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1. Natal alienation – the native body is denied kinship, we impose the language of eurocentrism on them to cut them off from their tribal identity – they are born into reservations which we will argue is another word for the Gulag.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2. Gratuitous violence – civil society was not just built on the alienation of the black body but of the native body as well – the trail of tears was a quest to purify the continent of rednesss.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">3. General dishonorment – by being RED the native body is profiled and excluded from society, we segregate them in reservations for no reason other than their REDNESS.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The imposition of binaristic thinking on language itself is a deeply intimate form of fascism.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Deleuze and Guattari 80** (ATP, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">However, there is ... is a politics.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">THE BODY OF THE JEW –</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1. NATAL ALIENATION – IN A CONCENTRATION CAMP THE JEW IS SEPARATEED FROM THE FAMILY, YOU ARE SORTED ACCORDING TO YOUR ABILITY TO FULFIL SPECIFIC DEMANDS – THERE IS NO KINSHIP.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2. GRATUITUS VIOLENCE – THEIR PHILOSOPHY PROVIDES NO ONTOLOGICAL METHOD FOR EXAMINING THE HOLOCAUST, THEY WOULD PRESUME THAT IT IS AN ONTIC CONSEQUENCE OF POLITICS</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">3. GENERAL DISHONORMENT – THEY WILL SAY THAT JEWISH IDENTITY CAN BE CLOSETED BUT RELIGIOUS IDENTITY IS PROFOUNDLY ONTOLOGICAL – PEOPLE SHOULD NOT HAVE TO HIDE THE WAY THEY FEEL ABOUT GOD</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">-- ADDITIONALLY THE JEW IS A MARKED BODY JEWISH BODIES DURING THE HOLOCAUST WERE ANIMALIZED PAINTED WITH MARKS OF IDENTIFICATION THAT DESIGNATE THE BODY THROUGH PHYSICALITY.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**The assumption that any form of oppression can be ontological, that it is inalterable and immutable is an ahistorical and non-geographic notion. Wilderson’s argument would assume that 700 years in the future the status quo will be just as ontologically unique as it is now – this idea that some forms of oppression exist outside of history means the intelligibility of their speech act is contingent on this historical manifestation of civil society, there can be no ontological blackness without civil society. This relationship is necessarily one of dependence, like the Zionists they will push away any form of oppression that they consider merely experiential.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**This is Deleuze and Sanbar:** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[Pp. 199-201 in Two Regimes of Madness, we read this straight out of the book]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Microfascism props up state violence and negates personal freedom.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Deleuze and Guattari 80** (ATP, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It is not ... personal and collective.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">THE QUEER BODY</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1. Natal alienation – heteronormativity is structured around reproductive value, from birth queers are told they are wrong because they do not structure themselves around reproduction.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2. Gratuitous violence – the Kill All Gays bill in Uganda proves that there are movments RIGHT NOW to literally genocide the queer body from straight society</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">3. General dishonorment – they will make the argument that queer body is premised on performative identity unlike the black body – but the assumption that PERFORMATIVE IDENTTIY IS LESS ONTOLOGICAL THAN SKIN COLOR IS CATASTROPHIC. The FACT THAT THE QUEER BODY IS TOLD DAILY TO WHITEWASH AND HIDE THEIR IDENTITY IS ARGUABLY MORE ONTOLOGICAL BECAUSE IT PRESSUPOSES THAT PERFORMATIVE IDENTITIES, SEXUAL IDENTITIES ARE NOT REAL, ONLY SYMPTOMS OF A FANTASY.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">THE ANIMAL BODY</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1. FROM THE SECOND THE ANIMAL LEAVES THE WOMB IT IS MEAT – NATALITY PREFIGURES THE SLAUGHTERHOUSE AS AN ONTOLOGICAL CONDITION OF ANIMALITY.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2. GRATUTIOUS VIOLENCE – 180 MILLION ANIMAL ARE MURDERED EVERY DAY.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">3. GENERAL DISHONORMENT – THE ANIMAL BODY IS TOLD IT IS WRONG JUST BECAUSE IT IS NOT BIPEDAL JUST BECAUSE IT CANT FUCKING TALK IT IS EVIL.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our alternative is to vote negative to reject their centering of ontological blackness. Our politics is one of experimentation and flux; we reject binarism and totality in favor of diverse lines of flight.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Deleuze and Guattari 80** (ATP, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">How do you ... lines of flight.22</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Isaura - 1NR Anthro K</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The 1ac construction of the black body as an “inhuman” other relies on the annexation of animality, the signifiers that we use to represent animality are stolen by the 1ac speech act – homo sapiens cannot occupy the category of the inhuman or the inhuman is denied its difference, it is fundamentally annexed – the signifier of its very foreignness is liquidated and dissolved, this denial of difference is what paves the way for the factory farm. In response, we’ll ask: what the fuck gives you the right?</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baudrillard 95** (Jean, Simulacra Simulations, from the chapter “The Animals: Territory and Metamorphoses”)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Once animals had ...do not speak.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Zobeide - 1NC Shell</span>==== 
//<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">From there, after six days and seven nights, you arrive at Zobeide, the white city, well exposed to the moon, with streets wound about themselves as in a skein. They tell this tale of its foundation: men of various nations had an identical dream. They saw a woman running at night through an unknown city; she was seen from behind, with long hair, and she was naked. They dreamed of pursuing her. As they twisted and turned, each of them lost her. After the dream, they set out in search of that city; they never found it, but they found one another; they decided to build a city like the one in the dream. In laying out the streets, each followed the course of his pursuit; at the spot where they had lost the fugitive's trail, they arranged spaces and walls differently from the dream, so she would be unable to escape again. </span>//

//<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This was the city of Zobeide, where they settled, waiting for that scene to be repeated one night. None of them, asleep or awake, ever saw the woman again. The city's streets were streets where they went to work every day, with no link any more to the dreamed chase. Which, for that matter, had long been forgotten. </span>//

//<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">New men arrived from other lands, having had a dream like theirs, and in the city of Zobeide, they recognized something from the streets of the dream, and they changed the positions of arcades and stairways to resemble more closely the path of the pursued woman and so, at the spot where she had vanished, there would remain no avenue of escape. </span>//

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">//The first to arrive could not understand what drew these people to Zobeide, this ugly city, this trap.// </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The story of Zobeide, from Italo Calvino’s Invisible Cities, provides a metaphor for the masculine desire for unity, order and stability. It’s a dream of capturing and containing difference within the overarching narrative of a unified political body. But like Zobeide, it’s only a dream – difference can never be wholly incorporated, instability never contained. In pursuit of these impossible goals an ugly, terrible city is built, one populated only by the masculine and its projections of femininity, its memories, fears and desires.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The affirmative’s fears of instability and chaos, and their subsequent drive to control international relations, are one reflection of this hegemonic masculinity. Through their dream of security, a system of international relations is created which has as its defining characteristics structural violence and the immanent possibility of war.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Tickner 92** (J. Ann Tickner, Professor of International Relations at USC, Gender in International Relations: Feminist Perspective on Achieving Global Security, 1992, http://library.northsouth.edu/Upload/Gender%20in%20IR.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">For realists this ... glorification of war.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Zobeide is not just the story of the world at large, but also the story of our home, the debate community. Here, the image of the one political body, whole and unified, is just as hegemonic and repressive as it in IR. Within the debate community this takes the form of both a privilege accorded to masculine ways of speaking and arguing, as well as a codification of this privilege into the rules governing a debate round. Fidelity to masculine ideals permeates traditional debate, from its insistence on speed and technicity and the judge as objective recorder of information, to the structure of line by line and strategic segmentation of the flow. All of these practices reflect the views and values of hegemonic masculinity, projected onto the phantasm of the One political body.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Gatens 97** (Moira Gatens, Professor of Philosophy at Academy of Social Sciences in Australia, Corporeal Representations in/and the Body Politic, Writing on the body: female embodiment and feminist theory, 1997, p. 85-87)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It is not ... at the pool.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Affirmative will likely contend that Zobeide is a fictional place, and that our attention should be focused instead on the real world. But the two are more closely related than it seems. The fictive world of images fills and informs the world of political speech. A feminist political imaginary must traverse the abyss between the fictional and non-fictional in search of strategies for resistance.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Chaterjee 09** (Sushmita Chatterjee, Professor of Political Science at Augustana College, Fictive Images and the Feminist Democratic Imagination, 2009)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The feminist democratic ... animals, and ghosts.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This nomadic form of feminism seeks to restructure our relationship to the Other and to difference in a way that is not doomed to recreate violence. It requires critique at every level, from the content of the Affirmative to the rules of the discursive game.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Braidotti No Date** (Rosi Braidotti, Director of Center for the Humanities at Utrecht, Mothers, Monsters, and Machines, Writing on the body: female embodiment and feminist theory, Pg 75-76)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The term transdisciplinary ... and intellectual categories. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our critique exposes the machinic frameworks of possibility opened up by Security and challenges the language through which we're drawn into its web, creating space for human agency and politics outside of calculation.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Burke 02** (Anthony Burke, Professor of IR at University of New South Wales, “Aporias of Security”, in Alternatives 27, 2002)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Refusing Security It ... possibilities might be.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Zobeide - 2NC Epistemology</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their so-called objectivity is not value-neutral but a ruse rooted in dualistic understandings of reality that implicitly accord less value to non-masculine voices. This means all the 1ac advantage claims are suspect because they were cherry-picked in order to validate a preconceived model for how politics must operate. Their authors started from a conclusion about human nature and then worked backwards to justify it. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Nhanenge 7** – Master of Arts at the development studies @ the University of South Africa (Jytte “Ecofeminism: Towards Integrating the concerns of women,, poor people and nature into development” [[http://uir.unisa.ac.za/bitstream/handle/10500/570/dissertation.pdf?sequence=1]])//AA</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Modern science ... as being neutral. (Keller 1985: 7; Biaidotti et al I994: 30-31).</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Zobeide - A/T: Framework</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">3. Storytelling – fact is inextricably connected with fiction, the kritik is a necessity. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Hegerfeldt 03** (Ann Hegerfeldt, Author of “Lies that Tell the Truth” a book about Magical Realist storytelling, 01/03/03,“Contentious Contributions: Magic Realism goes British,” http://www.janushead.org/5-2/hegerfeldt.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">As the above ... conducted from within.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Zobeide - A/T: Perm</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The K is a prerequisite to political action.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Dricoll and Krook 08** Amanda and Mona Lena, PhD political science Washington and prof political science Washington, “Feminism and Rational Choice Theory,” European Consortium for Political Research, 2008, http://krook.wustl.edu/pdf/Driscoll%20and%20Krook%20ECPR%202008.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">However, the exact ..., and promote change.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Zobeide - A/T: Realism</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Realism is too reductionist.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Ahmed** **12** (Nafeez Mosaddeq Ahmed, Prof. of International Relations – University of Sussex – UK, Published: 05 Jan 2012, //Global Change, Peace & Security: formerly Pacifica Review: Peace, Security & Global Change,// Vol.23, No. 3,“The international relations of crisis and the crisis of international relations: from the securitisation of scarcity to the militarisation of society,” </span>[[http://www.tandfonline.com/loi/cpar20]]<span class="Underline">, //azp//)</span>

__Under traditional neorealist ...__planetary annihilation?61

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Science of History</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Fiction = history everyone narrativizes their ontology, the alt is the intermingling of the ontological and the ontic.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ann Hegerfeldt</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">http://www.janushead.org/5-2/hegerfeldt.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A reading of ... traditions and certainties” (MC 40)</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Foucault</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell v. Katrina</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Other is a reflection of the egocentric self – The Affirmative visualizes, surveys and records the pain of the victimized subject from a position of power and safety – this imperial gaze produces knowledge that serves two functions:</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1. It maps the other into a subject position defined by victimhood and establishes the ability of the West to judge, discipline and govern alterity from above.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2. It places the West back in the center of the Other’s narrative – by establishing the Other as victim, we establish our own society’s position as the evil conqueror – our character has changed, but our role in the play has not.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Spurr 93** (Professor of English at University of Illinois, The Rhetoric of Empire p. 15-17)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In their disparate ... system of order.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This panoptic logic of victimization, where the affirmative thinks they can define and identify exactly what is wrong with the oppressed and exactly what the oppressed needs mirrors the profusion of victimization imagery in the media after Katrina.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Greening 2008** (No Date Given, Last Date Cited, Assistant Director, McNair Scholars Program at Augsburg College English Professor at University of Saint Thomas Past Editor at The Origins Program English Professor at Saint Louis University Student Facilitator for the McNair Scholars Program at Saint Louis University English Professor at Fontbonne University English Professor at University of Saint Thomas Education Saint Louis University University of Saint Thomas University of Minnesota-Twin Cities, Spectacular Disaster: The Louisiana Superdome and Subsumed Blackness in Post-Katrina New Orleans Brian Greening [[http://www.rochester.edu/in_visible_culture/Issue_16/pdfs/greening.pdf]], azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In the days... darkness with criminality.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This act of surveillance contributes to the violent disempowerment of the other – their attempt to render difference intelligible is just a way to fill in the blindspots in our military map of alterity – the result is that we can only ever see the people they debate about as targets for US bombs.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Chow 2k6** (Rey Chow, Humanities and Modern Culture & Media Studies at Brown University, 2006 The Age of the World Target: Self-Referentiality in War, Theory, and Comparative Work, 40-1)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Often under the ... the vanishing object.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The critique is an objection to the affirmative’s relationship between intellectuals and problems – instead of creating another set of universalisms that “fix” the “problems” caused by a lack of disaster response, the alternative is a rejection of the mindset that divides the world into problem zones and imposes broad solutions</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A vote for the alternative is an endorsement of our specific intellectual criticism that makes possible challenging the neutrality of the affirmative’s power relationships that form the root cause of their harms</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Edkins ‘6** (Jenny Edkins, International Politics, University of Wales, Aberystwyth, 2006 “The Local, the Global and the Troubling,” Critical Review of International Social and Political Philosophy Vol. 9, No. 4, 499–511)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rather than starting ..., brick by brick. </span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Epistemology</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Power is not fixed and docile, but rather mutable and productive, creating subjectivity, rules, and norms – the affirmative’s attempt to know the world is framed through a lens of certain power structures that must be interrogated</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Pickett ‘5** (Pickett, Associate professor of Political Science at Chaldron State College 2005 [On the Use and Abuse of Foucault For Politics pp. 10-11])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Axel Honneth, among ... that constitute him. </span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Impact v. Pace CK</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Reject their call for the ballot, their commodification of oppression merely serves as a circuit to intellectual capital. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Chow 1993** (Rey, Andrew W. Mellon Professor of the Humanities at Brown University, Writing Diaspora: Tactics of Intervention in Contemporary Cultural Studies, [[http://books.google.com/books?q=inpublisher:%22Indiana+University+Press%22&source=gbs_summary_r&cad=0|Indiana University Press]], pg. 16-17)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Why are “tactics” ... the academic sense?</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This commodification of suffering internal link turns the thesis of their ethics advantage – their authors agree that compassion must be disconnected from personal gain.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Porter, 1ac author, 06** Elisabeth Porter is a PhD, BA (Hons 1st class), Dip.T. Professor Porter has taught at the University of South Australia, Flinders University of South Australia, University of Ulster and Southern Cross University. As well as a lecturer, she has been a Research Director at INCORE (International Conflict Research) at the University of Ulster, Northern Ireland; and former Head of School of International Studies. Can Politics Practice Compassion?Author(s): Elisabeth PorterReviewed work(s):Source: Hypatia, Vol. 21, No. 4 (Autumn, 2006), pp. 97-123Published by: Wiley-Blackwell on behalf of Hypatia, Inc.Stable URL: [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/4640024]], azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Co-suffering occurs ..., not about mine" (Spelman 1997a, 120).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their commodification of suffering as a way to the ballot ties them to a biopolitical regime that manages life and survival at the</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> expense of value – short-circuits the aff.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Dillon 99**[Michael 4/99, Professor of IR @ Lancaster, “Another Justice” Political Theory, Vol. 27, No. 2, pp. 165]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Economies of evaluation ... whatever exceeds measure." </span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Link v. Pace CK </span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Specifically, the problem with Katrina was not JUST lack of evacuation infrastructure, but the very structure of the city, which sequestered minority populations in lowland, impoverished parishes that were hit first by the storm. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Giroux 6** (Henry A., Professor in English and Cultural Studies @ McMaster University, Katrina and the Biopolitics of Disposability, Stormy Weather, p. 35) KS</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[While President Bush ... for the poor.] p. 35</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The tag of their Morse evidence reads “leaving policies up to local populations CREATES disasters and cannot solve our obligation.” This rhetoric reflects a condescending attitude towards the oppressed that blames the victims for disasters; this is exactly what the media did during Katrina.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Greening 2008** (No Date Given, Last Date Cited, Assistant Director, McNair Scholars Program at Augsburg College English Professor at University of Saint Thomas Past Editor at The Origins Program English Professor at Saint Louis University Student Facilitator for the McNair Scholars Program at Saint Louis University English Professor at Fontbonne University English Professor at University of Saint Thomas Education Saint Louis University University of Saint Thomas University of Minnesota-Twin Cities, Spectacular Disaster: The Louisiana Superdome and Subsumed Blackness in Post-Katrina New Orleans Brian Greening [[http://www.rochester.edu/in_visible_culture/Issue_16/pdfs/greening.pdf]], azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Subsequent stories further... to do so.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2. It assumes a utopian communicative setting where it is possible to disconnect language from power. In reality, these are inextricable and the assumption that we can decouple them makes fail at recognizing privilege and engaging in compassion.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Michel **Foucault,** Professor at the College de Fance, **1984,** Interviewed by Raul Fornet-Betancourt, Helmut Becker, Alfredo Gomez-Muller. “The Ethic of Care for the Self as a Practice of Freedom.” The Final Foucault</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">MF: You are posing ... minimum of domination.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A/T: Perm</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Appeals to normalize resistance to biopower destroy freedom and sanitize mass violence.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Dumm ’96** (Thomas Dumm, Professor of Political Science @ Amherst College, 1996 (“Michel Foucault and the Politics of Freedom.” P. 116-117))</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Here I am ... a disciplinary age.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Refusing to acknowledge the impacts of our representations is in itself a form of violence.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kappeler 1995** (Susanne Kappeler, Associate Prof @ Al-Akhawayn University, The Will to Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior, 1995, pg. 69-71)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The choice of ... power in society.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Security</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell - Stanford</span>==== 
**Security logic __reduces the world to theatre__ – we all become foot soldiers in the endless war on terror against the scapegoated other. Epistemology is the prior question because security is the lens that we filter our understanding of the world through – __rejection__ of security logic is key to make room for more interpretive modes of understanding.**
**Calkivik** **2010** (Emine Asli Calkivik, A DISSERTATION SUBMITTED TO THE FACULTY OF THE GRADUATE SCHOOLOF THE UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (accepted) - "Dismantling Security" Oct 2010 conservancy.umn.edu/bitstream/99479/1/Calkivik_umn_0130E_11576.pdf, //azp//)

In January 2006, __..., a new politics?__

**Their attempt to frame conflicts through realism is symptomatic of an orthodox approach to IR that uses centuries-old political theory to sanitize violence against the non-Western Other. This approach occludes the systemic complexity at the root of global crisis and makes every impact inevitable. In other words, __no tag could do the awesomeness of this card justice__.**
<span class="Underline">**Ahmed** **12** (Nafeez Mosaddeq Ahmed, Prof. of International Relations – University of Sussex – UK, Published: 05 Jan 2012, //Global Change, Peace & Security: formerly Pacifica Review: Peace, Security & Global Change,// Vol.23, No. 3,“The international relations of crisis and the crisis of international relations: from the securitisation of scarcity to the militarisation of society,” </span>[[http://www.tandfonline.com/loi/cpar20]]<span class="Underline">, //azp//)</span>

3. From securitisation to ... on these issues.

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This apocalyptic addiction to stasis justifies any degree of violence in pursuit of security.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Coviello 2000** (Peter, assistant professor of English at Bowdoin College, Apocalypse From Now On)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Perhaps. But to ... be done without.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The historical and critical reflection our kritik engages in is a necessary deterritorialization of the 1ac advantage scenarios. We must move away from the objectivist approach of the 1ac, towards more diverse, interpretive modes of analysis.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Krause and Williams 1997** (Keith is associate professor of political science at York University in Toronto, Michael C. is assistant professor of political science at the University of Southern Maine, 1997. Critical Security StudiesConcepts and Cases, 49-51)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The challenges to ... of timeless structures.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell - Greenhill</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contemporary security discourse capitalizes on a widespread cultural anxiety to mobilize authoritarianism – the affirmative’s threat scenarios follow this model – debate is addicted to catastrophe – despite the fact that we can’t control the future we do whatever we can to prolong our stasis. The worst case scenario mindset veils the dark underside of security politics – the reality is that violence is internal to liberal society; these disasters are not isolated, but carefully constructed in order to institutionalize anxiety, the war is permanent not distant, voting affirmative merely paves the way for the next catastrophe.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Neocleous 7/26** (Mark Neocleous, Professor of Politics and History at Brunel University in the UK, July 26 2012, Alternatives: Global, Local, Political, Vol.37, No. 3, “''Don't Be Scared, Be Prepared'' : Trauma-Anxiety-Resilience,” sagepub, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In this regard, ... in its name.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This apocalyptic addiction to stasis justifies any degree of violence in pursuit of security.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Coviello 2000** (Peter, assistant professor of English at Bowdoin College, Apocalypse From Now On)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Perhaps. But to ... be done without.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The historical and critical reflection our kritik engages in is a necessary deterritorialization of the 1ac advantage scenarios. We must move away from the objectivist approach of the 1ac, towards more diverse, interpretive modes of analysis.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Krause and Williams 1997** (Keith is associate professor of political science at York University in Toronto, Michael C. is assistant professor of political science at the University of Southern Maine, 1997. Critical Security StudiesConcepts and Cases, 49-51)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The challenges to ... of timeless structures.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Epistemology</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This isn’t your daddy’s security k – their strategic planning, hypothetical or not, is coopted by the military and used to fuel endless war.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Carr 2010** [Matt, Writer and Journalist “Slouching towards dystopia: the new military futurism” Institute of Race Relations, [[http://rac.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/51/3/13]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The new military ... place on earth.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A/T: Framework</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We create more fluid space for activism in debate – their framework striates discussion and leads to serial policy failure.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Schneider and Varda 2009** (Anne Schneider is Prof of Poli Sci @ Arizona State AND Danielle M. Varda Associate Prof of Poli Sci @ Rutgers “What Is Next for Policy Design and Social Construction Theory?” Policy Studies Journal Volume 37, Issue 1, pages 103–119, February 2009, Zavell)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Third, policies embed ... policy and politics.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">They cede individual agency in politics.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kappeler 1995** (Susanne, The Will to Violence, p. 10-11)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We are the ... to human control. 12w</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A/T: Perm </span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Refusing to acknowledge the impacts of our representations is in itself a form of violence.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kappeler 1995** (Susanne Kappeler, Associate Prof @ Al-Akhawayn University, The Will to Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior, 1995, pg. 69-71)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The choice of ...power in society.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A/T: Kurasawa</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kurasawa concludes neg – alarmist predictions are hyperbolized Trojan horses for political agendas.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kurasawa 2004** (Fuyuki Kurasawa, Associate Professor of Sociology at York University in Toronto, 2004, “Cautionary Tales: The Global Culture of Prevention and the Work of Foresight,” Constellations, Vol. 11 No. 4)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Up to this ... no less true.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A/T: Realism - Generic</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Realism is too reductionist – their approach misrepresents modern crisis and causes bad policy.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Ahmed** **1/5** (Nafeez Mosaddeq Ahmed, Prof. of International Relations – University of Sussex – UK, Published: 05 Jan 2012, //Global Change, Peace & Security: formerly Pacifica Review: Peace, Security & Global Change,// Vol.23, No. 3, “The international relations of crisis and the crisis of international relations: from the securitisation of scarcity to the militarisation of society,” </span>[[http://www.tandfonline.com/loi/cpar20]]<span class="Underline">, //azp//)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Under traditional neorealist ...not planetary annihilation?61</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A/T: Realism - Thayer</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Biological realism is a scientific joke – their authors misrepresent the consensus.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Busser 6** (Mark, Master’s Candidate Department of Political Science, York University, The Evolution of Security: Revisiting the Human Nature Debate in International Relations, York Centre for International and Security Studies Working Paper Number 40, August, [[http://www.yorku.ca/yciss/publications/documents/WP40-Busser.pdf]], azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The political and ... of scientific evidence. </span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A/T: Jarvis</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jarvis is an idiot.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Shapiro 2001** [Michael J Shapiro, Professor of Politial Science at the University of Hawaii. International Studies Association review of Books 2001 p. 126-128]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">D. S. L. Jarvis's International ... of the book.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - Econ</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2. Standing Reserve – economic security subjects the entire world to utility – empirically shown to induce the worst forms of violence.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Neocleous 2008** [Mark Neocleous, Prof. of Government @ Brunel, Critique of Security, p95-]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In other words, ... security strategy proposed.111 </span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - SCS </span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Intervention – Their presupposition that the US has the right to control and master the South China Seas makes conflict more likely – US involvement exacerbates tensions between China and neighboring states.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Pan 2011** (Chengxin Pan, Dr Chengxin Pan is a Lecturer in International Relations at the School of International and Political Studies, Deakin University, May 24th, 2011, “Is the South China Sea a new ‘Dangerous Ground’ for US-China rivalry?” [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/05/24/is-the-south-china-sea-a-new-dangerous-ground-for-us-china-rivalry/]], azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Now boasting some ... a self-fulfilling prophecy. </span>


====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - Deterrence</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">3. Coercion – instrument of elite pressure.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Bond Graham 2009** (Darwin,“The “Nuclear Threat,” and Other Mystical Approaches of Arms Control” submitted to the Non-Proliferation Review for Doreen and Jim McElvany 2009 Nonproliferation Challenge Essay Contest, 5/15/09 [[http://www.uweb.ucsb.edu/~darwin/NuclearThreat&OtherMystFINAL10k.pdf|http://www.uweb.ucsb.edu/%7Edarwin/NuclearThreat&OtherMystFINAL10k.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The crucial point in ...of military victory.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - China</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2. Essentialism – Their so-called objective portrayal of China is misinformed and guided by racist ideas.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Pan 2004** (Chengxin, Political Science Prof@ Australian National University, “The China Threat” in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics, Alternatives, vol 29 pp. 305-331, ebsco)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Having examined how ... (neo) realist prism.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Impact - Value</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">dillon 99 zp of the hc</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Impact - Crying Wolf</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">They are like the boy who cried wolf – they blow their scenarios out of proportion to benefit themselves – this breeds complacency when action is needed most.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Krepon 2009** (Michael , Co-Founder of the Henry L. Stimson Center, a Diplomat Scholar at the University of Virginia “The Mushroom Cloud That Wasn't: Why Inflating Threats Won't Reduce Them” Foreign Affairs, May 2009 - June 2009 Pg. 2 Vol. 88 No. 3)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Predicting nuclear disasters ... the Middle East.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Impact - Standing Reserve</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The impact is the withdrawal of Being.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Mitchell 2005** (Andrew J., Stanford University, “Heidegger and Terrorism”, Research in Phenomenology, 35)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The elimination of ... die, they perish.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Impact - Positive Peace</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Seeing war an event obfuscates the continued legacy of state-sponsored violence going on every day. This ethic prevents mobilization against structural forms of violence that make the outbreak of war inevitable.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Cuomo 1996** (Christine, Associate Professor of Philosophy at the University of Cincinnati, “War Is Not Just an Event: Reflections on the Significance of Everyday Violence”, Hypatia, Vol. 11, Iss. 4, Fall, Proquest)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Philosophical attention to ... connections among them.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bomb Shelter</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The term “nuclear war” is fantasy – war is a calculated purposeful act, while the exchange of nuclear explosives is suicide, not a rational extension of policy. The affirmative’s choice to label their impact scenarios as such makes nuclear violence inevitable because it naturalizes a form of combat doctrine that makes the use of nuclear explosives appear justifiable.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The alternative is a rejection of the notion of nuclear war – only a reorientation of the way that language is used to describe forms of warfare can change the way that citizens and tacticians consider the use of nuclear explosives.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Gates 2002** (John M, Aileen Dunham Professor of History, Emeritus -- Wooster U, THE U.S. ARMY AND IRREGULAR WARFARE, CHAPTER ELEVEN, THE CONTINUING PROBLEM OF CONCEPTUAL CONFUSION, [[http://www.wooster.edu/History/jgates/book-ch11.html]] azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">"War" is another... to avoid disaster.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Impact Calc </span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That’s like living in a bomb shelter</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baudrillard 1986** (Jean, philosopher, America, pp. 40-42, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Everywhere survival has...can go on.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The term nuclear war obfuscates the colonial history of nuclear testing</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**KATO 1993** (Masahide [ ] Alternatives 18, “Nuclear Globalism: Traversing Rockets, Satellites, and Nuclear War via the Strategic Gaze.”) P. 339</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nuclear war has...a historical fact.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A/T: Framework</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Accountability is key to scholarship</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kehl and Livingston 99** (D.G. Kehl and Howard Livingston, English at Arizona State University and Pace University, July, English Journal 88.6)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Second, students’own...would call it “counterproductive”).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Focus on language is key to political advocacy and democratic deliberation</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Cheeseman and Bruce 96** (Graeme Cheeseman ,Snr. Lecturer @ New South Wales, and Robert Bruce, Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This goal is...and why?</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Focus on policy relevance causes right wing takeover, which is the internal link to their impacts– critical approaches are key.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Jones 2009** (Lee Jones is lecturer in International Relations at Queen Mary, University of London, BA Honors Univ of Warwick, MA in IR St Anthony’s, PhD IR Nuffield , Journal of Critical Globalization Studies Issue 1 2009)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Having conceded where... Science, and Technology. (p. 127-30)</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A/T: Perm</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2. The perm is worse than the plan alone—affirming simultaneous contradictory language is doublethink that conditions citizens to accept tyranny.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Louise 4** (Mary Louise, journalist with the London Morning Paper, http://www.newswithviews.com/guest_opinion/guest32.htm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Doublethink, or reality...patrol our neighborhoods.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">3. Clarity turn</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A. The perm euphemistically confuses the terms of the debate—allows the state to redeploy bad language.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Bohm 3** (Robert Bohm, Campaign Coordinator for Delaware Green Party, 3/19, [[http://www.gp.org/articles/bohm_03_19_03.shtml]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The idea that...and political morality.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">B. That makes violence inevitable and cedes politics to state authority.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kehl and Livingston 99** (D.G. Kehl and Howard Livingston, English at Arizona State University and Pace University, July, English Journal 88.6)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">On the other...testing of evidence.)</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Baudrillard</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell - Greenhill</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">a. The 1AC’s interrogation of historical structures is an attempt at uncovering the evil of history while imagining the world absent such evils. This radical project forces reality into a self-referential cycle. We will imagine the world without the problems of the past but the permanence of the image makes unraveling the illusion impossible.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baudrillard 94** (Jean, phd in porn and irony, Radical Thought, Baudrillard on the Web, p.online)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The radical prediction ... as an illusion.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">b. Our non-Alternative alternative- We can advocate absolute and irretrievable negativity, a form of nihilistic intervention into the realm of overwhelming action. Our criticism operates as a form of self-negating, inaccessible nothingness while the affirmative sharpens their knives on the simulated body of the world.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Agamben 93** (Giorgio, prof of phil@ U. of Marcerata, Stanzas: Word and Phantasm in Western Culture. Translated by R.L. Martinez)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It is possible, ... its inaccessibility.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell - St. Marks</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The 20th century was the explosive climax of liberation, catastrophe, revolution, and violence. Now in the wake of this orgasmic confluence we twiddle our thumbs as we ponder the eternal question—“what are you doing after the orgy?” With no battles left to fight we find ourselves reproducing the specters of the past through images, dreams, fantasies—simulations. The affirmative has fallen prey to the perfect crime—banality, the call to simulate utopia contaminates the system, causing their impacts to resurface in a viral form.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baudrillard 2009** (Jean Baudrillard, avid fan of jersey shore and porn, “The Transparency of Evil”, azp)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">If I were asked ... put at risk.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their utopianism is like plastic surgery for the political – excising the unattractive elements and replacing them with simulated perfection. This simulacrum necessitates the whitewashing of violence and history, the devaluation of life at the heart of their project is buried under layers of cosmetics.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baudrillard 2009** (Jean Baudrillard, avid fan of jersey shore and porn, “The Transparency of Evil”, azp)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The uncertainty to ... has been undertaken.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We can advocate absolute and irretrievable negativity, a form of nihilistic intervention into the realm of overwhelming action. Our criticism operates as a form of self-negating, inaccessible nothingness while the affirmative sharpens their knives on the simulated body of the world.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Agamben 93** (Giorgio, prof of phil@ U. of Marcerata, Stanzas: Word and Phantasm in Western Culture. Translated by R.L. Martinez)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It is possible, ... its inaccessibility.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell - Scranton</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The 20th century was the explosive climax of liberation, catastrophe, revolution, and violence. Now in the wake of this orgasmic confluence we twiddle our thumbs as we ponder the eternal question—“what are you doing after the orgy?” With no battles left to fight we find ourselves reproducing the specters of the past through images, dreams, fantasies—simulations. The affirmative has fallen prey to the perfect crime—banality, the call to simulate utopia contaminates the system, causing their impacts to resurface in a viral form.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baudrillard 2009** (Jean Baudrillard, avid fan of jersey shore and porn, “The Transparency of Evil”, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">If I were asked ... put at risk.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their utopianism is like plastic surgery for the political – excising the unattractive elements and replacing them with simulated perfection. This simulacrum necessitates the whitewashing of violence and history, the devaluation of life at the heart of their project is buried under layers of cosmetics.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baudrillard 2009** (Jean Baudrillard, avid fan of jersey shore and porn, “The Transparency of Evil”, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The uncertainty to ... has been undertaken.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our alternative is to reject their simulated relationships and affirm the potlatch. In the wake of a presidential election we are at a turning point in politics, we can either go with the affirmative, and plunge forward into the death throes of an age of simulated utopia, or instead reclaim value through an act of sacrificial gift giving. Everyday individual actions are more important than fantasies of global importance, we should find accomplices in the zone of authentic symbolic exchange like debate, and use this space to escape their urge to reveal and remake the universe ad-infinitum.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Lawler 2012** (James Lawler, Assistant Professor in Philosophy at the State University of New York at Buffalo, October 2012, International Journal of Baudrillard Studies, Vol. 9, No. 3, “The King Must Die: Pataphysical Exegesis of an American Presidency,” [[http://www.ubishops.ca/baudrillardstudies/vol-9_3/v9-3-lawler.html]], azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Baudrillard goes back ... in this transition.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Overview Card - Old</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We should overidentify with the system - push the logic of to its point of collapse. Vote negative with no illusions as a means of imagining the end.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baudrillard 98** (Jean Baudrillard, 1998, Paroxysm: Interviews with Philippe Petit, p.23 JFS)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">PP: What do you ... imagining the end.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Impact Calc</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">3. Value – the preoccupation with simulating disasters locks us into bomb shelters.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baudrillard 1986** (Jean, philosopher, America, pp. 40-42, azp)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Everywhere survival has ...can go on.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The attempt to purge politics of negativity destroys the ability to kritik – this makes us bad decision makers because we assume everything is perfect – turns case. </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Baudrillard 2009 (Jean Baudrillard, avid fan of jersey shore and porn, “The Transparency of Evil”, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The uninterrupted production ... true death principle.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC - Prometheus DA</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their Promethean ontology attempts to light the world and purify all mystery through scientific instrumentality – this project of radical revealing results in symbolic extinction.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baudrillard 2010** (Jean Baudrillard, avid fan of jersey shore and porn, Carnival and Cannibal, 2010, scribd, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In the Promethean ... of the mystery.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC - Blackmail DA</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">They put the lives they attempt to save up for hostage, operating through a process of emotional blackmail that ultimately loses the other in simulation, an abolishment worse than death.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baudrillard 1992** (Jean, PhD in porn and irony, The Illusion of the End, Verso, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In the case ... a monitoring screen. </span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Regicide</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Death is the opiate of the masses. The only way to change politic is to cut off the head of the king, modern power is transpolitical, revolutions in one system of politics don’t change shit because that power exists in the globalized empire of the West. In response to their resistance power will just reconfigure itself in a different form; the right will simulate their death and be replaced by the equally depoliticizing left. Conservative and liberal are two sides of the same coin, flipping the social order just simulate a world where change has happened, when in reality they haven’t done shit. The only political act is to dissolve politics, refusing to participate lets us stop being proxies for the next mummy – regicide is the answer!</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Lawler 2012** (James Lawler, Assistant Professor in Philosophy at the State University of New York at Buffalo, October 2012, International Journal of Baudrillard Studies, Vol. 9, No. 3, “The King Must Die: Pataphysical Exegesis of an American Presidency,” [[http://www.ubishops.ca/baudrillardstudies/vol-9_3/v9-3-lawler.html]], azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">But this fragmentation ... desire, of knowledge.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A/T: Framework</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their model of debate is like a Mobius strip – the overproduction of pointless meaning lapses into anti-educational banality and consumption. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Cook 6/9** (John Cook, John Cook was a NDT first-round qualifier in 2012 for Baylor University. He is now a graduate student in Communications at Baylor University, kdebate, Vol. 1, No. 1, “Debating in the Hyperreal,” 6/9/12, [[http://kdebate.com/cook.html]], azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Schnurer’s posited distinction ..., and exchangeable forms.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Roleplaying facilitates tyranny, ressentiment, and makes policy worse than useless.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Antonio 1995** (Nietzsche’s antisociology: Subjectified Culture and the End of History”; American Journal of Sociology; Volume 101, No. 1; July 1995, jstor, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">According to Nietzsche, ... type of tyrant (Nietzsche 1986, pp. 137, 168; 1974, pp. 117-18, 213, 288-89, 303-4).</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - Reform </span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">What political? Abundance of information has created an alibi for the masses not to act, nor to have an opinion. These masses are the ones who truly hold power—they see that seats of power are corrupt and functionally powerless and elect those who have no real influence. Even if we engage in the political, nothing will get done, and we’ll be trapped in a never-ending, arrogant crusade under the flag of the left.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baudrillard 1995** (Jean, master of sex and TV and France, 09/04/1995, “Helots and Elites,” Screened Out, pp. 82-84)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In this fracture ... practice of freedom?</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - History</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The imposition of history is the deployment of an economy of victimization, an ethic of redeeming the past to cleanse negativity in the ultra positivistic fashion of society producing a hatred of the present and life</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baudrillard 2005** [The Intelligence of Evil or The Lucidity Pact, p. 150-152]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hence the ... and self.respect.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - Racism</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The very assumption that there can be an “other” is the precondition for racism. Only the alt lets the other remain foreign.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baudrillard 2009** (Jean Baudrillard, avid fan of jersey shore and porn, “The Transparency of Evil”, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Differences mean regulated ... comes into being.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - Marxism</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their simulation of a graspable capitalist system is exactly what sustains the system.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baudrillard 2009** (Jean Baudrillard, avid fan of jersey shore and porn, “The Transparency of Evil”, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The proletariat has... merely an aftershock.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - Terrorism </span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their simulation of a world without terrorism abolishes the symbolic significance of 9/11 – representing terrorism as an arbitrary accident whitewashes history. This act of erasure denies our complicity in terrorism and allows violence to continue – turns case.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baudrillard 2001** (Jean Baudrillard, avid fan of jersey shore and porn, Le Monde 2, November 2001, “The Spirit of Terrorism,” [[http://www.egs.edu/faculty/jean-baudrillard/articles/the-spirit-of-terrorism/]], azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We have had...this unavowable complicity. </span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ecology</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**The affirmative approaches the environment through a managerial lens, seeing nature as a detached well of utility. This regime of “green governmentality” conceals violent biopolitics and insulates itself from criticism through positivistic certainty.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Bäckstrand and Lövbrand ‘6** (Karin, Wallenberg Research Fellow at the Department of Political Science, Lund University in Sweden; and Eva, PhD candidate in environmental science at Kalmar University, Sweden.) [“Planting Trees to Mitigate Climate Change: Contested Discourses of Ecological Modernization, Green Governmentality and Civic Environmentalism” Global Environmental Politics 6.1 (2006) 50-75, Muse]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Alongside the market-oriented ... environmentalism discourse below.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Reduction of nature to pure energy destroys being and outweighs nuclear war</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Zimmerman, 94** (Michael E. Zimmerman, Professor of Philosophy at Tulane, Contesting Earth’s Future: Radical Ecology and Postmodernity, 1994, net-library)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Heidegger asserted...as material paradise.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our alternative is a step from technology to aesthetics. We should be like the artist who willingly moves and grows with his project much as we should flow and ebb with ecology. The problem with status quo ecology is its fixation and transcendence, trapped between far too many hippy tree-huggers and fat cat yuppies. We choose to avoid dogma – take hold of unity when it presents itself, but more importantly begin ecological transformations with the self.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Guattari 1989** (Pierre-Félix Guattari was a French militant, institutional psychotherapist and philosopher, a founder of both schizoanalysis and ecosophy. "The Three Ecologies" 1989, pp. 48-53)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">One of the ... Integrated World Capitalism.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Chow</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Other is a reflection of the egocentric self – The Affirmative visualizes, surveys and records the pain of the victimized subject from a position of power and safety – this imperial gaze produces knowledge that serves two functions:</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1. It maps the other into a subject position defined by victimhood and establishes the ability of the West to judge, discipline and govern alterity from above.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2. It places the West back in the center of the Other’s narrative – by establishing the Other as victim, we establish our own society’s position as the evil conqueror – our character has changed, but our role in the play has not.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Spurr 93** (Professor of English at University of Illinois, The Rhetoric of Empire p. 15-17)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Attempts at knowledge of the Other is the enabling mechanism for the destruction of alterity. Their attempts to fill in the blind spots in our map of all human interaction ensures that we can only see the individuals they debate about as targets for US bombs.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Chow 2k6** (Rey Chow, Humanities and Modern Culture & Media Studies at Brown University, 2006 The Age of the World Target: Self-Referentiality in War, Theory, and Comparative Work, 40-1)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The alternative is Said’s notion of academic exile. This is the disavowal of our superiority as intellectuals. In abdicating our position as the observer we escape the confines and boundaries that the nation-state places on critical discourse. The rejection of the affirmative is the proverbial recognition that the panoptic, intellectualization they utilize deprives alterity of the very terms of their oppression, and that the position of the exile is a better ontological framework for criticism.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Biswas 7** (Shampa BISWAS, Politics @ Whitman, “Empire and Global Public Intellectuals: Reading Edward Said as an International Relations Theorist,” Millennium 36)</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Epistemology</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their liberation project is a project of self delusion. They interpolate the vocabulary of the oppressed into academic discourse. This attempt at liberation has two negative implications:</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1. It masks Western hegemony: By utilizing alterity as a vehicle for criticism they reify dominance and mastery over the other.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2. The affirmative is privileged with symbolic capital: Even though no legitimate change occurs the affirmative still profits from the ballot, this necessarily fixes their position as observers and superiors by creating concrete incentive to continue their intellectualized discourse.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Chow 93** (Rey, professor of English and comparative literature and director of the comparative literature program at the University of California, Writing Diaspora: tactics of intervention in contemporary cultural studies, p. 17)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We need to remember.... academic sense?</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Anthro</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Modern understandings of warfare presume the exchange of violence between two human states – this conception excludes the systematic murder of non-human animal life and reconstitutes the false dichotomy that is presumed to exist between humanity and nature.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kochi 09** – (2009, Tarik, PhD, Lecturer in Law & International Security, University of Sussex, “Species War: Law, Violence, and Animals,” Law, Culture and the Humanities 2009; 5: 353–369, sagepub, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Grotius and Hobbes are sometimes ... juridical ordering of war. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Anthropocentrism makes the destruction of the human and non-human inevitable.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Ahkin 10** (Mélanie works at Monash University, “Human Centrism, Animist Materialism, and the Critique of Rationalism in Val. Plumwood’s Critical Ecological Feminism,” Emergent Australasian Philosophers, 2010, Issue 3, [[http://www.eap.philosophy-australia.com/issue_3/EAP3_AHKIN_Human_Centrism.pdf]]) </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our alternative is to endorse the global suicide of humanity. The only possible way to atone for centuries of human chauvinism is to engage in utopian anti-humanism. Global suicide as a thought experiment is the most ethical response to anthropocentricism.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kochi and Ordan 08** (Dec. 2008, Tarik Kochi, PhD, Lecturer in Law & International Security, University of Sussex, Noam Ordan, linguist and translator, conducts research in Translation Studies at Bar Ilan University, research focus on human cultural history, “An argument for the global suicide of humanity,” Borderlands, [[http://www.borderlands.net.au/vol7no3_2008/kochiordan_argument.pdf]], azp)</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Derrida</span>==== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Ontology of the animal comes first. Refusing a position of ethics and shared pathos with non-humans is the basis of constant genocide </span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Derrida ‘2**—Jacques Derrida was a super awesome philosopher and David Wills is a professor of French and English at the University of Albany , 2002 (“The Animal That Therefore I Am (More to Follow)“;Critical Inquiry, vol. 28, No. 2; Winter 2002, www.jstor.org/stable/1344276)</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">All that is ... of the animal.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Root Cause</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">They are just obfuscation. Anthropocentrism is the original hierarchy – all other forms of exploitation and domination are premised on the human / nature dichotomy</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Best 07** (Steven Best, Professor of Humanities and Philosophy @ UT el Paso, review of Eternal Treblinka: Our Treatment of Animals and the Holocaust by Charles Patterson, Journal for Critical Animal Studies, Vol. 5, No. 2, 2007, [[http://www.criticalanimalstudies.org/JCAS/Journal_Articles_download/Issue_7/bestpatterson.pdf]], azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It is little ... through animal exploitation.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Alt</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Radical anti-humanism is a precondition for challenging anthropocentrism – only our thought experiment provides a conceptual lens for understanding the way historical practices like colonialism impact the way we view non-human animal life. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kochi and Ordan 08** (Dec. 2008, Tarik Kochi, PhD, Lecturer in Law & International Security, University of Sussex, Noam Ordan, linguist and translator, conducts research in Translation Studies at Bar Ilan University, research focus on human cultural history, “An argument for the global suicide of humanity,” Borderlands, [[http://www.borderlands.net.au/vol7no3_2008/kochiordan_argument.pdf]], azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">However, is the ... far, been unavailing.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A/T: Framework</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Foreclosing possibilities for discussion is a bankrupt stance that justifies bulldozing beaver dams and paving over rainforests.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Shanahan 93** (William, former Prof. Comm. and ex debate coach @ Fort Hays State U, “Kritik of Thinking,” Debater’s Research Guide)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Policy has a ... open remains above.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Human existence is a perpetual holocaust on human and non-human life – positive elements of humanity are eclipsed by a history of violence and exploitation.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kochi and Ordan 08** (Dec. 2008, Tarik Kochi, PhD, Lecturer in Law & International Security, University of Sussex, Noam Ordan, linguist and translator, conducts research in Translation Studies at Bar Ilan University, research focus on human cultural history, “An argument for the global suicide of humanity,” Borderlands, [[http://www.borderlands.net.au/vol7no3_2008/kochiordan_argument.pdf]], azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">When thinking about...“an eternal Treblinka” (Singer, 1968, p.750).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This calculability devalues all life to its barest property.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Dillon 99** [Michael4/99, Professor of IR @ Lancaster, “Another Justice” Political Theory, Vol. 27, No. 2, pp. 165]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Economies of evaluation...whatever exceeds measure." </span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A/T: Link of Omission</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Omission is promission.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Bell and Russel, 2k** – (Anne C. Bell, department of education, York University, Canada, and Constance L. Russel, Associate Professor, Faculty of Education, Lakehead University, Co-Editor, Canadian Journal of Environmental Education, “Beyond Human, Beyond Words: Anthropocentrism, Critical Pedagogy, and the Poststructuralist Turn,” CANADIAN JOURNAL OF EDUCATION 25, 3 (2000):188–203, [[http://www.csse-scee.ca/CJE/Articles/FullText/CJE25-3/CJE25-3-bell.pdf]], azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This discursive frame ... anthropocentrism passes unchallenged.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A/T: Permutation</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">3. Total rejection key.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kochi and Ordan 08** (Dec. 2008, Tarik Kochi, PhD, Lecturer in Law & International Security, University of Sussex, Noam Ordan, linguist and translator, conducts research in Translation Studies at Bar Ilan University, research focus on human cultural history, “An argument for the global suicide of humanity,” Borderlands, [[http://www.borderlands.net.au/vol7no3_2008/kochiordan_argument.pdf]], azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Both liberal and...of the latter.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">4. Their complicity in the bureaucratic matrices of human chauvinism mirrors the banality of evil. The Nazi regime sustained itself through regimens of systematically manufactured collaboration – even those who didn’t murder the Jews were still complicit in the genocide. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kochi and Ordan 08** (Dec. 2008, Tarik Kochi, PhD, Lecturer in Law & International Security, University of Sussex, Noam Ordan, linguist and translator, conducts research in Translation Studies at Bar Ilan University, research focus on human cultural history, “An argument for the global suicide of humanity,” Borderlands, [[http://www.borderlands.net.au/vol7no3_2008/kochiordan_argument.pdf]], azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In one sense, ... and a sham. [8]</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - Spacepower</span>==== 
**Their representation of benevolent spacepower effaces the way that anthropocentric dominance of the cosmos goes hand in hand with exploitation of nature.**
**Sadeh ’11** <span style="font-size: 12px;">[Eligar, American political scientist and academic Assistant Professor, Department of Space Studies University of North Dakota, Ch. 13 Space Power and the Environment, Toward a Theory of Spacepower, June 13, 2011, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.opensourcesinfo.org/journal/2011/6/13/toward-a-theory-of-spacepower-selected-essays.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">,]</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In the anthropocentric **__...__** </span> **__space exploration program.__**</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - Asteroids</span>==== 
**The rationale behind asteroid deflection relies on the most insidious form of environmental interference – the drive to expel non-anthropogenic threats to our existence actively thwarts the rise of future species.**
**Cockell 7** (“Space on Earth; Saving our world by seeking others” Charles S. Cockell, Professor in geomicrobiology, Chair of the Earth and Space Foundation] 2007, Macmillan. Pg 128-9, library.nu, //azp//)

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Unlike anthropogenic ozone ... or volcanic eruptions.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - The Left</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Leftist struggles ignore the non-human.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Best 6** (Steven, Intl Journal of Inclusive Democracy, [[http://www.inclusivedemocracy.org/journal/vol2/vol2_no3_Best_rethinking_revolution_PRINTABLE.htm]], azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The prejudice and ... and human suffering.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - Discourse</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their focus on power relations and verbal communication foregrounds a human-centered epistemological framework.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Bell and Russel, 2k** – (Anne C. Bell, department of education, York University, Canada, and Constance L. Russel, Associate Professor, Faculty of Education, Lakehead University, Co-Editor, Canadian Journal of Environmental Education, “Beyond Human, Beyond Words: Anthropocentrism, Critical Pedagogy, and the Poststructuralist Turn,” CANADIAN JOURNAL OF EDUCATION 25, 3 (2000):188–203, [[http://www.csse-scee.ca/CJE/Articles/FullText/CJE25-3/CJE25-3-bell.pdf]], azp)</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - Warming</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Discourses about “solving” warming deepen the human / nature dichotomy and allow the “business as usual” approach of industry to continue destroying the ecosphere.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Crist, 2k7** Eileen Crist, Associate Professor of Science and Technology Studies in the Center for Interdisciplinary Studies at Virginia Tech “Beyond the Climate Crisis: A Critique of Climate Change Discourse” Telos 141 Winter 2007</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Narrative affinity with .... some imagined future.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - Econ</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Economies of exchange and competition are products of an industrializing machine that disregards the importance of limits on nature’s use.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Nestaiko 2003** [ECOLOGICAL CRISIS AND HUMAN NATURE: The Green and Liberal Approaches, azp]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Locke, Smith and ... and social influences.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - Culture</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their preoccupation with culture is a smokescreen for oppression – in the future these illusions will fall away and all that will persist is life, the call to preserve a particular identity at the cost of complicity in slaughter is a violent reductionism.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kochi and Ordan 08** (Dec. 2008, Tarik Kochi, PhD, Lecturer in Law & International Security, University of Sussex, Noam Ordan, linguist and translator, conducts research in Translation Studies at Bar Ilan University, research focus on human cultural history, “An argument for the global suicide of humanity,” Borderlands, [[http://www.borderlands.net.au/vol7no3_2008/kochiordan_argument.pdf]], azp) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">When many, like ... is just life.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - Icebreakers</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Specifically the plan is complicit in species genocide.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**ScienceDaily 12** “Increase in Arctic Shipping Is Risk to Marine Mammals” Mar. 16, 2012, http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2012/03/120316112549.htm</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">As Arctic sea,,,the Arctic Ocean.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - Katrina</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their criticism of disaster response prioritizes human lives. Like the media after Katrina, they accuse the state of racism, but again, like the media, they ignore the rampant speciesism in disaster response. Their plan is designed to cater to purely human concerns, this perpetuates the anthropocentric binaries.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Irvine 2006** (Leslie Irvine, 2006 PhD UC Boulder, “Animals in Disasters: Issues for Animal Liberation Activism and Policy,” Online, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The overwhelming numbers ... once again prevail.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The link is zero sum – using the state as the agent of the plan succumbs to a command and control model of policy that presumes the US should have a monopoly over force and solutions. This control-oriented approach reflects condescension towards difference that inevitably forces the non-human out of the purview of conventional policy.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Irvine 2006** (Leslie Irvine, 2006 PhD UC Boulder, “Animals in Disasters: Issues for Animal Liberation Activism and Policy,” Online, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The command and ... force and violence.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - Human Dignity</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their attempts to preserve human dignity and rights rely on a category of “subhuman” life that naturalizes the human/animal binary.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Deckha 2010** (Maneesha Deckha, Maneesha Deckha is Associate Professor at the University of Victoria Faculty of Law in Victoria, Canada. Professor Deckha’s research interests include critical animal studies, feminist analysis of law, law and culture, and bioethics. She is currently working on a book project analyzing the legal status of animals in Canada from a postcolonial feminist lens, 2010, “It’s time to abandon the idea of ‘human’ rights,” Journal for Critical Animal Studies, vol.8, no.3, [[http://www.thescavenger.net/animals/its-time-to-abandon-the-idea-of-human-rights-77234-536.html]], azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Time for a ... nonhumans as well.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - Immortal Technique</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This isn’t just true about Hip-Hop in the abstract, the authors of their 1ac performance specifically exhibit the disdain for animal rights movements that our 1nc Best evidence is critical of. In fact, Immortal Technique, the rapper from the 1ac’s performance has an entire song devoted to disparaging vegetarians – here’s proof:</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Immortal Technique, 1ac author, no date** (Immortal Technique, obnoxiously overexposed “rapper” and profoundly ignorant prick, “Beef and Broccoli,” [[http://www.sing365.com/music/lyric.nsf/Beef-Broccoli-lyrics-Immortal-Technique/99AF38F93D1096E5482570220005D112]], azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">look, let me make something abundantly clear for people that are so bereft of activities they feel like they gotta comment on mine. first of all being a vegetarian should never be associated with being a revolutionary or being open-minded. that's a dietary choice. if someone wants to proliferate the type of ignorance we're supposed to be fighting by thinking that, you're just fucking yourself. i don't go around promoting beef and pultry shoving it in people's faces. i don't castigate people for not eating steak sandwiches; and i would never diss someone for being a fucking broccoli-head, or living off of radishes, or eating grass or tofu. i like a lot of vegan cuisine. but the illogicality of expecting everyone to adopt their particular idea of what being healthy is is just preposterous. i've seen some of you herbivores; and if you want to argue health, y'all need to eat some kind of supplement because some of y'all are so skinny that it's disgusting; looking like the only hip-hop motherfuckers on schindler's list. being a malnutrition-ass got nothing to do with being revolutionary or being on-point. i'll be damned if i let somebody else push their agenda on me. you know i don't eat pork, not because i'm a muslim, i just don't really like it, but i really will fuck a bird up. and fish is good when that shit is fresh. it's like my nigga Vast Aire from Can Ox said. if you don't like the smell of burning meat, well then get the fuck off the planet. you know i don't criticize people for eating moss, then don't open your fucking mouth about my food, man. i like beef and broccoli motherfucker. mind your god-damn business. matter of fact... you know what? i'm out. i feel like some arroz con pollo, a banana daiquiri, and a motherfucking bistec aponado.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - Giroux</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their method is prefigured to leave out animals; Giroux only understands the politics of disposability as something that affects people.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Giroux, 1ac author, 10** – Professor of English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, previous professors at BU, Miami U, and Penn State (Henry, “Memories of Hope in the Age of Disposability”, published 9/28/2010, accessed online 7/2, http://archive.truthout.org/memories-hope-age-disposability63631, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The new culture ... live at all.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - Colonization</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Colonization discourse valorizes human progress and innovation at the expense of the natural world – the extension of anthropocentric logic to other planets only ensures the replication of planetary destruction. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kochi and Ordan 08** (Dec. 2008, Tarik Kochi, PhD, Lecturer in Law & International Security, University of Sussex, Noam Ordan, linguist and translator, conducts research in Translation Studies at Bar Ilan University, research focus on human cultural history, “An argument for the global suicide of humanity,” Borderlands, [[http://www.borderlands.net.au/vol7no3_2008/kochiordan_argument.pdf]], azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In 2006 on ... destruction of others.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - Bostrom</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Bostrom evidence they read is anthropocentric, he only understands existential risk as something that affects people – here’s a line from his article.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Bostrom 02** (Nick, PhD Philosophy – Oxford University, “Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios”, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, March, [[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]], azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">An existential risk...all time to come. </span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Civilization </span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Civilization exists in a landscape of absence – propped up by the twin engines of individual alienation and planetary destruction. Only an absolute refusal can become emancipatory.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Zerzan 2005** (John, Primitivist Activist, MA SFSU, [[http://insurgentdesire.org.uk/feral.htm]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We exist in ... rage and dreams? </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Collapse is inevitable – Even in a world of infinite resources the civilized world will not make it past 2100.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kotke 2008** (WM.H, Published Author, “Final Empire” http://www.rainbowbody.net/Finalempire/FEchap2.htm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The standard extrapolation ... through the climax. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our alternative: Vote negative. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We must refuse the blueprints and traps of civilized logic; we must dance on the broken body of time and wipe our ass with the carcass of wage-slavery. Chaos rule everything, trying to force order is counterproductive and authoritarian.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The appropriate question becomes whether we will contribute to or detract from the momentum against a civilized world. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Skunk 2005** (Felonius, Green Anerchy #19)</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Impact Calc</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Civilization only exists because we have come to believe in its inevitability—this is tragic because civilization was a mistake. It is bound to collapse, and our critique is necessary to begin readapting to the way that humans lived for 99% of their existence, otherwise we can just be ignorant of the coming universal biological holocaust.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Heinberg 1995** (Richard, “The Primitivist Critique of Civilization, presented at the 24th annual meeting of the International Society for the Comparative Study of Civilizations at Wright State University, Dayton, Ohio http://insurgentdesire.org.uk/civilization.htm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Isn't civilization simply ... back on track."</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A/T: Perm</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Form and substance are inseparable.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Bleiker 2000** (Roland Bleiker, professor of international relations at the University of Queensland, 2000, “Popular Dissent, Human Agency and Global Politics” pg. 280)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">To recognize that ... with such objections.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">3. No compromises.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Feral Faun 1990** (Anarchy: A Journal of Desire Armed #24, http://insurgentdesire.org.uk/cops.htm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">At the same ... maintain our autonomy. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Half a revolution just preserves domination.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Zerzan 2005** (John, http://insurgentdesire.org.uk/fp.htm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Probably 'health' in ... hold over us. </span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - Technology</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Technology is not neutral or merely a tool—it is an ideology that alienates us from nature and ultimately will result in extinction.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Zerzan in 1998** (John, http://insurgentdesire.org.uk/technology.htm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Those who still ... all its depth. </span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">USfg K </span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell v. CE Byrd</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The 1ac was sweet until they read the plan text, then things stopped making sense.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A Subpoint is Bare Life: </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">There is no universal referent that can be used to describe a people. Their attempt to use “United States federal government” as a stand-in reifies the state of exception by necessitating a non-people of bare life as the ontological backdrop for their construction.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Agamben 2k** (Italian philosopher who teaches at the Università IUAV di Venezia,(Giorgio, Means Without Ends: Notes on Politics, p. 30.1) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Any interpretation of ... always already include.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bare life is the precondition for extermination. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Enns 07** (Diane, Theory & Event, “Political Life Before Identity”, 10:1, muse) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Much has been ... marking, this selection.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">B Subpoint is Subjectivity:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">They will make arguments about how the USfg is the same thing as the assembly of people, but this is the link to our kritik. They externalize agency onto the state, obliterating personal subjectivity and sanctioning nationalist violence.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Shaffer 7** (Butler teaches at the Southwestern University School of Law. B.S., Law, 1958, University of Nebraska, Lincoln; B.A., Political Science, 1959, and J.D., 1961, University of Chicago; Member, Colorado and Nebraska State Bars. “Identifying With the State” June 29th 2007. http://www.lewrockwell.com/shaffer/shaffer159.html, MT)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">One of the ... integrity in our lives.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That turns the entirety of the case – overidentifying with the state creates an addiction to simulation that breeds ressentiment.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Antonio 95** (Nietzsche’s antisociology: Subjectified Culture and the End of History”; American Journal of Sociology; Volume 101, No. 1; July 1995, jstor, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">According to Nietzsche, ... type of tyrant (Nietzsche 1986, pp. 137, 168; 1974, pp. 117-18, 213, 288-89, 303-4).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">C Subpoint is Normativity: </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The defense of fiat makes no sense – nobody will actually do graffiti as a result of reading the plan which means there’s no internal link between the plan text and the advantages. Vote neg on presumption.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Schlag 90** (Pierre Schlag, professor of law@ univ. Colorado, stanford law review, november, page lexis)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In fact, normative ... advice into effect.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This disconnects them from agency – normative legal thought whitewashes violence.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Delgado 91** (richard delgado , colorado law professor, 139 pa. L. Rev. 933, april)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">But what is ... with subsistence claims.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">D Subpoint is Piracy: </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">These kids don’t understand Deleuze – the aff turns pirates into privateers. Their identification with the state reappropriates the war machine and destroys the creative potential of the nomad. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kuhn 10** (Gabriel Kuhn, “Life Under the Jolly Roger”, Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of Innsbruck and general badass, “Life Under the Jolly Roger: Reflections on Golden Age Piracy”, Pg 98-100, rm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The French philosopher-psychoanalyst ... to striate space.17 </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our alternative is to affirm the entirety of the 1ac absent their plan text.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It’s legit – the plan PIC is a necessary test against critical affirmatives, and they have the entirety of the plan to generate offense.</span>**

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Mann </span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The affirmative, in their unwavering allegiance to their advocacy, falls victim to the worship of a master text. Their attempts at resistance, against violence and against the norms of debate, serve to illustrate a symbolic balance that is vital to the longevity of the system itself. The defense of a static position certifies its own failure, for resistance to become effective it must embrace other tactics.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Mann 96** (Paul, prof of English, Pomona, “The Nine Grounds of Intellectual Warfare”)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nothing is more ... other tactical forms. </span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Counterplan</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Consult Nature</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Text: **The United State federal government should enter into prior and binding consultation with nature on** [plan].</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The 1ac sees nature as an object that we can only control and manipulate, this foregrounds a bad communicative framework with the world. The counterplan solves best.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Cramer and Foss 09** (Janet M. Cramer, Associate Professor Communications University of New Mexico, Karen A. Foss, Professor Communication University of New Mexico, 19 October 2009, Environmental Communication, Vol. 3, No. 3“Baudrillard and Our Destiny with the Natural World: Fatal Strategies for Environmental Communication,” Taylor and Francis, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In addition to ... to be transformed’’ (Noddings, 1984, p. 34).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their objectification of nature relies on a fundamental human arrogance that justifies limitless expansion under the sign of utility and sustainability.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baudrillard 09** (Jean Baudrillard, avid fan of jersey shore and porn, “The Transparency of Evil”, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The dangers ... level of destiny. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Here is a distinction we will articulate – the 1ac is about action, the 1nc is about reflection – the reactionary politics that they sanitize are foundationally grounded in an ontological approach to nature that necessarily reifies a destructive, technological perspective. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**McWhorter 92** (LaDelle, Professor of Philosophy at Northeast Missouri State, Heidegger and the Earth)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">When we attempt ... or predetermined aim.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">There is no one way forward in history. The aff will try and argue that the future is scary, that in the face of change we must cling to the static structures of the Old. This is a reactionary impulse. The future may be terrifying, but the present is untenable. We live in a world balanced on the knife edge of cultural destruction, teetering over the precipice of ecological collapse. Modernity is but one pulse in a historical trajectory of change. Resist the urge to sacrifice difference on the altar of stability.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Davis 09** (Wade Davis, Wade Davis is the best-selling author of several books, including The Serpent and the Rainbow, Light at the Edge of the World, One River, and The Clouded Leopard. He is an award-winning anthropologist, ethnobotanist, filmmaker, and photographer, and his writing and photographs have appeared in numerous publications, including the Globe and Mail, Maclean’s, Newsweek, National Geographic, the Wall Street Journal, and the Washington Post. He currently holds the post of Explorer in Residence at the National Geographic Society, November 2009, The Massey Lecture Series, The Wayfinders: Why Ancient Wisdom Matters in the Modern World, pp. 192-197, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Before she died, ... that goes nowhere. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This debate round doesn’t have to be a useful example for the community. Debate rounds have become instrumentalized to the point that every debate is expected to be a microcosm of how the perfect community. These control-oriented politics cut us off from the sacred; we become so obsessed with productivity that we can’t see the forest through the trees, the fact that our politics subjugate all nature itself to utility. Our impossible act of dialogue is a radical potlatch; we offer this debate up not to the debate community, not to the judge, not to the affirmative, and not to the human race. We sacrifice this debate to Nature, in all its inutility and glory. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Stoekl 07** (Allan Stoekl, Prof French and comparative literature at Penn State University, 2007, Bataille’s Peak: Energy, Religion, and Sustainability, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bataille’s energy is ... more profound burn-off.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Overview Cards</span>==== 
**Yes, obviously the US won’t actually enter into any sort of legal dialogue with the natural world over the plan. What is important is not the logical outcome but the process of forming the counterplan. We are sorcerers, and the counterplan text is our spell, it is a comically absurd, poetic message to the natural world – the very __oxymoronic__ ridiculousness of the counterplan is what make it subversive. You should prioritize an enchanted, whimsical approach to nature over their objective and technical approach. Only our act of impossible inclusion allows us to recognize the intimacy of our relationship with nature, to acknowledge our vulnerability and accept the fact that an intersubjective dialogue is the only way to truly break down the boundaries that force us to devastate the natural world.**
**Cramer and Foss 09** (Janet M. Cramer, Associate Professor Communications University of New Mexico, Karen A. Foss, Professor Communication University of New Mexico, 19 October 2009, Environmental Communication, Vol. 3, No. 3“Baudrillard and Our Destiny with the Natural World: Fatal Strategies for Environmental Communication,” Taylor and Francis, azp)

**__A return to ...__** **__traditional scientific arguments__**.

**Our gesture of mutual intersubjective communication, even if it is logically impossible, creates a paradigm shift that refers us to an authentic relationship with nature that solves better than the aff.**
**Cramer and Foss 09** (Janet M. Cramer, Associate Professor Communications University of New Mexico, Karen A. Foss, Professor Communication University of New Mexico, 19 October 2009, Environmental Communication, Vol. 3, No. 3“Baudrillard and Our Destiny with the Natural World: Fatal Strategies for Environmental Communication,” Taylor and Francis, azp)

In both of ... creating environmental change.

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**We don’t defend fiat or the hypothetical implementation of the counterplan, that sort of roleplaying facilitates tyranny and ressentiment.**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Antonio 95** </span>(Nietzsche’s antisociology: Subjectified Culture and the End of History”; American Journal of Sociology; Volume 101, No. 1; July 1995, jstor, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">//azp//)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">According to Nietzsche, **...** **new type of tyrant** (Nietzsche 1986, pp. 137, 168; 1974, pp. 117-18, 213, 288-89, 303-4).</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Critical Geography</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Text: Your plan without the borders</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A. The plan’s creation of a mapped world where the standard unit of interaction is the nation-state divides the world’s population into zones of exclusion. Notions of the national juridicial boundary of the US Federal Government are used to justify arbitrary exclusion of certain individuals from our ethical standards. Order is functionally impossible in this world; yet in the affirmative’s minds, they would still have you sacrifice others for its potentiality.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Shapiro 97** (Michael, really smart dude, Violent Cartographies, pp. 150.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nevertheless, the forces ... struggle behind.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">B. Violence is inevitable in a world where the modern state has the means to organize populations around its juridical boundaries. The utilitarian reasons for confining our ethical stance to the so-called “territory” of United States means the affirmative will only solidify the violence they hope to solve.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Shapiro 97** (Michael, really smart dude, Violent Cartographies, pp. 124-129)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Allowing Hegel an ... the national self. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">C. The logic of the geopolitical map by imagining the functioning of law as a universal particular delegitimizes the nation-state and creates the possibility for less violent understandings of the world. Only through this process can we come face to face with the other, our mirror, and recognize the true violence inherent to our current system of international relations.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Shapiro 97** (Michael, really smart dude, Violent Cartographies, pp. 124-129</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Michel Foucault was .. Effacements of older </span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Overview Card</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Additionally, all permutations and affirmative solvency claims are based on the basic assumption that the only spatial reality of nation-states is to be confined by their juridical boundaries. The permeability of this boundary illustrates its phantasmic appeal- we search for order by exorcizing it from the area we intend to protect by simply redrawing the map. This process invariably creates enemies and justifies violence to expunge this source of disorder from the outside.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Shapiro 97** (Michael, BAMF, Violent Cartographies, p. x-xi)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Exemplary of this ... causes of violence</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link - The Other</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The desire to seek out and save the other is the same justification that drives the desire for an enemy. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Shapiro 97** (Michael J., Violent Cartographies, pp. 96)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">For Lacan, then, ... in Bunuel's film.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Normativity</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Text: Your plan without your plan.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The affirmative cannot isolate a single reason why the prescriptions that the 1AC provides for the status quo that they describe lead to any real world solvency or change.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**SCHLAG**, PROFESSOR OF LAW@ UNIV. COLORADO, **1990** (PIERRE, STANFORD LAW REVIEW, NOVEMBER, PAGE LEXIS)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The normative rhetoric of the 1AC speech act allows them to disassociate themselves from any legitimate emotional connection to their performance, this makes attempts at real-world change or activism impossible and turns the case.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**DELGADO 1991** (RICHARD, COLORADO LAW PROFESSOR, 139 PA. L. REV. 933, APRIL)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The seductive nature of normative legal thought debases subjectivity by re-drawing its twisted bureaucratic methodology into dominant social forums. In doing so, normative thought disengages the speaker from any and all ethical connection to their discourse, guaranteeing perpetual pain and suffering.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**SCHLAG**, PROFESSOR OF LAW@ UNIV. COLORADO, **1990** (PIERRE, STANFORD LAW REVIEW, NOVEMBER, PAGE LEXIS)</span>

====2NC Solvency==== 
**The CP solves best – criticizing their normative form opens up a space for reflection where true solvency becomes impossible.**
**Winter 91** (Steven L. June, Prof of Law @ U. of Miami, Texas Law Review ”On Building Houses”)

As this last ... dependent on law."

====A/T: Perm==== 
**__Cooption DA__ – the perm forces us to down the path of bureaucratic tyranny, once we’ve been assimilated escape is impossible.**
**Delgado 93** (Richard, June 1993, Prof. of Law @ U. of Colorado, New York University Law Review, “Rodrigo’s Sixth Chronicle”)

**__<span style="color: #000000;">"Normative discourse is always self-centered</span>__**<span style="color: #000000;">... weakening the movement."</span>

**__Nesting DA__ – the perm conceals normative legal thought by presenting the illusion of compromise.**
**<span style="color: #000000;">Schlag 91 </span>**<span style="color: #000000;">(Pierre, April 1991, Prof. of Law @ Colorado U., University of Pennsylvania Law Review “Normativity and the Politics of Form” p. L/N)</span>

**__<span style="color: #000000;">One of the</span>__****__<span style="color: #000000;"> ... </span>__**<span style="color: #000000;">any new approach. </span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">China Foreign Direct Investment</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Text: The United States federal government should ask the People’s Republic of China to initiate a foreign direct investment in the United States of America for [plan].</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Solves and is predictable.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Richter 11**– Stephen, President of The Globalist Research Center, JD – University of Bonn, appeared on NPR and CNN, former North American advisor to the German Economics Ministry, wrote formal U.S. legislation on debt and economic issues, Rotary Foundation Award recipient and Congressional Fellow. “Yes, There Will Be a U.S. Infrastructure Bank,” The Globalist, March 16, [[http://www.theglobalist.com/storyid.aspx?StoryId=9039]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Many Americans might ... can be avoided.”</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Politics NB</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The counterplan avoids politics – political leaders support the counterplan – also avoids political backlash over funding.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**RT News 2/18/12** – Russia’s largest news agency, (“China fulfills Obama’s infrastructure pledge”, RT News, February 18, 2012, [[http://rt.com/usa/news/infrastructure-chinese-us-china-621/)/JKahn|http://rt.com/usa/news/infrastructure-chinese-us-china-621/)//JKahn]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">President Obama has ... willing to make.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Life Cycle Assessment</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Text: The United States federal government should submit [plan] to the National Environmental Policy act review through a prior and binding process of streamlined life cycle assessment. Based on the outcome of the survey the United States federal government should implement the least environmentally damaging alternative proposed in the streamlined life cycle assessment.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Solves the aff and fixes all the problems with NEPA.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Schenck, 2009** (Institute for Environmental Research and Education American Center for Life Cycle Assessment (Rita, February 22nd, “The Business Case for Life Cycle Assessment in US Policy and Legislation” http://lcacenter.org/Data/Sites/1/SharedFiles/whitepapers/thebusinesscaseforlca.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The reason for ... stimulus package expenditures.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The net benefit is NEPA credibility –</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The CP solves it.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Green Group 8** Coalition of 30 Environmental groups, Transition to Green: Environmental Trasnition Recommendation for the Obama Administration, Group Includes: American Rivers - Center For International Environmental Law- Clean Water Action- Defenders Of Wildlife - Earthjustice - Environment America - Environmental Defense Fund - Friends Of The Earth- Greenpeace - Izaak Walton League - League Of Conservation Voters -National Audubon Society - National Parks Conservation Association -National Tribal Environmental Council - National Wildlife Federation- Native American Rights Fund - Natural Resources Defense Council - Oceana -Ocean Conservancy - Pew Environment Group -Physicians For Social Responsibility - Population Connection -Population Action International -Rails-To-Trails Conservancy - Sierra Club - The Wilderness Society -The Trust For Public Land - Union Of Concerned Scientists -World Wildlife Fund, [[http://otrans.3cdn.net/ba9c868ec4fe74f1b8_2pm62vhlb.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Since 1970, the ... requiring environmental review.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Key to ecological sustainability, leadership, and cooperation.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Caldwell 98** – Professor of Political Science @ IULynton K. Caldwell, Prof. of Political Science/Public and Environmental Affairs @ Indiana Univ., 22 Harv. Envtl. L. Rev. 203, Beyond NEPA: Future Significance of the National Environmental Policy Act, Lexis</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A distinguishing feature ... enduring environmental future.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The impact is omnicide.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Jowit 8** – sex editedJulien, The Guardian, World is facing a natural resources crisis worse than financial crunch, http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2008/oct/29/climatechange-endangeredhabitats</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The world is ... of WWF International.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Justice NB</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The plan devastates disadvantaged communities – the CP solves through participatory inclusion.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Johnson 97** – Professor of Law @ Mercer</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Stephen, “NEPA and SEPA's in the Quest for Environmental Justice,” Digital Commons @ LMU, Loyola of Los Angeles Law Review, Hein Online</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In many cases ... or lowincome communities. 38</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A/T: Perm do Both</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**‘Substantially’ – the outcome is not certain or at present time.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Words and Phrases 1925** Judicial and statutory definitions of words and phrases, Volume 7, p. 6738</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The words “outward, .... Bass v. Pease, 79 Ill. App. 308, 318.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**‘Resolved’ – the plan text won’t be implemented exactly as they wrote it which means they sever certainty because the outcome is contingent.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Merriam-Webster’s, 2011** (“Resolved,” http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/resolved)Red</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">5: to reach a ...in a text> </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**‘Should’ – the LCA introduces delay which means they sever immediacy.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Summers 94** (Justice – Oklahoma Supreme Court, “Kelsey v. Dollarsaver Food Warehouse of Durant”, 1994 OK 123, 11-8, [[http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/DeliverDocument.asp?CiteID=20287#marker3fn13|http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/DeliverDocument.asp?CiteID=20287#marker3fn13]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">4 The legal question ... Van Wyck v. Knevals, 106 U.S. 360, 365, 1 S.Ct. 336, 337, 27 L.Ed. 201 (1882).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The perm just pays lip service – that devastates credibility.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Lindstrom and Smith 8** - *Professor of Political Science @ St. John’s, **Professor @ UNA**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Matthew, Professor of Political Science @ St. John’s, Professor @ Northern Arizona, The Natural Environmental Policy Act, Google Book</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">NEPA’s execution has ... purpose and vision.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Binding consultation is critical – skirting NEPA ruptures credibility. </span>**
**Dreher 5** - Deputy Executive Director of the Georgetown Environmental Law & Policy Institute. He served as Deputy General Counsel of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Robert, “The Political Assault on the National Environmental Policy Act,” [[http://www.law.georgetown.edu/gelpi/research_archive/nepa/NEPAUnderSiegeFinal.pdf]]

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">First, agency promises ... thrown into doubt.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Prior are key – after-the-fact solutions annihilate credibility. </span>**
**Dreher 5** - Deputy Executive Director of the Georgetown Environmental Law & Policy Institute. He served as Deputy General Counsel of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Robert, “The Political Assault on the National Environmental Policy Act,” [[http://www.law.georgetown.edu/gelpi/research_archive/nepa/NEPAUnderSiegeFinal.pdf]]

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The only sense ... after the fact.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Turn – the perm kills biodiversity.</span>**
**Rahall 8** Nick Joe Rahall, D-W.Va. (3rd CD) - Chairman of the House Committee on Natural Resources, US Fed News, Lexis

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The National Environmental ... endangered species conservation.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Extinction.</span>
Diner 94** – Major David N (Winter, http://www.stormingmedia.us/14/1456/A145654.html)

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> By causing widespread ... to the abyss. </span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">TIFIA Reform</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Text: The United States federal government should</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">- substantially increase funding for the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act program</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">- amend the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act program to support applications containing multiple projects and provide upfront credit commitment</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That solves the case better</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Yarema 11** --- chair of the Infrastructure Practice Group at the law firm, Nossaman LLP (10/12/2011, Geoffrey, Congressional Documents and Publications, House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Highways and Transit Hearing - "National Infrastructure Bank: More Bureaucracy and More Red Tape" Factiva, JMP)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">C. TIF1A Offers Significant ... one million jobs.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">LOST</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Text: The United States Senate should ratify the United Nations Law of the Sea Convention. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">LOST is key to naval power, effective shipping, and maritime domain awareness – solves all their internal links. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Department of Defense, 12** (“Winnefeld: Time for U.S. to Join Law of Sea Convention,” The Maritime Executive, June 15th 2012, [[http://www.maritime-executive.com/article/winnefeld-time-for-u-s-to-join-law-of-sea-convention)/AS|http://www.maritime-executive.com/article/winnefeld-time-for-u-s-to-join-law-of-sea-convention)//AS]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Accession to the ... consent,” he said.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Overview Card</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">MDA is a precondition to solvency – this is an external net benefit to the counterplan – proves we are competitive.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Truver 11** (Dr. Scott C. Truver is Director, National Security Programs, Gryphon Technologies, Greenbelt, Maryland. In addition to his support to national security and defence organisations in government and industry, he supports the US Navy’s MDA programmes in research , analysis and engagement efforts. Edward Feege of Gryphon’s National Security group assisted in the research for this overview. “On the Other Side of the Hill? Global Partnerships for Maritime Domain Awareness…The View from the United States”, by NMCO on NOVEMBER 9, 2011, http://www.mda.gov/2011/11/09/on-the-other-side-of-the-hill/, Accessed 11/23/11, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A GLOBAL FOCUS ... the maritime commons.”</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Solvency - Environment</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">U.S. accession key to environmental leadership</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kraus ‘07 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Don, Vice President of Governmental Relations – Citizens for Global Solutions, “Time to Ratify the Law of the Sea”, 6-6, [[http://www.fpif.org/fpiftxt/4286|http:/]][[http://www.fpif.org/fpiftxt/4286|/]][[http://www.fpif.org/fpiftxt/4286|ww]][[http://www.fpif.org/fpiftxt/4286|w.fpif]][[http://www.fpif.org/fpiftxt/4286|.]][[http://www.fpif.org/fpiftxt/4286|o]][[http://www.fpif.org/fpiftxt/4286|r]][[http://www.fpif.org/fpiftxt/4286|g/fpif]][[http://www.fpif.org/fpiftxt/4286|t]][[http://www.fpif.org/fpiftxt/4286|x]][[http://www.fpif.org/fpiftxt/4286|t]][[http://www.fpif.org/fpiftxt/4286|/4286]][[http://www.fpif.org/fpiftxt/4286|)]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">During the Nixon ... for their support.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Solvency - Economy</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">LOST assures maritime access and mobility --- key to U.S. economy</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Negroponte and England ‘07** (John, Deputy Sec. State and Gordon, Deputy Sec. Defense, “Reap the Bounty”, Washington Times, 6-13)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">From the earliest ... 600 nautical miles</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC Solvency - Naval Power</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">LOST ratification is key to US naval mobility, readiness, and effectiveness and resolving international maritime disputes— and this terminally solves global armed conflict</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Sandalow 04** (David, scholar in the Foreign Policy Studies Program at the Brookings Institution, "Law of the Sea Convention: Should the U.S. Join?," http://www.brookings.edu/comm/policybriefs/pb137.htm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">U.S. military operations ...a permission slip.''</span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case Kritik</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Gift</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their critical strategy leaves in place a process of recognition, affirmation, and assimilation in the form of juridical control. Ultimately, the gift of equality and liberation from ones physical body reinscribes into power relationships that created the need for the plan in the first place.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Arrigo and Williams 2000** (Bruce and Christopher, professor of criminology andforensic psychology and the director of the Institute of Psychology, Law, and Public Policy at the California School of Professional Psy¬chology in Fresno and doctoral degree from the California School of Professional Psychology in Fresno where he specialized in law and policy, “The Impossibility of Democratic Justice and the “Gift” of the Majority: On Derrida, Deconstruction, and the Search for Equality,” August, Journal of Contemporary Criminal Justice, http://ccj.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/16/3/321)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The impediments to establishing democratic justice in contemporary American society have caused a national paralysis; one that has reck¬lessly spawned an aporetic1 existence for minorities.2</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The USFG isn’t pursuing the plan as a matter of choice, NOT because they are unaware of the harms. The Aff’s “we should” mentality makes them part of the bootlicking intelligentsia who assume:</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A.) That US imperialism, war-mongering, and oppression are merely a “mistake”</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">and</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">B.) That the USFG actually cares what they think.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Herod 2001**(James, “A Stake, Not a Mistake: On Not Seeing the Enemy”, October, http://www.jamesherod.info/index.php?sec=paper&id=9&print=y&PHPSESSID=4387a9147ad42723ea101944dd538914)</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Performativity</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their ascription of biological sexual identity is not a value-neutral statement, it is a fascist demand that bodies conform to a rigidly standardized heterosexual model.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Butler 1993** (Judith Butler, Johns Hopkins University, “Sexual Inversions,” Foucault and the Critique of Institutions. 1993, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">How does this ... a heterosexual morphology.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Crisis Convergence</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">They unproblematically posit the climate and the economy as separate systems – their failure to trace the interdependencies that exist between them makes the collapse of both systems inevitable.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Ahmed 1/5** (Nafeez Mosaddeq Ahmed, Prof. of International Relations – University of Sussex – UK, Published: 05 Jan 2012, Global Change, Peace & Security: formerly Pacifica Review: Peace, Security & Global Change, Vol.23, No. 3,“The international relations of crisis and the crisis of international relations: from the securitisation of scarcity to the militarisation of society,” [[http://www.tandfonline.com/loi/cpar20]], azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This analysis demonstrates ... and services unsustainable.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Theory Death</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The 1ac is the graveyard of liberal intentions, where their talk of positivity and reform serve to mask a system intent on the proliferation of death. Their project of prescription is the very kind of politics that keeps resistance bound in the books and lecture halls of academy.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Occupied UC Berkeley 2k9** [http://anticapitalprojects.wordpress.com/2009/11/19/the-necrosocial/, the necrosocial: civic life, social death, and the UC, nov. 19, azp]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The university steals ... in this graveyard?</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Identity Politics Bad</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">^^</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Best and Kellner 02** (Steven Best, prof phil @ UT el paso and Douglas Kellner, prof phil @ UCLA “Postmodern Politics and the Battle for the Future” [[http://www.gseis.ucl...lder/kell28.htm]], azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Various forms of ... and alienated labor </span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">S/subjectivity</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their victimization robs the oppressed of the terms to protest their oppression.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Chow 93** (Rey, Andrew W. Mellon, Professor of the Humanities at Brown University, Writing Diaspora: Contemporary Tactics of Intervention in Contemporary Cultural Studies, Indiana University Press, pg. 12-13.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In the “cultural... our consciousnesses “raised.”</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kappeler</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Your pro-USfg framework is some bullshit</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kappeler 1995** (Susanne, The Will to Violence, p. 10-11)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We are the ... to human control. 12</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It's All Made of Shit</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">If everything is special then nothing is special. Their attempts to weave webs of meaning efface the distinctions that make life meaningful.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baudrillard 2009** (Jean Baudrillard, avid fan of jersey shore and porn, “The Transparency of Evil”, azp) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The law that is ... transsexual, the transaesthetic. </span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Reality Principle</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their attempt to authentically realize agency inscribes a duty to the reality principle that culminates in the murder of the real.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baudrillard 05** (Jean Baudrillard, that’s that shit I DO like, The Intelligence of Evil or the Lucidity Pact, 2005, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">What I call ,,, excess and perfection? </span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Terminal Convexity</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">By making resistance visible they give the system the tools to simulate its own death.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Baudrillard 1990** (Jean Baudrillard, French Philosopher and Cultural Theorist. Simulacra and Simulations. www.thelogician.net/5b_ruminate/5b_foucault.htm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The conjunction of ... and its deja-mort</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ruralism Turn</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Turn — their focus on cities marginalizes rural oppression — this compounds and masks the politics of disposability</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Bassett 9** (Debra Lyn Basset, Professor of Law at the University of Alabama, “Chapter 2, The overlooked significance of place in law and policy: Lessons from Hurricane Katrina,” in Race, Place, and Environmental Justice After Hurricane Katrina, Robert D. Bullard and Beverly Wright [Editors], p. 54-55) ta</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[Race, place, and ... to these localities. ] 54-55</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Economic Nationalism</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">They are economic nationalists – this destroys the economy and leaves the poor out to die. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Roos 10** (Jerome E. Roos, Fellow (Climate and Energy Policy) at the Breakthrough Institute, Education: European University Institute, London School of Economics and Political Science, Institut d’Etudes politiques de Paris, 6/22/10, “The Specter of Economic Nationalism,” [[http://thebreakthrough.org/generation_archive/the_specter_of_economic_nation]], azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Many self-proclaimed experts ... for a day.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Manufacturing is the wrong barometer of success – economic nationalism destroys the economy. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Roos 10** (Jerome E. Roos, Fellow (Climate and Energy Policy) at the Breakthrough Institute, Education: European University Institute, London School of Economics and Political Science, Institut d’Etudes politiques de Paris, 6/22/10, “The Specter of Economic Nationalism,” [[http://thebreakthrough.org/generation_archive/the_specter_of_economic_nation]], azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This view is ... at cheaper cost? </span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Neolib Turn</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Disaster reconstruction reifies neoliberalism – turns case.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Klein 7** (Naomi, Fellow @ The Nation Institute, Shock Doctrine, Fall. [Online] http://www.naomiklein.org/shock-doctrine/) JW</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[Although the stated ... by taxpayer dollars.] p. 358-359-360</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Race Focus Turn</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Race is a smokescreen deployed by the system to cloak modulated power – power is exerted in complex and dynamically responsive ways. They striate radical politics in a way that makes resistance futile.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Darder and Torress 4** [Antonia Darder, Prof of education policy studies at U of Illinois, and Rodolfo Torress, Associate prof of latino studies at UC Irvine, After Race: Racism after multiculturalism, p. 1-2 //liam]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Over a century ... of world history. </span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Disabilities Turn</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The affirmative reinforces capitals drive to “normalize” the disabled population – more inclusion, more control and more normality serves to solidify the institution that is the ROOT CAUSE of disability oppression</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Michael **Oliver,** Professor of Disability Studies @ University of Greenwich, **1999,** “Capitalism, Disability and Ideology: A Materialist Critique of the Normalization Principle”, http://disability-studies.leeds.ac.uk/files/archiveuk/Oliver-cap-dis-ideol.pdf; AB</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">At the outset, ... about their reform (p8).</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Case Turn</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Shitty Argument</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">They cede the political to the right which replicates their impacts.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Boggs, 1997** (Carl, National University, Los Angeles, Theory and Society, “The great retreat: Decline of the public sphere in late twentieth-century America”, December, Volume 26, Number 6, http://www.springerlink.com.proxy.library.emory.edu/content/m7254768m63h16r0/fulltext.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The decline of ... from civil society. 7</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Competitiveness Bad</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Competitiveness internal link turns the econ advantage.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Krugman 94**, PhD (Paul, Nobel Prize winning Economist, Professor of Economics and International Affairs at the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton University, Centenary Professor at the London School of Economics, and an op-ed columnist for The New York Times) March/April Foreign Affairs “Competitiveness: A Dangerous Obsession” </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A much more ... U.S. manufacturing base.</span>


====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Activism Bad</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Individual debate activism fails- insulated from community at large, excludes others, undermines opportunity for coalition and consensus building</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Atchison and Panetta 9** [Jarrod Atchison, Phd Rhetoric University of Georgia, Assistant Professor and Director of debate at Wake Forest University, and Edward Panetta, Phd Rhetoric Associate Professor University of Pitt and Director of Debate at Georgia, Intercollegiate Debate and Speech Communication, Historical Developments and Issues for the Future, “Intercollegiate Debate and Speech Communication: Issues for the Future,” The Sage Handbook of Rhetorical Studies, Lunsford, Andrea, ed. (Los Angeles: Sage Publications Inc., 2009) p. 317-334 liam]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This section will ... addressing important problems.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This creates a negative backlash which forfeits coalitions and alliances</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Atchison and Panetta 9** [Jarrod Atchison, Phd Rhetoric University of Georgia, Assistant Professor and Director of debate at Wake Forest University, and Edward Panetta, Phd Rhetoric Associate Professor University of Pitt and Director of Debate at Georgia, Intercollegiate Debate and Speech Communication, Historical Developments and Issues for the Future, “Intercollegiate Debate and Speech Communication: Issues for the Future,” The Sage Handbook of Rhetorical Studies, Lunsford, Andrea, ed. (Los Angeles: Sage Publications Inc., 2009) p. 317-334liam]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">If the debate ... throughout the country.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">NIB Bad - Outsourcing</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Turn – the plan causes outsourcing which tanks the economy in a thousand different ways.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**PRESTOWITZ 2011** - president of the Economic Strategy Institute and writes on the global economy for FP (Clyde, “Where the jobs went”. July 11. http://prestowitz.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/07/11/where_the_jobs_went)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The idea of ... state of shock.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">NIB Bad - Debt</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">NIB front loads projects with debt causing collapse down the road.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Freemark 10**, Yonah Freemark– Ind. Researcher Yale U Gordon Grand Fellowship 3-8-10 “Benefits and Pitfalls of a National Infrastructure Bank” [[http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2010/03/08/benefits-and-pitfalls-of-a-national-infrastructure-bank/]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">But as nice ... financing for transportation.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">NIB Bad - Unions</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Turn – the plan collapses the job market –</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">a. They contract to unions causing wage deflation.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Roth 2011**- Research Fellow at the Independent Institute, [Gabriel, Rees Jeffreys Fellowship at the UK Road Research Laboratory, and studies at the Department of Applied Economics (University of Cambridge), “Labor unions: Helpful for transport?”, The Nation Journal, August 9, 2011, [[http://transportation.nationaljournal.com/2011/08/the-role-of-labor-in-transport.php]], accessed 6-21-2012)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Labor unions can... many other countries?</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">b. That causes stagflation - destroys the recovery</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Continetti 2008** - Editor-in-chief of The Washington Free Beacon[Matthew, Here They Come, The Weekly Standard 14, Oct 27 2008, proquest, June 19, 2012]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Obama says Washington ...current recession worse.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">c. Stimulus will dry up.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Foster 2012**, PhD, 5/6/12 J.D.-; “Wapo Admitting Keynesian Stimulus Failed?”; Heritage;</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[http://blog.heritage.org/2012/03/06/wapo-admitting-keynesian-stimulus-failed/]]. D</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Does unprecedented deficit-spending... this fiscal folly. </span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Stim Bad - Privates</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Stimulus fails and crowds out the private sector.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Riedl 2010** (8/31/10, Brian M. Riedl, Grover M. Hermann Fellow in Federal Budgetary Affairs at The Heritage Foundation, holds a B.A. in Economics and Political Science from the University of Wisconsin and an M.A. in Public Affairs from Princeton University, The Fatal Flaw of Keynesian Stimulus,” [[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Commentary/2010/08/The-Fatal-Flaw-of-Keynesian-Stimulus]], azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">But there is ... rate remains high.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Gentrification Turn</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Turn – an investment in mass transit will contribute to gentrification, housing prices increase, and inequity.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Martin 10** (Gerg St. Martin, Writer for Coalition on Sustainable Transportation, New Transit May Cause Unintended Gentrification, http://www.costaustin.org/jskaggs/?p=1333, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A Northeastern report ... housing, researchers said.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Gentrification causes homogenization and racism.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Sanchez et. Al 03** (Thomas W. Sanchez, Rich Stolz, and Jacinta S. Ma, homas W. Sanchez is an associate professor of Urban Affairs and Planning and research fellow in the Metropolitan Institute at Virginia Tech in Alexandria, Virginia. Rich Stolz is Senior Policy Analyst at Center for Community Change. Jacinta S. Ma is a Legal and Policy Advocacy Associate at The Civil Rights Project at Harvard, “Moving to Equity: Addressing Inequitable Effects of Transportation Policies on Minorities,” azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Another housing-related ... or culturally diverse..</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Federal Turn v. Mass Transit</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their solvency advocate does not recommend the plan – in the context of a movement in Toronto, not a federal policy.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Schein, 1ac solvency advocate, 2011** (Assistant Prof Human Rights –The Institute of Interdisciplinary Studies at Carleton 2011, Rebecca. "Free Transit and Social Movement Infrastructure: Assessing thePolitical Potential of Toronto’s Nascent Free Transit Campaign", Alternate Routes volume http://www.alternateroutes.ca/index.php/ar/article/view/14421)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Abstract: This article ... broad-based anti-capitalist movement.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A large-scale adoption of fare-free mass transit would fail; they have no offense against this claim because both of their solvency advocates defend localized implementation.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Volinski and Perrone 2002** (Joel, Jennifer, Center for Urban Transportation Research at the University of South Florida, October, “AVANTAGES AND DISADVANTAGES OF FARE-FREE TRANSIT POLICY,” National Center for Transportation Research, http://www.dot.state.fl.us/research-center/Completed_Proj/Summary_PTO/FDOT_BC137_38_FF.pdf, azp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The suggestion to ... major urban areas.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Federal Turn v. Katrina</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Government resources are repurposed to help special interest groups – the oppressed won’t actually be helped.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Sobel and Leeson, 06** (Flirting with Disaster: The Inherent Problems with FEMA by Russell S. Sobel and Peter T. Leeson July 19, 2006, Cato policy analysis paper #573, http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa573.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Another inherent problem... their political careers. 36 </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Federal action kills state efforts that solve now</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Smith 12** (Dr. James Patterson Smith, Associate Professor of History @ University of Southern Mississippi, Hurricane Katrina: A Mississippi Story) KS</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[Getting “on track” ... the Mississippi disaster.”]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Federal action is too uncoordinated.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Sobel and Leeson, 06** (Flirting with Disaster: The Inherent Problems with FEMA by Russell S. Sobel and Peter T. Leeson July 19, 2006, Cato policy analysis paper #573, http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa573.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Can a bureaucracy ... the “coordination problem.”</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 50881.5px; width: 1px;">The 1ac was sweet until they read the plan text, then things stopped making sense.</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 50881.5px; width: 1px;">A Subpoint is Bare Life:</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 50881.5px; width: 1px;">There is no universal referent that can be used to describe a people. Their attempt to use “United States federal government” as a stand-in reifies the state of exception by necessitating a non-people of bare life as the ontological backdrop for their construction.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 50881.5px; width: 1px;">Agamben 2k (Italian philosopher who teaches at the Università IUAV di Venezia,(Giorgio, Means Without Ends: Notes on Politics, p. 30.1)</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 50881.5px; width: 1px;">Any interpretation of the political meaning of the term people ought to start from the peculiar fact that in modern European languages this term always indicates also the poor, the underprivileged, and the excluded. The same term names the constitutive political subject as well as the class that is excluded – de facto, if not de jure – from politics. The Italian term popolo, the French term people, and the Spanish term pueblo – along with the corresponding adjectives popolare, populaire, popular – and the late-Latin terms populus and popularis from which they all derive, designate in common parlance and in the political lexicon alike the whole of the citizenry as a unitary body politic (as in “the Italian people” or in giudice popolare” [juryman] as well as those who belong to inferior class (as in homme du peuple [man of the people], rione polplare [working-class neighborhood], front populaire is more undifferentiated – does retain the meaning of ordinary people as opposed to the rich and the aristocracy. In the American Constitution one thus reads without any sort of distinction: “We, the people of the United States…”; but when Lincoln in the Gettysburg Address invokes a “government of the people, by the people, for the people,” the repetition implicitly sets another people against the first. The extent to which such an ambiguity was essential even during the French Revolution (that is, at the very moment in which people’s sovereignty was claimed as a principle) is witnessed by the decisive role played in it by a sense of compassion for the people intended as the excluded class. Hannah Arendt reminds us that: The very definition of the word was born out of compassion, and the term became the equivalent for misfortune and unhappiness – le peule, les malbeureux m’applaudissent, as Robespierre was wont to say; le peuple toujours malbeureux, as even Sieyes, one of the least sentimental and most sober figures of the Revolution, would put it. But this is already a double concept for Jean Boldin – albeit in a different sense – in the chapter of Les Six Livres de la Republique in which he defines Democracy or Etat Popular: while the menu peuple is that which is wise to exclude from political power, the peuple en corps is intended as entitled to sovereignty. Such a widespread and constant semantic ambiguity cannot be accidental: it surely reflects an ambiguity inherent in the nature and function of the concept of people in Western politics. It is as if, in other words what we call people was not actually a unitary subject but rather a dialectical oscillation between two opposite poles: on the one hand, the People as a whole and as an integral body politic and, on the other hand, the people as a subset and as a fragmentary multiplicity of needy and excluded bodies; on the one hand, an inclusive concept that pretends to be without remainder while, on the other hand, an exclusive concept known to afford no hope; at one pole, the total state of the sovereign and integrated citizens and, at the other pole, the banishment – either court of miracles or camp – of the wretched, the oppressed, or the vanquished. There exists no single and compact referent for the term people anywhere: like many fundamental political concepts (which, in this respect, are similar to Abel and Frueds Urworte or to Dumont’s hierarchal relations), people is a polar concept that indicates a double movement and a complex relationship between two extremes. This also means, however, that the constitution of the human species into a body politic comes into being through a fundamental split and that in the concept of people we can easily recognize the conceptual pair identified earlier as the defining category of the original political structure: naked life (people) and political existence (People), exclusion and inclusion, zoe and bios. The concept of people always already contains within itself the fundamental biopolitical fracture. It is what cannot in included in the whole of which it is a part as well what cannot belong to the whole in which it is always already include.</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 50881.5px; width: 1px;">Bare life is the precondition for extermination.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 50881.5px; width: 1px;">Enns 07 (Diane, Theory & Event, “Political Life Before Identity”, 10:1, muse)</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 50881.5px; width: 1px;">Much has been made of late of Agamben's notion of "bare life" which is indebted to Arendt's conceptualization of "mere existence" in her famous essay "The Decline of the Nation State and the End of the Rights of Man." Recalling Arendt's statement, "a man who is nothing but a man has lost the very qualities which make it possible for other people to treat him as a fellow-man,"[[#_ednref27]][[http://muse.jhu.edu.lib-proxy.fullerton.edu/journals/theory_and_event/v010/10.1enns.html#_edn27#_edn27|27]] we need to ask how to understand this category of the human being who is nothing but human. For Arendt, it designates those who are beyond the pale of the law: the predicament is not that these individuals or groups are not equal before the law but that no law exists for them; it is not that they are oppressed but that nobody wants even to oppress them (OT 295-6). They constitute a group which does not have the right to have rights because they have no political community to which they belong, through which their needs will be met, their rights protected and their voices made to count. Arendt writes: "The fundamental deprivation of human rights is manifested first and above all in the deprivation of a place in the world which makes opinions significant and actions effective" (OT 296). How this relates to power is clear enough in her reference to the Nazis who began their extermination of Jews by first reducing them to this condition of rightlessness, removing them beyond the pale of the law. It is therefore a condition of naked humanity that is created specifically with the end of political domination in sight; a process of selection for elimination. We must not forget this crucial and terrible fact: that it is through the mark of identity that an individual or a people is selected, segregated, and subordinated. If one reads about the torture being exercised on the prisoners of Guantanamo Bay -- torture with the specific aim of unrelenting humiliation and degradation at the most human, biological level -- one witnesses quite viscerally this marking, this selection.</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 50881.5px; width: 1px;">B Subpoint is Subjectivity:</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 50881.5px; width: 1px;">They will make arguments about how the USfg is the same thing as the assembly of people, but this is the link to our kritik. They externalize agency onto the state, obliterating personal subjectivity and sanctioning nationalist violence.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 50881.5px; width: 1px;">Shaffer 7 (Butler teaches at the Southwestern University School of Law. B.S., Law, 1958, University of Nebraska, Lincoln; B.A., Political Science, 1959, and J.D., 1961, University of Chicago; Member, Colorado and Nebraska State Bars. “Identifying With the State” June 29th 2007. http://www.lewrockwell.com/shaffer/shaffer159.html, MT)</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 50881.5px; width: 1px;">One of the deadliest practices we engage in is that of identifying ourselves with a collective entity. Whether it be the state, a nationality, our race or gender, or any other abstraction, we introduce division – hence, conflict – into our lives as we separate ourselves from those who identify with other groupings. If one observes the state of our world today, this is the pattern that underlies our deadly and destructive social behavior. This mindset was no better articulated than when George W. Bush declared “you’re either with us, or against us.” Through years of careful conditioning, we learn to think of ourselves in terms of agencies and/or abstractions external to our independent being. Or, to express the point more clearly, we have learned to internalize these external forces; to conform our thinking and behavior to the purposes and interests of such entities. We adorn ourselves with flags, mouth shibboleths, and decorate our cars with bumper-stickers, in order to communicate to others our sense of “who we are.” In such ways does our being become indistinguishable from our chosen collective. In this way are institutions born. We discover a particular form of organization through which we are able to cooperate with others for our mutual benefit. Over time, the advantages derived from this system have a sufficient consistency to lead us to the conclusion that our well-being is dependent upon it. Those who manage the organization find it in their self-interests to propagate this belief so that we will become dependent upon its permanency. Like a sculptor working with clay, institutions take over the direction of our minds, twisting, squeezing, and pounding upon them until we have embraced a mindset conducive to their interests. Once this has been accomplished, we find it easy to subvert our will and sense of purpose to the collective. The organization ceases being a mere tool of mutual convenience, and becomes an end in itself. Our lives become “institutionalized,” and we regard it as fanciful to imagine ourselves living in any other way than as constituent parts of a machine that transcends our individual sense. Once we identify ourselves with the state, that collective entity does more than represent who we are; it is who we are. To the politicized mind, the idea that “we are the government” has real meaning, not in the sense of being able to control such an agency, but in the psychological sense. The successes and failures of the state become the subject’s successes and failures; insults or other attacks upon their abstract sense of being – such as the burning of “their” flag – become assaults upon their very personhood. Shortcomings on the part of the state become our failures of character. This is why so many Americans who have belatedly come to criticize the war against Iraq are inclined to treat it as only a “mistake” or the product of “mismanagement,” not as a moral wrong. Our egos can more easily admit to the making of a mistake than to moral transgressions. Such an attitude also helps to explain why, as Milton Mayer wrote in his revealing post-World War II book, They Thought They Were Free, most Germans were unable to admit that the Nazi regime had been tyrannical. It is this dynamic that makes it easy for political officials to generate wars, a process that reinforces the sense of identity and attachment people have for “their” state. It also helps to explain why most Americans – though tiring of the war against Iraq – refuse to condemn government leaders for the lies, forgeries, and deceit employed to get the war started: to acknowledge the dishonesty of the system through which they identify themselves is to admit to the dishonest base of their being. The truthfulness of the state’s rationale for war is irrelevant to most of its subjects. It is sufficient that they believe the abstraction with which their lives are intertwined will be benefited in some way by war. Against whom and upon what claim does not matter – except as a factor in assessing the likelihood of success. That most Americans have pipped nary a squeak of protest over Bush administration plans to attack Iran – with nuclear weapons if deemed useful to its ends – reflects the point I am making. Bush could undertake a full-fledged war against Lapland, and most Americans would trot out their flags and bumper-stickers of approval. The “rightness” or “wrongness” of any form of collective behavior becomes interpreted by the standard of whose actions are being considered. During World War II, for example, Japanese kamikaze pilots were regarded as crazed fanatics for crashing their planes into American battleships. At the same time, American war movies (see, e.g., Flying Tigers) extolled the heroism of American pilots who did the same thing. One sees this same double-standard in responding to “conspiracy theories.” “Do you think a conspiracy was behind the 9/11 attacks?” It certainly seems so to me, unless one is prepared to treat the disappearance of the World Trade Center buildings as the consequence of a couple pilots having bad navigational experiences! The question that should be asked is: whose conspiracy was it? To those whose identities coincide with the state, such a question is easily answered: others conspire, we do not. It is not the symbiotic relationship between war and the expansion of state power, nor the realization of corporate benefits that could not be obtained in a free market, that mobilize the machinery of war. Without most of us standing behind “our” system, and cheering on “our” troops, and defending “our” leaders, none of this would be possible. What would be your likely response if your neighbor prevailed upon you to join him in a violent attack upon a local convenience store, on the grounds that it hired “illegal aliens?” Your sense of identity would not be implicated in his efforts, and you would likely dismiss him as a lunatic. Only when our ego-identities become wrapped up with some institutional abstraction – such as the state – can we be persuaded to invest our lives and the lives of our children in the collective madness of state action. We do not have such attitudes toward organizations with which we have more transitory relationships. If we find an accounting error in our bank statement, we would not find satisfaction in the proposition “the First National Bank, right or wrong.” Neither would we be inclined to wear a T-shirt that read “Disneyland: love it or leave it.” One of the many adverse consequences of identifying with and attaching ourselves to collective abstractions is our loss of control over not only the meaning and direction in our lives, but of the manner in which we can be efficacious in our efforts to pursue the purposes that have become central to us. We become dependent upon the performance of “our” group; “our” reputation rises or falls on the basis of what institutional leaders do or fail to do. If “our” nation-state loses respect in the world – such as by the use of torture or killing innocent people - we consider ourselves no longer respectable, and scurry to find plausible excuses to redeem our egos. When these expectations are not met, we go in search of new leaders or organizational reforms we believe will restore our sense of purpose and pride that we have allowed abstract entities to personify for us. As the costs and failures of the state become increasingly evident, there is a growing tendency to blame this system. But to do so is to continue playing the same game into which we have allowed ourselves to become conditioned. One of the practices employed by the state to get us to mobilize our “dark side” energies in opposition to the endless recycling of enemies it has chosen for us, is that of psychological projection. Whether we care to acknowledge it or not – and most of us do not – each of us has an unconscious capacity for attitudes or conduct that our conscious minds reject. We fear that, sufficiently provoked, we might engage in violence – even deadly – against others; or that inducements might cause us to become dishonest. We might harbor racist or other bigoted sentiments, or consider ourselves lazy or irresponsible. Though we are unlikely to act upon such inner fears, their presence within us can generate discomforting self-directed feelings of guilt, anger, or unworthiness that we would like to eliminate. The most common way in which humanity has tried to bring about such an exorcism is by subconsciously projecting these traits onto others (i.e., “scapegoats”) and punishing them for what are really our own shortcomings. The state has trained us to behave this way, in order that we may be counted upon to invest our lives, resources, and other energies in pursuit of the enemy du jour. It is somewhat ironic, therefore, that most of us resort to the same practice in our criticism of political systems. After years of mouthing the high-school civics class mantra about the necessity for government – and the bigger the government the better – we begin to experience the unexpected consequences of politicization. Tax burdens continue to escalate; or the state takes our home to make way for a proposed shopping center; or ever-more details of our lives are micromanaged by ever-burgeoning state bureaucracies. Having grown weary of the costs – including the loss of control over our lives – we blame the state for what has befallen us. We condemn the Bush administration for the parade of lies that precipitated the war against Iraq, rather than indicting ourselves for ever believing anything the state tells us. We fault the politicians for the skyrocketing costs of governmental programs, conveniently ignoring our insistence upon this or that benefit whose costs we would prefer having others pay. The statists have helped us accept a world view that conflates our incompetence to manage our own lives with their omniscience to manage the lives of billions of people – along with the planet upon which we live! – and we are now experiencing the costs generated by our own gullibility. We have acted like country bumpkins at the state fair with the egg money who, having been fleeced by a bunch of carnival sharpies, look everywhere for someone to blame other than ourselves. We have been euchred out of our very lives because of our eagerness to believe that benefits can be enjoyed without incurring costs; that the freedom to control one’s life can be separated from the responsibilities for one’s actions; and that two plus two does not have to add up to four if a sizeable public opinion can be amassed against the proposition. By identifying ourselves with any abstraction (such as the state) we give up the integrated life, the sense of wholeness that can be found only within each of us. While the state has manipulated, cajoled, and threatened us to identify ourselves with it, the responsibility for our acceding to its pressures lies within each of us. The statists have – as was their vicious purpose – simply taken over the territory we have abandoned. Our politico-centric pain and suffering has been brought about by our having allowed external forces to move in and occupy the vacuum we created at the center of our being. The only way out of our dilemma involves a retracing of the route that brought us to where we are. We require nothing so much right now as the development of a sense of “who we are” that transcends our institutionalized identities, and returns us – without division and conflict – to a centered, self-directed integrity in our lives.</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 50881.5px; width: 1px;">That turns the entirety of the case – overidentifying with the state creates an addiction to simulation that breeds ressentiment.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 50881.5px; width: 1px;">Antonio 95 (Nietzsche’s antisociology: Subjectified Culture and the End of History”; American Journal of Sociology; Volume 101, No. 1; July 1995, jstor, azp)</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 50881.5px; width: 1px;">According to Nietzsche, the "subject" is Socratic culture's most central, durable foundation. This prototypic expression of ressentiment, master reification, and ultimate justification for slave morality and mass discipline "separates strength from expressions of strength, as if there were a neutral substratum . . . free to express strength or not to do so. But there is no such substratum; there is no 'being' behind the doing, effecting, becoming; 'the doer' is merely a fiction added to the deed" (Nietzsche 1969b, pp. 45-46). Leveling of Socratic culture's "objective" foundations makes its "subjective" features all the more important. For example, the subject is a central focus of the new human sciences, appearing prominently in its emphases on neutral standpoints, motives as causes, and selves as entities, objects of inquiry, problems, and targets of care (Nietzsche 1966, pp. 19-21; 1968a, pp. 47-54). Arguing that subjectified culture weakens the personality, Nietzsche spoke of a "remarkable antithesis between an interior which fails to correspond to any exterior and an exterior which fails to correspond to any interior" (Nietzsche 1983, pp. 78-79, 83). The "problem of the actor," Nietzsche said, "troubled me for the longest time."'12 He considered "roles" as "external," "surface," or "foreground" phenomena and viewed close personal identification with them as symptomatic of estrangement. While modern theorists saw differentiated roles and professions as a matrix of autonomy and reflexivity, Nietzsche held that persons (especially male professionals) in specialized occupations overidentify with their positions and engage in gross fabrications to obtain advancement. They look hesitantly to the opinion of others, asking themselves, "How ought I feel about this?" They are so thoroughly absorbed in simulating effective role players that they have trouble being anything but actors-"The role has actually become the character." This highly subjectified social self or simulator suffers devastating inauthenticity. The powerful authority given the social greatly amplifies Socratic culture's already self-indulgent "inwardness." Integrity, decisiveness, spontaneity, and pleasure are undone by paralyzing overconcern about possible causes, meanings, and consequences of acts and unending internal dialogue about what others might think, expect, say, or do (Nietzsche 1983, pp. 83-86; 1986, pp. 39-40; 1974, pp. 302-4, 316-17). Nervous rotation of socially appropriate "masks" reduces persons to hypostatized "shadows," "abstracts," or simulacra. One adopts "many roles," playing them "badly and superficially" in the fashion of a stiff "puppet play." Nietzsche asked, "Are you genuine? Or only an actor? A representative or that which is represented? . . . [Or] no more than an imitation of an actor?" Simulation is so pervasive that it is hard to tell the copy from the genuine article; social selves "prefer the copies to the originals" (Nietzsche 1983, pp. 84-86; 1986, p. 136; 1974, pp. 232- 33, 259; 1969b, pp. 268, 300, 302; 1968a, pp. 26-27). Their inwardness and aleatory scripts foreclose genuine attachment to others. This type of actor cannot plan for the long term or participate in enduring networks of interdependence; such a person is neither willing nor able to be a "stone" in the societal "edifice" (Nietzsche 1974, pp. 302-4; 1986a, pp. 93-94). Superficiality rules in the arid subjectivized landscape. Neitzsche (1974, p. 259) stated, "One thinks with a watch in one's hand, even as one eats one's midday meal while reading the latest news of the stock market; one lives as if one always 'might miss out on something. ''Rather do anything than nothing': this principle, too, is merely a string to throttle all culture. . . . Living in a constant chase after gain compels people to expend their spirit to the point of exhaustion in continual pretense and overreaching and anticipating others." Pervasive leveling, improvising, and faking foster an inflated sense of ability and an oblivious attitude about the fortuitous circumstances that contribute to role attainment (e.g., class or ethnicity). The most mediocre people believe they can fill any position, even cultural leadership. Nietzsche respected the self-mastery of genuine ascetic priests, like Socrates, and praised their ability to redirect ressentiment creatively and to render the "sick" harmless. But he deeply feared the new simulated versions. Lacking the "born physician's" capacities, these impostors amplify the worst inclinations of the herd; they are "violent, envious, exploitative, scheming, fawning, cringing, arrogant, all according to circumstances. " Social selves are fodder for the "great man of the masses." Nietzsche held that "the less one knows how to command, the more urgently one covets someone who commands, who commands severely- a god, prince, class, physician, father confessor, dogma, or party conscience. The deadly combination of desperate conforming and overreaching and untrammeled ressentiment paves the way for a new type of tyrant (Nietzsche 1986, pp. 137, 168; 1974, pp. 117-18, 213, 288-89, 303-4).</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 50881.5px; width: 1px;">C Subpoint is Normativity:</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 50881.5px; width: 1px;">The defense of fiat makes no sense – nobody will actually do graffiti as a result of reading the plan which means there’s no internal link between the plan text and the advantages. Vote neg on presumption.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 50881.5px; width: 1px;">Schlag 90 (Pierre Schlag, professor of law@ univ. Colorado, stanford law review, november, page lexis)</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 50881.5px; width: 1px;">In fact, normative legal thought is so much in a hurry that it will tell you what to do even though there is not the slightest chance that you might actually be in a position to do it. For instance, when was the last time you were in a position to put the difference principle n31 into effect, or to restructure [*179] the doctrinal corpus of the first amendment? "In the future, we should. . . ." When was the last time you were in a position to rule whether judges should become pragmatists, efficiency purveyors, civic republicans, or Hercules surrogates? Normative legal thought doesn't seem overly concerned with such worldly questions about the character and the effectiveness of its own discourse. It just goes along and proposes, recommends, prescribes, solves, and resolves. Yet despite its obvious desire to have worldly effects, worldly consequences, normative legal thought remains seemingly unconcerned that for all practical purposes, its only consumers are legal academics and perhaps a few law students -- persons who are virtually never in a position to put any of its wonderful normative advice into effect.</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 50881.5px; width: 1px;">This disconnects them from agency – normative legal thought whitewashes violence.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 50881.5px; width: 1px;">Delgado 91 (richard delgado , colorado law professor, 139 pa. L. Rev. 933, april)</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 50881.5px; width: 1px;">But what is the cash value of all this priest-talk in the law reviews, in the classrooms of at least the "better" schools, and in the opinions of at least some judges? Are normativos better than other people? Are we better off for engaging in normative talk, either as speakers or listeners? Pierre Schlag, for example, has described normativity as a zero -- as a vacuous, self-referential system of talk, all [*954] form and no substance, meaning nothing, and about itself. n82 This description may be too generous. Normativity may be more than a harmless tic prevalent only in certain circles. 1. Permission to Ignore Suffering The history of organized religion shows that intense immersion in at least certain types of normative system is no guarantee against cruelty, intolerance or superstition. n83 In modern times, social scientists have tried to find a correlation between religious belief and altruistic behavior. In most studies, the correlation is nonexistent or negative. In one study, seminary students were observed as they walked past a well-dressed man lying moaning on the sidewalk. n84 Most ignored the man, even though they had just heard a sermon about the Good Samaritan. The proportion who stopped to offer aid was lower than that of passersby in general. The researchers, commenting on this and other studies of religion and helping behavior, hypothesized that religious people feel less need to act because of a sense that they are "chosen" people. n85 I believe this anesthetizing effect extends beyond religion. We confront a starving beggar and immediately translate the concrete duty we feel into a normative (i.e., abstract) question. And once we see the beggar's demand in general, systemic terms, it is easy for us to pass him by without rendering aid. n86 Someone else, perhaps society (with my tax dollars), will take care of that problem. Normativity thus enables us to ignore and smooth over the rough edges of our world, to tune out or redefine what would otherwise make a claim on us. In the legal system, the clearest [*955] examples of this are found in cases where the Supreme Court has been faced with subsistence claims.</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 50881.5px; width: 1px;">D Subpoint is Piracy:</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 50881.5px; width: 1px;">These kids don’t understand Deleuze – the aff turns pirates into privateers. Their identification with the state reappropriates the war machine and destroys the creative potential of the nomad.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 50881.5px; width: 1px;">Kuhn 10 (Gabriel Kuhn, “Life Under the Jolly Roger”, Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of Innsbruck and general badass, “Life Under the Jolly Roger: Reflections on Golden Age Piracy”, Pg 98-100, rm)</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 50881.5px; width: 1px;">The French philosopher-psychoanalyst duo Gilles Deleuze and Félix Guattari introduced the concept of the nomadic war machine in their 1980 book A Thousand Plateaus. To them, “the war machine is like the necessary consequence of nomadic organization.”11 It is “exterior to the State apparatus.”12 What is important in their theory is that “the war machine has an extremely variable relation to war itself.”13 It does “not in fact have war as its primary object, but as its second-order, supplementary or synthetic objective, in the sense that it is determined in such way as to destroy the State-form and city-form with which it collides.”14 It is only when the state “appropriates the war machine” that it takes “war for its direct and primary object” and that “war becomes subordinated to the aims of the State.”15 As long as the war machine is in the hands of the nomads, it “has as its object not war, but the tracing of a creative line of flight, the composition of a smooth space and of the movement of people in that space.”16 This last aspect explains the relevance of the concept for the golden age pirates. In Deleuze and Guattari’s terminology, the golden age pirates constituted a nomadic war machine as an inevitable aspect of their struggle for freedom from state and capitalist oppression. The “creative line of flight,” the “composition of a smooth space” and the “movement of people in that space” were all literal aspects of the pirate existence during the golden age. Their war machine did not mean to establish totalitarian orders—it meant to destroy the state and its cronies. In this sense the following rings very true: Each time there is an operation against the State—subordination, rioting, guerilla warfare or revolution as act—it can be said that a war machine has revived, that a new nomadic potential has appeared, accompanied by the reconstitution of a smooth space or a manner of being in space as though it were smooth. … It is in this sense that the response of the State against all that threatens to move beyond it is to striate space.17</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 50881.5px; width: 1px;">Our alternative is to affirm the entirety of the 1ac absent their plan text.</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 50881.5px; width: 1px;">It’s legit – the plan PIC is a necessary test against critical affirmatives, and they have the entirety of the plan to generate offense.</span>

<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 23745.5px; width: 1px;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">ISN 11 (International Relations and Security Network, “Colliding Geopolitics and the Arctic”, 12/8/11, </span></span>[[http://www.isn.ethz.ch/isn/Security-Watch/Articles/Detail/?ots783=4888caa0-b3db-1461-98b9-e20e7b9c13d4&lng=en&id=134823]]<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">) </span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; margin-left: 0in; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 23745.5px; width: 1px;"><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Borgerson’s highly geopolitical tale is</span> illustrative of <span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: lime;">a common narrative about the Arctic</span>. It <span style="background: lime;">invariably stresses climate change, increasing competition</span> for resources, <span style="background: lime;">and</span> the <span style="background: lime;">potential for conflict</span>.</span> Last week’s discussion of critical geopolitics , however, should remind us that this narrative is far from the only one that can tell us about the Arctic today. Today’s second article, “Have you heard the one about the disappearing ice? Recasting Arctic Geopolitics,” challenges this conventional narrative. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Far from accepting it as an inevitable reflection of global warming or climate change, it argues that the prospect of military conflict in the Arctic is largely a manufactured one.</span> According to the authors, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">this <span style="background: lime;">orthodox construction of Arctic geopolitics has two main elements, neither </span>of which are <span style="background: lime;">legitimate</span> – 1) <span style="background: lime;">the construction of Arctic space</span> in general <span style="background: lime;">as open, indeterminate and therefore dangerous, and</span> 2) the <span style="background: lime;">political construction</span> of Arctic space <span style="background: lime;">in the neo-realist terms of</span> structural anarchy and <span style="background: lime;">territorial competition</span> associated with a ‘great game.’</span> Together <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">these two groups of representational choices conspire to misread Arctic geography</span> – and the recent events of Arctic history. In particular, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: lime;">they contribute to a</span>n </span>//almost <span style="background: lime;">complete misunderstanding of the</span> 2007 <span style="background: lime;">Russian Polar expedition as</span> a <span style="background: lime;">geopolitically motivated</span> Arctic resource grab, <span style="background: lime;">instead of a routine scientific endeavor</span> that was only retroactively// (and self-consciously) <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">exploited by Moscow</span>. To begin with, the authors argue, the Arctic is represented as a region of new ‘openness’, which signifies indeterminacy, which then signifies danger. “Melting ice,” they write, “is correlated with enhanced accessibility,” and this new accessibility is correlated with the use of the Arctic for hostile purposes. In addition to hostility from traditional states, the authors take Borgerson to task for warning us about Arctic-based illegal immigration and terrorism, to include a scenario in which a future Arctic oil infrastructure becomes a target for terrorist attacks that could undermine North American energy security. “Arctic openness,” argue Dittmer et al “is central to the performance of Arctic geopolitics, enabling sabre-rattling by the five Arctic Ocean coastal states.” <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">All of this, they remind us, ignores the reality in much of the Arctic – e.g., that the <span style="background: lime;">movement of goods and persons remains prohibitively expensive</span> for most actors and that </span>//<span style="background: lime;">actual military combat there is almost unimaginable</span>// (as Russian strategic analyst Pavel Baev pointed out at the time). <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The second</span> representational <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">move</span> that has become characteristic of orthodox geopolitical portrayals of the Arctic <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">is <span style="background: lime;">the idea of it</span></span> – in general, but in the case of Arctic governance regimes in particular –<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> <span style="background: lime;">as weak, frail and vulnerable</span>. In conjunction with the idea of ‘openness,’ this <span style="background: lime;">promotes a geopolitics of</span> the Arctic understood as a <span style="background: lime;">territorial scramble under</span> conditions of <span style="background: lime;">international ‘anarchy’</span></span>—very much a proverbial ‘great game’. For Dittmer et al, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: lime;">Borgerson’s article is typical of accounts that exaggerate the ‘anarchic’ character of the Arctic by misrepresenting</span></span> (and underestimating) <span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background: lime;">the strength of international institutions and agreements</span> in the region</span>. In addition to seriously mischaracterizing the workings of UNCLOS, Borgerson, as already noted, describes the Arctic Council as ‘emasculated’ by its inability to address military issues and therefore unable to set ‘ground rules’ for the region. Yet <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">this implicitly assumes that the region has a militarized future rather than providing evidence of the greater likelihood of that future. Indeed, the authors argue, empirical indications that such a future is likely are few and generally ambiguous. <span style="background: lime;">The Arctic Council</span>, they suggest, <span style="background: lime;">is a vehicle for greater cooperation, peace and security</span> in the Arctic, and not a liability that threatens its future</span>. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">This skewed representational climate is most typified by its </span>//misreading of the Russian ‘flag-planting’ expedition of 2007.// According to Pavel Baev, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Moscow was barely even aware of the expedition in advance. Its depiction</span>, therefore, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">as the opening move in an Arctic ‘great game’ was little more than bald political opportunism by “Putin’s spin masters”</span> who immediately realized how well it might suit “the ‘Putin project’ of consolidating Russian State authority on the basis of a supposedly threatening international environment.” Nevertheless, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the expedition was widely interpreted in the West as “prima facie evidence of Russian realpolitik” in trying to annex the Arctic. Instead of attributing the above expedition to “some sovereign geopolitical master-logic</span>,” argue Dittmer et al, Arctic <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">geographies should instead provide “a more complex picture that highlights how the expedition was improvised, with its supposed geopolitical meaning and significance emerging afterwards.</span>” Borgerson and his fellow travelers, in other words, draw a dubious straight line from the “realistically irreversible” melting of polar ice to an inevitable military-political conflict for the region’s resources. There are, argue Dittmer and co, alternatives to this type of lockstep geopolitical determinism.</span>