[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Port Dredging 1AC== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 1.4em; text-align: start;">**The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its investment in expedited port dredging.**</span>
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 1.4em; text-align: start;">Adv. 1 Trade</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Adv. 1 TRADE--A. The brink is now; US infrastructure cannot handle Post-Panamax canal expansion. US Ports can’t handle large shipping vessels, modernization is key.]]**A. The brink is now; US infrastructure cannot handle Post-Panamax canal expansion. US Ports can’t handle large shipping vessels, modernization is key.**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt; text-align: start;">Army Corps of Engineers 2012</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">(“U.S. Port and Inland Waterways Modernization Strategy Options for the Future”, 4-2,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">[[http://www.iwr.usace.army.mil/docs/portswaterways/Port_and_Inland_Waterways_Options_for_the_Future_Working_Draft_v1_2012_Apr_01.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">, DOA: 7-12-12)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">The </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">health of the</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;"> U.S. economy depends </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">upon the vitality and expansion of international trade.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">For U.S. ports to be ready to take advantage of post-Panamax vessel opportunities, major ports not only need to be “post-Panamax ready,” but second tier ports need to be “cascade ready” to take advantage of larger vessels that begin to service their trade.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Adv. 1 TRADE--B. 99% of all trade goes through United States’ shipping waterways and ports]]**B. 99% of all trade goes through United States’ shipping waterways and ports**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt; text-align: start;">Nagle 2012,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">GMU economics masters, 2012 (Kurt, “Seaports and the US Economy THE Essentials for a Maritime Nation”, 5-7, [[http://www.transportationsummit.com/documents/s11-BillHanson.pdf]], DOA: 7-12-12)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">For centuries seaports have been an economic lifeline connecting us to the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">rest of the </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">world.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Without these investments we cannot accommodate trade growth, population growth, increasing vessel size, etc.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Adv. 1 TRADE--C. Lack of Port modernization tanks the seaport industry]]**C. Lack of Port modernization tanks the seaport industry**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt; text-align: start;">Weakley 08</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;"> --</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">President of the Lake Carriers' Association (James H. I., Testimony Before the Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, April 30, 2008, [[http://www.ramphmtf.org/speeches_043008.html]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">The Importance of Dredging Our ports and harbors are gateways to domestic and international trade, connecting the United States to the world. </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">A ship that is light-loaded reduces its efficiencies </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">in the same way that a commercial airplane that is required to set aside seats with no passengers would quickly lose its efficiencies.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Adv. 1 TRADE--D. Reliable ports are key to sustainable trade - that solves economic recovery and the trade deficit.]]**D. Reliable ports are key to sustainable trade - that solves economic recovery and the trade deficit.**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt; text-align: start;">Calhoun 2011, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Waterways Council Inc. chairman, 2011 (Rick, “Dredging for Prosperity”, Marine Log, August, proquest)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Just like the nation itself, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">our maritime industry is facing a multitude of challenges</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;"> like flooding in the Midwest, silting of our major shipping arteries, and the need for recapitalization for our lock and dam infrastructure, to name a few. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Again, dredging this critical artery should be viewed as an investment, not a cost, in the future of our inland waterways transportation system. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">__**TRADE DEFICIT**__</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Adv. 1 TRADE--A. Trade deficit tanks the global economy]]**A. Trade deficit tanks the global economy**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt; text-align: start;">Weller et al., 2011 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">(Christian, </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Center for American Progress senior fellow</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;"> “The Case for Strategic Export Promotion”, 2-9, [[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/02/high_tech_trade.html/print.html]], DOA: 7-13-12)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">The United States faces enormous economic obstacles</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;"> in the immediate future as it recovers from the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression. </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">That’s why maintaining U.S. international economic competitiveness and </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">strengthening our exports must be a key component of any serious strategy to produce sustained and long-term economic growth.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Adv. 1 TRADE--B. Global economic crisis causes war---strong statistical support—also causes great power transitions]]**B. Global economic crisis causes war---strong statistical support—also causes great power transitions**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Royal 10</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-214</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Less intuitive is how </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">DeRouen (2000) has provided evidence showing that </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">periods of weak economic performance</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;"> in the United States, and thus weak presidential popularity, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">are statistically linked to an increase in the use of force</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">__**Protectionism**__</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Adv. 1 TRADE--A. The trade deficit will cause protectionist escalation – causes trade war – boosting exports solve]]**A. The trade deficit will cause protectionist escalation – causes trade war – boosting exports solve**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt; text-align: start;">Hufbauer et al. 10, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Peterson Institute senior fellow, 2010 (Gary, “US Protectionist Impulses in the Wake of the Great Recession”, March, [[http://www.iie.com/publications/papers/hufbauer201003.pdf]], DOA: 7-12-13)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">The U.S. unemployment rate more than doubled between the onset of the Great Recession in</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt; text-align: start;">¶</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;"> December 2007 and December 2009, and is now </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">by America’s trading partners</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">despite the relatively muted</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt; text-align: start;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">reaction to the original “Buy American” provisions</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;"> in early 2009 and other protectionist measures implemented since then. </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">No longer facing a newly</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif; text-align: start;">‐</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">elected U.S. president, who</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt; text-align: start;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;"> entered office with considerable global appeal in the midst of an unprecedented economic</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt; text-align: start;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;"> crisis, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">foreign leaders are unlikely to give the U.S. an easy pass on future new instances of U.S.</span><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 6pt; text-align: start;">¶</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;"> protectionism</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Adv. 1 TRADE--B. Protectionism will cause terrorism and global wars – risks extinction]]**B. Protectionism will cause terrorism and global wars – risks extinction**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt; text-align: start;">Panzner 8</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;"> – </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase (Michael, “Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse,” p. 136-138)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Continuing </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">calls for curbs on</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;"> the flow of finance and </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">trade will inspire</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;"> the United States and other nations to spew forth </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">protectionist legislation</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;"> like the notorious Smoot-Hawley bill. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Many will interpret stepped-up </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">conflicts</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;"> between Muslims and Western societies </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">as the </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">begin</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">nings of </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">a new world war.</span>



===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 1.4em; text-align: start;">[[#ADV. 2 Liquid Natural Gas]]ADV. 2 Liquid Natural Gas</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#ADV. 2 Liquid Natural Gas--A. The Panama Canal expansion means the US will try to export liquid natural gas to Europe]]**A. The Panama Canal expansion means the US will try to export liquid natural gas to Europe**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt; text-align: start;">Eaton, 2012</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;"> – reporter for the Houston Business Journal (Collin, “Economists differ on Panama Canal expansion's impact “, Houston Business Journal, May 29 2012,[[http://www.bizjournals.com/houston/blog/money-makers/2012/05/economists-differ-on-panama-canal.html]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Economists at a recent forum disagreed about the potential impact of the Panama Canal expansion set for 2014, arguing in turns that it could greatly boost energy trade or that it needs to improve its depth and width before it can attract new traffic. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Patrick </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Jankowski,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;"> regional economist at the Greater Houston Partnership, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">said the expansion will boost trade</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; text-align: start;">,</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;"> but it won’t necessarily be a game-changer. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#ADV. 2 Liquid Natural Gas--B. This requires increasing US harbor deepening to be successful]]**B. This requires increasing US harbor deepening to be successful**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt; text-align: start;">Ebinger et al. 12 --</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;"> Task Force Co-Chair of Brookings Institution Natural Gas Task Force("Evaluating the Prospects for Increased Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas from the United States", January, p. 15, Brookings, www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">The </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">successful export of LNG will depend upon the necessary shipping infrastructure and capacity</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;"> being in place. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">However, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">after the</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;"> planned </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">expansion</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;"> of the canal is completed—expected to be in 2014—roughly </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">80 percent</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;"> of the world’s LNG tankers </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">will be able to pass through</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;"> the isthmus, resulting in a dramatic decline in shipping costs to Asia. 40</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#ADV. 2 Liquid Natural Gas--Scenario 1: IRAN]]__**Iran**__</span>
==== ==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#ADV. 2 Liquid Natural Gas--A. US LNG exports undermine Russian and Iranian influence – prevents a gas cartel, stops EU dependence on Russia and makes sanctions against Iran effective]]**A. US LNG exports undermine Russian and Iranian influence – prevents a gas cartel, stops EU dependence on Russia and makes sanctions against Iran effective**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt; text-align: start;">Medlock et al 2011</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">***Report from an energy study sponsored by the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy and supported by the US Department of energy, Medlock is a fellow in energy and resource economics at the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy, Rice University, PhD in economics (Kenneth, “Shale Gas and U.S. National Security,” James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy, July 2011, [[http://www.bakerinstitute.org/publications/EF-pub-DOEShaleGas-07192011.pdf]])**</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">The study finds that full development of commercial shale gas resources in the United States will have multiple beneficial effects for U.S. energy security and national interests</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">. </span>**

**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">The ample geologic endowment of shale gas in North America</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;"> and potentially elsewhere around the globe </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">means that natural gas prices will likely remain affordable and that the high level of supply insecurity currently facing world oil supplies could be eased by a shift to greater use of natural gas without fear of increasing the power of large natural gas resource holders such as Russia, Iran</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">, and Venezuela. </span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#ADV. 2 Liquid Natural Gas--B. Exporting LNG starves Iranian oil revenues]]</span>B. Exporting LNG starves Iranian oil revenues
**<span style="font-size: 13pt; text-align: start;">Levi 12</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">- the David M. Rubenstein senior fellow for energy and environment at the Council on Foreign Relations, a nonpartisan foreign-policy think tank and membership organization(Michael, “A strategy for U.S. Natural Gas Exports”, The Hamilton Project, June 2012, [[http://www.hamiltonproject.org/files/downloads_and_links/06_exports_levi.pdf]])</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Some will likely observe that </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">substituting natural gas for oil has the added benefit of reducing income for major oil exporters, many of whom are hostile to the United States</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">That fact makes substitution of natural gas for oil an ineffective way to starve oil-exporting regimes of revenues</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">.</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#ADV. 2 Liquid Natural Gas--C. Iranian oil revenues go to terrorists and their nuclear program]]</span>C. Iranian oil revenues go to terrorists and their nuclear program
**<span style="font-size: 13pt; text-align: start;">Stakelbeck 8</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">-correspondent and terrorism analyst for CBN News, worked as a senior writer and analyst at the Investigative Project on Terrorism (Erick, “How America Is Funding Terrorism” CBN News, July 05, [[http://www.cbn.com/CBNnews/356986.aspx)/EL|http://www.cbn.com/CBNnews/356986.aspx)]]</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Much</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;"> of that </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">imported oil comes from OPEC</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">, a group made up of 13 of the world's most petroleum-rich nations</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; text-align: start;">:</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;"> Saudi Arabia, Libya, Kuwait, Iraq, Iran, the United Arab Emirates, Algeria, Angola, Indonesia, Nigeria, Qatar Venezuela and Ecuador. </span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Lately, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadenijad has been joined by Venezuela's Hugo Chavez in threatening to help drive oil prices up even further.D. </span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#ADV. 2 Liquid Natural Gas--D. Iranian proliferation sparks a Middle East proliferation cascade that sparks an extinction level nuclear war]]</span>D. Iranian proliferation sparks a Middle East proliferation cascade that sparks an extinction level nuclear war
**<span style="font-size: 13pt; text-align: start;">Allison 6</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">-Harvard Government Professor(Graham, “The Will to Prevent”, Fall, Harvard International Law Review, L/N, Accessed 7/16/10)</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Meanwhile, Iran is testing the line in the Middle East. </span>**

**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Other nightmare scenarios for the region include an accidental or unauthorized nuclear launch from Iran, theft of nuclear warheads from an unstable regime in Tehran, and possible Israeli preemption against Iran’s nuclear facilities</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">, which Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert has implied, threatening, “</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Under no circumstances</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">, and at no point, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">can</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;"> Israel allow </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">anyone with these kinds of malicious designs against us to have control of weapons of destruction that can threaten our existence.”</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#ADV. 2 Liquid Natural Gas--Scenario 2: China]]</span>__China__

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#ADV. 2 Liquid Natural Gas--A. China’s aggressive drive to acquire LNG causes regional instability and a naval arms race]]</span>A. China’s aggressive drive to acquire LNG causes regional instability and a naval arms race
**<span style="font-size: 13pt; text-align: start;">Shobert, 2012</span>***quotes Hulbert, Research Director for the Asian Energy Security Program at the National Bureau of Asia Research, Shobert is managing director of Rubicon Strategy Group, a consulting firm specialized in strategy analysis for companies looking to enter emerging economies,
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">(Benjamin A., “China's resources policy attracts attention of congress,” 2/2/12, [[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China_Business/NB02Cb01.html)/AM|http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China_Business/NB02Cb01.html)]]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">Washington is grudgingly coming to terms with a more sophisticated and confident Beijing, one that is more willing to put out and fight for its own interests</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">This fear might be made real by a military confrontation in the crowded South China Sea, where multiple borders and territorial disputes still exist, or this fear could be realized if China's modernization causes it to damn waterways that nourish the many river deltas throughout Southeast Asia. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#ADV. 2 Liquid Natural Gas--B. A naval arms race causes accidental and intentional war]]**B. A naval arms race causes accidental and intentional war**</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt; text-align: start;">Hartfiel and Job, 2007</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">University of British Columbia, Program Officer at the Human Security Centre, Vancouver ***AND Professor of Political Science and Director of the Centre of International Relations at UBC (Robert and Brian, “Raising the risks of war: defence spending trends and competitive arms processes in East Asia,” The Pacific Review,[[http://www.tandfonline.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/doi/pdf/10.1080/09512740601133138]])//AM**</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">However, these developments are overshadowed by</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">spending on military modernization programmes, enhanced training programmes, and weapons systems purchase plans already underway</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">prior to 11 September.</span>**

**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">The troubling combination of volatile political conditions and destabilizing weapons increases the risks of both the accidental and deliberate outbreak of war</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; text-align: start;">.</span>__**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#ADV. 2 Liquid Natural Gas--C. Asian energy wars risk global escalation]]</span>C. Asian energy wars risk global escalation
**<span style="font-size: 13pt; text-align: start;">Emmott, 8</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">- former editor of the Economist (Bill, ‘Power rises in the east,’ The Australian, June 4, pg.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">As well as knitting them, however, this drama is also grinding together Asian powers that had previously kept a strict economic and political separation from one another. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">There are at least five known flashpoints where it is already clear that any could involve the major powers: the Sino-Indian border and Tibet, North and South Korea, the East China Sea and the Senkaku-Diaoyutai islands, Taiwan and Pakistan.</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#ADV. 2 Liquid Natural Gas--D. Asian wars will go nuclear risking extinction]]</span>D. Asian wars will go nuclear risking extinction
**<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Jonathon</span> <span style="font-size: 13pt; text-align: start;">Landy 2k</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">National Security and International Correspondent [Knight Ridder, March 10]</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Few if any experts think China and Taiwan, North Korea and South Korea, or India and Pakistan are spoiling to fight.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">While Washington has no defense commitments to either </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">India or Pakistan, a conflict between the two could end the global taboo against using nuclear weapons and demolish the already shaky international nonproliferation regime.</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#ADV. 2 Liquid Natural Gas--E. Expanding US LNG exports will solve Asian energy competition and allows the US to influence the market]]</span>E. Expanding US LNG exports will solve Asian energy competition and allows the US to influence the market**
<span style="font-size: 13pt; text-align: start;">Levi 12</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">- the David M. Rubenstein senior fellow for energy and environment at the Council on Foreign Relations, a nonpartisan foreign-policy think tank and membership organization(Michael, “A strategy for U.S. Natural Gas Exports”, The Hamilton Project, June 2012, [[http://www.hamiltonproject.org/files/downloads_and_links/06_exports_levi.pdf]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Asia has not been so fortunate, and the reasons for this are not entirely clear. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">At a minimum, by diversifying the pricing of their imports, it would partly insulate LNG importers from oil market fluctuations.</span>



===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 1.4em; text-align: start;">[[#Solvency]]Solvency</span>=== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Solvency--A. The federal government is key – port infrastructure is under federal jurisdiction__ and federal action is vital to __leadership]]**A. The federal government is key – port infrastructure is under __federal jurisdiction__ and federal action is vital to __leadership__**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt; text-align: start;">AAPA, 11</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; text-align: start;"> - </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">AAPA represents 160 of the leading seaport authorities in the United States, Canada, Latin America and the Caribbean and more than 300 sustaining and associate members, firms and individuals with an interest in seaports (American Association of Port Authorities, “The U.S. Government’s Historic Role in Developing and Maintaining Landside and Waterside Connections to Seaports”, March 2011, [[http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/Transportation%20and%20the%20Constitution1.pdf)/GP|http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/PDFs/Transportation%20and%20the%20Constitution1.pdf)]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Over time these constitutional responsibilities have been further defined and</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">our Constitution has formed thebasis for the U.S. government to play a significant role in our nation’s transportation and infrastructure system</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Especially in challenging fiscal times like today, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">it is critical that basic, core federal missions such as these, that directly impact America’s economic vitality, jobs, and global competitiveness, be recognized and prioritized.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Solvency--B. Federal leadership is vital to expediting new projects and coordinating federal agencies – it creates faster infrastructure development]]**B. Federal leadership is vital to expediting new projects and coordinating federal agencies – it creates faster infrastructure development**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt; text-align: start;">Woodley Jr. 8</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; text-align: start;">— </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Chairman – PIANC (Permanent International Association of Navigation Congresses) USA (John Paul, “Dredging key to keeping nation’s economy afloat”, Seaports Magazine,[[http://www.aapaseaports.com/pdf_issues/AAPASeaports_Summer2008.pdf]], Summer)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">Like many nations, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">the United States will be challenged over the next decade to be able to accommodate the projected rapid increases in trade at its harbors</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">T</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">In so doing, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">we will do our part to keep America’s economy strong for generations to come.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">[[#Solvency--C. The plan will allow the US to double exports in the next 5 years]]**C. The plan will allow the US to double exports in the next 5 years**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt; text-align: start;">USA Today 11</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; text-align: start;"> – news agency (Larry Copeland, “A goal to be port of call for all; U.S. sites digging in to accommodate big ships,” USA Today, October 3, 2011, lexis</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; text-align: start;">It's just before noon on a recent weekday, and the nation's fastest-growing container shipping port is bustling with activity. </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">"The steamship companies are going to go to those ports that can accommodate their ships. </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">This will keep us very competitive</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">."</span>



<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; text-align: start;">I, Sam Tulp, can be reached for any questions at **samisaginger [@] gmail [.] com**</span>

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]
= =