[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
Extend is about rights citizens currently have (Merriam Webster definition)

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Definition of accused m</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">eans trial through conviction:</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[West's Encyclopedia of American Law, edition 2. Copyright 2008 The Gale Group, Inc.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The generic name </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">whichever occurs first.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Current system: </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Congressional Research Service 2012 [Jennifer K. Elsea Legislative Attorney “Comparison of Rights in Military Commission Trials and Trials in Federal Criminal Court” The Congressional Research Service. May 9, 2012]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">U.S. law provides for the</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;"> trial of suspected terrorists</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, including those </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">procured by plea agreement. A few commission rulings have been appealed.¶ 50</span>

I advocate that non-citizens accused of terrorism be tried, and granted the rights afforded to defendants in Article III federal courts.

V: Justice

Political philosophy, must be practical.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MARTIN RHONHEIMER [Prof Of Philosophy at The Pontifical University of the Holy Cross in Rome. “THE POLITICAL ETHOS OF CONSTITUTIONAL DEMOCRACY AND THE PLACE OF NATURAL LAW IN PUBLIC REASON: RAWLS’S “POLITICAL LIBERALISM” REVISITED” The American Journal of Jurisprudence vol. 50 (2005), pp. 1-70]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">It is a fundamental feature of political philosophy to be part of practical philosophy</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, but who potentially at the same time are also the rulers.</span>

“Public reason” provides the only reasonable basis for justification.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">John Rawls [Emeritus Professor of Philosophy, Harvard University “The Idea of Public Reason Revisited” The University of Chicago Law Review, Vol. 64, No. 3 (Summer, 1997), pp. 765-807.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The idea of public reason, as I understand it,' belongs to a </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">India-finding a suitable idea of public reason is a concern that faces</span>

Basic standards are necessary to ensure citizens accept the decisions that result from the agreed upon structure of the state, a prerequisite to any system of social cooperation.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rawls 2 [James Bryant Conant Professor of Philosophy at Harvard University. A Theory of Justice. The Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College. Cambridge, MA. 1971. 233-236]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">I now turn to a discussion of what I have labeled the third, fourth</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">be reasonable, political conceptions must justify only constitutions that satisfy this principle.</span>

The rule of law is necessary to maintain the states role as the legitimate arbiter of the rules.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rawls 3 [James Bryant Conant Professor of Philosophy at Harvard University. A Theory of Justice. The Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College. Cambridge, MA. 1971. 233-236]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">I now wish to consider rights of the person as these are protected by the </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the basic structure, but ones that are not by any means negligible.¶ </span>

CR: Maintaining rule of law

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1) Prerequisite – can’t enforce ethics without rule of law </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2) Without rule of law, pluralism is denied – arbitrary imposition of values</span>

Contention I.

No “special tribunal” designed post hoc can be considered consistent.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jordan Paust 2012 [Mike & Teresa Baker Law Center Professor, University of Houston “Still Unlawful: The Obama Military Commissions, Supreme Court Holdings, and Deviant Dicta in the D.C. Circuit” Cornell International Law Journal. VOL. 45. 2012.]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In its landmark opinion in Hamdan v. Rumsfeld,2 the U.S AND were enacted years after detainees at Guantanamo entered U.S. custody.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ex post facto bad: </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rawls 4 [James Bryant Conant Professor of Philosophy at Harvard University. A Theory of Justice. The Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College. Cambridge, MA. 1971. 233-236]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The precept that there is no offense without a law (Nullum crimen sinelege), </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">not serve to</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;"> organize </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">social </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;">behavior by </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">providing a basis for</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 12pt;"> legitimate expectations.</span>
Cont II Innocents more likely to be convicted



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brett Corbett 2010 [“The Use of Military Tribunals: Incompatible with the Notion of ‘Full and Fair’” 2010. "A highly valued, punishment possible: death."</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Devon Chaffee 2011 [Advocacy Counsel for Human Rights First's Law and Security Program “ARTICLE: Military Commissions Revived: Persisting Problems of Perception” University of New Hampshire Law Review. Vol. 9. March, 2011.] "In the absence, until proven guilty."</span>


<span style="font-size: 16pt;"> </span>
==Negative== 
A. Aff increases targeted killing

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Scarborough 2011 </span>[Rowan Scarborough. Reporter, Media Fellow at the Hoover Institute “Al-Awlaki would have been difficult to try as a civilian; U.S. killed American-born terrorist.” The Washington Times. October 4, 2011. Pg. 8.]


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Steve Coll 2012 </span>[Writer for the New Yorker, President of the New America Foundation. “KILL OR CAPTURE” AUGUST 2, 2012. The New Yorker "Klaidmans report suggests, in federal court"


=== === 

B. Targeted killing increases terrorism

1. Organization strength

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">JENNA JORDAN 09</span> [“When Heads Roll: Assessing the Effectiveness of Leadership Decapitation” Security Studies, 18:719–755, 2009 Copyright © Taylor & Francis Group, LLC] " The data on, against small organizations"

2. Recruitment

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Glenn Johnson 2007</span> [NAVAL POSTGRADUATE SCHOOL. MONTEREY, CALIFORNIA THESIS. MORTUS DISCRIMINATUS: PROCEDURES IN TARGETED KILLING. by Glenn Johnson June 2007."Targeted killing operations, terror stock recruitment"

C. Impact of terrorism

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Mohamed Sid-Ahmed</span><span style="font-family: Tahoma; font-size: 8pt;"> [staff writer, Al-Ahram Issue 705, September 1, 2004, " We have reached, winers and losers" </span>
=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]