Should you require any additional affirmative or negative disclosure, feel free to email Tommy Dunn (2A) at thomas.dunn@barstowschool.org or Joseph Lenart III at saxman11952@gmail.com.


[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC - Michigan (NIB)== 
===Plan=== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">The United States federal government should establish a transportation-only national infrastructure bank to substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment through loans and loan guarantees.</span>**

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Contention 1 is Economy</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Double-dip recession coming now --- plan’s key to solve</span>**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Spicer 9/4</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;"> (2012, Jonathan Spicer; “Manufacturing another headache for U.S. economy”; Sep 4 2012; Reuters; [[http://www.reuters.com/assets/print?aid=USBRE8830MA20120904]])IIN</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">NEW YORK (Reuters)-</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Manufacturing</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;"> in the...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">indicator of growth</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">."</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Three __internal links__ ---</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">__First is declining infrastructure__ --- it undermines the __foundation__ of the U.S. economy</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Donohue 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 8px;"> --- president and chief executive officer of the US Chamber of Commerce (9/8/2011, Thomas J., Christian Science Monitor, “The highway to jobs - via better infrastructure,” Factiva, JMP)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 8px;">As Obama and ... challenge, we are.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">This negatively influences the __entire economy__ --- prevents a __resilient__ supply chain</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Little 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;"> --- Director, Keston Institute for Public Finance and Infrastructure Policy (4/5/2011, Richard, “Infrastructure Investment and U.S. Competitiveness,” [[http://www.cfr.org/united-states/infrastructure-investment-us-competitiveness/p24585]], JMP)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">The massive network ...and its consequences</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">.</span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Second is __Stimulus__ ---</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">NIB infrastructure spending is comparatively the best --- CBO analysis</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Tyson et al. 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">-* Professor @ the Haas School of Business of UC-Berkeley, PhD in Economics @ MIT, former Chair of the US President’s Council of Economic Advisers, served as the Director of the National Economic Council, **Phillips, former President of Oracle, MBA @ Hampton University, member of the Economic Recovery Advisory Board,** *Wolf, CEO and Chairman of UBS Americas, member of the Economic Recovery Advisor Board, BS in Economics @ Wharton [Laura, Charles, Robert, The Wall Street Journal, “The U.S. Needs and Infrastructure Bank,” January 15, 2010, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704586504574654682516084584.html]], DKP]</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Our nation's investment ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;"> and investment returns.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Status quo funding measures for large projects is low --- the plan is key</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">McConaghy & Kessler 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;"> --- * Director of the Third Way Economic Program, AND **Vice President for Policy at Third Way (January 2011, Ryan McConaghy and Jim Kessler, “A National Infrastructure Bank,”** </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">[[http://www.bernardlschwartz.com/political-initiatives/Third_Way_Idea_Brief_-_A_National_Infrastructure_Bank-1.pdf]], JMP)</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">America’s economic future ...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">enduring infrastructure investments.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Confidence is collapsing now and destroying investment --- a national infrastructure bank is the best short term stimulus that doesn’t drive up the deficit</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Skidelsky & Martin 11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">--- *Emeritus Professor of Political Economy at the University of Warwick, AND </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">macroeconomist and bond investor(3/30/2011, Robert Skidelsky and Felix Martin, New York Review of Books, “For a National Investment Bank,” </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">[[http://www.skidelskyr.com/site/article/for-a-national-investment-bank/]], JMP)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">But could a National ...</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">long-term investors.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">**Third is** __**Unemployment**__ **---**</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">NIB infrastructure creates jobs and stimulates growth.</span>**
<span class="TitleChar" style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">**Trumbull 11** </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">-Staff writer for the Christian Science Monitor (Mark, “Is Gary Johnson right about shovel-ready jobs? 5 infrastructure challenges,” September 23, 2011, The Christian Science Monitor, Lexis)//SPS</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">Republican presidential candidate ... that need repair.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">And, job creation is the biggest internal link to the economy—outweighs cutting the deficit</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Tyson 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">-Professor @ the Haas School of Business of UC-Berkeley, PhD in Economics @ MIT, BA Summa Cum Laude in Economics @ Smith College, former Chair of the US President’s Council of Economic Advisers, served as the Director of the National Economic Council [Laura, The Washington Post, “What it will take for President Obama and big business to bring back American jobs,” 9/18/2011, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/on-leadership/for-president-obama-and-american-business-fixing-the-us-jobs-deficit/2011/08/18/gIQAhW8ZNJ_story.html]], DKP]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">The immediate crisis ... next few years</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">The plan has an __immediate effect__</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Zakaria 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">-PhD in Political Science @ Harvard (6/13/2011, Fareed, “Zakaria: U.S. needs an infrastructure bank,” [[http://globalpublicsquare.blogs.cnn.com/2011/06/13/zakaria-u-s-needs-an-infrastructure-bank/]], JMP)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">President Obama has ...payoff of all.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Now is key --- anything less endangers long-term economic growth</span>**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Miller et al. 9/5 </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">(2012, Keith Miller, Kristina Costa, and Donna Cooper; September 5, 2012; “Creating a National Infrastructure Bank and Infrastructure Planning Council How Better Planning and Financing Options Can Fix Our Infrastructure and Improve Economic Competitiveness”; [[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/economy/report/2012/09/05/36409/creating-a-national-infrastructure-bank-and-infrastructure-planning-council/]]) LMC</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">The </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">U</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">nited </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">S</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">tates simply ...most frequently </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">abandoned</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">US is key to the global economy</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Caploe 9</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;"> (David Caploe is CEO of the Singapore-incorporated American Centre for Applied Liberal Arts and Humanities in Asia., “Focus still on America to lead global recovery”, April 7, The Strait Times, lexis)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">IN THE aftermath ...and global economies.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Economic decline triggers nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Harris and Burrows 9</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 8px;">(Mathew, PhD European History at Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” [[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 8px;">Increased Potential for ...</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">dog-eat-dog world.</span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Statistical analysis proves economic decline causes conflict --- prefer our studies</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Royal 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;"> – Director of CTR (Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215) **S. Brock Blomberg is a professor of economics @ Claremont College. Gregory Hess is also a prof of economics @ Claremont.**</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">Less intuitive is ...deserves more attention.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Growth eliminates the only rational incentives for war</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222;">Gartzke 11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-size: 8px;"> – associate Professor of political science at the University of California, San Diego PhD from Iowa and B.A. from UCSF Erik, "SECURITY IN AN INSECURE WORLD" </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 8px;">www.cato-unbound.org/2011/02/09/erik-gartzke/security-in-an-insecure-world/</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-size: 8px;">Almost as informative ...</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">a durable anachronism.</span>__

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Contention 2 is Competitiveness</span>=== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">A NIB is key</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Puentes 11</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">(Robert, Senior Fellow at the Brookings institution “Infrastructure Investment and U.S. Competitiveness”[[http://www.cfr.org/united-states/infrastructure-investment-us-competitiveness/p24585]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">Most experts agree ...</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">the United States.</span>__

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">The plan alone is key to US economic supremacy</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">AGC 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 8px;"> (5/19/2011, The Associated General Contractors of America, “THE CASE FOR INFRASTRUCTURE & REFORM: Why and How the Federal Government Should Continue to Fund Vital Infrastructure in the New Age of Public Austerity,” [[http://www.agc.org/galleries/news/Case-for-Infrastructure-Reform.pdf]], JMP)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 6.66667px;">It also is important ... can meet those standards.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Lack of __federal__ leadership __erodes__ US competitiveness and global leadership</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Buchanan 9</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 8px;"> --- Associate Professor at The George Washington University Law School, and a former economics professor (11/19/09, Neil H., “Why the U.S. Government Must Invest in Infrastructure Now, Or Pay A Steep Cost,[[http://writ.news.findlaw.com/buchanan/20091119.html]], JMP)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 8px;">Recently, I returned from ...</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">about the</span>____<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">U</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 8px;">nited </span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">S</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 8px;">tates.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Economic primacy prevents all conflict escalation</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Freidberg & Schonfeld 8</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;"> --- *Professor of Politics and IR at Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School, AND **senior editor of Commentary and a visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute** in Princeton (10/21/2008, Aaron and Gabriel, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, Wall Street Journal, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html?mod=googlenews_wsj]])</span>
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">With the global ...</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">continued American leadership.</span>

**Strong US growth is key to promoting an American economic model – the alternative is mercantilism, which destroys economic cooperation and ensures war with China**
Posen 9**<span style="font-size: 8px;"> - Deputy director and senior fellow of the Peterson Institute for International Economics (Adam, “Economic leadership beyond the crisis,” [[http://clients.squareeye.com/uploads/foresight/documents/PN%20USA_FINAL_LR_1.pdf]])</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8px;">In the postwar period, </span>__US …__ <span style="font-size: 8px;">on the following priority measures.</span>**

**Nuclear war**
Straits Times 2k**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (6-25, lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">THE high-intensity scenario postulates a … </span>__see the destruction of civilisation__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>

===Contention 3 is Solvency=== 

**A scaled-down NIB generates the private capital necessary for infrastructure investment --- that makes it more palatable for Congress**
**Lovaas 11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> --- Federal Transportation Policy Director for NRDC (6/28/2011, Deron, “An Infrastructure Bank for Transportation,” [[http://switchboard.nrdc.org/blogs/dlovaas/an_infrastructure_bank_for_tra.html]], JMP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Another creative funding idea that’s … </span>__vastly improve the status quo.__

**Federal action is superior --- better evaluation, finance, and reduced borrowing costs**
**Thomasson 11** <span style="font-size: 8px;">--- Director of Public Policy, Progressive Policy Institute (10/12/2011, Scott, Congressional Documents and Publications, House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Highways and Transit Hearing - "National Infrastructure Bank: More Bureaucracy and More Red Tape," Factiva)</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8px;">Myth #6: We don't need a national … </span>__state banks is__ __entirely misplaced____.__

==1AC - Glenbrooks== 

No changes were made to the competitiveness advantage or solvency contention.

The plan text is the same.

Additions to the economy advantage:

**Slow growth is the status quo. An aging population and an outdated transportation infrastructure will lock in a 2.3% growth rate for years to come.**
**Kessler et al. November 2012**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Jim Kessler, Jon Cowan, and Ed Gerwin. “The Bargain.” //Third Way Report//. November 2012. Pg. 2. Available online at: <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.thirdway.org/publications/613]]</span> (Accessed on 11/16/2012).</span>

Mainstream economists now project [...] leveling off of education attainment.

**And, the plan is key to __fast growth__ --- that prevents recessions**
**Bloomberg 6-14-12-**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Bloomberg Editors(“Less Talk, More Stimulus”, Bloomberg View, June 14, 2012, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 7pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/less-talk-more-stimulus.html)/sjl|http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-14/less-talk-more-stimulus.html)//sjl]]</span>

The cudgel to promote action [...] reducing the long-run debt burden.

==1AC - Southern Bell Forum== 

Same as the Glenbrooks.

==1AC - Heritage Hall== 

Replaced Kessler evidence with:

**Slow growth will continue now---the plan is key to solve unemployment and uncertainty**
**The New Age 1/2**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">—American news agency (2013, “US cliff deal to slow growth: economists,” [[http://www.thenewage.co.za/76473-9-53-US_cliff_deal_to_slow_growth_economists]], Accessed 1-17-2013//JLENART) </span>

__The political deal to pull … in the full-confidence mode."__

Replaced Strait Times China impact evidence with:

**Extinction**
**Lieven 12**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Anatol, Professor in the War Studies Department – King’s College (London), Senior Fellow – New America Foundation (Washington), “Avoiding US-China War,” New York Times, 6-12, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/13/opinion/avoiding-a-us-china-war.html</span>
__Relations between the United States …__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">crumbling states of Central America.</span>

Card added at bottom of the 1AC because Joe has apparently gotten a little faster:

**Spending is inevitable --- waiting makes their turns even worse**
**Frank 6/2**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> --- economics professor at the Johnson Graduate School of Management at Cornell (6/2/2012, Robert H., “Repairing Roads Can End All Kinds of Gridlock,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/03/business/road-repairs-can-end-political-gridlock-economic-view.html]]</span>, JMP)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">DEMOCRATS and Republicans share less … be pressed to explain why.</span>

Everything else is the same as the Southern Bell Forum.

==1AC - Colleyville Heritage== 

The first uniqueness card (The New Age) was replaced with the below piece of evidence. The rest of the 1AC remained the same.

**Growth will __slow__ now---the plan’s massive __stimulus__ is key to solve**
**Orszag 1/29**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Peter Orszag is vice chairman of corporate and investment banking at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of Management and Budget in the Obama administration; “It’s Too Soon to Celebrate a Recovery”; Jan 29, 2013; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/it-s-too-soon-to-celebrate-a-recovery.html]]</span>) CJC</span>

__As the economy begins to …__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">feasible than either component alone.</span>



==1AC - NDCA Nationals (SSBN(X))== 

===Plan=== 

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should immediately fully fund the building of 12 nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarines or SSBN(X).</span>

===<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Deterrence</span>=== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sequestration means delaying and cutting the SSBN(X) to 10 along with eliminating the ICBM leg of the triad. </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Eaglen – 12</span> (Mackenzie Eaglen is a resident fellow at AEI; “Sequestration is more likely than you think”; May 08, 2012; [[http://www.aei.org/article/foreign-and-defense-policy/defense/sequestration-is-more-likely-than-you-think/]]) CJC

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There are three likely scenarios … </span>//any strategic pivot to Asia.//

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sequestration guts SSBN replacement – building a replacement is the only way to keep nuclear deterrent credible.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Clark – 13</span><span style="color: #222222;"> (Colin Clark, Defense Reporter; “Sequester Will 'Gut' DoD Modernization; Navy's SSBN-X, Long Range Strike, Other New Starts In Peril”; March 13, 2013;</span> <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://defense.aol.com/2013/03/13/sequester-will-gut-dod-modernization-navys-new-sub-ssbn-x-l/]]</span><span style="color: #222222;">) CJC</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON:</span> __<span style="color: #222222;">Every senior civilian leader … </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">large amounts from existing programs.</span>

**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Delay is the only risk for nuclear escalation.</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Bruner – 13</span>**<span style="color: #222222;"> (Rear Adm. Barry L. Bruner, Director, Undersea Warfare Division; “Ohio Replacement Class SSBNs an Essential Investment”; March 19, 2013;</span><span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://www.defense-aerospace.com/articles-view/release/3/143623/us-navy-stresses-next_gen-ssbn-is-essential.html]]</span><span style="color: #222222;">) CJC</span>

<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">As our nation debates future … </span>//hesitate or delay any further.//

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Timeframe is NOW. Any delay in schedule now results in a smaller force that can’t meet deterrence requirements. Deterrence solves the impact to their Disads in the short term but lack of deterrence in the long term assures destruction of civilization.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Thompson – 11</span> (Loren B. Thompson, Ph.D. is Chief Operating Officer of the non-profit Lexington Institute and Chief Executive Officer of Source Associates, he was Deputy Director of the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University and taught graduate-level courses in strategy, technology and media affairs at Georgetown. He has also taught at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government; “The Submarine That Might Save America”; 6/20/2011; http://www.forbes.com/sites/beltway/2011/06/20/the-submarine-that-might-save-america/) CJC

The year the oldest Ohio-… //civilization// in the current century.

**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Must avoid delay – delay prevents having a credible deterrent.</span>**
**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">SIBC – 13</span>**<span style="color: #222222;"> (Submarine Industrial Base Council; “OHIO REPLACEMENT PROGRAM</span>
<span style="color: #222222;">ULTIMATE GUARANTOR OF NATIONAL SECURITY; “2013;</span><span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">[[@http://www.submarinesuppliers.org/supplier/pdf/2013/Ohio%20Replacement%20Program%20.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #222222;">) CJC</span>
__<span style="color: #222222;">Construction of an affordable strategic … </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">total acquisition and</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> ownership costs.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Nuclear War is the single greatest threat. Subs are the only sure source of nuclear deterrence. The other two legs of the triad are too vulnerable to first strike and don’t have the reach necessary to be an effective deterrent. </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Thompson – 11</span> (Loren B. Thompson, Ph.D. is Chief Operating Officer of the non-profit Lexington Institute and Chief Executive Officer of Source Associates, he was Deputy Director of the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University and taught graduate-level courses in strategy, technology and media affairs at Georgetown. He has also taught at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government; “The Submarine That Might Save America”; 6/20/2011; http://www.forbes.com/sites/beltway/2011/06/20/the-submarine-that-might-save-america/) CJC

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Imagine that </span><span class="Underline">the survival of … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">be thought through very carefully.</span>


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">We must have 10 subs at sea to meet nuclear deterrence requirements. It takes 14 Ohio class subs currently to meet this requirement because 4 are always in maintenance. The new SSBN(X) will only require 12. </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">O’Rourke – 12</span> (Ronald O'Rourke <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Specialist in Naval Affairs, Congressional Research Service; “Navy Ohio Replacement (SSBN[X]) Ballistic <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Missile Submarine Program: Background and <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Issues for Congress”; December 10, 2012; [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/R41129.pdf]]) CJC

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Planned Procurement Quantity: 12 SSBN(X)s to … </span><span class="Underline">the </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="Underline">SSBN(X) class life cycle.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">31</span>


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Conventional war with nuclear adversaries is inevitable – due to the nature of US war planning the use of nuclear weapons by our adversaries becomes probable</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lieber and Press in 2009</span>(Keir A., Associate Professor in the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University's Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service, Daryl G., Associate Professor of Government at Dartmouth College and Coordinator of the War and Peace Studies Program at the John Sloan Dickey Center for International Understanding, “The Nukes We Need”, Foreign Affairs, Nov/Dec, Vol. 88, Issue 6, EBSCO)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the coming decades, </span>**__the … likely to trigger nuclear escalation.__**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Deterrence prevents the escalation of conflicts and disputes to nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Robinson – 1 – president of the DOE Sandia National Laboratory </span>(C. Paul <span style="font-size: 14pt;">Robinson</span>**,** president and director of the Department of Energy Sandia National Laboratories, “A White Paper: Pursuing a New Nuclear Weapons Policy for the 21st Century,” 3/22/<span style="font-size: 14pt;">2001</span>, [[http://www.nukewatch.org/importantdocs/resources/pursuing_a_new_nuclear_weapons_p.html]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I served as an arms … </span>__would be in our hands__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Deterrence between powers work – communication and nuclear learning are increasing – just a question of U.S. technical capability to maintain deterrence</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Delpech – 12</span> – former head of strategic studies at France’s Atomic Energy Commission (Thérèse, expert on nuclear deterrence and non-proliferation, foreign affairs analyst, “Nuclear Deterrence in the 21st Century Lessons from the Cold War for a New Era of Strategic Piracy”, RAND Corporation, 2012, Accessed 2-26-2013, [[http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/monographs/2012/RAND_MG1103.pdf]]<span style="font-size: 13pt;">, </span>pg 159-161)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In 1956, Paul Nitze made an … all in the nuclear future.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Presumption flips Aff – empirical behavior of states proves the validity of deterrence. It’s unethical to risk a failure, even if the probability is low.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Foster & Payne – 7</span> (John S. Foster, Jr., Chairman of the Board of GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems, former Director of the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory and Director of Defense Research and Engineering, and Keith Payne, president of the National Institute for Public Policy department head at the Graduate Department of Defense and Strategic Studies, Missouri State University, chairman of the Policy Panel of the US Strategic Command’s Senior Advisory Group, co-chair of the Nuclear Strategy Forum, and a member of the Department of State’s International Security Advisory Board, 2007. Forum on Physics and Society, “What are Nuclear Weapons For?” [[http://www.aps.org/units/fps/newsletters/2007/october/foster-payne.html]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Deterrence: </span>__The value of__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> effective </span>__… **probability may not be low.**__

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">A specific scenario is irrelevant – intent and capability can change quickly. We should maintain the capability of deterrence</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Huessy – 8</span> (Peter Huessy, Washington Times, “Keep U.S. nukes; Deterrence is job number one,” 7/21/2008, lexis)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At a June 27 Washington seminar, </span>__Gen. …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">never changes," said Gen. Welch.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Deterrence is the only security logic that applies to multiple groups of people and has historically prevented war and violence.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Murdock – 8</span> (Clark Murdock, Ph.D., senior adviser at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, 2008. CSIS, “The Department of Defense and the Nuclear Mission in the 21st Century,” p. 13

__From a systemic perspective, nuclear deterrence … **of nuclear deterrence holds fast**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.19</span>


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Quantitative studies and a variety of methodological tests verify the theory of nuclear deterrence</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rauchhaus ‘9</span> - Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of California, Santa Barbara
(Rauchhaus, Robert. “Evaluating the Nuclear Peace Hypothesis: A Quantitative Approach,” Journal of Conflict Resolution, 2/5/09 jcr.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/53/2/258>)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In recent years, neo-liberal … </span>end of the intensity spectrum<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">These studies show the basic assumption of nuclear deterrence is correct</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rauchhaus 09 </span>(Rauchhaus, Robert. “Evaluating the Nuclear Peace Hypothesis: A Quantitative Approach,” Journal of Conflict Resolution, 2/5/09 jcr.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/53/2/258>)

__Although the Cold War was … **odds of war precipitously drop**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">U.S. leaders will cling to nuclear deterrence inevitably – only a question of how credible and effective it is</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Thompson ’11</span> – Chief Operating Officer of the non-profit Lexington Institute
(Loren, was Deputy Director of the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University and taught graduate-level courses in strategy, technology and media affairs at Georgetown. I have also taught at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government, holds doctoral and masters degrees in government from Georgetown University and a bachelor of science degree in political science from Northeastern University, “Nuclear Paradox: Shrinking U.S. Arsenal Requires Huge New Expenditures”, Forbes, 6-13-2011, [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/beltway/2011/06/13/nuclear-paradox-shrinking-u-s-arsenal-requires-huge-new-expenditures/]])

<span class="Underline">The anti-nuclear rhetoric coming … </span>wish didn’t exist<span class="Underline"> at all.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Spaces like this debate are critical to confirm public confidence in nuclear deterrence and prevent nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Delpech ’12</span> – former head of strategic studies at France’s Atomic Energy Commission
(Thérèse, expert on nuclear deterrence and non-proliferation, foreign affairs analyst, “Nuclear ¶ Deterrence ¶ in the 21st ¶ Century¶ Lessons from the Cold War ¶ for a New Era of Strategic Piracy”, RAND Corporation, 2012, Accessed 2-26-2013, [[http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/monographs/2012/RAND_MG1103.pdf]]<span style="font-size: 13pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>pg 9-11)

One of its most important … <span class="Underline">with masks on their faces.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The sustainability of deterrence is irrelevant-it is not intentions, but capabilities, that drive the need for nuclear weapons-as long as they exist it’s try or die for maintaining an in-kind nuclear deterrent</span>
Peter <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Scoblic in 2k1</span> (visiting scholar in the Carnegie Endowment's Nonproliferation Program, Ethics and International Affairs, 15.1, Alive and kicking: the greatly exaggerated death of nuclear deterrence: a response to Nina Tannenwald

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Tannenwald's desire for a stronger push … </span>**__scientists would call situational variables__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Nuclear weapons serve a unique function-conventional and other capabilities cannot meet defense requirements</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dr. Keith Payne in 2k9 </span>President, National Institute for Public Policy, How Much is Enough?: A Goal-Driven Approach to Defining Key Principles, [[http://www.lanl.gov/conferences/sw/2009/docs/payne_livermore-2.pdf]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nevertheless, </span>**__a quick review of available …__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">available evidence contradicts such a contention.</span>



=Negative= 
==Topicality/Framework== 
===T - Military=== 
====1NC Shell==== 

**A. Interpretation – Transportation Infrastructure Investment is limited to systems and facilities that support vehicular transportation, mass transit, rail transport, civil aviation, and water transportation. This excludes homeland security, law enforcement and military functions.**
**Congressional Budget Office 10**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (“Public Spending on Transportation and Water Infrastructure,” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/119xx/doc11940/11-17-infrastructure.pdf]]</span> Accessed 7/10/12)</span>

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Although different definitions of “infrastructure” … Engineers following Hurricane Katrina in 2005).</span>

===T - Excludes Pipelines=== 
====1NC Shell==== 

**A. Interpretation --- transportation infrastructure is limited to certain subsections --- excludes __water__ or __energy__ infrastructure**
**CBO 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“Public Spending on Transportation and Water Infrastructure,” [[http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/119xx/doc11940/11-17-infrastructure.pdf]] Accessed 7/10/12)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although different definitions of “infrastructure” exist, this report focuses on two types that claim a significant amount of federal resources: transportation and water. Those types of infrastructure share the economic characteristics of being relatively capital intensive and producing services under public management that facilitate private economic activity. They are typically the types examined by studies that attempt to calculate the payoff, in terms of benefits to the U.S. economy, of the public sector’s funding of infrastructure. For the purposes of CBO’s … , ports, vessels, and navigational systems. The category “water infrastructure” includes facilities that provide the following: Water resources: containment systems, such as dams, levees, reservoirs, and watersheds; and sources of fresh water such as lakes and rivers; and Water utilities: supply systems for distributing potable water, and wastewater and sewage treatment systems and plants. Consistent with CBO’s previous reports … Engineers following Hurricane Katrina in 2005).</span>


**B. Violation --- Pipelines are __not__ “transportation infrastructure” --- they’re “energy”**
**US Chamber of Commerce 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (United States Chamber of Commerce, “Transportation Performance Index – Summary Report”, 9-23, [[http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/lra/files/LRA_TPI%20_Summary_Report%20Final%20092110]]. pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Step 1 – </span>__Definition: Transportation Infrastructure__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> It … </span>__an element of energy infrastructure__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**C. Voting issue ---**

**1. Limits --- pipelines unlimits the topic to the aff-of-the-week oil and gas affs which makes neg conceptual research impossible --- prefer intent to define**
**Babson 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—Senior Portfolio Analyst @ Russell Investments (Adam, May 2011, “Structuring a listed infrastructure portfolio,” [[http://www.openworldinvesting.com/files/ow_listed_infra_article.pdf]], DA: 10/27/2012//JLENART)</span>

__While the global infrastructure universe …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">higher-beta, competitively exposed companies).</span>

===Framework=== 
====1NC Shell==== 

**Resolved means to express by formal vote—this is the only definition that’s in the context of the resolution**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Webster’s </span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">Revised Unabridged Dictionary,</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> 1998</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;"> (dictionary.com)</span>

<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">Resolved: 5. </span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">To express, as an … </span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">apropriated (or, to appropriate no money).</span>

**Federal government is the national government that expresses power**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Black’s Law</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;"> Dictionary, 8th Edition, June 1, 20</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">04</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">, pg.716.</span>

//__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Federal government. </span>__//__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">1.A national government that … </span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">. [Cases: United States -1 C.J.S. //United States// - - 2-3]</span>

===ASPEC=== 
====1NC Shell==== 

**Power in the federal government is divided into three branches—the affirmative does not specify**
Rotunda 1 (18 Const. Commentary 319, “THE COMMERCE CLAUSE, THE POLITCAL QUESTION DOCTRINE, AND MORRISON,” lexis)

__The Framers__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> of our Constitution … between two Houses of </span>__Congress__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

===T-Maintenance=== 
====1NC Shell==== 

**A. Interpretation - Infrastructure investment is distinct from maintenance**
**Lemer 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- worked at The National Academies and studied at Harvard University (Andrew, “<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.andrewlemer.com/2011/02/26/how-much-infrastructure-spending-is-%e2%80%9cenough%e2%80%9d/|How Much Infrastructure Spending Is “Enough?’”]]</span>, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.andrewlemer.com/2011/02/26/how-much-infrastructure-spending-is-%E2%80%9Cenough%E2%80%9D/]]</span>)</span>

__What has been neglected__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in … are often squeezed, forcing neglect.</span>

==Disadvantages== 
===Senate Rules Disadvantage=== 
====1NC Shell==== 

Senate recessed to preserve the first day of the legislative session allowing them to change the rules of the senate with a simple majority vote. Preserving the first day explicitly avoid carrying over the rules of the previous Senate which would then require a 2/3rds majority to make rule changes.
Klein – 1/3 (Ezra Klein, reporter; “The date for filibuster reform: Jan. 22. Probably.”; January 3, 2013; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/wonkblog/wp/2013/01/03/the-date-for-filibuster-reform-january-22-probably/]]</span>) CJC

__Technically, you need a two-thirds … deadline is Jan. 22,__ or thereabouts.

Voting on anything in the Senate before changing the rules, binds the Senate to the previous rules of the previous Senate. Which then makes the 67 votes required to pass rules go into effect and they can no longer change the rules with a simple majority.
Waldman – 11 (David Waldman, editor of Congress Matters and contributing editor to Daily KOs, “Senate rules reform fight begins Wednesday, but when might it end?”, Jan 03, 2011, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.dailykos.com/story/2011/1/3/933148/-Senate-rules-reform-fight-begins-Wednesday,-but-when-might-it-end]]</span>) CJC

First of all, we should … is conducted. That's the key.

Filibuster reform is the only way that comprehensive immigration reform can pass.
Ordonez – 12/13 (Franco Ordonez, McClatchy Newspapers; “Is Senate filibuster rule to blame for immigration impasse?”; Dec. 13, 2012; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.kansascity.com/2012/12/12/3962746/is-senate-filibuster-rule-to-blame.html]]</span>) CJC

__Solving__ one of the nation’s … on record about their grievances.

CIR solves terrorism
Stock 5
(Margaret, American Immigration Lawyers Association, Associate Prof. Dept. of Law, US Military Academy, West Point, “The Need for Comprehensive Immigration Reform: Strengthening Our
National Security”, Statement before Senate Judiciary Committee, http://kyl.senate.gov/legis_center/subdocs/051705_stock.pdf)
Before I focus on the issues … start at our consulates abroad.

The US will retaliate – triggers full scale nuclear conflict
Speice, ’06
[Patrick F. Speice, Jr., JD Candidate at The College of William and Mary, “NEGLIGENCE AND NUCLEAR NONPROLIFERATION: ELIMINATING THE CURRENT LIABILITY BARRIER TO BILATERAL U.S.-RUSSIAN NONPROLIFERATION ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS,” William & Mary Law Review, February 2006, 47 Wm and Mary L. Rev. 1427]
Accordingly, there is a significant and … __triggering a__ __full-scale nuclear conflict.__ 50

===Overheating Disadvantage=== 
====1NC Shell==== 

**__Overheating DA__ --- new demand for US construction destroys sustainable output for companies --- causes another __bubble__ and econ __collapse__**
**Prestowitz 11**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> --- president of the Economic Strategy Institute and writes on the global economy for Foreign Policy (Clyde, 8 September 2011, “Foreign Policy: Dear Mr. President, Let's Talk Jobs,” [[http://www.npr.org/2011/09/08/140280982/foreign-policy-dear-mr-president-lets-talk-jobs]], Accessed 12-06-2012//JLENART) </span>

__You are said to be … **another crash and further unemployment.**__

===Inflation Disadvantage=== 
====1NC Shell==== 

**__Inflation DA__ – plan collapses the economy**
**Cochrane 11**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">- professor of Finance at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, AQR Capital Management Distinguished Service Professor of Finance at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, research associate of the National Bureau of Economic Research, adjunct scholar at the Cato Institute (John H. “Inflation and Debt” http://faculty.chicagobooth.edu/john.cochrane/research/papers/Cochrane_Inflation_and_Debt_National_Affairs.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">For several years, a heated debate … Germany after the </span>__world wars.__

===Buy America Provisions Disadvantage=== 
====1NC Shell==== 

**The plan triggers Buy America provisions --- prevents negotiations with foreign countries**
**Morton 5/10**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">—writer, Torstar News (Peter, 2012, “Buy America spectre rises again,” The Hamilton Spectator, Ontario, lexis, Accessed 12-29-2012//JLENART)//</span>

//__Canadian companies hoping to bid …__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">in a $787-billion economic stimulus bill.</span>//

//**That causes a trade war --- flips the economy and competitiveness**//
//**Oppenheimer 9**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">—Correspondent, Miami Herald (Andres, 5 February 2009, “Reject 'Buy American' clause or risk a trade war,” [[http://www.sltrib.com/opinion/ci_11638079]], Accessed 12-29-2012</span>//JLENART)

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Forget about Iraq, the Middle … </span>__" **doesn't turn into "Bye, America."**__
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Counterplans</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">PPP Counterplan (w/ Data Cooking Net-Benefit)</span>=== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">1NC Shell</span>==== 

**Counterplan text: The United States federal government should**

* **provide** **[THE PLAN] exclusively to areas in which private actors guarantee at least one-third of the funding upfront for a minimum of twenty years**
* **open infrastructure plans to modification, including the possible transfer of project ownership to private actors**
* **make all necessary regulatory changes to encourage greater public-private partnerships** **[IN THE AREA OF THE PLAN] and provide necessary technical assistance for implementation.**

**We have a solvency advocate**
**Puentes 10**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> - Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institute (Robert, “New Partnerships for Accelerating Infrastructure Investments,” 8/23, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/research/testimony/2010/08/23-los-angeles-puentes]]</span>)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">So as Congress [...] and reduced bureaucracy.</span>

**The counterplan solves the case by doing __less than the plan__ --- any perm would be __severance__ or __intrinsic__ which are __voting issues__ because they make neg offense __impossible__ and __skew__ the __block__ --- acquiring private capital for one-third of capital needs ensures __accountable__ infrastructure creation**
**Flyvbjerg 10**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> - Professor of Major Programme Management at <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oxford_University|Oxford University]]</span>'s <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sa%C3%AFd_Business_School|Saïd Business School]]</span> and is Founding Director of the University's BT Centre for Major Programme Management. He was previously Professor of Planning at <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aalborg_University|Aalborg University]]</span>, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Denmark|Denmark]]</span> and Chair of Infrastructure Policy and Planning at <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Delft_University_of_Technology|Delft University of Technology]]</span>, The Netherlands (Bent, “Survival of the unﬁttest: why the worst infrastructure gets built—and what we can do about it,” Oxford Review of Economic Policy, Volume 25, Number 3, 2009, pp.344–367, Oxford Journals Online)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">In order to achieve accountability [...] and sometimes even unlawful.</span>

**The net benefit is __infrastructure accountability__ ---**

**Sole public investment is manipulated by project managers who __cook data__ to win project approval --- that exaggerates aff benefits and causes massive cost overruns**

**Flyvbjerg 10**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> - Professor of Major Programme Management at <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oxford_University|Oxford University]]</span>'s <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sa%C3%AFd_Business_School|Saïd Business School]]</span> and is Founding Director of the University's BT Centre for Major Programme Management. He was previously Professor of Planning at <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aalborg_University|Aalborg University]]</span>, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Denmark|Denmark]]</span> and Chair of Infrastructure Policy and Planning at <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Delft_University_of_Technology|Delft University of Technology]]</span>, The Netherlands (Bent, “Survival of the unﬁttest: why the worst infrastructure gets built—and what we can do about it,” Oxford Review of Economic Policy, Volume 25, Number 3, 2009, pp.344–367, Oxford Journals Online)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">This situation may need some [...] common with major infrastructure projects.</span>

**Data cooking creates __economic disasters__ --- the most necessary infrastructure __loses out__ --- turns the case**
**Flyvbjerg 10**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> - Professor of Major Programme Management at <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oxford_University|Oxford University]]</span>'s <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sa%C3%AFd_Business_School|Saïd Business School]]</span> and is Founding Director of the University's BT Centre for Major Programme Management. He was previously Professor of Planning at <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aalborg_University|Aalborg University]]</span>, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Denmark|Denmark]]</span> and Chair of Infrastructure Policy and Planning at <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Delft_University_of_Technology|Delft University of Technology]]</span>, The Netherlands (Bent, “Survival of the unﬁttest: why the worst infrastructure gets built—and what we can do about it,” Oxford Review of Economic Policy, Volume 25, Number 3, 2009, pp.344–367, Oxford Journals Online)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">In sum, the UK study shows [...] as disasters waiting to happen.</span>

===Executive Order Counterplan (w/ Presidential Powers Net-Benefit)=== 
====1NC Shell==== 

**Text: The President of the United States of America should issue an executive order to [INSERT PLAN].**

**Observation 1: Competition**

**A. Definitional: “The” means all parts – they’re definitionally bound to defending all branches**
**Merriam-Webster's** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Online Collegiate Dictionary, </span>**No Date,**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">http://www.m-w.com/cgi-bin/dictionary </span>

**__used__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> as a function word before a … </span>**__a group as a whole__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> <the elite> </span>

**B. Resolutional – Resolved means legislative action**
**Louisiana House of Representatives 5**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (http://house.louisiana.gov/house-glossary.htm)</span>

**__Resolution A legislative instrument that__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> generally </span>**__…__** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">. III, §17(B) and House  Rules 8.11 , 13.1 , 6.8 , and 7.4)</span>

**Observation 2: Solvency**

**The counterplan solves … __transportation__ issues and avoids politics**
**Thomasson 12**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Scott, president of NewBuild Strategies LLC, an energy and infrastructure consulting firm, former policy director at a nonprofit think tank, has testified before Congress about proposals for financing infrastructure, “Encouraging U.S. Infrastructure Investment,” Council on Foreign Relations Policy Innovation Memorandum No. 17, April, http://www.cfr.org/infrastructure/encouraging-us-infrastructure-investment/p27771] </span>

__Despite the pressing infrastructure investment … entirely **with**__**__executive branch action__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**And, the President can authorize spending**
**Mayer****1**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Kenneth R, Professor of Political Science at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. 4/12, http://pup.princeton.edu/chapters/s7095.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In response </span>__Clinton unilaterally authorized $20 … program without any meaningful interference.__


**Executive orders increase presidential power**
**Risen 4**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Clay, Managing editor of </span>//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Democracy: A Journal of Ideas, </span>//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">M.A. from the University of Chicago “The Power of the Pen: The Not-So-Secret Weapon of Congress-wary Presidents” The American Prospect, July 16, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=the_power_of_the_pen]]</span>]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In the modern era, </span>__executive … labor relations to reproductive health__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>

**That’s key to global arms control**
**Graybeal 94**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">—senior scientist @ Science Applications International Corporation & chief science @ SAIC & director of Office of Strategic Research @ CIA (James, Presidents and Arms Control, pgs. 63-64)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Kissinger believed that the role … countries'defense needs and defense commitments. </span>

**The collapse of global arms control agreements risks extinction**
**Muller 2k**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Harald, Director of Peace Research Institute—Frankfurt + Prof of Int'l Relations @ Goethe University, "Compliance Politics: A Critical Analysis of Multilateral Arms Control Treaty Enforcement," Nonproliferation Review, Summer, p. 78)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">At the global level, </span>__arms …__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">risks to their national security.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Critiques</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">Anthropocentrism Critique</span>=== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">1NC Shell</span>==== 

**The juridical war language of the 1AC masks the war against the subhuman – this is the foundation of all war**
**Kochi 9**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">—JD in Law from Griffith University (Australia) and Senior Lecturer in Law @ USussex (Tarik, “Species War: Law, Violence and Animals,” Law, Culture and the Humanities, 2009, 5: 353–369, Sage, DA: 04-04-2012//JLENART)//</span>
//__In everyday speech, in the … of war resides species war.__//

**AND, this species-contingent paradigm creates unending genocidal violence against forms of life deemed politically unqualified.**
**Kochi & Ordan 8**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">—lecturer @ Queen’s University School of Law (Ireland) AND researcher in Translation Studies at Bar Ilan University (Israel) (Tarik and Noam, “An Argument for the Global Suicide of Humanity,” borderlands, Vol. 7, No. 3, 2k8, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.borderlands.net.au/vol7no3_2008/kochiordan_argument.pdf]]</span>, DA: 04-09-2012</span>JLENART)

__Within__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> the picture many paint … </span>__is “an eternal Treblinka”__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (Singer, 1968, p.750). </span>

**Alt: The judge should vote negative to reject the 1AC’s human survival ethic.**

**This rejection enables an understanding of the species-being that solves the ethical exceptionalism of their survival politics**
**Hudson 8**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">—graduate student in Cultural Studies @ UC-Davis (Laura, “The Political Animal: Species-Being and Bare Life,” Mediations Journal, Vol. 23, No. 2: History, Subjectivity, Spring 2k8, http://www.mediationsjournal.org/files/Mediations23_2.pdf, DA: 04-09-2012//JLENART)</span>

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">In his discussion of religion, … </span>__future of politics and society?__

===Nietzsche Critique=== 
====1NC Shell==== 

**Suffering is inevitable --- the aff’s security rhetoric removes all that is unpredictable from the world --- this decimates the beauty of life and ushers nihilism**
**Der Derian 98**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">—Professor of Political Science at the University of Massachusetts (James, “The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard,” Chapter 2 from //On Security//, edited by Lipschutz, [[http://library.northsouth.edu/Upload/On%20Security.pdf]], Accessed 11-07-2012//JLENART) </span>

__The will to power__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, then, </span>__… is confused with its causes."__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 41 </span>

**They view life as something to be fixed—suffering is inevitable, they destroy the essence of existence by negating an intrinsic aspect of life**
**Kain 7**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Philip J., “Nietzsche, Eternal Recurrence, and the Horror of Existence”, Journal of Nietzsche Studies, issue 33, Penn state University, Muse)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Nietzsche simply dismisses the designed … —it can only be concealed. </span>

**Furthermore, reducing humanity as something that needs to be saved makes its extinction desirable**
**Nietzsche 1886** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[fredrich, “beyond good and evil”, aph # 225, pg. 342]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Whether hedonism, or pessimism, or … </span>**__the things which raise man up?__**

**Alt text: The judge should affirm the act of the diceroll as a feat of indeterminacy in face of the affirmative.**

**The singular event of the diceroll contains all of determination in destiny but throws it to chance in a capricious act of life’s affirmation. This act precedes life as an act of contingency.**
**Deleuze 83**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Gilles, “Nietzsche and Philosophy”, ‘The Dicethrow’, p. 29-30]</span>

__Whereas the thrown dice affirm … the eternal return as such.__

===Security Critique=== 
====1NC Shell==== 

**A. Discourse of danger. The aff’s construction of threats rigs debate into how best to secure the Self from the Other.**
David **<span class="AuthorDate">Grondin</span>**, Masters in Political Science & Ph.D. Candidate – University of Ottawa, **<span class="AuthorDate">‘4</span>**
(“(Re)Writing the ‘National Security State,’ //Center for United States Studies//)

Approaches that deconstruct theoretical practices … <span class="BoldUnderline">conditions of existence are generated</span>18.

**Security discourse causes apocalypse in the name of survival**
Peter **<span class="AuthorDate">Coviello</span>**, Asst Prof of English – Bowdoin, **<span class="AuthorDate">‘1</span>**
(Queer Frontiers, ed. Boone, author’s italics)

Perhaps. But to claim that … __can scarcely be done without__.

**Vote neg to critique the aff’s security discourse as a prior question**
Graeme **<span class="AuthorDate">Cheeseman</span>**, Snr. Lecturer @ New South Wales, **<span class="AuthorDate">and</span>** Robert **<span class="AuthorDate">Bruce</span>, <span class="2xBoldUnderline">‘</span><span class="AuthorDate">96</span>**
(//Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers//, p. 5-9)

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">This goal is pursued in … to understand them, and why?</span>
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #000000;">2NRs</span>== 
===University of Michigan Tournament=== 

**Round 2 v. West Bloomfield SP (New Orleans)**
**1NC: Framework, T - In Means Throughout, Elections Disad (Obama Good --- Russia Relations impact), P3 Counterplan (w/ Data Cooking Net-Benefit), Nietzsche Critique, Case**
**2NR: Nietzsche Critique**

**Round 3 v. New Trier WW (AFRICOM)**
**1NC: T-Military, Elections Disad (Obama Good --- Russia Relations Impact), Sealift Counterplan, Security Critique, Case**
**2NR: Elections Disad (Obama Good --- Russia Relations Impact), Case**

**Round 6 v. Rowland Hall-St. Mark's GW (Icebreakers)**
**1NC: T-Military & Vehicles, Elections Disad (Obama Good --- Russia Relations Impact), TRANSCOM Counterplan, P3 Counterplan (w/ Data Cooking Net-Benefit), Coast Guard Tradeoff Disad, Case**
**2NR: T - Military & Vehicles**

**Triples v. Chattahoochee KL (Disabilities)**
**1NC: Framework, T - Capital Spending, Elections Disad (Obama Good --- Russia Relations Impact), P3 Counterplan (w/ Data Cooking Net-Benefit), Anthropocentrism Critique, Case**
**2NR: Anthropocentrism Critique**

===**Glenbrooks Tournament**=== 

**Round 1 v. Woodward SD (MMT)**
**1NC: Framework, Fiscal Cliff DA (Hegemony Impact), Nietzsche Critique, NIB Counterplan, Case (w/ MMT fails)**
**2NR: Nietzsche Critique**

**Round 3 v. East Chapel Hill RL (Freight Rail)**
**1NC: T-Maintenance, Fiscal Cliff DA (Hegemony Impact), PPP Counterplan (w/ Data Cooking Net Benefit), States Counterplan, Case**
**2NR: Fiscal Cliff DA (Hegemony Impact), PPP Counterplan (w/ Data Cooking Net Benefit)**

**Round 6 v. Shawnee Mission East RT (CCS)**
**1NC: T-Pipelines, Fiscal Cliff DA (Eurozone Impact), PPP Counterplan (w/ Data Cooking Net Benefit), Nietzsche Critique, Case (w/ Mining Turn, Biodiversity Turn, Electricity Prices Turn, Alternative Energy Turn)**
**2NR: Fiscal Cliff DA (Eurozone Impact), PPP Counterplan, Case Defense**

**Round 7 v. Dowling Catholic WZ (Alaskan Ports)**
**1NC: T-Maintenance, Fiscal Cliff DA (Hegemony Impact), PPP Counterplan (w/ Data Cooking Net Benefit), RAMP Act Counterplan, Case**
**2NR: PPP Counterplan (w/ Data Cooking Net Benefit), Fiscal Cliff DA (Hegemony Impact)**

**Doubles v. Stratford Academy JS (Dredging)**
**1NC: T-Maintenance, Fiscal Cliff DA (Hegemony Impact), PIC out of the word "Expeditious" (w/ Economics of Speed Critique Net Benefit), RAMP Act Counterplan, Case (w/ Biodiversity and California Economy Turns)**
**2NR: Fiscal Cliff DA (Hegemony & Eurozone Collapse Impacts), Case**

===**Southern Bell Forum**=== 

**Round 2 v. McDonough RE (Climate Resiliency)**
**1NC: ASPEC, T-Capital Spending, Executive Order Counterplan (w/ Presidential Powers Net-Benefit), Senate Rules Disad, Case (w/ Inflation Disad, Overheating Disad, and Buy America Provisions Disad)**
**2NR: Executive Order Counterplan, Senate Rules Disad**

**Round 4 v. St. Ignatius LP (ITS)**
**1NC: ASPEC, States Counterplan, Executive Order Counterplan (w/ Presidential Powers Net-Benefit), Senate Rules Disad, Case (w/ Overheating Disad and Buy America Provisions Disad)**
**2NR: Executive Order Counterplan, Senate Rules Disad**

**Round 5 v. USN ?? (HSR)**
**1NC: ASPEC, Topicality (w/ Should, Investment, Capital Spending, and Vehicles Interpretations/Violations), Executive Order Counterplan, Senate Rules Disad, Debt Ceiling Disad (w/ Hegemony Impact), Case (w/ Overheating Disad, Inflation Disad, and Buy America Disad)**
**2NR: Senate Rules Disad, Executive Order Counterplan, Case Defense**

===**Heritage Hall**=== 

**Round 1 v. Edmonds Santa Fe WJ (Disabilities)**
**1NC: Framework, T-Maintenance/Capital Spending, Amtrak PIC (w/ Racism and Sexism Net Benefits), Nietzsche Critique, Case**
**2NR: Amtrak PIC (w/ Racism and Sexism Net Benefits)**

**Round 3 v. Dowling WB (Alaskan Ports)**
**1NC: T-Maintenance, T-Subsets, Hagel DA (w/ China impact), Alaska Counterplan, P3 Counterplan (w/ Data Cooking Net Benefit), Case (w/ Biodiversity Turn)**
**2NR: Hagel DA (w/ China & Iran impacts), Case**

**Round 5 v. Jenks JM (Inland Waterways)**
**1NC: T-Maintenance, Hagel DA (w/ China impact), Army Corps Bad CP, Security Critique, Case (w/ Overheating DA, Inflation DA, and Buy America Provisions DA)**
**2NR: Hagel DA, Army Corps CP, Case**

**Quarterfinals v. Blue Valley West BY (Dredging)**
**1NC: T-Maintenance, RAMP Act Counterplan, Hagel DA (w/ Georgia Impact), Case (w/ Econ Turn, California Ports Turn, Maintenance Turn, Equipment Turn, Congestion Turn)**
**2NR: RAMP Act Counterplan, Hagel DA**

===**Colleyville Heritage**=== 

**Round 2 v. Greenhill DJ (HTF)**
**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">1NC: T-Capital Spending, Federal Reserve Counterplan, Hagel DA (w/ China Rise Impact), Security Critique, Case (w/ Overheating DA and Inflation DA)</span>**
**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">2NR: Hagel DA, Overheating DA, Case</span>**

**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Round 4 v. Caddo Magnet CM (Vegas/Millard South Rip Off)</span>**
**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">1NC: Framework, Anthropocentrism Critique, Case (w/ Tournament Counter-Advocacy, Backlash DA, Narratives Bad, and Critical Pedagogy Bad)</span>**
**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">2NR: Tournament Counter-Advocacy, Backlash DA, Anthropocentrism Critique</span>**

**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Round 5 v. Westwood PJ (Hydrogen Aviation Infrastructure, etc.)</span>**
**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">1NC: T-Energy, Security Critique, Hagel DA (w/ China Rise impact), P3 Counterplan (w/ Data Cooking Net Benefit), Case (w/ Naval Power Bad)</span>**
**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">2NR: Hagel DA (w/ China Rise impact), Naval Power Bad</span>**

===**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">NDCA Nationals</span>**=== 

**Round 2 v. Carrollton DS (Icebreakers)**
**1NC: T-Military, CIR DA (w/ Hegemony Impact), TRANSCOM Counterplan, Coast Guard Tradeoff Disad, NSF Lease Counterplan, Case**
**2NR: TRANSCOM Counterplan, Coast Guard Tradeoff DA**

**Round 3 v. Edgemont GX (Freight Rail)**
**1NC: T-Maintenance, CIR DA (w/ Hegemony Impact), PPP Counterplan (w/ Data Cooking Net-Benefit), Security Critique, Case (w/ Overheating and Inflation Disads)**
**2NR: PPP Counterplan, CIR DA**

**Round 5 v. Harker KM (Freight Rail)**
**1NC: T-Maintenance, CIR DA (w/ Hegemony Impact), PPP Counterplan (w/ Data Cooking Net-Benefit), Security Critique, States Counterplan, Case**
**2NR: PPP Counterplan, CIR DA**

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]