=1AC Woodward= 
[[toc]]
==1AC—Ruralism== 

While Rural Transportation Networks are a Huge Part of Overall Transit Strategies, Federal Responsibility for Rural Transportation Infrastructure Has Lapsed—The Result is Destruction of Roads and Transit
Dabson et. al. 11<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Brian Dabson, Thomas G. Johnson and Charles W. Fluharty, Research Professor at the Truman School of Public Affairs, University of Missouri, Frank Miller Professor of Agricultural and Applied Economics and the Truman School of Public Affairs at the University of Missouri and President and CEO of the Rural Policy Research Institute, “Rethinking Federal Investments in Rural Transportation: Rural Considerations Regarding Reauthorization of the Surface Transportation Act,” Rural Policy Institute Policy Brief, April 20</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">11 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(</span>[[http://www.rupri.org/Forms/RUPRI_Transportation_April2011.pdf]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Although these decisions taken in the 1970s and 1980s were made in what was deemed to be in the national interest, they have left rural America with a greatly diminished transportation system. Other Federal decisions, such as the North America Trade Agreement, have led to major increases in heavy truck traffic and concerns about road failure and repair costs on the rural road network.</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">According to the Federal Highway Administration (2001), there are 3.1 million miles of rural roads, accounting for 80 percent of the national road network. They carry about 40 percent of vehicle miles traveled. About 50 percent are paved and 90 percent are two-lane or less. City and county governments are responsible for 95 percent of unpaved and 55 percent of paved roads. This extensive rural road network represents a legacy from a rural America that was once more highly populated than it is today. With population declines in many rural regions, the loss of tax revenues has left county and city governments without the financial means to maintain and preserve this network. As a result, some 40 percent of county roads are not adequately maintained and there is a major backlog of work needed. Also funds to serve new economic development projects for tourism, agriculture, or manufacturing are hard to find. In areas of growth, on the urban fringes and in high amenity areas, local governments are finding it hard to respond to increases in traffic, especially on roads that are outside the Federal-aid system.</span>


Rural Poverty is Exploding Now—The Highest Rates of Poverty in the Country are Centered in Rural Communities
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The </span>Daily Yonder 10(The Daily Yonder, Rural News Blog, “Poverty Highest in Rural America, Rising in Recession,” December 27th, 2010 ([[http://www.dailyyonder.com/poverty-highest-rural-america-rising-recession/2010/12/21/3098]])
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Nearly one in six people living in rural America fell below the poverty line in 2009, according to data released by the U.S. Census Bureau.¶ And poverty rates in rural counties continue to be higher than in rural and urban communities.¶ In 2009, the poverty rate in rural America was 17.26%, according to the Yonder’s analysis of Census Bureau data.¶ The rate in exurban counties was 13.3%; and in urban counties, the rate was 13.9%. ¶ The national poverty rate in 2009 was 14.4%.¶ Rural, urban and exurban poverty rates were higher in 2009 than before the recession began in late 2007. The 2009 rates for urban, rural and exurban counties were all about one percentage point higher than the rates in 2006. ¶ There were 8.3 million people living below the poverty line in rural counties in 2009, half a million more than in 2006.¶ Nationally 42.4 million people fell below the poverty line in 2009, 4 million more than before the recession began.¶ (The Census describes its poverty thresholds here. For example, if a family with a mother, father, two children and a great aunt earned, altogether, less than $26,245 it would qualify as poor.) ¶ The map above shows the distribution of poverty in rural America 2009. (Click on the map to see a larger version.)¶ Blue counties have poverty rates below the national average of 14.4%. Dark blue counties have poverty rates under 10%.¶ Brown counties have rates above the national average — and the dark brown counties are high poverty communities, where more than 20% of the population earns less than the poverty threshold.¶ The pattern will look familiar to those who have seen other maps showing poverty in rural communities. Appalachia, the Ozarks, the Black Belt in the Deep South, the Mississippi Delta, the Border and counties with Native American reservations all show up as high poverty.¶ Farming communities, the non-Indian portions of the booming Dakotas and resort counties in the Mountain West all have low levels of poverty. Look below for the fifty rural counties with the highest and lowest levels of poverty.¶ In most parts of rural America, poverty rates rose between 2006 (before the recession began) and 2009.</span>

Rural Populations are those Most in Need—Transit is Crucial to Successful Anti-Poverty Strategies
Brown 12 (Alex Brown, Research and Policy Analyst at the International City/County Management Association, “Rural Transportation Issues Loom Large as Congress Begins to Act,” ICMA, March 28th, 2012 ([[http://icma.org/en/icma/knowledge_network/blogs/blogpost/639/Rural_Transportation_Issues_Loom_Large_as_Congress_Begins_to_Act]])
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The U.S. rural population is at an all-time low of just 16 percent and this population change has had an effect on the transportation needs of rural Americans. According to the Community Transportation Association it is often the less mobile population groups who remain when a dramatic shift like this occurs. So while the natural inclination might be to divert transportation resources away from a shrinking populace, it becomes even more important to provide these individuals with a robust transportation network.¶ Rural roads and highways provide the link between states necessary for a thriving economy and as such, must be well maintained. However, data shows that citizens of rural America also have a demonstrable need for an increase in transit options. Rural Americans also spend a higher percentage of their income on fuel due to the sheer logistics of having more area to travel.Additionally, like much of the rest of the country rural unemployment is rising, meaning that those living in affected areas may face longer commutes once they re-enter the workforce.</span>


This Ignorance of the Needs of Rural Residents is Based on an Ideology of Ruralism That Restricts Rural People To Second Class Citizenship—It Creates Negative Stereotypes of Rural Dwellers, Disables Political Authority, Encourages Poverty and Exacerbates Other Forms of Discrimination
Basset 3 (Debra Lyn Basset, Associate Professor of Law, Michigan State University, “Ruralism,” Iowa Law Review, January, 2003 (Lexis)

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Our society has a "love-hate" relationship with its rural <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezp1.lib.umn.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1337740790640&returnToKey=20_T14766713861&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.531769.5049486731#n1|n1]]</span> communities. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezp1.lib.umn.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1337740790640&returnToKey=20_T14766713861&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.531769.5049486731#n2|n2]]</span> On the one hand, rural areas often are idealized as safe, bucolic, quiet havens from the stress of city living. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezp1.lib.umn.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1337740790640&returnToKey=20_T14766713861&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.531769.5049486731#n3|n3]]</span> On the other hand, those who live in rural areas often are stereotyped as uneducated and unsophisticated at best, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezp1.lib.umn.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1337740790640&returnToKey=20_T14766713861&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.531769.5049486731#n4|n4]]</span> with stereotypes then degenerating to include such descriptors as backward, unattractive, lazy, stupid, and dirty. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezp1.lib.umn.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1337740790640&returnToKey=20_T14766713861&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.531769.5049486731#n5|n5]]</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [*276] Beneath these images, however, there is a grim socioeconomic and legal reality - a reality that relegates rural dwellers to a decidedly second-class status under the law, under government benefits and policies, and, indeed, under all things that truly matter. Our society's bias is decidedly urban. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezp1.lib.umn.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1337740790640&returnToKey=20_T14766713861&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.531769.5049486731#n6|n6]]</span> Our [*277] society's focus, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezp1.lib.umn.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1337740790640&returnToKey=20_T14766713861&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.531769.5049486731#n7|n7]]</span> its programs, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezp1.lib.umn.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1337740790640&returnToKey=20_T14766713861&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.531769.5049486731#n8|n8]]</span> and its culture <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezp1.lib.umn.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1337740790640&returnToKey=20_T14766713861&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.531769.5049486731#n9|n9]]</span> are based on an urban, rather [*278] than rural, assumption. Our society's urban focus both overshadows and marginalizes rural dwellers. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezp1.lib.umn.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1337740790640&returnToKey=20_T14766713861&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.531769.5049486731#n10|n10]]</span> Indeed, the very notion of "success" purveys an urban image. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezp1.lib.umn.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1337740790640&returnToKey=20_T14766713861&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.531769.5049486731#n11|n11]]</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [*279] Over the past thirty-eight years, we as a society have acknowledged various forms of invidious discrimination, which have expanded to include such bases as race, national origin, gender, color, religion, age, and disability. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezp1.lib.umn.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1337740790640&returnToKey=20_T14766713861&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.531769.5049486731#n12|n12]]</span> "Ruralism," however, remains unacknowledged, indeed unrecognized, as a form of discrimination.</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Ruralism involves discrimination on the basis of factors stemming from living in a rural area. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezp1.lib.umn.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1337740790640&returnToKey=20_T14766713861&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.531769.5049486731#n13|n13]]</span> As is true of many other forms of discrimination, ruralism entails the projection of stereotyped attributes by a more powerful majority group onto a less powerful minority group. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezp1.lib.umn.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1337740790640&returnToKey=20_T14766713861&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.531769.5049486731#n14|n14]]</span> About eighty percent of the population of the United States lives in metropolitan areas, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezp1.lib.umn.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1337740790640&returnToKey=20_T14766713861&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.531769.5049486731#n15|n15]]</span> leaving only approximately twenty percent of the country's population in rural areas. Our society, through its portrayals in television, literature, and film, perpetuates various stereotypes of rural dwellers, ranging from the "country bumpkin," embarrassingly ignorant of basic social conventions, to the dirty, slow-thinking, slow-speaking "mountain men" with low intelligence quotients attributed snickeringly to family inbreeding. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezp1.lib.umn.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1337740790640&returnToKey=20_T14766713861&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.531769.5049486731#n16|n16]]</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The harm to rural dwellers goes beyond stereotyping; discrimination against rural areas is seen in federal spending. The federal government [*280] spends more money on urban citizens than rural citizens - $ 5,369 per urban citizen, contrasted with $ 4,725 per rural citizen. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezp1.lib.umn.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1337740790640&returnToKey=20_T14766713861&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.531769.5049486731#n17|n17]]</span> Rural dwellers not onlyreceive a low degree of governmental protection, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezp1.lib.umn.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1337740790640&returnToKey=20_T14766713861&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.531769.5049486731#n18|n18]]</span> but some federal policies create or increase problems in rural areas. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezp1.lib.umn.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1337740790640&returnToKey=20_T14766713861&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.531769.5049486731#n19|n19]]</span> As a minority group, rural dwellers receive little attention from the legislatures and courts, despite suffering discrimination in virtually every area. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezp1.lib.umn.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1337740790640&returnToKey=20_T14766713861&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.531769.5049486731#n20|n20]]</span> Farm subsidies are widely cast as the federal government's efforts at rural policy, when in fact, farm subsidies today largely benefit large agribusiness - only approximately six percent of all rural dwellers are farmers. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezp1.lib.umn.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1337740790640&returnToKey=20_T14766713861&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.531769.5049486731#n21|n21]]</span> [*281] [*282] Rural dwellers also suffer from the erroneous, but popular, perception that communication technologies have eliminated any real rural isolation. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezp1.lib.umn.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1337740790640&returnToKey=20_T14766713861&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.531769.5049486731#n22|n22]]</span> The notion that the Internet and otherforms of technology serve to connect all Americans is nothing but a cruel myth to many rural dwellers, literallymillions of whom lack telephone service, much less Internet access. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezp1.lib.umn.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1337740790640&returnToKey=20_T14766713861&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.531769.5049486731#n23|n23]]</span> In reality, the geographical isolation of, and discrimination against, rural dwellers increases the difficulty of, among other things, obtaining jobs, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezp1.lib.umn.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1337740790640&returnToKey=20_T14766713861&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.531769.5049486731#n24|n24]]</span> [*283] attending educational institutions, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezp1.lib.umn.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1337740790640&returnToKey=20_T14766713861&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.531769.5049486731#n25|n25]]</span> and accessing basic needs, goods, and services. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezp1.lib.umn.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1337740790640&returnToKey=20_T14766713861&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.531769.5049486731#n26|n26]]</span>[*284] The burdens imposed by ruralism carry the same devastating consequences as other, more widely-recognized, forms of discrimination. Victims of sex and race discrimination, for example, encounter discrimination in college admissions, in employment opportunities, and in a lack of mentoring. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezp1.lib.umn.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1337740790640&returnToKey=20_T14766713861&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.531769.5049486731#n27|n27]]</span> These same consequences attach to ruralism. Indeed, ruralism serves to exacerbate the impact of other forms of discrimination. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezp1.lib.umn.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1337740790640&returnToKey=20_T14766713861&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-23.531769.5049486731#n28|n28]]</span></span>

Poverty is a Form of Structural Violence—The Decision To Maintain it is the Largest Impact—An Ongoing and Accelerating War Against the Poor
Abu-Jamal 98 (Mumia Abu-Jamal, Activist and Prisoner, A QUIET AND DEADLY VIOLENCE, 9/19/98 (http://www.mumia.nl/TCCDMAJ/quietdv.htm)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">We live, equally immersed, and to a deeper degree, in a nation that condones and ignores wide-ranging "structural" violence, of a kind that destroys human life with a breathtaking ruthlessness. Former Massachusetts prison official and writer, Dr. James Gilligan observes; ¶ "By `structural violence' I mean the increased rates of death and disability suffered by those who occupy the bottom rungs of society, as contrasted by those who are above them. Those excess deaths (or at least a demonstrably large proportion of them) are a function of the class structure; and that structure is itself a product of society's collective human choices, concerning how to distribute the collective wealth of the society. These are not acts of God. I am contrasting `structural' with `behavioral violence' by which I mean the non-natural deaths and injuries that are caused by specific behavioral actions of individuals against individuals, such as the deaths we attribute to homicide, suicide, soldiers in warfare, capital punishment, and so on." -- (Gilligan, J., MD, Violence: Reflections On a National Epidemic (New York: Vintage, 1996), 192.) This form of violence, not covered by any of the majoritarian, corporate, ruling-class protected media, is invisible to us and because of its invisibility, all the more insidious. How dangerous is it -- really? Gilligan notes: "[E]very fifteen years, on the average, as many people die because of relative poverty as would be killed in a nuclear war that caused 232 million deaths; and every single year, two to three times as many people die from poverty throughout the world as were killed by the Nazi genocide of the Jews over a six-year period.This is, in effect,the equivalent of an ongoing, unending, in fact accelerating, thermonuclear war, or genocide on the weak and poor every year of every decade, throughout the world." [Gilligan, p. 196] Worse still, in a thoroughly capitalist society, much of that violence became internalized, turned back on the Self, because, in a society based on the priority of wealth, those who own nothing are taught to loathe themselves, as if something is inherently wrong with themselves, instead of the social order that promotes this self-loathing. This intense self-hatred was often manifested in familial violence as when the husband beats the wife, the wife smacks the son, and the kids fight each other.This vicious, circular, and invisible violence, unacknowledged by the corporate media, uncriticized in substandard educational systems, and un-understood by the very folks who suffer in its grips, feeds on the spectacular and more common forms of violence that the system makes damn sure -- that we can recognize and must react to it.¶ This fatal and systematic violence may be called The War on the Poor.</span>

==1AC—Plan Text== 

The United States Federal Government Should Substantially Increase its Investment in the Construction and Maintenance of Rural Transportation Infrastructure in the United States.

==1AC—Solvency== 
Transportation Infrastructure is Crucial to Solving Rural Problems and Alleviating Poverty—Federal Programs are Crucial to Integrated Programming—The Plan is the Basis for Any Successful Rural Policy Making
Dabson et al 11 - Brian Dabson, Thomas G. Johnson and Charles W. Fluharty, Research Professor at the Truman School of Public Affairs, University of Missouri, Frank Miller Professor of Agricultural and Applied Economics and the Truman School of Public Affairs at the University of Missouri and President and CEO of the Rural Policy Research Institute, “Rethinking Federal Investments in Rural Transportation: Rural Considerations Regarding Reauthorization of the Surface Transportation Act,” Rural Policy Institute Policy Brief, April 2011 ([[http://www.rupri.org/Forms/RUPRI_Transportation_April2011.pdf]])
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The complexity and diversity of rural America, and the associated variety of needs and expectations for transportation, call for flexible and integrated responses at the local, regional, state, and federal levels.</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The quality and quantity of the transportation systems that serve rural America have been steadily eroding for many decades. Economic and demographic shifts, deregulation, and underinvestment, have all had detrimental impacts on the economic opportunities in rural America and the quality of life of rural residents.</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">And, as is the case in other public sectors, rural transportation decision-making has suffered from the more limited resources and technical capacities which rural county and municipal jurisdictions have at their disposal, compared to their urban counterparts. Consequently, rural interests are less able to participate in transportation planning and priority setting.</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Transportation is an essential component of rural economic development and quality of life considerations. However, in the past federal transportation priorities and investments have not always been adequately aligned with local and regional needs and priorities because of structural impediments to collaboration. This has resulted in economic development, cost of living, accessibility, safety, health, and overall quality of life outcomes that have not achieved their full potential.</span>

Any investigation of root cause has to start with a discussion of poverty
Jones 3 ([[http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/american_literary_history/v015/15.4jones.html#top|Gavin Jones]], American literature and American studies at Stanford University, “Poverty and the Limits of Literary Criticism,” American Literary History, 2003 (Project Muse)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Rather than reducing questions of racial and gender consciousness to the economic determinism of class, Wharton and Wright both developtheories of poverty as an underlying social condition from which crucial elements of cultural identity and minority consciousness are generated, a condition in which the class aspects of material deprivation and the cultural aspects of gender and race, and of sexism and racism, naturally merge. Rather than lying beyond the limits of literary criticism, poverty has been implicitly theorized in this way as an integral if shifting category of social being, one that has cultural relevance as well as an epistemological dynamic that self-consciously draws attention to literary representation, thus making it the fertile site of critical practice. Indeed, a concern with poverty has often generated the kind of linguistic crises that so attract literary criticism, as we saw in [End Page 779] Melville's Pierre, and as becomes clear again in James Agee's classic response to the Great Depression, Let Us Now Praise Famous Men (1941). The radical deconstruction of discursive techniques that dominates Agee's book can be read not as the precursor of postmodernism but as the apotheosis ofan epistemological and ideological decentering never far from self-conscious literary responses to the contentious position of poverty within US political and social discourse—responses that avoid easy recourse to sentimental or melodramatic neutralization of the poor. Echoing Melville, Agee balances an attack upon "the laughter and tears inherent in poverty viewed at a distance" (14) with an effort to understand how behaviors, emotional habits, and ethical viewpoints emerge from the material dynamics of deprivation and oppression. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/american_literary_history/v015/15.4jones.html#FOOT55|55]]</span> This analysis of the cultural effects of socioeconomic disadvantage, however, merges into a speculation on causes, described by Agee as not merely environmental but "psychological, semantic, traditional, perhaps glandular" (208). <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/american_literary_history/v015/15.4jones.html#FOOT56|56]]</span> The profound damage to the consciousnesses of the tenants, which reduces them to such "hopeless and helpless cripples" (306), has environmental sources,though Agee is more troubled by the apparent power of this damage to become self-perpetuating, not just as impoverishing cultural traditions but as genetic inheritance: "[S]aturated in harm and habit, unteachable beliefs, the germens they carry at their groins strained, cracked, split, tainted, vitiate to begin with, a wallet of cheated coinage" (102). <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/american_literary_history/v015/15.4jones.html#FOOT57|57]]</span> Most troubling of all is Agee's belief that "the plainest cruelties and needs of human existence" that bring this damage have also shaped a "beauty" in the tenants' world (134), a beauty entirely indiscernible to the intellectually, irredeemably crippled individuals who have created it (203).</span>

The construction of risk and framing of objectivity dooms impact calculus. The claim that risk scenarios are objectively true creates a dictatorship in everyday life.
Ulrich <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Beck</span>, Professor for Sociology at the University of Munich, 19<span style="font-size: 12pt;">92</span> (__Risk Society__ p. 27-30)

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The knowledge dependency and invisibility of civilization's risk positions of course do not suffice to define them conceptually; they also contain additional components. Statements on hazardsare never reducible to mere statements of fact. As part of their constitution, theycontain both a theoretical and a normative component. The findings `significant concentrations of lead in children' or `pesticide substances in mothers' milk' as such are no more risk positions of civilization than the nitrate concentrations in the rivers or the sulfur dioxide content of the air. A causal interpretation must be added, which makes this appear to be a product of the industrial mode of production, a systematic side effect of modernization. In socially recognized risks, therefore, the authorities and agents of the modernization process along with all theirparticular interests and dependencies are presumed, and are placed in a direct connection, in the pattern of cause and effect, with signs of damage and threats that are socially, substantively, spatially and temporally quite detached.The woman sitting in a three-bedroom apartment in a housing estate of sub­urban Munich and nursing her three-month-old son Martin is in this way `directly related' to the chemical industry that produces agricultural chemicals, to the farmers who find themselves forced by EEC rules to engage in specialized mass production with overfertilization and so on. The radius in which one can search for side effects remains largely open. Recently an overdose of DDT was even found in Antarctic penguins. These examples show two things: firstly, that modernization risks appear in geographically specific areas, as well as unspecifically and universally; secondly, how erratic and unpredictable the tortuous paths of their deleterious effects can be. In modernization risks, then, things which are substantively-objectively, spatially and temporally disparate are drawn together causally and thus brought into a social and legal context of responsibility. As we have known at least since Hume, however, presumptions of causality escape our perception. They must always be imagined, implied to be true, believed. In this sense too, risks are invisible. The implied causality always remains more or less uncertain and tentative. Thus we are dealing with a theoretical and hence a scientized consciousness, even in the everyday consciousness of risks. Implicit Ethics. Even this causal linking of the institutionally separated does not suffice.Risks experienced presume a normative horizon of lost security and broken trust. Hence, even where they approach us silently, clad in numbers and formulas, risks remain fundamentally localized, mathematical condensations of wounded images of a life worth living. These ideas must in turn be believed, that is, they cannot be experienced as such. In this sense, risks are objectified negative images of utopias, in which the human, or what is left of it, is preserved and revived in the modernization process. Despite all its unrecognizability, this normative horizon, in which the riskiness of the risk first becomes tangible, cannot ultimately be removed by mathematics or experiments. Behind all the objectifications, sooner or later the question of acceptance arises and with it anew the old question: how do we wish to live? What is the human quality of humankind, the natural quality of nature which is to be preserved? The spreading talk of `catastrophe' is in this sense an objectivized, pointed, radicalized expression that this development is not wanted. These revived questions - what is humankind? what do we think about nature? - may be shunted back and forth between everyday life, politics and science. In the most advanced developmental stage of civilization they once again occupy a very high place on the agenda, even or especially where they were supposed to have been made invisible by their traditional magic cap of mathematical formulas and methodological controversies. Determinations of risks are the form in which ethics, and with it also philosophy, culture and politics, is resurrected inside the centers of modernization - in business, the natural sciences and the technical disciplines. They are, one might say, an unwanted means of democratization in the fields of industrial production and management, which somehow does become public discussion, depending on risk reasoning. Risk determinations are an unrecognized, still undeveloped symbiosis of the natural and the human sciences, of everyday and expert rationality, of interest and fact. They are simultaneously neither simply the one nor only the other. They can no longer be isolated from one another through specialization, and developed and set down according to their own standards of rationality. They require a cooperation across the trenches of 'disciplines, citizens' groups, factories, administration and politics, or - which is more likely - they disintegrate between these into antagonistic definitions and definitional struggles. Scientific and Social Rationality. Herein lies the essential and momentous consequence: in definitions of risks the sciences' monopoly on rationality is broken.There are always competing and conflicting claims, interests and viewpoints of the various agents of modernity and affected groups, which are forced together in defining risks in the sense of cause and effect, instigator and injured party. There is no expert on risk. Many scientists do go to work with the entire impetus and pathos of their objective rationality, and their effort to be objective grows in proportion to the political content of their defini­tions. But at the center of their work they continue to be reliant on social and thus prescribed expectations and values. Where and how does one draw the line between still acceptable and no longer acceptable exposures? How susceptible to compromise are the presupposed standards? Should the possibility of an ecological catastrophe be accepted, for instance, in order to satisfy economic interests? What are necessities, supposed necessities, and necessities that must be changed? Science's rationality claim to be able to investigate objectively the hazardousness of a risk permanently refutes itself. It is based, firstly, on a house of cards of speculative assumptions, and moves exclusively within a framework of probability statements, whose prognoses of safety cannot even be refuted, strictly speaking, by actual accidents. Secondly, one must assume an ethical point of view in order to discuss risks meaningfully at all. Risk determinations are based on mathematical possibilities and social interests, especially, if they are presented with technical certainty. In deal­ing with civilization's risks, the sciences have always abandoned their foundation of experimental logic and made a polygamous marriage with business, politics and ethics - or more precisely, they live with the latter in a sort of `permanent marriage without a license'. This hidden external determination in risk research becomes a problem at the very least when scientists still appear with a monopoly claim on rationality. The studies of reactor safety restrict themselves to the estima­tion of certain quantifiable risks on the basis of probable accidents. The dimensions of the hazard are limited from the very beginning to technical manageability. In some circles it is said that risks which are not yet technically manageable do not exist - at least not in scientific calculation or jurisdictional judgment. These uncalculable threats add up to an unknown residual risk which becomes the industrial endowment for everyone everywhere. For large segments of the population andfor opponents of nuclear energy, its catastrophic potential is central. No matter how small an accident probability is held, it is too large when one accident means annihilation.But the quantifiable concepts of risk concen­trate on the probable occurrence of an accident and deny the difference, let us say, between a limited aircraft crash and the explosion of an atomic plant, improbable as it might be, which affects nations and generations not yet born. Furthermore, in the public discussions, hazardous qualities have roles which are not dealt with at all in the risk studies, such as the proliferation of nuclear weapons; the changeability of chemical and atomic technologies from civil to military uses and purposes; the gray zone between normal and war production, which expands with expanding risk industries and markets all over the world; the contradiction between humanity (mistakes and failures) and safety; or the length and irrever­sibility of mega-technological decisions that trifle with the lives of future generations.There is no perfect system, and no perfect human being who fits its necessities. Even trying to establish something like a perfect system would mean to establish perfect control, some kind of dictatorship in everyday life. In other words, what becomes clear in risk discussions are the fissures and gaps between scientific and social rationality in dealing with the hazardous potential of civilization. The two sides talk past each other. Social movements raise questions that are not answered by the risk technicians at all, and the technicians answer questions which miss the point of what was really asked and what feeds public anxiety. Scientific and social rationality do indeed break apart, but they remain at the same time interwoven and interdependent. Strictly speaking, even this distinction is becoming less and less possible. The scientific concern with the risks of industrial development in fact relies on social expectations and value judgments, just as the social discussion and perception of risks depend on scientific arguments. Risk research follows with some embarrassment in the footsteps of 'technophobia' which it was called upon to restrain, and from which, moreover, it has received an undreamed-of material support in recent years. Public criticism and disquiet derive essentially from the dialectic of expertise and counter­expertise. Without scientific arguments and scientific critique of scientific arguments they remain dull; indeed, they cannot even perceive the mainly `invisible' object and event of their critique and fears. To modify a famous phrase: scientific rationality without social rationality remains empty, but social rationality without scientific rationality remains blind.</span>

Util renders life meaningless and disposable – empirically proven
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Will Wilkinson, research fellow at the Cato Institute where he worked on a variety of issues including Social Security reform and, most notably, the policy implications of happiness research, citing a study performed by Daniel Bartels from Columbia University and David Pizarro at Cornell, September 27, 2011, “The wicked souls of utilitarians,”(http://bigthink.com/ideas/40399?page=1)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Dr Bartels and Dr Pizarro knew from previous research that around 90% of people refuse the utilitarian act of killing one individual to save five. What no one had previously inquired about, though, was the nature of the remaining 10%.</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">To find out, the two researchers gave 208 undergraduates a battery of trolleyological tests and measured, on a four-point scale, how utilitarian their responses were. Dr Bartels and Dr Pizarro then correlated the results from the trolleyology with those from the personality tests. They found a strong link between utilitarian answers to moral dilemmas (push the fat guy off the bridge) and personalities that were psychopathic, Machiavellian or tended to view life as meaningless. Utilitarians, this suggests, may add to the sum of human happiness, but they are not very happy people themselves.</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">If you think utilitarianism is the correct theory, you might infer, as does Roger McShane, my colleague at Democracy in America that "If we really want the greatest happiness of the greatest number, we should be electing psychopathic, Machiavellian misanthropes."</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Set aside the truth or falsity of utilitarianism. This is a mistake. Utilitarianism is a theory of the good (happiness, pleasure, what have you) and of the right (do that which brings about the most good). So, according to utilitarianism, one should accept utilitarianism only if accepting utilitarianism leads one to do more good than accepting one of the many alternatives to utilitarianism. As one of philosophy's greatest utilitarian theorists (and an early president of the Cambridge Moral Sciences Club) taught:[A] Utilitarian may reasonably desire, on Utilitarian principles, that some of his conclusions should be rejected by mankind generally; or even that the vulgar should keep aloof from his system as a whole, in so far as the inevitable indefiniteness and complexity of its calculations render it likely to lead to bad results in their hands.Henry Sidgwick here is holding on to the possibility that the influence of utilitarianism may be benign if limited to a technocratic elite, a convenient opinion for the colonial overseers of the British Empire, who knew they had to break a few eggs to bring civilized omelets to the savage races. But Sidgwick's point is general: a utilitarian may desire, on utilitarian principles, that all of his conclusions should be rejected by mankind entirely. That utilitarianism as a creed leads to good utilitarian results is an empirical matter impossible to settle through philosophical argument. Since it seems implausible that we are best off governed by Machiavellian psychopaths, I take the findings of Bartels and Pizarro--that those attracted to utilitarianism tend toward the psychopathic and Machiavellian--as prima facie evidence that utilitarianism is "self-effacing," that it recommends its own rejection. This is a study about how, if you are a utilitarian, you should probably do the world some good and shut up about what you really think is best. </span>

Extremely low probabilities should count as zero—even if there’s some risk, policy decisions can’t be justified by vanishingly small probabilities
**__Rescher 2003__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Nicholas, Prof of Philosophy at the University of Pittsburgh, Sensible Decisions: Issues of Rational Decision in Personal Choice and Public Policy, p. 49-50)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">On this issue </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">there is a systemic disagreement between probabilists working on theory-oriented issues in mathematics or natural science and decision theorists who work on practical decision-oriented issues relating to human affairs. The former takes the line that small number are small numbers and must be taken into account</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> as such—that is, the small quantities they actually are. </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">The latter</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> tend to </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">take the view that small probabilities represent extremely remote prospect and can be written off.</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (De minimis non curat lex, as the old precept has it: in human affairs there is no need to bother with trifles.) When something is about as probable as a thousand fair dice when tossed a thousand times coming up all sixes, then, so it is held, </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">we can</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> pretty well </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">forget about it as a worthy of concern. As a matter of practical policy</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, we operate with probabilities on the principle that when x ≤ E, then x = 0. </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">We take the line that in our human dealings in real-life situations a sufficiently remote possibility can</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">—for all sensible purposes—</span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">be viewed as being of probability zero.</span>// <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Accordingly, such remote possibilities can simply be dismissed, and the outcomes with which they are associated can accordingly be set aside. And in “the real world” people do in fact seem to be prepared to treat certain probabilities as effectively zero, taking certain sufficiently improbable eventualities as no long representing real possibilities</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Here an extremely improbable event is seen as something we can simply write off as being outside the range of appropriate concern, something we can dismiss for all practical purposes. As one writer on insurance puts it: [</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">P]eople…refuse to worry about losses whose probability is below some threshold. Probabilities below the threshold are treated as though they were zero. No doubt, remote-possibility events having such a minute possibility can happen in some sense of the term, but this “can” functions somewhat figuratively—it is no longer seen as something that presents a realistic prospect</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>


=1NC= 
==Cap K== 
"Don't undercover Cap against Central. Just don't. You'll have a bad time." —best judge quote ever
==== ==== 
1. Transportation Infrastructure is an Explicitly Political Tool to Organize Space to Benefit of the Powerful and Economic Elite
Zachary **<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11pt;">Callen</span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">, </span>Prof of Political Science at Alleghany College, “THE SEAMS OF THE STATE: INFRASTRUCTURE AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS IN AMERICAN STATE BUILDING,” Dissertation at the University of Chicago, 20**<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11pt;">09</span>** (<span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">[[http://gradworks.umi.com/3369449.pdf]]</span>)

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">However, beyond just shaping political subjects, space is itself also open to human ma- nipulation and change. The values and ideals that physical structures impose on agents are not accidental or somehow inherently contained within the object. Instead, there are human agents actively shaping and altering space, as part of furthering of their preferred value system. Spatial form should not be considered natural or pre-given; space is built, maintained, and purposefully altered by human decisions. In actual practice, spatial organi- zation itself arises through a conuence of natural conditions and political choices. On the one hand, space is an external factor, with local terrain, altitude, and climate not subject to human control. But, at the same time, how space is developed and the rules of usage for particular spaces are human constructs that directly shape spatial form. While not always easily altered, spatial forms are neither eternal nor endlessly repeating. Instead, organized and motivated actors can transform space, and through doing so also change the rules of the broader political field. While many of the spatial fields that human beings inhabit have some basis in the \natural environment," the majority of these spaces still inevitably primarily reect human actions and values more than any natural geographic features (Gottdiener, 1997; Harvey, 2000; Jackson, 1994; Lefebvre, 1984; Soja, 2003). Hence, space is intrinsically dialectical, being both shaped by human choice while at the same time also molding human subjectivity. The capacity of political institutions to transform space and, in turn, the power of those transformation over individuals, is an enduring and widespread feature of social change. Thereby, spatial transformation is a key element of how states express their power (Mann, 1986). Spatial organization has been utilized by political agents in numerous contexts, across time, to pursue very speci_c goals. For instance, business interests utilize urban design to encourage consumption in modern cities. In a more political vein, European governments are currently reformulating urban environments to redirect economic development from the nation-state scale to the city-regional level, and ancient political leaders controlled local geog- raphy as a means to consolidate their power. With urban planning, national transportation infrastructure systems, and land usage guidelines, states can express their own values to the world, and more importantly, direct the behavior of their citizens. More practically, without sufficient or appropriate spatial organization between its constituent parts, a state is vulner- able to attack, disintegration, or economic stagnation (Brenner, 2004; Lefebvre, 2003; Smith, 8 2003). However, space's centrality to state power makes it an inherently contested political arena, as multiple actors within the state attempt to control and reformulate space in a manner that best suits their interests. This intensity of conict results from the far-reaching implications that come with having the power to order space.</span>


2. Continued Economic Growth Will End All Complex Forms of Life—We Must Allow Recession to Take Hold to Re-Establish Viable Civilization—All Your Transition Bad Impacts are Non-Ux
Dr. Glen **Barry**, “Economic Collapse And Global Ecology,” CounterCurrents.org, January 14th, 20**<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11pt;">08</span>**(http://www.countercurrents.org/barry140108.htm)

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Given widespread failure to pursue policies sufficient to reverse deterioration of the biosphere and avoid ecological collapse, the best we can hope for may be that the growth-based economic system crashes sooner rather than later. Humanity and the Earth are faced with an enormous conundrum -- sufficient climate policies enjoy political support only in times of rapid economic growth. Yet this growth is the primary factor driving greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental ills. The growth machine has pushed the planet well beyond its ecological carrying capacity, and unless constrained, can only lead to human extinction and an end to complex life. With every economic downturn, like the one now looming in the United States, it becomes more difficult and less likely that policy sufficient to ensure global ecological sustainability will be embraced. This essay explores the possibility that from a biocentric viewpoint of needs for long-term global ecological, economic and social sustainability; it would be better for the economic collapse to come now rather than later. Economic growth is a deadly disease upon the Earth, with capitalism as its most virulent strain. Throw-away consumption and explosive population growth are made possible by using up fossil fuels and destroying ecosystems. Holiday shopping numbers are covered by media in the same breath as Arctic ice melt, ignoring their deep connection. Exponential economic growth destroys ecosystems and pushes the biosphere closer to failure. Humanity has proven itself unwilling and unable to address climate change and other environmental threats with necessary haste and ambition. Action on coal, forests, population, renewable energy and emission reductions could be taken now at net benefit to the economy. Yet, the losers -- primarily fossil fuel industries and their bought oligarchy -- successfully resist futures not dependent upon their deadly products. Perpetual economic growth, and necessary climate and other ecological policies, are fundamentally incompatible. Global ecological sustainability depends critically upon establishing a steady state economy, whereby production is right-sized to not diminish natural capital. Whole industries like coal and natural forest logging will be eliminated even as new opportunities emerge in solar energy and environmental restoration. This critical transition to both economic and ecological sustainability is simply not happening on any scale. The challenge is how to carry out necessary environmental policies even as economic growth ends and consumption plunges. The natural response is going to be liquidation of even more life-giving ecosystems, and jettisoning of climate policies, to vainly try to maintain high growth and personal consumption. We know that humanity must reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 80% over coming decades. How will this and other necessary climate mitigation strategies be maintained during years of economic downturns, resource wars, reasonable demands for equitable consumption, and frankly, the weather being more pleasant in some places? If efforts to reduce emissions and move to a steady state economy fail; the collapse of ecological, economic and social systems is assured. Bright greens take the continued existence of a habitable Earth with viable, sustainable populations of all species including humans as the ultimate truth and the meaning of life. Whether this is possible in a time of economic collapse is crucially dependent upon whether enough ecosystems and resources remain post collapse to allow humanity to recover and reconstitute sustainable, relocalized societies. It may be better for the Earth and humanity's future that economic collapse comes sooner rather than later, while more ecosystems and opportunities to return to nature's fold exist. Economic collapse will be deeply wrenching -- part Great Depression, part African famine. There will be starvation and civil strife, and a long period of suffering and turmoil. Many will be killed as balance returns to the Earth. Most people have forgotten how to grow food and that their identity is more than what they own. Yet there is some justice, in that those who have lived most lightly upon the land will have an easier time of it, even as those super-consumers living in massive cities finally learn where their food comes from and that ecology is the meaning of life. Economic collapse now means humanity and the Earth ultimately survive to prosper again. Human suffering -- already the norm for many, but hitting the currently materially affluent -- is inevitable given the degree to which the planet's carrying capacity has been exceeded. We are a couple decades at most away from societal strife of a much greater magnitude as the Earth's biosphere fails. Humanity can take the bitter medicine now, and recover while emerging better for it; or our total collapse can be a final, fatal death swoon. A successful revolutionary response to imminent global ecosystem collapse would focus upon bringing down the Earth's industrial economy now. As society continues to fail miserably to implement necessary changes to allow creation to continue, maybe the best strategy to achieve global ecological sustainability is economic sabotage to hasten the day. It is more fragile than it looks. Humanity is a marvelous creation. Yet her current dilemma is unprecedented. It is not yet known whether she is able to adapt, at some expense to her comfort and short-term well-being, to ensure survival. If she can, all futures of economic, social and ecological collapse can be avoided. If not it is better from a long-term biocentric viewpoint that the economic growth machine collapse now, bringing forth the necessary change, and offering hope for a planetary and human revival.</span>


3. Capitalism monetarizes and commodifies all existence–there will never be value to life in the world of the aff–it’s try or die to escape capitalism

Joel **__Kovel__**, Alger Hiss Professor, Social Studies, Bard College, THE ENEMY OF NATURE: THE END OF CAPITALISM OR THE END OF THE WORLD, 20**__02__**, p. 141.
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Capital produces egoic relations, which reproduce capital. The isolated selves of the capitalist order can choose to become personifications of capital, or may have the role thrust upon them. In either case, they embark upon a pattern of non-recognition mandated by the fact that the almighty dollar interposes itself between all elements of experience: all things in the world, all other persons, and between the self and its world: nothing really exists except in and through monetization. This set-up provides an ideal culture medium for the bacillus of competition and ruthless self-maximization. Because money is all that ‘counts’, a peculiar heartlessness characterizes capitalists, a tough-minded and cold abstraction that will sacrifice species, whole continents (viz. Africa) or inconvenient sub-sets of the population (viz. black urban males) who add too little to the great march of surplus value or may be seen as standing in its way The presence of value screens out genuine fellow-feeling or compassion, replacing it with the calculus of profit-expansion. Never has a holocaust been carried out so impersonally When the Nazis killed their victims, the crimes were accom­panied by a racist drumbeat; for global capital, the losses are regrettable necessities.</span>

4. The Alternative is To Allow The System to Collapse—Exposing These Fractures Will Allow for Capitalism to Collapse, They Must Be Exploited as the Opportunity Arises
Slavoj **<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11pt;">Zizek</span>** , Contingency, Hegemony, Universality: Contemporary Dialogues on the Left, **<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11pt;">2k</span>**, p. 322

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">I am fully aware of what one should call, without any irony, the great achievements of liberal capitalism: probably, never in human history have so many people enjoyed such a degree of freedom and material standard of living as in today’s developed Western countries, However, far from accepting the New World Order as an inexorable process which allows only for moderate palliative measures, I continue to think, in the old Marxist vein, that today’s capitalism, in its very triumph, is breeding new ‘contradictions’ which are potentially even more explosive than thos,e of standard industrial capitalism. A series of ‘irrationalities’ immediately comes to mind: the result of the breathtaking growth of productivity in the last few decades is rising unemployment, with the long-term perspective that developed societies will need only 20 per cent of their workforce to reproduce themselves, with the remaining 80 per cent reduced to the status of a surplus from a purely economic point of view; the result of decolonization is that multinationals treat even their own country of origin as iust another colony; the result of globalization and the rise of the ‘global village’ is the ghettoization of whole strata of the population; the result of the much-praised ‘disap-pearance of the working class’ is the emergence of millions of manual workers labouring in the Third World sweatshops, out of our delicate Western sight. . . The capitalist system is thus approaching its inherent limit and self-cancellation: for the maiority of the population, the dream of the virtual ‘frictionless capitalism’ (Bill Gates) is turning into a night-mare in which the fate of millions’ is decided in hyper-reflexive speculation on futures. From the very beginning, capitalist globalization - the emergence of capitalism as the world system - involved its exact opposite: the split, within particular ethnic groups, between those who are included in this globalization and those who are excluded. Today, this split is more rad-ical than ever. On the one hand, we have the so-called ‘symbolic class’: not only managers and bankers, but also academics, journalists, lawyers, and so on - all those whose domain of work is the virtual symbolic universe. On the other, there are the excluded in all their variations (the permanently unemployed, the homeless, underprivileged ethnic and religious minorities, and so on). In between, there is the notorious ‘middle class’, passionately aftached to the traditional modes of production and k~eology (say, a qualified manual worker whose job is threatened), and attacking both extremes, big business and academics as well as the excluded, as ‘un-patriotic’, ‘rootless’ deviations. As is always the case with social antagonisms, today’s class antagonism functions as the intricate interplay between these three agents, with shifting strategic alliances: the ‘politically correct’ symbolic classes defending the excluded against the ‘fundamentalist’ middle class, and so forth. The split between them is becoming even more radical than traditional class divisions -one is tempted to claim that it is reaching almost ontological propor-tions, with each group evolving its own ‘world-view’, its own relation to reality: the ‘symbolic class’ is individualistic, ecologically sensitive and simultaneously ‘postmodern’, aware that reality itself is a contingent symbolic formation; the ‘middle class’ sticks to traditional stable ethics and a belief in ‘real life’, with which symbolic classes are ‘losing touch’; the excluded oscillate between hedonistic nihilism and radical (religious or ethnic) fundamentalism. Are we not dealing again with the Lacanian triad of Symbolic, Imaginary and Real? Are the excluded not ‘real’ in the sense of the kernel which resists social integration, and is the ‘middle class’ not ‘imag-inary’, clinging to the fantasy of society as a harmonious Whole corrupted through moral decay? The main point of this improvised description is that globalization undermines its own roots: one can already perceive on the horizon the conflict with the very principle of formal democracy, since, at a certain point, the ‘symbolic class’ will no longer be able ‘democratically’ to contain the resistance of the maiority. lWhich way out of this predicament will this class then resort to? Nothing is to be excluded, even up to genetic manipulation to render those who do not fit into globalization more docile.</span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Other Conditional 1NCs we've run but haven't but cites up for (yet)</span>== 
Consult NATO CP
States CP (such an obscure argument omg)
Give Back the Land K


=Intel= 
==Valley== 

==Caucus== 
HoFlo RR
1NC: ASPEC, Cap K, Obama Good Elections, States CP

Shawnee Mission
1NC: XO, Obama Good Elections

=Cites= 
OY VEY AFF CITES: ruth.n.foster@gmail.com

OY VEY NEG CITES: reabolma@visi.com

Also: if you plan on just taking everything above and using our exact 1AC or 1NC please email us your name and circuit. Obviously we have no legal ground to obligate you to do so, but it'd be nice if you did. And like, we can kind of see how things work out for our aff because it's our baby and we love it forever.