=Affirmative= 
[[toc]]
===1AC Valley=== 

Life in the city is defined by density and by heterogeneity. Urban space, more so than any other mode of community, forces individuals to coexist continuously with others in dense and limited space. These aspects of urban life demand a unique approach to the production of urban space. We call this approach The Right To The City.
Don **__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Mitchelle</span>__**, Geography Prof @ Syracuse, The Right To The City, New York: Guilford Press, 20**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">03</span>__**, P.17-18

“There are several...<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> to the city</span>” (Lefebvre 1996 [1968], 174).

The Right To The City recognizes that urban dwellers, not the state or the market, must have the right to appropriate and dictate the production of urban space in a way that addresses their daily needs and experience.
Mark **__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Purcell</span>__**, Geography Prof @ U of Washington, Citizenship and the Right to the Global City: Reimagining the Capitalist World Order, International Journal of Urban and Regional Research, September 20**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">03</span>__**

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“Everyday life...</span>political community.”



Unfortunately, the vast majority of urban public space serves one purpose: the orderly and convenient use of an automobile.
Ainsley **__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Judge</span>__**, Twin Cities Bike Activist, Honor’s Thesis Submitted To The Macalester Geography Department, "Designing More Inclusive Streets: the Bicycle, Gender, and Infrastructure" , 20**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">11, </span>__**http://digitalcommons.macalester.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1028&context=geography_honors

““Share the Road”...<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> function democratically</span> (Mitchell 2003, 132).”

By cutting off each motorist from others and from the space, automobile dominated space becomes a space of isolation from others and from the city space. This destroys the social nature of most of the city’s public space, rendering it depoliticized.
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Matthew Wietse **__Talsma__**</span>, Geography Prof @ U Toronto, Technologies of the City and Technologies of the Self: Lessons from the Road, 2010, Google It

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“The</span> freedom... against traffic.”

The elimination of space for interaction and experience is part of a larger transition toward more isolating and less public cities.
David **__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Harvey</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">,</span>__<span style="font-size: 12.6667px;">Professor of Anthropology at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York</span>__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">,</span>__ Right To The City, New Left Review 53, September-October 20**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">08</span>__**

“As in all the... state apparatus.”
This transition away from the city as a sight of vibrant public social spaces forces urban dwellers to cede control over the production of urban space. Only public space can provide the forum for the formation and expression of demands on urban space that are essential for exercising Right to the City.
Simon __Springe____r__, Geography Prog @ University of Victoria, Public Space as Emancipation: Meditations on Anarchism, Radical Democracy, Neoliberalism and Violence, Antipode Vol. 43 No. 2, 20__10__
“Such <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">spatialized notions...</span>recurring performances ([[home#b137|Valentine 1996]]).”

The result is the violent disenfranchisement of countless urban populations. Ceding control of the production of urban space to the external forces renders whole populations disposable.
David **__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Harvey</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">,</span>__<span style="font-size: 12.6667px;">Professor of Anthropology at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York</span>__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">,</span>__ Right To The City, New Left Review 53, September-October 20**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">08</span>__**

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“Surplus absorption...its production</span>.”

Thus my partner and I, as an act of reclaiming right to the city, demand federal investment in bicycle infrastructure along urban roads.

Contention 2 is Solvency

Cycling, as an alternative mode of transportation, repoliticizes the streets as a public space by allowing individuals to interact with both other’s and the urban environment.
Zach **__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Furness</span>__**, Prof of Cultural Studies @ Columbia College, One Less Car: Bicycling And The Politics’ Of Automobilist, Temple University Press, 20**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">10</span>__**

“At the most basic level,...<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> my lovely bicycle”</span>

This in turn makes the promotion of the bicycle a key step in the actualization of the Right To The City. By forcing the individual to actively engage with space during transportation, bicycling produces the type of urban subjects necessary to shift the production of urban space back to the urban dwellers themselves.
Jen **__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Petersen</span>__**, Ph.D. in Sociology from New York University, “Pedaling Hope,” Magazine for Urban Documentation, Opinion and Theory, no. 6, 20**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">07</span>__**, http://www.monumagazine.com/monu6/Petersen_final.pdf

“This and other experiences...seeing and knowing.”

Federal investment in in bike infrastructure drastically increases biking. Test programs prove.
PRI (Public Radio International), “New study shows federal investment in bike infrastructure paying off”, 22 May, 20**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">12, </span>__**[[http://www.pri.org/stories/business/the-bright-side-of-biking9962.html]]

<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">“Across the..</span>the future."

Infrastructure investment is the key starting point. Everything else follows.
Ainsley **__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Judge</span>__**, Twin Cities Bike Activist, Honor’s Thesis Submitted To The Macalester Geography Department, "Designing More Inclusive Streets: the Bicycle, Gender, and Infrastructure" , 20**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">11, </span>__**[[http://digitalcommons.macalester.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1028&context=geography_honors]]

“While the...<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">of transportation</span>. “

We ask that you use your ballot to affirm our vision of urban space by joining us in our demand for federal investment in bicycle infrastructure. No one here controls the state and we think that’s fine, the production of urban space must begin with deliberation and politics among the people.
Mark **__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Purcell</span>__**, Geography Prof @ U of Washington, Excavating Lefebvre: The right to the city and its urban politics of the inhabitant, GeoJournal 58: 99–108, 20**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">02</span>__**

“Lefebvre’s notion...<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">citizen enfranchisement</span>.”


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">1AC Caucus</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Contention 1: Inherency</span>
The US lags in ITS deployment due to lack of adequate funding and a lack of federal oversight

Intelligent Transportation Systems Explaining International IT Application Leadership: Stephen <span style="font-size: 18pt;">Ezell</span> | January 20<span style="font-size: 18pt;">10</span>The Information Technology& Innovation Foundation, ITIF

In contrast to … the traveling public.

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Contention 2: Crashes</span>
Approximately 33,000 people were killed in vehicle crashes in the United States last year, and 2.2 million were injured

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">USDOT</span>, 2010 Motor Vehicle Crashes: Overview, Revised February 2012

In 2010, 32,885 crashes in 2009.

Technology as part of roadway infrastructure plays a key role in improving passenger safety, multiple warrants

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">RITA</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Intelligent Transportation Systems Joint Program Office, ITS Saves Lives,</span> <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">No Date</span>

Roadway Safety Systems Technology …and in-vehicle navigation systems.

Vehicle Infrastructure Integration (V2I) systems can prevent about 25% of crashes

NHTSA, Frequency of Target Crashes for IntelliDrive Safety Systems, October 2010

V2I systems target about…or AV system categories.

In addition, V2I enables Vehicle to Vehicle communications technology

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Intelligent Transportation Systems Explaining International IT Application Leadership: Stephen </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Ezell</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> | January 20</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The Information Technology& Innovation Foundation, ITIF</span>

Vehicle-to-infrastructure integration … at railway intersections.28

In the long term, V2V combined with V2I can prevent 81% of crashes

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">NHTSA</span>, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Frequency of Target Crashes for IntelliDrive Safety Systems, October 20</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">10</span>

Combined V2V and V2I systems…tackled by AV systems.

ITS provides economic benefits by reducing congestion, reducing costs due to crashes, and creating an industry capable of providing 600,000 new jobs
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Intelligent Transportation Systems Explaining International IT Application Leadership: Stephen </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Ezell</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> | January 20</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The Information Technology& Innovation Foundation, ITIF</span>

Intelligent transportation systems … and competitiveness advantage for themselves.

===Thus, we present the following plan: The USFG should substantially increase its investment in the deployment of Intelligent Transportation System Infrastructure. We'll clarify.=== 

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Contention 3: Solvency</span>
The technology for ITS is ready to go

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">USDOT</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, AASHTO Connected Vehicle Infrastructure Deployment Analysis, June 17, 20</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">11</span>

DSRC technologies were …infrastructure-to-vehicle (I2V), communications.

USFG Funding allows ITS to reach critical mass

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Intelligent Transportation Systems Explaining International IT Application Leadership: Stephen </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Ezell</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> | January 20</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The Information Technology& Innovation Foundation, ITIF</span>

Over the next five years… IntelliDrive in 8. several large U.S. cities.


===Contention Four is Risk Assessment=== 
==== ==== 
First, give them extremely low risk of their impact scenarios. If we do the plan the apocalypse will still probably not happen.

====Sub Point A is Defense.==== 
==== ==== 
Major war is obsolete – costs are too great
<span class="highlight">Michael **Mandelbaum**</span>, American foreign policy professor at the Nitze School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University, 19**__99__** “Is Major War Obsolete?”, http://www.ciaonet.org/conf/cfr10/

My argument says, tacitly… have erupted can be absorbed.
==== ==== 
Deterrence checks back your instability internals
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">G John</span> <span class="cite">Ikenberry</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University “The Rise of China and the Future of the West” Foreign Affairs January/February 20</span><span class="cite">08 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">http://www.foreignaffairs.org/20080101faessay87102/g-john-ikenberry/the-rise-of-china-and-the-future-of-the-west.html</span>

The most important…as a historical process.
Your irrational leaders’ arguments are wrong. Crisis forces leaders to be rational.
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Harvey 97</span>__** (Frank, Associate Prof. Pol. Sci. – Dalhousie U., “The Future’s Back: Nuclear Rivalry, Deterrence Theory, and Crisis Stability after the Cold War”, p. 12-13)

The most important …underlying rational choice theory.
==== ==== 
Nuclear Taboo prevents nuclear launch
T.V. **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Paul</span>__**, Professor of international relations at McGill University and Director of University of Montreal-McGill Research Group in International Security, December 19**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">95</span>__**, Nuclear Taboo and War Initiation in Regional Conflicts, JOURNAL OF CONFLICT RESOLUTION, Vol. 39 No. 4)
These stringent definitions …desisted from their use.
====Sub Point B is Predictions.==== 
Cognitive constraints on our ability to make certain perdictions mean you assign the NEGs scenarios very little probability.
Predictions in I.R are pretty much impossible. Unforeseen consequences have as much shaping power as predicted consequences.
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Hendrick</span>__**, 20**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">09</span>__** – PhD in Conflict Resolution from Bradford University, contributor to the Oxford University Press (Diane, “Complexity Theory and Conflict Transformation: An Exploration of Potential and Implications”, [[http://www.brad.ac.uk/acad/confres/papers/pdfs/CCR17.pdf]])//BZ

In international relations …solutions to policy problems.” (Harrison, 2006 p. 2)
Same for the environmental impact. Even if your “warming real and bad” data is good your prediction that the plan will uniquely result in environment collapse are impossible, too many variables.
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Levy and Lichtenstein</span>__**, 20**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">11</span>__** – Levy is a Professor in Management and Marketing at UMass while Lichtenstein is an associate professor in management at UMass (David and Benyamin, “Approaching Business and the Environment with Complexity Theory”, Oxford Press, http://www.faculty.umb.edu/david_levy/LevyLicht2011_complexity_chap32.pdf)

Complexity theory offers a … which these systems emerge.

Second. Low risk is no risk. If we win our probability arguments you still vote to solve car accidents even though they say extinction.

Focusing on worse case analysis makes risk assessment impossible because it artificially inflates the danger of one time catastrophes vis-à-vis impacts with extended timeframe.
David **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Berube</span>__**, Associate Professor of Speech Communication at the University of South Carolina, 20**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">00</span>__** [Director of Debate “Debunking Mini-max Reasoning: The Limits Of Extended Causal Chains In Contest Debating,”Contemporary Argumentation and Debate, Volume 21, Available Online at http://www.cedadebate.org/CAD/2000_berube.pdf, Accessed 04-05-2008, p. 64-69]

Vohra warned: "There are …accidents killing one person"
==== ==== 
There is no alternative. Their risk analysis makes policy making imposable because there is always a risk of extinction.
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">HERBECK AND KATSULAS, 92</span>__** [Dale, Professor of Communication and Director of the Fulton Debating Society at Boston College; John, Debate Coach at Boston College; ―The Use and Abuse of Risk Analysis in Policy Debate,‖ Paper Presented at the 78th Annual Meeting of the Speech Communication Association Available Online via ERIC Number ED354559, p. 10-12]

First, and foremost, we …claimed by the negative.
==== ==== 
Rejecting low probability internal link chains is key to rational policymaking—accumulated experience proves that appeals to the possibility of catastrophic causal chains should not influence our decision-making.
Sven Ove **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Hansson</span>__**, Professor in the Department of Philosophy and the History of Technology at the Royal Institute of Technology (Stockholm, Sweden), 20**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">05</span>__**

[“The Epistemology of Technological Risk,” Techné: Research in Philosophy and Technology, Volume 9, Number 2, Winter, Available Online at [[http://scholar.lib.vt.edu/ejournals/SPT/v9n2/hansson.html]], Accessed 10-08-2008 BATMAN]

There are occasions when … associated with the measure.
==== ==== 
Third. We will not have defense for all their specific scenarios and we don’t need it. Because of the indeterminate nature of specific linier predictions, you should give substantially more weight to evidence about the general nature of international relations and the environment than specific scenarios.
James **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Rosenau, 97</span>__** – professor of international affairs at George Washington , “Many Damn Things Simultaneously: Complexity Theory and World Affairs”, Complexity, Global Politics, and National Security, <span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dodccrp.org/html4/bibliography/comch04.html]]</span>)

In short, there are …many damn things simultaneously.

Fourth. When weighing the cost benefit analysis of the plan uniqueness is key, it’s the only way to tell if the impact is actually an impact cost to doing the plan. If we non unique an impact you disregard it.
Dale **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Herbeck</span>__**, Professor of Communication at Boston College, 19**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">92</span>__** [Director of the Fulton Debating Society at BostonCollege, “The Use and Abuse of Risk Analysis in Policy Debate,” Paper Presented at the 78th Annual Meeting of theSpeech Communication Association (Chicago, IL), October 29th-November 1st, Available Online via ERIC Number ED354559, p. 10-12]

Third, we must not … risk to the disadvantage.

=Negative= 

===<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**Apocalyptic Rhetoric K**</span>=== 

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**Apocalyptic rhetoric forecloses on civil society based discussions of politics, economics, and the environment.** </span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 11pt;">__**Kurasawa ‘4,**__</span> (Fuyuki, Assistant Prof. of Sociology @ York University, Cautionary Tales, Constellations Vol. 11, No. 4, Blackwell Synergy)

“Moreover, I would ...global justice. “


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**This makes every impact more likely. A vibrant public sphere and cultures of foresight are key to solve future trends towards extinction** </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**<span style="color: #000000;">__Kurasawa ‘4__</span>, (Fuyuki, Assistant Prof. of Sociology @ York University, Cautionary Tales, Constellations Vol. 11, No. 4, Blackwell Synergy)**</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">“In the first...<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 11pt;">via strong publics</span>.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**Apocalyptic representations ensures biopolitical control over populations – genocide is ongoing and extinction is inevitable** </span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 11pt;">__**Coviello 00**__</span> - Assistant Professor of English @ the Bowdoin College
[Peter, Queer Frontiers: Millennial Geographies, Genders, and Generations. "Apocalypse from Now On."]

<span style="color: #000000;">__<span style="text-decoration: none;">“<span style="font-family: Arial,serif; font-size: 9pt;">Apocalypse</span></span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"><span style="color: #00000a; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">,</span><span style="font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;"> as I ...</span><span style="font-family: Arial,serif; font-size: 9pt;">__<span style="font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">done without</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">.”</span></span></span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**The Alternative is to vote negative to reject the rhetorical justifications of the 1AC.** </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**A focus on rhetoric is critical to crafting effective responses to crisis.** </span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 11pt;">__**Doremus**__</span>, 20<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 11pt;">__**00**__</span>-The Rhetoric and Reality of Nature Protection: Toward a New Discourse , Professor of Law, University of California at Davis. J.D., 57 Wash & Lee L. Rev. 11, * Washington & Lee Law Review Winter, 2000

<span style="text-decoration: none;">“Rhetoric matters....<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 11pt;">is interpreted.”</span></span>


===<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**Anthropocentrism K**</span>=== 

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**Attempts to make humane society more equitable ignore the continuous violence against the natural world that that society is built off of. This not only outweighs the case, but makes their solvency impossible because they don’t challenge the anthropocentric roots of oppression.** </span>
Tarik <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 11pt;">__**Kochi**__</span>, Prof @Sussex Law School, Species War: Law, Violence and Animals, Law, Culture and the Humanities 20<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 11pt;">__**09**__</span>; 5: 353–369

<span style="color: #000000;"><span style="text-decoration: none;">“<span style="font-family: Arial,serif; font-size: 9pt;">Grotius and Hobbes are...</span></span><span style="font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">ordering of war</span></span><span style="font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**Anthropocentrism underscores all other modes of oppression. Our critique needs to be the starting point for emancipatory politics**</span>
Tarik <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 11pt;">__**Kochi**__</span>, Prof @Sussex Law School, Species War: Law, Violence and Animals, Law, Culture and the Humanities 20<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 11pt;">__**09**__</span>; 5: 353–369


<span style="text-decoration: none;">“<span style="font-size: 9pt;">This reflection need...<span style="color: #000000;">non-human animals</span>.” </span></span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**Impact is unending genocidal violence demened politically unqualified.**</span>
Tarik <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 11pt;">__**Kochi and**__ </span>Noam <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 11pt;">__**Ordan**__</span>, Prof @Sussex Law School and Prof at Bar Llan University, boarderlands, An Argument for the Global Suicide of Humanity, Volume 7 Number 3, 20<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 11pt;">__**08**__</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">“<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Within the picture...<span style="color: #000000;">an eternal Treblinka</span>” (Singer, 1968, p.750).”</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**The alternative is to vote negative to reject the humanism if the 1AC. This is rejection enables an understanding of the species-being that solves the ethical exceptionalism of their survival politics.**</span>
Laura <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 11pt;">__**Hudson**__</span>, Cultural Studies PhD UC-Davis, The Political Animal: Species-Being and Bare life, Mediations: Journal of Marxist Literary Group 20<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 11pt;">__**04**__</span>

“We are all….truly separable.”

===Politics DA=== 


**Obama has a 77.5% chance of winning now**

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">The New York Times Blog, (FiveThirtyEight), September 22, 2012 Saturday</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">Sept. 22: Little Agreement Among Pollsters on 'Enthusiasm Gap'</span>

“<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,serif;">Saturday brought...probability estimates.”</span>



**More deficit spending would swing the election to Romney**
**Kraushaar, ’12** (Josh, National Journal writer, 5/14/12, [[http://decoded.nationaljournal.com/2012/05/romneys-targeted-deficit-messa.php]], JD)

<span style="text-decoration: none;">“<span style="font-size: 9pt;">If unemployment was...still runs high.”</span></span>

**Obama key to solve warming**
**Simpson, ’12** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Walter and Nan, Buffalo News, 4/22/12, [[http://www.buffalonews.com/editorial-page/viewpoints/article822432.ece]], JD)</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;">“<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Let’s not reverse... goes to Obama.” </span></span>