[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC - Greenhill== 

===**Inherency**=== 
A Marine buildup in Guam is inevitable but a smaller force means that infrastructure will be delayed.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Parrish, American Forces Press Service, 7/20/12</span> [Karen, 7/20/12, U.S. Department of Defense, “Carter: Guam Central to Asia-Pacific Strategy,” http://www.defense.gov/news/newsarticle.aspx?id=117196, accessed 8/13/12, JTF]
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Current plans call for moving...</span>couple of years<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">,”</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the official said.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">**Pacific Command Adv**</span>=== 

Contention 2 is the Pacific Command

Status quo relocation undermines PACOM effectiveness

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fuentes, Navy Times Staff Writer, 7/31/12</span> [Gidget, 7/31/12, Navy Times, “Report: Move more subs, amphibs to Asia-Pacific region,” http://www.navytimes.com/news/2012/07/navy-guam-korea-pacific-congress-csis-073112/, accessed 8/13/12, JTF] *“Report” refers to congressionally mandated report by the Center for International and Strategic Studies
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">While it did not explicitly...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to </span>respond to high-end contingencies<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">”</span>


Guam is key to PACOM – 2 reasons
a.) Distance
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kan, Asian Security Affairs specialist, 3/29/12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Shirley A. Kan, 3/29/12, Congressional Research Service, “Guam: U.S. Defense Deployments,” http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RS22570.pdf, pg. 7, accessed 8/13/12, JTF]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">A third rationale is the...</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">from </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Honolulu, Seattle, and San Diego</span>


b.) Readiness and flexibility

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Department of the Navy ’10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [July 2010, Joint Guam Program Office, “Final Environmental Impact Statement Guam and CNMI Military Relocation Relocating Marines from Okinawa, Visiting Aircraft Carrier Berthing, and Army Air and Missile Defense Task Force,” Vol. 2 Ch. 1, http://www.guambuildupeis.us/documents/final/volume_2/Vol_02_Ch01_Purpose-Of_and_Need_For_Actions.pdf, pg. 5, accessed 9/11/12, JTF]</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Guam, Hawaii, Alaska, and California pose no limitation on freedom...</span>realignment of forces that meets all criteria.



PACOM solves South Asian terror but Guam buildup is key

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ackerman, SIGNAL magazine editor, ’07</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Robert K. Ackerman, SIGNAL magazine editor, SIGNAL Magazine, “Pacific Command Breaks Down Terrorists, Builds Partnerships,” http://www.afcea.org/signal/articles/templates/SIGNAL_Article_Template.asp?articleid=1395&zoneid=30, accessed 9/2/12, JTF] </span>*citing Admiral Timothy J. Keating
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">The top concern is</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> the threat of terrorism, </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">and al-Qaida...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">its position in the Pacific </span>are not insignificant<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.”</span>

Specifically the Haqqani network in Pakistan is the linchpin of Islamic terrorists including al-Qaeda
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rassler and Brown, Combating Terrorism Center, ’11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Don Rassler, Instructor in the Department of Social Sciences and an Associate at the Combating Terrorism Center (CTC) at the U.S. Military Academy and Vahid Brown, Harmony Fellow and Senior Instructor at US Military Academy Research Fellow at Combating Terrorism Center, 7/14/11, Combating Terrorism Center, “The Haqqani Nexus and the Evolution of al-Qaida,” http://www.ctc.usma.edu/wp-content/uploads/2011/07/CTC-Haqqani-Report_Rassler-Brown-Final_Web.pdf, pgs. 42-3, accessed 9/2/12, JTF] </span>*IJU = Islamic Jihad Union
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Counterterrorism pressures have brought al-Qa’ida...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">others returned to Miran Shah.</span>

Al-Qaeda is gearing up for bioterror attacks – detection is impossible, so an offensive counter-terrorism strategy is key
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Obwale, Clinical and Experimental Medicine graduate, 8/5/12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [David, University College London Clinical and Experimental Medicine graduate, 8/5/12, The Observer, “Ebola a potential bio-terror weapon,” http://www.observer.ug/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=20215:ebola-a-potential-bio-terror-weapon&catid=37:guest-writers&Itemid=66, accessed 9/3/12, JTF]</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Ebola has capabilities of biological weaponizationwith catastrophic...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the possible risk </span>of bioterrorism<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> during diagnostic research and procedures.</span>

Bioweapons outweigh and cause extinction
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Steinbruner, National Academy of Sciences international security chair, ’97</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [John D. Steinbruner, senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, chair of the committee on international security and arms control of the National Academy of Sciences, December 22, 1997, Foreign Policy, “Biological Weapons: A Plague upon All Houses,” JSTOR, pgs. 87-8, accessed 9/3/12, JTF]</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 7pt;">That deceptively simple observation has immense implications...</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">this sort but not necessarily its outer limit.</span>

Independently, the Haqqani are a Pakistani force multiplier in Afghanistan
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dressler, Institute for the Study of War, 9/13/12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Jeffrey, Institute for the Study of War senior analyst and Afghanistan-Pakistan project team lead, 9/13/12, Foreign Affairs, “Combating the Haqqani Terrorist Network,” http://foreignaffairs.house.gov/112/HHRG-112-FA18-WState-DresslerJ-20120913.pdf, pg. 3, accessed 9/14/12, JTF]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">The Haqqani Network has been an effective...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">even </span>redirect them towards<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the fight in </span>Afghanistan<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>

Proxy wars in Afghanistan cause Indo-Pak war – it escalates
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Vira, South Asian security affairs writer, 4/26/12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Varun Vira, Middle Eastern and South Asian security affairs writer and coauthored Pakistan: Violence vs. Stability with Dr. Anthony Cordesman of the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), 4/26/12, Small Wars Journal, “Escalating from Terrorism to Nuclear War on the Asian Subcontinent,” http://smallwarsjournal.com/jrnl/art/escalating-from-terrorism-to-nuclear-war-on-the-asian-subcontinent, accessed 9/14/12, JTF]</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Historically over the past two decades, </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">terrorism and...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">status quo, or </span>escalates hostilities to larger-scale conflict<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


Indo-Pak conflict causes a nuclear shoot-out and draws in China – diplomacy doesn’t check, miscalculation is likely, and no chance of an impact turn

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Vira, South Asian security affairs writer, 4/26/12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Varun Vira, Middle Eastern and South Asian security affairs writer and coauthored Pakistan: Violence vs. Stability with Dr. Anthony Cordesman of the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), 4/26/12, Small Wars Journal, “Escalating from Terrorism to Nuclear War on the Asian Subcontinent,” http://smallwarsjournal.com/jrnl/art/escalating-from-terrorism-to-nuclear-war-on-the-asian-subcontinent, accessed 9/14/12, JTF]</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">This scenario is unlikely but </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">war has an escalation...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">intervention they expect quite simply may not exist.</span>

Their defense doesn’t apply – Haqqani financial regeneration makes status quo counter-terror fail
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dressler, Institute for the Study of War, 9/13/12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Jeffrey, Institute for the Study of War senior analyst and Afghanistan-Pakistan project team lead, 9/13/12, Foreign Affairs, “Combating the Haqqani Terrorist Network,” http://foreignaffairs.house.gov/112/HHRG-112-FA18-WState-DresslerJ-20120913.pdf, pg. 4, accessed 9/14/12, JTF]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Despite hosting groups with transnational...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">and said they may be a faction of the Afghan insurgency that is irreconcilable.</span>

The Haqqani are a force multiplier for Al-Qaeda
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dressler, Institute for the Study of War, 9/13/12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Jeffrey, Institute for the Study of War senior analyst and Afghanistan-Pakistan project team lead, 9/13/12, Foreign Affairs, “Combating the Haqqani Terrorist Network,” http://foreignaffairs.house.gov/112/HHRG-112-FA18-WState-DresslerJ-20120913.pdf, pg. 4, accessed 9/14/12, JTF]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Some terrorism specialists erroneously...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">groups in Pakistan </span>suggest that it is likely<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


PACOM is key – no counterplan that doesn’t combine counter-terror with counter-finance can solve the case

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dressler, Institute for the Study of War, 9/13/12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Jeffrey, Institute for the Study of War senior analyst and Afghanistan-Pakistan project team lead, 9/13/12, Foreign Affairs, “Combating the Haqqani Terrorist Network,” http://foreignaffairs.house.gov/112/HHRG-112-FA18-WState-DresslerJ-20120913.pdf, pg. 6, accessed 9/14/12, JTF]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">FTO designation will significantly enhance the disruptive...</span>2014<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> as a strategic threat to the region.</span>

===**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">China Adv</span>**=== 

Numerous sources of tension make US-China war inevitable in East Asia – it will culminate in extinction.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lieven, King’s College War Studies Professor, 6/12/12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Anatol, professor in the War Studies Department of King’s College London and a senior fellow of the New America Foundation, June 12, 2012, New York Times, “Avoiding a U.S.-China War, New York Times,” http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/13/opinion/avoiding-a-us-china-war.html, NW]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Relations between the United States and China are on a course...</span><span style="background-color: white; color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">for example in Washington’s neglect of the crumbling states of Central America.</span>

Chinese aggression is increasing – Guam is critical to deterrence
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Halloran, former New York Times foreign correspondent in Asia, 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Richard, " A force buildup on Guam anchors a broad US military strategy to keep China in check," http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2011/January%202011/0111pacific.aspx, CM]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In its strategy to deter China from driving the US...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">is seen</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by some senior US officers now </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">as a nationalistic declaration of China’s sense of pre-eminence.</span>

Specifically, Senkaku islands are a flashpoint
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sanders, Washington Times, ’10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Sol Sanders, writer, 9/26/12, The Washington Times, “Japan-China dust-up is worrisome,” http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2010/sep/26/sanders-japan-china-dust-up-is-worrisome/, accessed 9/16/12, JTF]</span>

Even limited China exchange causes extinction
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Takai, Staff College Researcher, ’09</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Mitsuo, Ret. Colonel and Researcher at the Staff College for Japan’s Ground Self-Defense Force, “U.S.-China Nuclear Strikes Would Spell Doomsday”, October 7, http://www.upiasia.com/Security/2009/10/07/us-china_nuclear_strikes_would_spell_doomsday/7213/]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">What would happen </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">if China launchedits...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Such advice is worth heeding by nuclear hard-liners. </span>

Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in port infrastructure at the Port of Guam.

===<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;"> Solvency</span>=== 

Ports key to the buildup

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Jowers 08</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Karen, Air Force Times, 5/10/08, “Military Buildup Threatens to Overwhelm Guam,” </span>http://www.airforcetimes.com/news/2008/05/airforce_guam_051008p/<span style="font-size: 8pt;">  //Veevz)// </span>

//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">If Guam doesn’t get money</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">soon </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">from the federal government...</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">were made “without consideration of our capacity.”</span>//

//Guam relocation has been delinked from Futenma and China containment is inevitable//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Takahashi, Asia Times journalist, 2/11/12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Kosuke, Asia Times journalist, 2/11/12, Asia Times, “Okinawans see duplicity in US withdrawal,” http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Japan/NB11Dh01.html, accessed 9/5/12, JTF]</span>//

//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">The shift to Guam is a departure from a previous...</span>especially its growing naval power in the West Pacific.//

//Timely infrastructure expansion is critical to accommodate Marine transfer//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Geiger '11 </span>//
//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">[Julianne Geiger, freelance writer and editor based in the US., 5/11/2011, "Futenma, Guam Building Challenges, Changes Just Parts of Massive U.S. Defense Policy Review Initiative; Timelines, Price Tag Always Evolving While Strategy Stays", pg. online @ guambuildupnews.com/Buildup-News-Politics/Futenma-Guam-Buildup-Challenges-Changes-Just-Parts-of-Massive-U.S.-Defense-Policy-Review-Initiative-Timelines-Price-Tag-Always-Evolving-While-Strategy-Stays.html</span>// bprp]
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">GUAM - </span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">The</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> Defense Policy Review Initiative (</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">DPRI</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">)...qualification and sustainment requirements</span>

=1AC - Glenbrooks= 

==Inherency== 
====Contention 1 is Inherency==== 
====Port of Guam modernization efforts are happening now, but cost overruns cause delays==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Inspector General 2/8/12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Department of Defense Deputy Inspector, 2/8/12, Office of the Deputy Inspector General for Policy and Oversight, “Report on the Program and Contract Infrastructure Technical Requirements Development for the Guam Realignment Program,” http://www.dodig.mil/Inspections/PDFs/DODIG-2012-052.pdf, pg. 9, accessed 10/15/12, JTF]</span>

The Port Authority <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">of Guam </span>… to determine a timeframe for the final plan<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>
====The port will fail now – prevents Guam military build-up==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Inspector General 2/8/12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Department of Defense Deputy Inspector, 2/8/12, Office of the Deputy Inspector General for Policy and Oversight, “Report on the Program and Contract Infrastructure Technical Requirements Development for the Guam Realignment Program,” http://www.dodig.mil/Inspections/PDFs/DODIG-2012-052.pdf, pg. 12, accessed 10/15/12, JTF]</span>

The structural … needed for the scheduled realignment.

====Guam relocation has been delinked from Futenma and China containment is inevitable==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Takahashi, Asia Times journalist, 2/11/12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Kosuke, Asia Times journalist, 2/11/12, Asia Times, “Okinawans see duplicity in US withdrawal,” http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Japan/NB11Dh01.html, accessed 9/5/12, JTF]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The shift to Guam is … naval power in the West Pacific.</span>

==PACOM Adv.== 
====Contention 2 is the Pacific Command==== 
====PACOM solves South Asian terror but Guam buildup is key==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ackerman, SIGNAL magazine editor, ’07</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Robert K. Ackerman, SIGNAL magazine editor, SIGNAL Magazine, “Pacific Command Breaks Down Terrorists, Builds Partnerships,” http://www.afcea.org/signal/articles/templates/SIGNAL_Article_Template.asp?articleid=1395&zoneid=30, accessed 9/2/12, JTF] </span>*citing Admiral Timothy J. Keating

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The top concern is</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> Pacific are not insignificant.”</span>

====PACOM is key – only the plan’s combination of counter-terror and disrupting terror financial networks can solve==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dressler, Institute for the Study of War, 9/13/12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Jeffrey, Institute for the Study of War senior analyst and Afghanistan-Pakistan project team lead, 9/13/12, Foreign Affairs, “Combating the Haqqani Terrorist Network,” http://foreignaffairs.house.gov/112/HHRG-112-FA18-WState-DresslerJ-20120913.pdf, pg. 6, accessed 9/14/12, JTF]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">FTO designation will significantly …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> as a strategic threat to the region.</span>

====Specifically the Haqqani network in Pakistan is the linchpin of Islamic terrorists including al-Qaeda==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rassler and Brown, Combating Terrorism Center, ’11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Don Rassler, Instructor in the Department of Social Sciences and an Associate at the Combating Terrorism Center (CTC) at the U.S. Military Academy and Vahid Brown, Harmony Fellow and Senior Instructor at US Military Academy Research Fellow at Combating Terrorism Center, 7/14/11, Combating Terrorism Center, “The Haqqani Nexus and the Evolution of al-Qaida,” http://www.ctc.usma.edu/wp-content/uploads/2011/07/CTC-Haqqani-Report_Rassler-Brown-Final_Web.pdf, pgs. 42-3, accessed 9/2/12, JTF] </span>*IJU = Islamic Jihad Union

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Counterterrorism pressures have brought … Afghanistan…[;] others returned to Miran Shah.152</span>
====Al-Qaeda is gearing up for bioterror attacks – detection is impossible – military preemption is key==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Obwale, Clinical and Experimental Medicine graduate, 8/5/12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [David, University College London Clinical and Experimental Medicine graduate, 8/5/12, The Observer, “Ebola a potential bio-terror weapon,” http://www.observer.ug/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=20215:ebola-a-potential-bio-terror-weapon&catid=37:guest-writers&Itemid=66, accessed 9/3/12, JTF]</span>

Ebola has capabilities <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">… during diagnostic research and procedures.</span>
====Bioweapons outweigh and cause extinction==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Steinbruner, National Academy of Sciences international security chair, ’97</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [John D. Steinbruner, senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, chair of the committee on international security and arms control of the National Academy of Sciences, December 22, 1997, Foreign Policy, “Biological Weapons: A Plague upon All Houses,” JSTOR, pgs. 87-8, accessed 9/3/12, JTF]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">That deceptively simple observation … necessarily its outer limit.</span>

====Independently, the Haqqani are a Pakistani force multiplier in Afghanistan==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dressler, Institute for the Study of War, 9/13/12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Jeffrey, Institute for the Study of War senior analyst and Afghanistan-Pakistan project team lead, 9/13/12, Foreign Affairs, “Combating the Haqqani Terrorist Network,” http://foreignaffairs.house.gov/112/HHRG-112-FA18-WState-DresslerJ-20120913.pdf, pg. 3, accessed 9/14/12, JTF]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The Haqqani Network has … the fight in </span>Afghanistan<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>

====Proxy wars in Afghanistan cause Indo-Pak war – it escalates==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Vira, South Asian security affairs writer, 4/26/12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Varun Vira, Middle Eastern and South Asian security affairs writer and coauthored Pakistan: Violence vs. Stability with Dr. Anthony Cordesman of the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), 4/26/12, Small Wars Journal, “Escalating from Terrorism to Nuclear War on the Asian Subcontinent,” http://smallwarsjournal.com/jrnl/art/escalating-from-terrorism-to-nuclear-war-on-the-asian-subcontinent, accessed 9/14/12, JTF]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Historically over the past …</span> to larger-scale conflict<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

====Indo-Pak conflict causes a nuclear shoot-out and draws in China – diplomacy doesn’t check, miscalculation is likely, and no chance of an impact turn==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Vira, South Asian security affairs writer, 4/26/12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Varun Vira, Middle Eastern and South Asian security affairs writer and coauthored Pakistan: Violence vs. Stability with Dr. Anthony Cordesman of the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), 4/26/12, Small Wars Journal, “Escalating from Terrorism to Nuclear War on the Asian Subcontinent,” http://smallwarsjournal.com/jrnl/art/escalating-from-terrorism-to-nuclear-war-on-the-asian-subcontinent, accessed 9/14/12, JTF]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This scenario is unlikely … intervention they expect quite simply may not exist.</span>
==China Adv.== 
====Contention 3 is China==== 
====U.S.-China war is inevitable – ideology, nationalism, territorial disputes==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lieven, King’s College War Studies Professor, 6/12/12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Anatol, professor in the War Studies Department of King’s College London and a senior fellow of the New America Foundation, June 12, 2012, New York Times, “Avoiding a U.S.-China War, New York Times,” http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/13/opinion/avoiding-a-us-china-war.html, NW]</span>

Relations between the U<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">nited </span>S<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">tates …</span><span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;"> Washington’s neglect of the crumbling states of Central America.</span>
====Even limited China exchange causes extinction==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Takai, Staff College Researcher, ’09</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Mitsuo, Ret. Colonel and Researcher at the Staff College for Japan’s Ground Self-Defense Force, “U.S.-China Nuclear Strikes Would Spell Doomsday”, October 7, http://www.upiasia.com/Security/2009/10/07/us-china_nuclear_strikes_would_spell_doomsday/7213/]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What would happen </span>if China <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> heeding by nuclear hard-liners. </span>
====Chinese aggression is increasing – Guam is critical to deterrence==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Halloran, former New York Times foreign correspondent in Asia, 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Richard, " A force buildup on Guam anchors a broad US military strategy to keep China in check," http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2011/January%202011/0111pacific.aspx, CM]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In its strategy to deter …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of China’s sense of pre-eminence.</span>

====A strong forward presence in the Pacific is key to deterring China from going to war – establishes a regional security framework & preparations for de-escalating conflicts==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Berteau and Green, Center for Strategic and International Studies, ’12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [David J. Berteau, International Security Program Director at CSIS, and Dr. Michael J. Green, Senior Advisor & Japan Chair at CSIS, U.S. Force Posture Strategy in the Asia Pacif­ic Region: An Independent Assessment, CSIS, August 2012, http://csis.org/files/publication/120814_FINAL_PACOM_optimized.pdf, NW]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In recent years the </span>security … the likelihood of larger conflicts<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>
==Plan== 
====Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in port infrastructure at the Port of Guam.==== 
==Solvency== 
====Contention 4 is Solvency==== 
====Ports key to the buildup==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Jowers 08</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Karen, Air Force Times, 5/10/08, “Military Buildup Threatens to Overwhelm Guam,” http://www.airforcetimes.com/news/2008/05/airforce_guam_051008p/]</span>

If Guam doesn’t get <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">made “without consideration of our capacity.”</span>

====Investment now is key to successful relocation and private companies don’t solve==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Daleno, Pacific Daily News, ’07</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Gaynor Dumat-ol Daleno, Pacific Daily News, 5/22/07, Micronesia Forum, “Guam Port Not Ready for Military Build-Up,” http://www.micronesiaforum.org/discussion/682/guam-port-not-ready-for-military-build-up/p1, accessed 9/21/12, JTF]</span>

Based on the agreement<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> … the increase of cargo arriving on Guam."</span>

====Guam is key to PACOM – 2 reasons==== 
====a.) Distance==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kan, Asian Security Affairs specialist, 3/29/12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Shirley A. Kan, 3/29/12, Congressional Research Service, “Guam: U.S. Defense Deployments,” http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RS22570.pdf, pg. 7, accessed 8/13/12, JTF]</span>

A<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> third </span>rationale is <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">..Honolulu, Seattle, and San Diego</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

====b.) Readiness and flexibility==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Department of the Navy ’10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [July 2010, Joint Guam Program Office, “Final Environmental Impact Statement Guam and CNMI Military Relocation Relocating Marines from Okinawa, Visiting Aircraft Carrier Berthing, and Army Air and Missile Defense Task Force,” Vol. 2 Ch. 1, http://www.guambuildupeis.us/documents/final/volume_2/Vol_02_Ch01_Purpose-Of_and_Need_For_Actions.pdf, pg. 5, accessed 9/11/12, JTF]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Guam, Hawaii, Alaska, and California pose …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> forces that meets all criteria.</span>

====Transport infrastructure spending now==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gates, Department of Transportation, 9/14/12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Angela, U.S. Department of Transportation, 9/14/12, “U.S. Transportation Secretary LaHood Announces $59.3 Million for Clean, Energy-Efficient Transit Projects Across the United States,” http://fta.dot.gov/newsroom/12286_14847.html, accessed 9/21/12, JTF]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON – </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">U.S. Transportation Secretary …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> new clean-fuel hybrid batteries for buses.</span>
====Funding now non-uniques the disadvantage==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cagurangan, Guam Business Magazine, ’12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Mar-Vic Cagurangan, Guam Business Magazine, September-October 2012, “Sailing in Stormy Seas,” http://guambusinessmagazine.com/?pg=vol28_15_feature04, accessed 9/20/12, JTF]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Then came a barrage of … be funded by the Japan.</span>
====DoD funding non-uniques the disadvantage==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pacific Maritime Magazine ’10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Pacific Maritime Magazine, 10/22/12, PMM, “Guam Port Celebrates 35th Anniversary,” http://www.pmmonlinenews.com/2010/10/guam-port-celebrates-35th-anniversary.html, accessed 9/21/12, JTF]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">During the past 35 years, … of funding obtained for the project.</span>