[[toc]]
=States CP= 
==1NC== 
===1NC Shell - Generic=== 
**Counterplan Text: The 50 state governments and all relevant territories should <insert plan text> and amend their constitutions to expand Balanced Budget horizons from one to five years.**

**States investment in transportation infrastructure-avoids bureaucratic nightmares**
<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">Chris</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Edwards</span>.<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">The Cato Institute. </span>20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">10</span><span style="font-family: Times,serif;"> ["Proposed Spending Cuts." Department of Transportation. http://www.downsizinggovernment.org/transportation/spending-cuts]</span>
Most Department of Transportation activities are properly the responsibility of state and local governments and
AND
reforms being implemented abroad, and pursue similar solutions to its transportation challenges.

===1NC Disabilities Solvency=== 
**Decentralized approach solves best-addresss local needs**
Stephen <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Percy</span>. Stephen, Ph.D., Indiana University A.B., Hamilton College, Political Science Professor at the University of Milwaukee. 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">0l</span>. [“Disability and Federalism: Comparing Different Approaches to Full Participation.” http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=q5F8Oqks7oUC&oi=fnd&pg=PA1&dq=Disability+and+Federalism:+Comparing+Different+Approaches+to+Full+Participation&ots=vhr2r60Sh2&sig=yknyDwNkcNyX66RQv7Zyl-ahnNQ#v=onepage&q&f=true]
Questions about policy
AND
plans for system reform.

===1NC Army Corps Projects Solvency=== 
**State government solves better, better resources, avoids political ploy, and effective**
Chris <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Edwards</span> (the director of tax policy studies at Cato) March <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2012</span> “Cutting the Army Corps of Engineers” [[http://www.downsizinggovernment.org/usace]] /Rohit
The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers is a federal agency that constructs and maintains a wide range of infrastructure for military and civilian purposes.1 This essay concerns the civilian part of the agency, which employs about 23,000 people and will spend about $9.2 billion in fiscal 2012.2
AND
in opposing government subsidies for dubious projects.

===1NC Port Security=== 
**Counterplan Text: The 50 state governments and all relevant territories should substantially increase funding in port security and amend their constitutions to expand Balanced Budget horizons from one to five years.**

**States can do the plan – report from Army Corps proves**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AP 12</span> – associated press (The Associated Press, “Price tag to dredge Eastern ports for big ships: $5 billion”, 6/22/12, [[http://www.usatoday.com/money/economy/story/2012-06-21/southern-ports-expansion/55746890/1]]) // CB
The Southeast, forecast to
AND
bank for major projects.

===1NC Port Dredging=== 
**Counterplan Text: The United States federal government should devolve its authority over dredging seaports to relevant state, territorial, and local officials and allow the use of public-private partnerships to fund port dredging projects and provide all necessary human capital for port dredging.**

**Federal guidelines for port improvements cause decades of delay and are maladaptive**
Ryan <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Holeywell</span>, staff writer at GOVERNING, 7-<span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span>, [“Panama Canal Expansion Has U.S. Ports Rushing,” Governing, [[http://www.governing.com/panama-canal-expansion-has-ports-rushing.html]]] E. Liu
And that’s about it.
AND
Nobody thought it would happen as quickly as it did.”

**States want to dredge ports – Public private partnerships solve all funding concerns**
Ryan <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Holeywell</span>, staff writer at GOVERNING, 7-<span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span>, [“Panama Canal Expansion Has U.S. Ports Rushing,” Governing, [[http://www.governing.com/panama-canal-expansion-has-ports-rushing.html]]] E. Liu
Despite the uncertainty
AND
“we wouldn’t have been ready,” says White.

===1NC HTF=== 
**Only the states solve – the plan and permutation are ineffective and take too long**
Dan <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Holler</span>. Communications Director for Heritage Action for America.4/4/<span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span>.[“Thinking Outside the Beltway,” http://transportation.nationaljournal.com/2012/04/paying-for-it.php#2190872]
When it comes to the problem of how to pay for our nation’s transportation needs
AND
is a better way; lawmakers just need to know where to look.

===1NC Mass Transit=== 
**Effectiveness of mass transit is undermined by federal subsidies – state governments avoid special interest and waste**
Randal <span style="font-size: 13pt;">O’Toole</span>. Randal, director of the Thoreau Institute and an adjunct scholar at the Cato Institute. 1/05/<span style="font-size: 13pt;">06</span>. [“A Desire Named Streetcar: How Federal Subsidies Encourage Wasteful Local Transit Systems.” http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa559.pdf]
The effectiveness of local transit systems is undermined by federal subsidies, which encourage the
AND
reform the federal transportation funding system to minimize the adverse incentives it creates.

===1NC HSR=== 
**States can solve-cooperation**
Jon <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hilkevitch</span> is a writer for the Chicago Tribune Reporter, 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span> [“Feds open bidding for high-speed rail cars” [[http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2012-04-22/news/ct-met-high-speed-rail-0422-20120422_1_rail-cars-high-speed-passenger-illinois-rail-officials]]]
,The $551 million request for proposals was announced by the Federal Railroad Administration
AND
Rockford and Dubuque, Iowa; and Chicago to Kansas City, Mo.

==2NC Solvency== 
===2NC Disabilities Solvency=== 

**States implement federal disability programs**
David C <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Stapleton</span> et. al. David C. Stapleton, Andrew J. Hustonville, Robert R. Weathers II, Richard V. Burkhauser, W.E. Upjohn Institute for Employment Research of the W.E. Upjohn Institute for Employment Research. 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">09</span>. [“Counting Working Age People with Disabilities: What Current Data Tell Us and Options for Improvement.” W.E. Upjohn Institute for Employment Research. http://www.upjohninst.org/publications/ch1/cwap.pdf 2009]
In the past
AND
federal benefits.

===2NC Port Dredging=== 
**Here’s a solvency advocate – devolving power to the states leads to more efficient investment**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Poole, 96</span>– director of transportation policy and Searle Freedom Trust Transportation Fellow at Reason Foundation (Robert W., October 1996, “ Defederalizing Transportation Funding,” Reason Foundation, http://reason.org/files/4883e8bd01480c4d96ce788feb1f2e05.pdf, Hensel)
Airports, highways, and
AND
and private decision-makers.

**Competition means states race to the top – Federal government inhibits any chance of completion**
Ryan <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Holeywell</span>, staff writer at GOVERNING, 7-<span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span>, [“Panama Canal Expansion Has U.S. Ports Rushing,” Governing, [[http://www.governing.com/panama-canal-expansion-has-ports-rushing.html]]] E. Liu
A century ago in 1914
AND
we’re paying for it.”

**Fed spending causes states to cut their own investment – Takes out half of solvency**
Jayetta Z. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hecker</span>, Director of Transportation Advocacy at the Bipartisan Policy Center, 3-<span style="font-size: 13pt;">08</span>, [“SURFACE TRANSPORTATION Restructured Federal Approach Needed for More Focused, Performance-Based, and Sustainable Programs,” United States Government Accountability Office, [[http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d08400.pdf|www.gao.gov/new.items/d08400.pdf]]] E. Liu
Federal investment in
AND
increased federal funds.72

==Blocks== 
===AT: Perm=== 

**Overlapping jurisdiction doesn’t cause cooperation and creates confusion**
Ronald D. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Utt</span>, Ph.D., is Herbert and Joyce Morgan Senior Research Fellow in the Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation, 7-28-<span style="font-size: 13pt;">08</span>, [“How States Can Improve Their Transportation Systems and Relieve Traffic Congestion,” Heritage, [[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2008/07/how-states-can-improve-their-transportation-systems-and-relieve-traffic-congestion]]] E. Liu
Among the many
AND
and failures.

===AT: Links to Politics=== 

**States operate below the federal political radar**
Andrew <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Celli</span> is the Chief of the Civil Rights Bureau, New York State Attorney General’s Office, 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">01</span> [Law Review 1091 Lexis]
I also saw that
AND
the Justice Department faces.

===AT: Fifty State Fiat=== 

**Uniformity is predictable and solves**
Frederick H <span style="font-size: 13pt;">VOGT</span>.- Frederick H. Vogt director, aeronautics division, tennessee department of transportation and chairman of NASAO legislative affairs committee.19<span style="font-size: 13pt;">99</span>[“Prepared Statement” by Frederick H. Vogt director, aeronautics division, tennessee department of transportation and chairman of NASAO legislative affairs committee on behalf of the national association of state aviation officials before the house committee on transportation and infrastructure subcommittee on aviation subject - the airport improvement program”. February 11. Lexis]
Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman
AND
is growing.

**Key to test the phrase “federal government” in the resolution, which is a central issue**
Columbia Encyclopedia 1 (http://www.encyclopedia.com/html/f/federalg.asp)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT AND
their desire for autonomy.

=Social Care CP= 
==1NC Shell== 
**Counterplan Text: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in social care in the United States.**

**CP solves stimulus best-twice the multiplier effect of infrastructure**
Michael <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Stephens</span> is a Senior Editor at The Levy Economics Institute of Bard College, 8-10-20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">11</span> [“Beyond Infrastructure” The Multiplier Effect http://www.multiplier-effect.org/?p=1331]
The Levy Institute’s Rania Antonopoulos, Kijong Kim, Thomas Masterson, and Ajit Zacharias
AND
care would have twice the employment impact as a dollar of infrastructure investment.

=Natives Earmark CP= 
==1NC Shell== 
**Counterplan Text:The United States federal government should provide substantial funding to governing bodies of Indian Country.**

**The CP competes – it’s textually competitive and functionally distinct because it removes earmarking of the money for transportation infrastructure**
**a) “Its” denotes possession**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Glossary of English, 5</span> (http://www.usingenglish.com/glossary/possessive-pronoun.html)
Mine, yours, his, hers, its, ours, theirs are the //possessive pronouns//used to substitute a noun and to show<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> possession or </span>ownership. EG. This is your disk and that's mine. (Mine substitutes the word disk and shows that it belongs to me.)

**b) Possession means control over**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Oxford Dictionaries, 11</span> (http://oxforddictionaries.com/definition/possession)
//Possession// Pronunciation:/pəˈzɛʃ(ə)n/ noun 1 [mass noun] the state of<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> having , owning, or </span>//controlling// something: she had taken possession of the sofa the book came into my possession he remains in full possession of his sanity

**Earmarking funds for American Indians undermines their self-governance. This form of colonialism results in the destruction of culture and prevents __any__ policy from being effective. Their dominance is modeled world-wide.**
**Marr**, 1/1/**2004** (Charles – Department of Anthropology at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Native American Survival in a Colonial United States, p. [[http://digitalcommons.unl.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1065&context=nebanthro]])
Principally, the root of the Native tribes' destruction is the Federal Government's Bureau of
AND
subjugation and colonization of Native Americans has dire implications for the entire world.

**The colonial oppression of Native Americans results in extinction.**
**Friedberg**, Summer **2000** (Lilian – Executive Director at the Sojourner Truth Center for Ethnic Diversity, American Indian Quarterly)
Attempts on the part of American Indians to transcend chronic, intergenerational maladies introduced by
AND
with Hitler or Stalin, demonically proclaimed as the new salvation."[60]

==Blocks== 
===AT: Perm Do Both=== 

**Hand-off approach is key – federal decision-making turns the case.**
Fletcher 2005 (Matthew L. M. – Assistant Professor of Law at the University of North Dakota School of Law, The Insidious Colonialism of the Conqueror: The Federal Government in Modern Tribal Affairs, Washington University Journal of Law & Policy, p. http://digitalcommons.law.wustl.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1382&context=wujlp)
III. COLONIALISM CRIPPLES MEANINGFUL SELF-DETERMINATION
AND
self-determination unattainable.

**CP is insulated from interference --- only the perm links.**
**Marr**, 1/1/**2004** (Charles – Department of Anthropology at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Native American Survival in a Colonial United States, p. [[http://digitalcommons.unl.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1065&context=nebanthro]])
Even with Native
AND
we are doomed to environmental ruin.

===AT: Perm Do the CP=== 

**It severs should --- it means __mandatory__**.
Foresi 32 (Remo Foresi v. Hudson Coal Co., Superior Court of Pennsylvania, 106 Pa. Super. 307; 161 A. 910; 1932 Pa. Super. LEXIS 239, 7-14, Lexis)
As regards
AND
hazardous occupation of mining.

**So does increase**
HEFC 2004 (Higher Education Funding Council for England, “Joint Committee on the Draft Charities Bill Written Evidence”, June, http://www.publications.parliament.uk/pa/jt200304/jtselect/jtchar/167/167we98.htm)
9.1 The Draft Bill
AND
be considered to be ever-increasing.

===AT: No Impact=== 

**Colonialism makes conflict and extinction inevitable.**
Eckhardt, February 1990 (William – Lentz Peace Research Laboratory of St. Louis, Journal of Peace Research, p. 15-16)
Modern Western Civilization
AND
Life itself may depend upon our choice.

=Port Firewall CP= 
==1NC Shell== 
===Hendrickson/Grapevine Shell=== 
**Counterplan Text: The United States federal government should establish firewalls on the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, mandating that it only be utilized for port maintenance and dredging.**

**Firewalls result in funding for port dredging without increasing spending**
James <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Weakley</span>, 4/30/<span style="font-size: 13pt;">08</span>, <span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, “Realize America’s Maritime Promise”, Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Fairness Coalition , testimony of James Weakley the president of the Lake Carriers’ Association, http://www.ramphmtf.org/speeches_043008.html</span>
The Harbor Maintenance Tax and the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund were established in the Water
AND
would be used for their intended purpose and not merely for deficit reduction.

===St. Marks Shell=== 
**Text: The United States federal government should establish firewalls on the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, mandating that it only be utilized for port maintenance and dredging.**

**Firewalls result in funding for port dredging without increasing spending**
James <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Weakley</span>, 4/30/<span style="font-size: 13pt;">08</span>, , “Realize America’s Maritime Promise”, Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Fairness Coalition , testimony of James Weakley the president of the Lake Carriers’ Association, http://www.ramphmtf.org/speeches_043008.html
The Harbor Maintenance Tax
AND
and not merely for deficit reduction.

**CP competes off of the word increase--They have to mandate a net increase in funding**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rogers</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, </span>Judge – New York, et al., <span style="font-size: 13pt;">05</span> Petitioners v. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Respondent, NSR Manufacturers Roundtable, et al., Intervenors, 2005 U.S. App. LEXIS 12378, **; 60 ERC (BNA) 1791, 6/24, Lexis)**
**[**48] Statutory Interpretation.
AND
was in perfect condition.

=St. Paul District PIC= 
==1NC Shell== 
**Counterplan Text: The United States federal government should modernize all locks and dams not in the St. Paul District and Lock and Dam Numbers 2 through 10 in the St. Paul District.**

**Locks will be closed now – costs are estimated to be less than one million a year – solves Asian carp invasion and biodiversity**
Stephanie Hemphill, Minnesota Public Radio, “Report adds up economic harm from carp spread”, 7/8/12, http://minnesota.publicradio.org/display/web/2012/06/08/enviroment/invasive-carp/ //bss
ST. PAUL, Minn.
AND
the next 30 years.

**Every new species loss risks extinction**
Major David N. Diner , JAG – US Army, MILITARY LAW REVIEW, Winter 1994, http://www.stormingmedia.us/14/1456/A145654.html
By causing
AND
closer to the abyss.

==Turns Agriculture== 
**Invasive species massively decrease U.S. crop yields and increase ag costs**
David Pimentel et. al, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Cornell University, June 12, 1999, http://www.news.cornell.edu/releases/Jan99/species_costs.html
In U.S. agriculture
AND
nearly $1 billion/yr.

=Broadband CP= 
==1NC Shell== 
**Counterplan Text: The United States federal government should issue multiyear tax credits for broadband infrastructure research and development and deployment in the United States.**

**Digital infrastructure has a larger impact on short and long term growth than transportation**
Robert D. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Atkinson</span>, President of the information Technology and innovation foundation, a Washington, dc-based technology policy think tank, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">et al.</span>, daniel castro is a Senior analyst with iTif and Stephen ezell is a Senior analyst with the information Technology and innovation foundation, 1-<span style="font-size: 13pt;">09</span>, [“The Digital Road to Recovery: A Stimulus Plan to Create Jobs, Boost Productivity and Revitalize America,” The InformaTIon Technology & InnovaTIon foundation, [[http://www.usinnovation.org/files/ITIFDigitalRoadtoRecovery10709.pdf]]] E. Liu
Spurring investment in our nation’s infrastructure is an effective strategy for getting Americans back to
AND
projects are broadband networks, health IT, and the smart power grid.

**Tax credits spur the necessary investment and avoids the net benefit**
Robert D. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Atkinson</span>, President of the information Technology and innovation foundation, a Washington, dc-based technology policy think tank, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">et al., </span>daniel castro is a Senior analyst with iTif and Stephen ezell is a Senior analyst with the information Technology and innovation foundation, 1-<span style="font-size: 13pt;">09</span>, [“The Digital Road to Recovery: A Stimulus Plan to Create Jobs, Boost Productivity and Revitalize America,” The InformaTIon Technology & InnovaTIon foundation, [[http://www.usinnovation.org/files/ITIFDigitalRoadtoRecovery10709.pdf]]] E. Liu
Others may ask, “Why not let the states or the private sector be
AND
be al- most exclusively provided by the private sector without strong incentives.

=Super Chimneys CP= 
==1NC Shell== 
**Counterplan Text: The United States federal government should provide all necessary support for the construction of ten super chimneys.**

**Ten super chimneys are more than enough to solve warming – They facilitate heat exchange and cause cloud formation**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pesochinsky 8</span> (Michael, engineer. “How the super-chimney will cool the atmosphere” http://www.superchimney.org/atmosphere.html)
The super-chimney will cool the Earth atmosphere by facilitating the heat exchange,
AND
fewer than 10 super-chimneys to offset the effects of Global Warming.

=Flywheels CP= 
==1NC Shell== 
**Counterplan Text: The United States federal government should procure microgrid flywheel energy storage systems that use renewable energy for use in the United States.**

**Flywheel storage with renewables solves blackouts, energy efficiency and intermittency issues**
Haichang <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Liu</span>, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">and</span> Jihai <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Jiang,</span> Energy and Buildings, School of Mechatronics Engineering, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin, Heilongjiang Province, China, Volume 39, Issue 5, p. 599-604, May <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2007</span>, “Flywheel energy storage—An upswing technology for energy sustainability”, http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378778806002350//jchen
The combination of modern power electronics and flywheel can provide protection against the multiple short
AND
with some electricity for refrigerating food and medicine and for communication [35].