<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[toc]]
</span>








email for more cites: zachthills[at]gmail[dot]com
=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Affirmative</span>= 

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">HTF 1AC</span>== 
read @ Greenhill

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Warming</span>**==== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Warming is real. It’s anthropogenic and caused by greenhouse gases–studies and data prove</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Rahmstorf 8,__ Professor of Ocean Physics @ Potsdam University (Richard, Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto, Edited by Ernesto Zedillo, “Anthropogenic Climate Change?” p. 42-44)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It is time to address the ﬁnal statement… with which we need to deal.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Hansen agrees that we still have time to act and solve runaway warming** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Ritz, 8-4-12__ [Erica Ritz, The Blaze, based on NASA scientist James Hansen, “‘We Are Wasting Precious Time’: Influential NASA Scientist Urges Government Action on ‘Climate Change’” (http://www.theblaze.com/stories/we-are-wasting-precious-time-influential-nasa-scientist-says-government-must-take-action-on-climate-change/)]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(The Blaze/AP) — … and that it is harmful.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The point of no return is in 2020. We can only act now.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Harvey, 11__ [Fiona Harvey, May 29, 2011, environment correspondant for The Guardian, “Worst ever carbon emissions leave climate on the brink”, (http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2011/may/29/carbon-emissions-nuclearpower)]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Greenhouse gas emissions increased … be up to us to stop them.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We need a plan that targets fossil fuels</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Charlesworth, 10__ [Andrew Charlesworth, 5-6-2011, Business Green, “Global carbon emissions to rise 43 per cent by 2035, says US report” (http://www.businessgreen.com/bg/news /1702325/global-carbon-emissions-rise-cent-2035-us-report)]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Global emissions of carbon … consumption will increase 44 per cent.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Extinction is inevitable. Warming is the only threat to human existence** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Mazo 10__ – PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA (Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The best estimates for global warming … social, cultural and political changes.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We are at the tipping point of runaway warming</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Hansen 8__ – Professor of Earth and Environmental Science (James E. Hanson, head of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York City and adjunct professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Science at Columbia University, Al Gore’s science advisor, “Briefing before the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming,” US House of Representatives, 6-23-2008, “Twenty years later: tipping points near on global warming,” [[http://www.columbia.edu/%7Ejeh1/2008/TwentyYearsLater_20080623.pdf|http://www.columbia.edu/~jeh1/2008/TwentyYearsLater_20080623.pdf)]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Fast feedbacks—changes that occur quickly in response … A major casualty in all this will be wildlife</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It’s killing half of terresterial species</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Hansen 8__ – Professor of Earth Sciences @ Columbia (James E, Head of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York City and adjunct professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Science at Columbia University. Al Gore’s science advisor. Introductory chapter for the book State of the Wild. “Tipping point: Perspective of a Scientist.” April. [[http://www.columbia.edu/%7Ejeh1/2008/StateOfWild_20080428.pdf|http://www.columbia.edu/~jeh1/2008/StateOfWild_20080428.pdf)]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Climate change is emerging … while of the species then on the planet</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Which means extinction</span>**
__<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Diner 94</span>__ <span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[Military Law Review Winter 1994 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161 LENGTH: 30655 words ARTICLE: THE ARMY AND THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT: WHO'S ENDANGERING WHOM? NAME: MAJOR DAVID N. DINER BIO: Judge Advocate General's Corps, United States Army.]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Biologically diverse ecosystems are … may be edging closer to the abyss</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It’s acidifying our oceans, destroying marine ecosystems at a rate never seen in Earthly history</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Parry 12__ – (Staff Writer for Live Science, citing a study lead by Barbel Honisch – a paleoceanographer at Columbia University (Wynne, March 2, 2012, “Oceans Turning Acidic Faster than Past 300 Million Years,” http://www.livescience.com/18786-ocean-acidification-extinction.html)JCP)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The oceans are becoming more … the researchers conclude in their paper.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Which means extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__IANS 10__ [6.20, main Australian news service, [[http://www.sify.com/news/could-unbridled-climate-changes-lead-to-human-extinction-news-international-kgtrOhdaahc.html]], 7/3, Nilango]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Scientists have sounded … function,' Bruno warned, according to a GCI release.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It’s causing malaria and disease</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Nettleman and Khasnis 05__(Atul A. Khasnis, Mary D. Nettleman, Department of Medicine, Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan; “Global Warming and Infectious Disease”; Archieves of Medical Research; 4/1/09; http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0188440905001517)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Many global warming scenarios … for crop failure and malnutrition</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Dalton 01__ (Alastair, journalist, “Deadly Virus Will Destroy Life on Earth,” THE SCOTSMAN, October 17, 2001, LN.)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Earth will explode</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Chalko 4__ [Tom J. Chalko , MSc, PhD, 30 October, ([[http://nujournal.net/core.pdf]])]</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It’s worse than any human conflict</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Lee 9__ – [Professor of environment, conflict, and trade @ American James, PhD, runs American University's Inventory of Conflict and Environment project, Climate Change and Armed Conflict]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The path from climate change … the century. (Fagan 2008: 235)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">There should be an extremely high standard of evidence in debates about global warming – current climate skepticism is unqualified</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Somerville 11__ –[Professor of Oceanography @ UCSDRichard Somerville, Distinguished Professor Emeritus and Research Professor at Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California, San Diego, Coordinating Lead Author in Working Group I for the 2007 Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 3-8-2011, “CLIMATE SCIENCE AND EPA'S GREENHOUSE GAS REGULATIONS,” CQ Congressional Testimony, Lexis]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Although the expert community … simply very badly mistaken.</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan</span>**==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in the Highway Trust Fund for use on transportation infrastructure in the United States.</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Solvency</span>**==== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The plan is key to a substantial increase in the gasoline tax</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Congressional Budget Office 8__ (“Issues and Options in Infrastructure Investment,” pg online @ [[http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/91xx/doc9135/05-16-infrastructure.pdf]] um-ef)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Options for Meeting Demand for Infrastructure … cents would generate $70 billion annually</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Status quo energy policies fail and invite backstopping—only a gas tax solves</span>**
__<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Turgeon, 10</span>__ <span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Evan N. Turgeon, Legal Associate at the Cato Institute; J.D.University of Virginia School of Law 2009; B.A. Tufts University 2004, “Triple-Dividends: Toward Pigovian Gasoline Taxation,” Journal of Land, Resources, & Envir onmental Law 2010, pg lexisum-ef)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The United States' current energy policies … impoverish society as a whole." n44</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND, alt causes are irrelevant—a gasoline tax solves the point of no return and creates a mindset shift</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Davis and Kilian, 9__ [Lucas Davis and Lutz Kilian, January 2009, National Bureau Of Economic Research, “ESTIMATING THE EFFECT OF A GASOLINE TAX ON CARBON EMISSIONS” (http://www.nber.org/papers/w14685.pdf?new_window=1)]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Several policymakers and economists … explore a number of alternative specifications.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan is key to developing country emissions</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Summers, 7__ [Lawrence Summers, former U.S. Treasury Secretary, currently Professor at Harvard University (from Practical Steps to Climate Control, The Financial Times May 28, 2007) taxblog.com/jealdy/tax-based-approach-slowing-global-climate-change/]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The U.S. must engage in an energy … inefficient and to be regressive.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan promotes the only global solution to climate change</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Zedillo, 8__ [Ernesto Zedillo, former president of Mexico, currently Director of the Center for the Study of Globalization at Yale University (from Carbon Prices, Not Quotas, Forbes March 24, 2008) http://taxblog.com/jealdy/tax-based-approach-slowing-global-climate-change/]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Frankly, a Kyoto-type framework … messy or even impossible alternatives!</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">EVEN IF higher gas prices don’t decrease consumption, the revenues create energy efficient technology transfer</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Aldy, 12__ [Joseph E. Aldy, Assistant Professor of Public Policy, Harvard Kennedy School, Cambridge, USA, March 1, 2012, “A Tax-Based Approach to Slowing Global Climate Change” (http://taxblog.com/jealdy/tax-based-approach-slowing-global-climate-change /17)]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The first, ex ante, dimension … require penalties for noncompliance.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">98% of economists agree the plan will solve—creates demand for fuel efficient transit and decreases</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Global Network Consulting ’12__ <a strategy consulting firm and member of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monitor_Group|Monitor]] Group, that helps businesses, NGOs, and governments use [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scenario_planning|scenario planning]] to plan for multiple possible futures> “Carbon Emissions: Is gas tax the answer?” [[http://gnconsulting.com.br/site/index.php?option=com_k2&view=item&id=3857:carbon-emissions-is-a-gas-tax-the-answer&Itemid=245]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">According to a recent report by Reuters, … we need higher gas taxes,” he added</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">No War</span>**==== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Humans have undergone a cognitive evolution that makes war extremely unlikely</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Pinker 2009__ – Ph.D. Harvard college professor of psychology (Stephen, April 1st, “Why is there peace?”[[http://greatergood.berkeley.edu/article/item/why_is_there_peace/]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Over the past century, violent images from … have risen, rather than how low our behavior can sink.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It’s the twenty-first century: great power war is obsolete</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Deudney and Ikenberry 0__9 *Professor of Political Science at Johns Hopkins AND **Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University [Jan/Feb, 2009, Daniel Deudney and John Ikenberry, “The Myth of the Autocratic Revival: Why Liberal Democracy Will Prevail,” Foreign Affairs]**</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This bleak outlook is based on … autocratic revivalists acknowledge</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Great power war is obsolete and small conflicts will not escalate—many reasons</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__MANDELBAUM 1999__ (Michael, Professor of American Foreign Policy, Johns Hopkins University; Director, Project on East-West Relations, Council on Foreign Relations, “Transcript: is Major War Obsolete?” Transcript of debate with John Mearsheimer, CFR, Feb 25, http://www.ciaonet.org/conf/cfr10/)</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">My argument says, tacitly, that while this point of view … standing guard against an attack on a king.”</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">0% risk of nuclear weapon use</span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Tepperman 9__ [Jonathan Tepperman, Deputy Editor of Newsweek, Member of the Council on Foreign Relations, now Managing Editor of Foreign Affairs, holds a B.A. in English Literature from Yale University, an M.A. in Jurisprudence from Oxford University, and an LL.M. in International Law from New York University, 2009 (“Why Obama Should Learn to Love the Bomb,” The Daily Beast, August 28th, Available Online at http://www.thedailybeast.com/newsweek/2009/08/28/why-obama-should-learn-to-love-the-bomb.print.html, Accessed 01-27-2012)]</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A growing and compelling body … they have a death wish.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nuclear weapons are not an existential threat</span>****
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Nyquist, 1999__ [J.R., “Is Nuclear War Survivable?” May 20, WorldNetDaily.com,http://www.antipas.org/protected_files/news/world/nuclear_war.html]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">As I write about Russia’s nuclear war preparations… weapons would produce few (if any) fallout casualties.</span>
==TIGGER 1AC== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">read @ Iowa Caucus</span>
====**Warming**==== 

**Warming is real. It’s anthropogenic and caused by greenhouse gases–studies and data prove**
__Rahmstorf 8__ Professor of Ocean Physics @ Potsdam University (Richard, Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto, Edited by Ernesto Zedillo, “Anthropogenic Climate Change?” p. 42-44)

It is time to address the ﬁnal...with which we need to deal.

**AND, Hansen agrees that we still have time to act and solve runaway warming**
__Ritz, 8-4-12__ [Erica Ritz, The Blaze, based on NASA scientist James Hansen, “‘We Are Wasting Precious Time’: Influential NASA Scientist Urges Government Action on ‘Climate Change’” (http://www.theblaze.com/stories/we-are-wasting-precious-time-influential-nasa-scientist-says-government-must-take-action-on-climate-change/)]

(The Blaze/AP) — The relentless...that it is harmful.”

**AND, the point of no return is in 2020. We can only act now.**
__Harvey, 11__ [Fiona Harvey, May 29, 2011, environment correspondant for The Guardian, “Worst ever carbon emissions leave climate on the brink”, (http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2011/may/29/carbon-emissions-nuclearpower)]

Greenhouse gas emissions increased...be up to us to stop them.

**AND, we need a plan that targets fossil fuels**
__Charlesworth, 10__ [Andrew Charlesworth, 5-6-2011, Business Green, “Global carbon emissions to rise 43 per cent by 2035, says US report” (http://www.businessgreen.com/bg/news /1702325/global-carbon-emissions-rise-cent-2035-us-report)]

Global emissions of carbon...consumption will increase 44 per cent.

**Extinction is inevitable. Warming is the only threat to human existence**
__Mazo 10__ – PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA
Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122

The best estimates for global...profound social, cultural and political changes.

**We are at the tipping point of runaway warming**
__Hansen 8__ – Professor of Earth and Environmental Science
James E. Hanson, head of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York City and adjunct professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Science at Columbia University, Al Gore’s science advisor, “Briefing before the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming,” US House of Representatives, 6-23-2008, “Twenty years later: tipping points near on global warming,” http://www.columbia.edu/~jeh1/2008/TwentyYearsLater_20080623.pdf

Fast feedbacks—changes...major casualty in all this will be wildlife.

**It’s killing half of terresterial species**
__Hansen 8__ – Professor of Earth Sciences @ Columbia
James E, Head of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York City and adjunct professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Science at Columbia University. Al Gore’s science advisor. Introductory chapter for the book State of the Wild. “Tipping point: Perspective of a Scientist.” April. http://www.columbia.edu/~jeh1/2008/StateOfWild_20080428.pdf

Climate change is emerging while...we transplant them to higher mountains?

**Extinction**
__Young 10__ (PhD coastal marine ecology, 10 [Ruth, “Biodiversity: what it is and why it’s important”, February 9th, http://www.talkingnature.com/2010/02/biodiversity/biodiversity-what-and-why/]

Different species within ecosystems...biodiversity maintains this service.

**It’s acidifying our oceans, destroying marine ecosystems at a rate never seen in Earthly history**
__Parry 12__ – Staff Writer for Live Science, citing a study lead by Barbel Honisch – a paleoceanographer at Columbia University (Wynne, March 2, 2012, “Oceans Turning Acidic Faster than Past 300 Million Years,” http://www.livescience.com/18786-ocean-acidification-extinction.html)JCP

The oceans are becoming...researchers conclude in their paper.

**Which means extinction**
__IANS 10__ [6.20, main Australian news service, http://www.sify.com/news/could-unbridled-climate-changes-lead-to-human-extinction-news-international-kgtrOhdaahc.html, 7/3, Nilango]

Scientists have sounded...Bruno warned, according to a GCI release.

**It’s causing malaria and disease**
__Nettleman and Khasnis 05__ (Atul A. Khasnis, Mary D. Nettleman, Department of Medicine, Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan; “Global Warming and Infectious Disease”; Archieves of Medical Research; 4/1/09; http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0188440905001517)

Many global warming scenarios...surrogate for crop failure and malnutrition

**Extinction**
__Dalton 01__ (Alastair, journalist, “Deadly Virus Will Destroy Life on Earth,” THE SCOTSMAN, October 17, 2001, LN.)

HUMANS will have to...need for any immediate panic.

**The Earth will explode**
__Chalko 4__ [Tom J. Chalko , MSc, PhD, 30 October, (http://nujournal.net/core.pdf)]

The heat generated inside...be NO SECOND CHANCE..

**It’s worse than any human conflict**
__Lee 9__ – Professor of environment, conflict, and trade @ American
James, PhD, runs American University's Inventory of Conflict and Environment project, Climate Change and Armed Conflict

The path from climate change...more people than in virtually all the wars of the century. (Fagan 2008: 235)

**There should be an extremely high standard of evidence in debates about global warming – current climate skepticism is unqualified**
__Somerville 11__ – Professor of Oceanography @ UCSD Richard Somerville, Distinguished Professor Emeritus and Research Professor at Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California, San Diego, Coordinating Lead Author in Working Group I for the 2007 Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 3-8-2011, “CLIMATE SCIENCE AND EPA'S GREENHOUSE GAS REGULATIONS,” CQ Congressional Testimony, Lexis

Although the expert...as well as many more ordinary mortals who are simply very badly mistaken.

====**Plan**==== 

Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in Transit Investments for Greenhouse Gas and Energy Reduction programs in the United States.

====**Solvency**==== 

**The plan solves – TIGGER jumpstarts green transportation technology, failure collapses efforts**
__Katz and Muro 10__ (Bruce / Mark, Vice Prez of Brooking Institute/ Senior Fellow @ Brookings, State and Local Governments are Oversubscribing to Innovative Stimulus Programs, 3/24/10, http://www.brookings.edu/up-front/posts/2010/03/24-stimulus-katz-muro) LA

Stimulus, to that extent..programs and resources they seek.

**That snowballs – TIGGER catalyzes innovation in green transportation technology**
__McGraw, Shull, Miknaitas 10__ (Jen, Climate Change Program Director, Stefanie, Policy analyst, Gajus, Ph.D and senior research analyst, The Route to Carbon and Energy Savings: Transit Efficiency in 2030 and 2050, http://www.apta.com/resources/reportsandpublications/Documents/Route_to_Carbon_and_Energy_Savings_TCRP_J11_Task9.pdf) KA

Transit agencies are adopting...than just in simulations.

**Alt causes don’t matter—transportation needs to be the main focus**
__Voiland 10__ [James, Earth Sci writer- NASA, “Road Transportation Emerges as Key Driver of Warming”, http://www.giss.nasa.gov/research/news/20100218a/) ATP

In their analysis, motor...good for our health."

**AND, it’s the prerequisite to spill over**
__Burwell 10__ (David Dir of the Energy and Climate Program at the Carnegie Endowment, http://carnegieendowment.org/2010/04/15/transportation-leading-cause-of-global-warming/2fr2)

Road transportation is...global climate agreement.”

**TIGGER creates global models for electric vehicles**
__Yoon 11__ (Lan, KAIST, “KAIST’s successful transfer of green technology” http://www.eurekalert.org/pub_releases/2011-12/tkai-kst120111.php) IGM

Daejeon, Republic of Korea, December 1,...and other various industries."

**Put away your disads, previous TIGGER funding makes them not unique but funding will expire without an extension**
__Ehl 11__ (Larry, Publisher of Transportation Issues Daily, TIGER Yes, TIGGER NO, in 2012 (Updated), http://www.transportationissuesdaily.com/tiger-yes-tigger-no-in-2012/) KA

TIGGER (Transit Investments for Greenhouse...cooling systems in transit facilities.

**The plan increases the gas tax**
__Yglesias 2k11__
(“Will The Federal Gasoline Tax Be Grover Norquist’s Next Hostage?

With the debt ceiling...Republicans to let the excise tax expire.

**AND, that solves**
__Davis and Kilian, 9__ [Lucas Davis and Lutz Kilian, January 2009, National Bureau Of Economic Research, “ESTIMATING THE EFFECT OF A GASOLINE TAX ON CARBON EMISSIONS” (http://www.nber.org/papers/w14685.pdf?new_window=1)]

Several policymakers and...explore a number of alternative specifications.

====**No War**==== 

**No violence**
__Pinker 2009__ – Ph.D. Harvard college professor of psychology (Stephen, April 1st, “Why is there peace?”http://greatergood.berkeley.edu/article/item/why_is_there_peace/)

Over the past century...low our behavior can sink.

**Great power war is obsolete**
__Deudney and Ikenberry 09__ *Professor of Political Science at Johns Hopkins AND **Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University [Jan/Feb, 2009, Daniel Deudney and John Ikenberry, “The Myth of the Autocratic Revival: Why Liberal Democracy Will Prevail,” Foreign Affairs]**

**This bleak outlook...the autocratic revivalists acknowledge.**

More evidence
**__MANDELBAUM 1999__ (Michael, Professor of American Foreign Policy, Johns Hopkins University; Director, Project on East-West Relations, Council on Foreign Relations, “Transcript: is Major War Obsolete?” Transcript of debate with John Mearsheimer, CFR, Feb 25, http://www.ciaonet.org/conf/cfr10/)**

**My argument says, tacitly, that...an attack on a king.”**

0% risk of nuclear weapon use
**__Tepperman 9__**
**[Jonathan Tepperman, Deputy Editor of Newsweek, Member of the Council on Foreign Relations, now Managing Editor of Foreign Affairs, holds a B.A. in English Literature from Yale University, an M.A. in Jurisprudence from Oxford University, and an LL.M. in International Law from New York University, 2009 (“Why Obama Should Learn to Love the Bomb,” The Daily Beast, August 28th, Available Online at http://www.thedailybeast.com/newsweek/2009/08/28/why-obama-should-learn-to-love-the-bomb.print.html, Accessed 01-27-2012)]**

**A growing and compelling...suggests they have a death wish.**

Any leader attempting to launch a nuclear attack would be assassinated.
**__Walsh 85__ (Edward, Lieutenant Colonel in the United States Air Force, “Nuclear War Opposing Viewpoints, p. 51)**

**No president or dictator,...retaliatory holocaust.**

Nuclear weapons are not an existential threat
**__Nyquist, 1999__ [J.R., “Is Nuclear War Survivable?” May 20, WorldNetDaily.com,http://www.antipas.org/protected_files/news/world/nuclear_war.html]**
**As I write about Russia’s...produce few (if any) fallout casualties.**

Concentration checks
**__Tonn 2005,__ [Bruce UT political science professor, “Human extinction scenarios”, August]**

**The human species...nanotechnologies with nuclear weapons**

Shelters check**
__Muller 12__ [Jonatas, Mendeley member in Philosophy, Analysis of Existential Risks, April 2012, http://www.jonatasmuller.com/x-risks.html]

Direct damage from...any of these conditions.

=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Negative</span>= 

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kritiks</span>== 
=== === 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Neoliberalism</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Transportation infrastructure drives neoliberal expansion and creates a system of exclusion and dominance against the poor</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Farmer 11__ (Stephanie Farmer, “Uneven Public Transportation Development in Neoliberalizing Chicago, USA” Environment and Planning, 2011, Volume 43, pg 1154-1172)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Many critics have</span>...<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">pursue alternative visions?</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The marginalization of populations under neoliberalism constructs them as disposable – this is the ultimate ethical error and causes extinction – also causes error replication</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Santos 3__ Professor of Sociology at the University of Coimbra (Boaventura de Sousa, “Collective Suicide?”, http://www.ces.uc.pt/opiniao/bss/072en.php)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">According to Franz...must be destroyed</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Alternative: Reject the affirmative by refusing to participate in the acceptance of institutions. We can only affirm globalization from below by disengaging from institutions—this is an ontological imperative</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Murphy et al 4__ (Jung Min, John W, Manuel J, Professor of Sociology SDSU, Professor of Sociology University of Miami, Professor of Sociology Barry University, Globalization with a Human Face, pg. 6-9)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Abstract. This paper examines ... shape within this</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nietzsche</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Their criminalization of suffering precludes us from finding meaning in and growing from our pain. They make a moral condemnation of suffering which prevents inner peace.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Van Hooft, 1998,__ Stan Van Hooft, Stan is professor of philosophy at Deakin University, Melbourne, 1998, “The Meanings of Suffering”,</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[http://web.ebscohost.com/ehost/detail?vid=3&hid=17&sid=9bcfda3c-98ba-4d27-a336-e3eecab55613%40sessionmgr110&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWhvc3QtbGl2ZSZzY29wZT1zaXRl#db=rlh&AN=1178447|http://web.ebscohost.com/ehost/detail?vid=3&hid=17&sid=9bcfda3c-98ba-4d27-a336-e3eecab55613%40sessionmgr110&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWhvc3QtbGl2ZSZzY29wZT1zaXRl#db=rlh&AN=1178447]], 7/04/2012, [AR]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">To see suffering this ... to our modern sensibilities </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Suffering is structurally inevitable – life is hard and joyous simultaneously</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Wrisley No Date (George, Prof of Philosophy @ U Iowa, “What Should Our Attitude Towards Suffering Be,” Nietzsche and Suffeirng- A Choice of Attitudes and Ideals, [[http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&q=site%3Ageorgewrisley.com+What+Should+Our+Attitude+Towards+Suffering+Be&aq=f&oq=&aqi]]=) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">“To live is to suffer”: ... live is only to suffer.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The aff’s motivations delink humanity from pleasure and value – worsens the problem</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Quain 9__ (Tony, freelance writer on contemporary economic, political, and philosophical issues, achelor of Arts in Economics from Georgetown University and a Master of Arts in Economics from George Mason University, author of “The Political Reference Almanac,” last updated july 13, “Nietzsche and the Welfare State,” [[http://www.tonyquain.com/philo/200611NW.shtml]]) Zanezor [Footnotes added in for explanation at “16”]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Although Nietzsche has been ... wants to become a function."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Fantasizing about a world with less suffering produces creative impotence only our relationship to life can escape this paradox of resentment—this turns the case</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Turanli, 3__ (Aydan Turanli, Department of Humanities and Social Sciences @ Istanbul Technical University, 2003 [“journal of nietzche studies 26 (2003) 55-63 p.muse]-AC)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The craving for absolutely ... the fly-bottle" </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">There is no case. It’s impossible to solve for suffering, there is only a risk it’s better to embrace rather than run away from it.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Kain 7__ (Philip J, Professor of philosophy at University of Santa Clara, "Nietzsche, Eternal Recurrence, and the Horror of Existence," the Journal of Nietzsche Studies, muse, AD: 7/2/09)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">One might find all ... seek to mask it.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Pain and suffering are good. The belief that it is bad assigns guilt. The belief that it is good builds strength.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Kain 7__ [Santa Clara profressor of Philosophy, (Philip, Nietzsche, Eternal Recurrence, and the Horror of Existence The Nietzsche journal.)]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We have seen ... through such suffering.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Value to life is only able to be retained through the eternal recurrence – life isn’t intrinsically valuable, its value comes through living life through affirmation</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Hicks and Rosenberg 3__(Steven V, Department of Philosophy @ Queens College, Alan, Associate Professor of Philosophy @ Queens College, “Nietzsche and Untimeliness: The "Philosopher of the Future" as the Figure of Disruptive Wisdom,” The Journal of Nietzsche Studies 25 1-34, Muse, AD: 7/9/09) jl</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Here, Nietzsche employs a ... contextual, nondogmatic, and open-ended. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our alternative is to embrace suffering.</span>**
__<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kain 7</span>__ <span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Philip J, Professor of philosophy at University of Santa Clara, "Nietzsche, Eternal Recurrence, and the Horror of Existence," the Journal of Nietzsche Studies, muse, AD: 7/6/09) jl</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Try to imagine ... by embracing it.</span>

===Feminism=== 

**Transportation planning is dominated by the masculine**
__Sandercock and Forsyth 92[__Leonie Sandercock& Ann Forsyth, An Australian academic currently teaching at the School of Community & Regional Planning at University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada., professor of Urban Planning at Harvard University “A Gender Agenda: New Directions for Planning Theory”, Winter 1992, http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1080/01944369208975534]

With more women…work on the internalculture ofplanners.

**Patriarchy is the root of domestic violence, environmental destruction, and war—extinction**
__Warren and Cady, 94__ (Karen and Duane, Feminism and Peace: Seeing Connections, Hypatia, Vol. 9, No. 2, Spring, p4-20)

Operationalized, the evidence of patriarchy … regional, national and global contexts.

**The alternative is to expand and rethink our conceptions of peace and war, through a feminist lens.**
__Warren & Cady 94__ (Karen & Duane, “Feminism and Peace: Seeing Connections”, Hypatia Volume: 9. Issue: 2, pp 13, CR)

Conclusion: In this paper we have…feminism and peace connections seriously.

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Disadvantages</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Obama Good - Elections @ Greenhill</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Obama will win but Romney is still in striking distance</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Reuters, 9/21__ (John Whitesides, Reuters, Chicago Tribune, 9/21/12, http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2012-09-21/news/sns-rt-us-usa-campaign-romney-analysisbre88k06g-20120920_1_democratic-president-barack-obama-mitt-romney-private-equity-executive) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Democratic President Barack ... is on the wrong track</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Transportation policy will be pivotal; passage now ensures partisan splintering and voter backlash</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Kredell, 12__ [Matthew Kredell, USC News, USC graduate, Daily News contributor, “Transit Policy Is Pivotal on Road to the White House” (http://news.usc.edu/#!/article/33401/transit-policy-is-pivotal-on-road-to-the-white-house/)]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Transit Policy Is ... taking mass transit.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Romney starts a trade warwith China and unleashes new waves of protectionism</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__WSJ, 11__ [Wall Street Journal, 9/7/2011 (Mitt Romney’s 59 Economic Flavors, p. http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424053111904537404576554692126810066.html?mod=googlenews_wsj)]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">By far the most... and create jobs.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That causes collapses relations and sparks global protectionism</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Droke 10__ (Clif, Editor – Momentum Strategies Report, “America and the Next Major War’, Green Faucet, 3-29, http://www.greenfaucet.com/technical-analysis/america-and-the-next-major-war/79314)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In the current.. suffer," writes Barker</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, protectionism causes terrorism and Iran expansion – culminates in nuclear extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Pazner 8__ (Michael J., Faculty – New York Institute of Finance, Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse, p. 137-138)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The rise in...new world war</span>

===Urban Sprawl=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Growth Low Now – Econ must stay low or transportation expensive</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Peñalver ’07__ (Eduardo, December 30, associate professor of property law at Cornell University Law School, “The End of Sprawl?”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2007/12/28/AR2007122802449.html DOA: 6/21/12 ARW)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">American sprawl was...remote areas will fall.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This leads to higher cost of transportation – turns case.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Solé-Ollé et al 7__, (Albert Solé-Ollé & Miriam Hortas Rico, Profesors at Uinteversity of Barcelona and Barcelona Institute of Economics, “Does urban sprawl increase the costs of providing local public services? Evidence from Spanish municipalities”)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Given that previous...of our urban sprawl results.</span>

===Coercion=== 

**The plan is coercive theft – shatters morality**
Murray N. __Rothbard__, philosopher, author for Lew Rockwell, __NO__ __DATE__, article is excerpted from chapters 22–25 of The Ethics of Liberty, “The State versus Liberty”, http://www.lewrockwell.com/rothbard/rothbard160.html, KENTUCKY

Does that mean that Smith's use...group in society – the State.

===Fiscal Cliff=== 

**Fiscal cliff will pass now; Boehner now open to presidential leadership**
__Caldwell, 11/8/12__ [Leigh Ann Caldwell, CBS News, political reporter, “Top Democrat: Boehner's "fiscal cliff" remarks "a good first step"” (http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-250_162-57547214/top-democrat-boehners-fiscal-cliff-remarks-a-good-first-step/)]

As Washington turns its attention...filled with policies no one likes."

**Transportation receives backlash – crushes Obama compromise ability**
__Freemark 12__ (Yonah – Master of Science in Transportation from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Bachelor of Arts in Architecture, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Yale University with Distinction. Also a freelance journalist who has been published in Planning Magazine; Next American City Magazine; Dissent; The Atlantic Cities; Next American City Online; and The Infrastructurist – He created and continues to write for the website The Transport Politic – The Transport Politic – “On Infrastructure, Hopes for Progress This Year Look Glum” – January 25th, 2012 – http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2012/01/25/on-infrastructure-hopes-for-progress-this-year-look-glum/)

President Obama barely mentions...perhaps with a few bureaucratic reforms.

**Failure collapses the global economy**
__Mandel 9/27__ Harold Mandel (writer for the Examiner) 9/27, 2012 “Fitch says fiscal cliff could set off global recession (Video)” http://www.examiner.com/article/fitch-says-fiscal-cliff-could-set-off-global-recession

The ratings agency stated...bad news for everyone.

**The impact is nuclear war**
__Burrows and Harris 9__ Mathew J. Burrows (counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC), PhD in European History from Cambridge University) and Jennifer Harris (a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit) April 2009 “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” http://www.twq.com/09april/docs/09apr_Burrows.pdf

Of course, the report encompasses more than...both within and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world.
==Topicality== 

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T - Categories</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our interpretation is that transportation infrastructure means roads, bridges, waterways, ports, air and rail-- Energy and water are distinct categories.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Chapman 11__ (Chapman and Cutler LLP, “The American Jobs Act and Its Impact on a National Infrastructure Bank”, Client Alert, 9-29, http://www.chapman.com/media/news/media.1081.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Eligibility for financial assistance...public and commercial buildings</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That excludes communication</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Babson 11__ (Adam, Senior Portfolio Analyst – Russell Research, “Structuring a Listed Infrastructure Portfolio”, May, http://www.openworldinvesting.com/files/ow_listed_infra_article.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">While the global...competitively exposed companies).</span>

===T - Increase=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Interpretation – “Increase” means to make greater and requires pre-existence</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Buckley 6__ (Jeremiah, Attorney, Amicus Curiae Brief, Safeco Ins. Co. of America et al v. Charles Burr et al, [[http://supreme.lp.findlaw.com/supreme_court/briefs/06-84/06-84.mer.ami.mica.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">First, the court said ... already-existing policy</span>

===T - Non-military=== 

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">“Transportation infrastructure” is strictly defined as facilities of transport --- this excludes security, law enforcement, and military support</span>**
__Musick ‘10__
(Nathan, Microeconomic and Financial Studies Division – United States Congressional Budget Office, Public Spending on Transportation and Water Infrastructure, p. 2)
Although different definitions…Engineers following Hurricane Katrina in 2005).

==Counterplans== 

===Building Codes=== 

**Text: The state governments should implement and enforce energy efficiency building codes modeled on California’s building codes.**

**Efficient building codes solve better – gains in transportation efficiency are inevitable**
__Rigdon 8__ Joan Indiana Rigdon – Nov 2008, Grad of UC Berkeley journalism school, former writer for Wall Street Journal, “Oil: The Never-Ending Crisis,” Washington Lawyer, http://www.dcbar.org/for_lawyers/resources/publications/washington_lawyer/november_2008/oil_crisis.cfm

Unsexy Building Codes Much of the public debate about energy and greenhouse gas emissions is centered on automobiles, a focus which Bookbinder believes is misplaced....windmill on their roof,” he says

===States=== 

**Text: The United States federal government should devolve all control over investment for transportation infrastructure to state and local governments, including returning any current federal funding spent on transportation infrastructure to the states. The relevant state governments and relevant territories and districts should increase investment for …**

**State governments solve transportation infrastructure better than the federal government**
__Roth ’11__ Gabriel Roth - Civil Engineer and Transport Economist. "SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE Testimony on Financing Infrastructure." The Independent Institute. N.p., may 17th, 2011. Web. <http://www.independent.org/issues/article.asp?id=3092>.

This testimony is designed to show that...require additional expenditures from general funds.

===Airport Privatization=== 

**Text: The United States federal government should remove caps on passenger facility charges, lift the prohibition against airport revenue diversion, exempt airport sponsors from the requirement that they pay back any federal grants or return any property purchased with federal funds, and privatize air traffic control systems.**

**Removing PFC caps allows private airport owners to fund capacity improvements without federal dollars – Canada proves**
David __Bentley__-Air transport researcher and analyst-October 18 __2011__, “Time to rethink US airport funding”, CAPA, http://www.centreforaviation.com/analysis/time-to-rethink-us-airport-funding-60733

Recently, Airport Investor Monthly posed...proliferation of “Taj Majal” terminals (as feared by US airlines).

=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Negative Strategies</span>= 

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Greenhill</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 1 vs. San Dieguito Academy HW</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC - T-Categories, Elections, Neolib</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR - Neolib</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 4 vs. Westwood LR</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC - T-Increase, Elections, Neolib</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR - Elections</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 6 vs. Heritage Hall NF</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC - Framework, Nietzsche, Badiou</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR - Nietzsche</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Iowa Caucus</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 1 vs. New Trier KP</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC - T-Non-military, Feminism, Neolib, Elections</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR - T</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 3 vs. Pembroke GS</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC - Badiou, Ideology, Screening CP, Elections</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR - Badiou</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 6 vs. SME TR</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC - Feminism, States, Elections, Building Codes, Econ Collapse Good</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR - Building Codes, Econ Collapse Good</span>

===KCKCC=== 

Round 1 vs. Greenwood Lab
1NC - Fiscal Cliff, Elections, Neolib, Sprawl
2NR - Neolib

Round 4 vs. SME KW
1NC - Fem, Nietzsche, Tournament CP, T-Categories, Ideology
2NR - T

Round 6 vs. SMS MO
1NC - T-Categories, Nietzsche, West Best
2NR - West Best

===SME=== 

Round 1 vs. BVNW
1NC - T-Increase, Fiscal Cliff, Fem, Neolib, States, Research CP
2NR - Fiscal Cliff, States, Research

Round 3 vs. TWest
1NC - T-Roads/Rail, Fiscal Cliff, Neolib, Airport Privatization, Heg Bad
2NR - Neolib

Round 5 vs. BVN
1NC - T-Roads/Rail, Fiscal Cliff, Coercion, Neolib, Everglades PIC
2NR - T-Roads/Rail
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 6119px; width: 1px;"> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">“Transportation infrastructure” is strictly defined as facilities of transport --- this excludes security, law enforcement, and military support</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 6119px; width: 1px;"> __Musick ‘10__</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 6119px; width: 1px;"> (Nathan, Microeconomic and Financial Studies Division – United States Congressional Budget Office, Public Spending on Transportation and Water Infrastructure, p. 2)</span>
<span style="display: block; height: 1px; left: -40px; overflow: hidden; position: absolute; top: 6119px; width: 1px;"> Although different definitions…Engineers following Hurricane Katrina in 2005).</span>