[[toc]]
=__R1 - Dowling KW - Port Dredging__= 
==*2NR* States CP== 
===1NC=== 
**Text: The 50 states, relevant territories, and the District of Columbia should substantially increase its investment in expedited port deepening projects in the United States.**

**States can do the plan – report from Army Corps proves**
**AP 6/22**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – associated press (The Associated Press, “Price tag to dredge Eastern ports for big ships: $5 billion”, 6/22/12, http://www.usatoday.com/money/economy/story/2012-06-21/southern-ports-expansion/55746890/1) // CB</span>
__The Southeast,__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> forecast to undergo ... federal infrastructure bank for major projects.</span>

===2NC Solvency=== 
**Savannah funding disputes prove the states can act independently with their own money**
**Bynum 4/26** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– news reporter (Russ, “Georgia would fund Savannah River port deepening if Washington doesn’t, Gov. Nathan Deal says” Associated Press, 4/26/12, http://www.postandcourier.com/article/20120426/PC05/120429432/1005&slId=6) //CB//</span>
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">SAVANNAH — </span>__Gov. Nathan Deal ...__ __is finished in 2014__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>//

//**State public-private partnerships can provide the necessary capital**//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Benjamin 2011</span> **–**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Executive Director Port of Oakland and as President of the California Association of Port Authorities (Omar R., “Testimony of Omar R. Benjamin Executive Director Port of Oakland before the House of Representatives Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee Hearing: “Economic importance of Seaports: Is the United States Prepared for 21st Century Trade Realities?”, October 26, 2011, http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyWater/2011-10-26%20Benjamin.pdf)</span>//MM
In the absence of<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> such </span>a federal ... <span style="font-size: 8pt;">movement supply chain for decades to come.</span>


==*2NR* Elections (Obama Good)== 
==Cap K== 
==T-Increase== 

=__R4 - New Trier KS - CCS__= 
==Elections (Obama Good)== 
==NatGas CP== 
===1NC=== 
**CP Text: The USFG should adopt regulations following the principles of the Golden Rules recommended by our Birol evidence to promote the production of unconventional Natural Gas.**

**A number of regulations must be put in place to make the Natural Gas Industry successful and environmentally beneficial**
**Birol et al. 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Earned a BSc degree in power engineering from the Istanbul Technical University. He received his MSc and PhD in energy economics from the Technical University of Vienna. He was awarded the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic in 2012[4], the country’s highest honor.In 2009, alongside awards from the Dutch and Polish governments, Dr. Birol received the German Federal Cross of Merit, the country's most prestigious decoration (Verdienstkreuz 1. Klasse des Verdienstordens der Bundesrepublik Deutschland). He received the Golden Honor Medal of Austria in 2007 and was made a Chevalier dans l'Ordre des Palmes Académiques by the government of France in 2006. These followed awards from the governments of Turkey in 2005 and the United States in 2004 and the Russian Academy of Sciences in 2002. This report was prepared by the Office of the Chief Economist (OCE) of the International Energy Agency. It was designed and directed by Fatih Birol, Chief Economist of the IEA. The analysis was co-ordinated by Christian Besson and Tim Gould. Principal contributors to this report were Marco Baroni, Laura Cozzi, Ian Cronshaw, Capella Festa, Matthew Frank, Timur Gül, Paweł Olejarnik, David Wilkinson and Peter Wood. Other contributors included Amos Bromhead, Dafydd Elis, Timur Topalgoekceli and Akira Yanagisawa. Sandra Mooney provided essential support. (International Energy Agency(Faith), “ Golden Rules for a Golden Age of Gas”, International Energy Agency, November 12, 2012, [[http://www.worldenergyoutlook.org/media/weowebsite/2012/goldenrules/WEO2012_GoldenRulesReport.pdf)//sjl]]</span>
__Measure, disclose and engage__ ... __verification of environmental performance.__

**Unregulated production of Unconventional gas causes a host of environmental impacts and collapses the Natural Gas Industry**
**Birol et al. 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Earned a BSc degree in power engineering from the Istanbul Technical University. He received his MSc and PhD in energy economics from the Technical University of Vienna. He was awarded the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic in 2012[4], the country’s highest honor.In 2009, alongside awards from the Dutch and Polish governments, Dr. Birol received the German Federal Cross of Merit, the country's most prestigious decoration (Verdienstkreuz 1. Klasse des Verdienstordens der Bundesrepublik Deutschland). He received the Golden Honor Medal of Austria in 2007 and was made a Chevalier dans l'Ordre des Palmes Académiques by the government of France in 2006. These followed awards from the governments of Turkey in 2005 and the United States in 2004 and the Russian Academy of Sciences in 2002. This report was prepared by the Office of the Chief Economist (OCE) of the International Energy Agency. It was designed and directed by Fatih Birol, Chief Economist of the IEA. The analysis was co-ordinated by Christian Besson and Tim Gould. Principal contributors to this report were Marco Baroni, Laura Cozzi, Ian Cronshaw, Capella Festa, Matthew Frank, Timur Gül, Paweł Olejarnik, David Wilkinson and Peter Wood. Other contributors included Amos Bromhead, Dafydd Elis, Timur Topalgoekceli and Akira Yanagisawa. Sandra Mooney provided essential support. (International Energy Agency(Faith), “ Golden Rules for a Golden Age of Gas”, International Energy Agency, November 12, 2012, [[http://www.worldenergyoutlook.org/media/weowebsite/2012/goldenrules/WEO2012_GoldenRulesReport.pdf)//sjl]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yet a bright </span>__future for ...__ __development of unconventional resources.__

==T-Transportation Infrastructure== 
==*2NR* Cap K== 

=__R5 - GBS BM - Port Dredging__= 
==*2NR* Elections== 
==States CP== 
==Cap K== 
==T-Increase==