[[toc]]
=Notes= 

For affirmative cites email Divya at dgupta2014@gmail.com
For negative cites email Alisa at alisabaj@gmail.com

=Affirmative= 
==Icebreakers 1AC== 
===Plan Text=== 
The United States federal government should substantially increase icebreaking operations for the creation of United States’ waterways.

===Contention 1: Arctic Shield=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Coast Guard is increasing Arctic presence through “Arctic Shield” - but it will be ineffective without icebreakers</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Slattery 10/26 (Brian Slattery- Research Assistant, Defense Studies Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, 10/26/2012, “Arctic Shield: Coast Guard Looking North”, http://blog.heritage.org/2012/10/26/arctic-shield-coast-guard-looking-north/”</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Arctic has become a hotbed of interest in recent years</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">funding for the sea service to perform its missions.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Arctic Shield, with icebreaker support, is key to protect fisheries, and prevent Arctic war</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ostebo 12 (Rear Admiral Thomas P. Ostebo- also congressional consultant on Coast Guard Operation Arctic Shield 2012, March 2012, “Protecting The Last Frontier”, http://www.uscgf-kmi.com/cgf-home/388-cgf-2012-volume-4-issue-1-march/5281-protecting-the-last-frontier.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">There is a growing consensus within the scientific community that </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">experiences through direct interaction, dialogue, communication and cooperation. </span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Scenario one is Overfishing:</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Overfishing depletes arctic cod – it’s a keystone species- that uniquely destroys the marine environment</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">PEW 10 (Environmental group studying northern oceans, “COMMERCIAL FISHING”, [[http://www.oceansnorth.org/commercial-fishing]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Fortunately, the North American Arctic has largely</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">60 percent of Bering Sea Commercial fishing industry)</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Craig 3, Associate Prof Law, Indiana U School Law, 2003(McGeorge Law Review, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155 Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments for conserving</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">most of the biosphere with us.</span>


====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Scenario two is Arctic War:</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Lack of effective presence makes Russian resource and territorial grabs inevitable- it also undermines cooperation</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Dowd 11 – MA from Indiana University, Senior Fellow of the Fraser Institute</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Alan, “The Big Chill: Energy Needs Fueling Tensions in the Arctic,” https://www.fraserinstitute.org/research-news/news/display.aspx?id=2147483979</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">One reason a military presence will be </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">military confrontation, but to prevent one.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That escalates to nuclear war </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Staples 09(Steven, August 10, - Rideau Institute, Steps toward an arctic nuclear weapon free zone, p. 5-6)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The fact is, the Arctic is becoming an zone</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">the threat or use of nuclear weapons.”</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Reject their defense- Russian military actions prove they won’t cooperate absent US presence</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Huebert 10 – PhD, Professor of Political Science @ U of Calgary (Rob, “The Newly Emerging Arctic Security Environment,”http://www.cdfai.org/PDF/The%20Newly%20Emerging%20Arctic%20Security%20Environment.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It should be clear that the Russians have been</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">assertive Russia? This is not known.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 15px;">Contention 2: Naval Power</span>=== 

First, the US Navy exceeds every country in terms of physical assets- the relevant question is whether our navy can achieve domain awareness and project those forces effectively
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Farley, 07(Robert, assistant professor at the Patterson School of Diplomacy and International Commerce, University of Kentucky. 10-23-07. “The False Decline of the U.S. Navy” http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=the_false_decline_of_the_us_navy)</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">The United States Navy currently operates </span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">littorals for at least the next fifty years.</span>


====<span style="font-size: 110%;">Two Internal links:</span>==== 

<span style="font-size: 110%;">First is Maritime Domain Awareness- it’s vital to US naval power</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Office of Naval Research, No Date, “Maritime Domain Awareness”, [[http://www.onr.navy.mil/en/About-ONR/science-technology-strategic-plan/Maritime-Domain-Awareness.aspx]], ACC: 9.29.11, p. online</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">The success of naval forces depends </span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">includes effective dissemination of that knowledge.</span>


<span style="font-size: 110%;">Arctic maritime domain awareness is nonexistent, but the need for it is growing. This gap will remain without an effective presence </span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">DOD, 11 (Department of Defense, “Report to Congress on Arctic Operations and the Northwest Passage,” May, [[http://www.defense.gov/pubs/pdfs/Tab_A_Arctic_Report_Public.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Maritime Domain Awareness (MDA). MDA is the effective</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">responders with all-domain awareness. </span>


<span style="font-size: 110%;">Icebreakers are a prerequisite to having an effective presence in the artic</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">NRC, 7 National Research Council’s Polar Research Board, Congressional Recommendation Panel On Polar Issues, “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs”, [[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=R1]], ACC: 9.24.11, p. 51</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Asserting a national presence in the Arctic</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">continental shelf region year-round.</span>


====<span style="font-size: 110%;">Second is Force Readiness</span>==== 

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Waterways are necessary for US naval power- allow for force deployment- and the aff is key</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Weitz 11 (Dr. Richard Weitz- Richard Weitz is a Senior Fellow and Director of the Center for Political-Military Analysis at Hudson Institute. His current research includes regional security developments relating to Europe, Eurasia, and East Asia as well as U.S. foreign, defense, homeland security, and WMD nonproliferation policies. Dr. Weitz also is a non-resident Senior Fellow at the Project on National Security Reform (PNSR), where he overseas case study research, and a non-resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS), where he contributes to various defense projects- Before joining Hudson, Dr. Weitz worked for the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, the Center for Strategic and International Studies, the Defense Science Board, DFI International, Inc., the Center for Strategic Studies, the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University’s Kennedy School of Government, and the U.S. Department of Defense. Dr. Weitz is a graduate of Harvard College (B.A. with Highest Honors in Government), the London School of Economics (M.Sc. in International Relations), Oxford University (M.Phil. in Politics), and Harvard University (Ph.D. in Political Science). He is proficient in Russian, French, and German, August 16 2011, “Maritime Power and Grand Strategy”, http://www.sldinfo.com/maritime-power-and-grand-strategy/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">An effective grand strategy requires appropriate and adequate</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">maritime security leverages the investment in the U.S. Navy manifold.</span>


<span style="font-size: 110%;">Naval power deters great power war and prevents multiple extinction scenarios</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">Conway et al 7- James Conway *General of U.S. Marine Corps and Commandant of the Marine Corps, Gary Roughead Admiral of U.S. Navy and Chief of Naval Operations, Thad Allen *Admiral of U.S. Coast Guard and Commandant of the Coast Guard (*James Conway, Gary Roughead, *Thad Allen, "A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower", Department of the Navy, United States Marine Corps, United States Coast Guard, http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf,)</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">This strategy reaffirms the use of seapower to influence</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">against aggressors conventionally, unconventionally, and with nuclear forces.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 15px;">Contention 3: Extraction</span>=== 

Arctic is the main area of methane release- release would cause an irreversible tipping point
Duarte and Huertas 10/18 (Carlos Duarte, University of Western Australia
and Antonio Delgado Huertas, Spanish Scientific Research Council CSIC, 10/18/2012, “Methane hydrates: a volatile time bomb in the Arctic”, http://arctic-news.blogspot.com/2012/10/methane-hydrates-a-volatile-time-bomb-in-the-arctic.html)
The risk with climate change is not with the direct
AND
change appears to be a careless walk on the razor edge.


Only extraction solves methane
Cohen ‘10 MBA, B.Sc., (Chem. Eng.) PR.Eng. Chief Executive Officer of Northern Orion Resources Senior Vice President of Miramar Mining Corporation Chairman of Enterprise Energy Resources Ltd. (Dave, Association for the Study of Peak Oil & Gas – USA (ASPO-USA), M.A. Theoretical Linguistics, “Methane Hydrates,” Energy Bulletin, 2-11-2010, [[http://www.energybulletin.net/node/51517]])
Well, of course, this makes sense. We wouldn't
AND
fossil fuels like natural gas—to cause natural degassing.


Extraction tech works- recent Department of Energy tests proves
DOE 5/2/12 (Department of Energy, May 5 2012, “U.S. and Japan Complete Successful Field Trial of Methane Hydrate Production Technologies”, [[http://energy.gov/articles/us-and-japan-complete-successful-field-trial-methane-hydrate-production-technologies]])
WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu announced
AND
engaging private sector and international partners.


Icebreakers are key to extraction
Hargreaves 7/19/12 (Steve Hargreaves- staff writer for CNNMoney.com, where he focuses on the energy industry, July 19 2012, “Oil: Only part of the Arctic's massive resources”, [[http://money.cnn.com/2012/07/17/news/economy/Arctic-oil/index.htm]])
NEW YORK (CNNMoney) -- When Royal Dutch Shell sinks five
AND
requiring the services of an icebreaker.


Methane burst causes extinction- it’s comparatively worse than nuke war
Ryskin ‘3- Ph.D. Chemical Engineering California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA Engineer-Physicist St. Petersburg Polytechnic Institute, St. Petersburg, Russia Fluid dynamics; statistical physics; geophysics Associate Professor of Chemical and Biological Engineering (Gregory, Department of Chemical Engineering, Northwestern University, “Methane-driven oceanic eruptions and mass extinctions,” Geology, 31(9), September 2003,[[http://pangea.stanford.edu/research/Oceans/GES205/methaneGeology.pdf]])
METASTABILITY AND ERUPTION A liquid subject to gravity and completely
AND
implicated in the nuclearwinter scenario (Turco et al., 1991).


Methane bursts come first – it’s empirically more likely and could happen at any second
Dorritie 7 (Dan Dorritie, paleontologist, studies mass extinction events, M.A. Geology, University of California—Davis, “Preface,”Killer in our Midst, 2007,[[http://www.killerinourmidst.com/]])
Deep beneath the surface of the sea
AND
catastrophe becomes more certain with each passing year.

===<span style="font-size: 15px;">Contenion 4: Solvency</span>=== 

No icebreaker policy now- Coast Guard is not receiving enough money
Beilinson 12 (Jerry, 2012, deputy editor of popular mechanics, and former senior editor of National Geographic Adventure, “Why the U.S. Must Build More Icebreakers Now”, [[http://www.popularmechanics.com/technology/engineering/infrastructure/why-the-us-must-build-more-icebreakers-now-6693195]])
When politicians argue over President Obama’s new
AND
in the Strait each summer. That’s America’s backyard.


Icebreakers, with Coast Guard oversight solve
NRC, 7 (National Research Council’s Polar Research Board, Congressional Recommendation Panel On Polar Issues, “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs”, [[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=R1]], ACC: 9.24.11, p. 1)
The principal objective of the U.S. Coast Guard’s polar
AND
continued U.S. Coast Guard icebreaking support in the Antarctic.



Even if it takes a while to build new icebreakers, we could lease them in the short term for surge capabilities
Rausnitz 8/12 (Zach Rausnitz- associate editor for the Government Groups at FierceMarkets- citing Admiral Robert Papp- Top service official, responsible for all world-wide Coast Guard activities, and oversees 42,000 active duty military and 8,000 civilian full-time employees; 8,000 reserve military part-time employees; and 30,000 civilian auxiliary volunteers, August 8 2012, “Papp: The Coast Guard can't lease all its icebreakers”, [[http://www.fiercehomelandsecurity.com/story/papp-coast-guard-cant-lease-all-its-icebreakers/2012-08-09]])
Leasing icebreakers from the private sector for
AND
no human activity previously took place, he said.


A new federal fleet is key
Perera 11 – MA in International and Public Affairs @ Columbia
David, “Coast Guard needs at least 3 heavy icebreakers, says High Latitude Study,” Fierce Homeland Security,http://www.fiercehomelandsecurity.com/story/coast-guard-needs-least-3-heavy-icebreakers-says-high-latitude-study/2011-08-17
The Coast Guard will need three heavy and
AND
pressure from illegal, unlawful and unregulated fishing.


Icebreaker missions are inevitable – Russia would do them if we didn’t which non-uniques your turns
Ariel Cohen 11, Research Fellow in Russian and Eurasian Studies and International Energy Security @ the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, and Anton Altman, Foundation Research Volunteer, 6-18-11, “Russia’s Arctic Claims: Neither LOST nor Forgotten” Heritage Foundation, [[http://blog.heritage.org/2011/08/16/russias-arctic-claims-neither-lost-nor-forgotten/]], ACC: 9.24.11, p. online
The Arctic is becoming the “wild west” of
AND
access polar waters and the Arctic Ocean bed.

=Negative= 
==Georgetown== 
===Round 1 (HSR - Pine Crest)=== 
1NC:
States CP
Elections DA
Security

2NR:
States
Elections

===Round 4 (Disabilities - Acorn)=== 
1NC:
BRAC CP
Elections DA
Transgenerational Design PIC
T-TI

2NR:
PIC

===Round 6 (Race K of history - Centennial)=== 
1NC:
Framework
Case turns

2NR:
Framework
==Michigan== 
===Round 2 (Port Security - Lakeland)=== 
1NC:
Negligence Doctrine CP
Elections DA
Inflation DA
Security K

2NR:
Inflation DA

===Round 3 (HSR - Maine East)=== 
1NC:
Elections DA
States CP
Security K
Dedev

2NR:
Dedev

===Round 6 (Port Seucirty - West Bloomfield)=== 
1NC:
Elections DA
States CP
Security K
Heg bad

2NR:
Heg bad
==The Glenbrooks== 
===Round 2 (HSR - Traverse City)=== 
1NC:
Airline Trade Off DA
States CP
Fiscal Cliff DA
Dedev

2NR:
Dedev

===Round 3 (Spaceports - Coppel)=== 
1NC:
T-Space
Anthro K
Fiscal Cliff DA

2NR:
T-Space

===Round 6 (NIB - Barstow)=== 
1NC:
States CP
Fiscal Cliff DA
T-Capital Expenditure
Heg bad

2NR:
Heg bad
==Dowling== 
===Round 1 (Sea Basing - Iowa City)=== 
1NC:
Security K
Fiscal Cliff DA
China-Japan CP
T-In

2NR:
Security K

===Round 4 (Bering Strait Vessel Traffic System - James Logan)=== 
1NC:
Fiscal Cliff DA
Russia Multiplank CP
T-Its

2NR:
Fiscal Cliff DA

===Round 6 (HSR - Maine East)=== 
1NC:
States CP
Fiscal Cliff DA
T-Preexisting

2NR:
Fiscal Cliff DA

===Doubleoctofinals (Bicycles "Right to the City" - Highland Park)=== 
1NC:
States CP
Fiscal Cliff DA
T-Substantial
Framework

2NR:
States CP
Fiscal Cliff DA

==Berkeley== 
===Round 2 (New Orleans - University)=== 
1NC:
Immigration DA
Katrina K
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Dirty Birdy</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5;">2NR:</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Dirty Birdy</span>

===Round 3 (Port Security - Niles West)=== 
1NC:
Consumption K
Immigration
States CP
T-Maintenance

2NR:
K

===Round 5 (Vehicle Mile Traveled Fee - Kamiak)=== 
1NC:
States CP
Immigration
T-TI
Consumption

2NR:
CP and DA

==JV State== 
===Round 2 (LNG - GBS)=== 
1NC:
DoE CP
Security
Immigration
Leaks DA
T-Energy

2NR:
CP and DA

===Round 3 (Port Security - Niles North)=== 
1NC:
Security
States CP
Immigration
T-Maintenance
Agricultural terror turn

2NR:
Case w/ag terror and DA