[[toc]]
=Round 1 - Aff (Space Elevator)= 
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">Contention One Is Deep Eco</span>__**</span>

**We will isolate 2 Impacts:**
**1st is the Ozone**
**Ross et al, 9**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – *Adjunct professor at Embry-Riddle University, PhD in planetary physics from UCLA, **PhD from Harvard, Program Director for Baker Residential Academic Program at Colorado University at Boulder,** *Project Engineer at The Aerospace Corporation, Center Faculty Chair at the Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University, MA in aeronautical science</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[3/20, *Martin Ross **Darin Toohey** *Manfred Peinemann Patrick Ross, “Limits on the Space Launch Market</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Related to Stratospheric Ozone Depletion”, Astropolitics 7:1, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://atoc.colorado.edu/%7Ewhan/ATOC4800_5000/Materials/Toohey09.pdf|http://atoc.colorado.edu/~whan/ATOC4800_5000/Materials/Toohey09.pdf]]</span>, AL]</span>
__If rockets are a minuscule contributor … perfectly ‘‘green’’ in this sense.__

**That destroys the planet**
**Thomas 6** William Thomas, Investigative Journalist, 8-7-2006, “Scientist Says Chemtrails, Shuttle Launches Endangering Earth,” Chem Trails, http://www.chemtrails911.com/docs/Space%20Shuttle%20Launch-Ozone%20Layer.htm
__A Canadian atmospheric scientist warns … shielding—but the stratosphere itself.__

**2nd is nitric acid – that destroys the environment**
**Science ray 11**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> (5/19/11, http://scienceray.com/biology/ecology/about-nitric-acid/#ixzz1QJmsahzP) </span>
**__Nitric acid__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> is a naturally occur … with the high pH water. </span>

**We only need to win a small risk of any of our impacts to vote aff**
**Diner 94 – PhD in Planetary Science, Sex edited**
David Diner, Ph. D in Planetary Science and Geology. “The Army and the Endangered Speciies Act: Who’s Endangering Who?. Military Law Review 143. 1994
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">To accept that the snail … </span>__edging closer to the abyss.__

**It is a question of sustainability – fuel will run out and those fights have already caused political backlash – only the plan lets us get to space**
**Greenfieldboyce 11/08/11** [NPR science correspondent With reporting focused on general science, NASA, and the intersection between technology and society, Greenfieldboyce has been on the science desk's technology beat since she joined NPR in 2005. A graduate of Johns Hopkins, earning her Bachelor's of Arts degree in social sciences and a Master's of Arts degree in science writing, Greenfieldboyce taught science writing for four years at the university. She was honored for her talents with the Evert Clark/Seth Payne Award for Young Science Journalists.] “The Plutonium Problem: Who Pays For Space Fuel?” http://www.npr.org/2011/11/08/141931325/the-plutonium-problem-who-pays-for-space-fuel
__When NASA's next Mars rover …__ we need to start immediately."

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">Contention Two Is Econ</span>__**</span>

**We will isolate 2 internal links:**
**1st is launch dependence –key to the commercial sector and soft power – solves war**
**Burton**, **7** - Lt Col. USAF [“GLOBALIZED SPACELIFT: A THREAT TO ASSURED ACCESS”, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_49ad2600-7fa9-4b95-87f2-2a2376985905/display.aspx?rs=enginespage]]</span>]
__The U__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">tates</span> __must address …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">and military aspirations in space. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Finally, the proliferation of international partnerships raises national security concerns which require further study. Specifically, how are influence and power exercised in an international partnership? How can weaker partners influence business outcomes in these partnerships? When is an international partner likely to abandon their national roots in search of profit? The answers to these and other questions are critical to the way national defense systems are procured in an era of increased globalization. </span>
__The U.S. cannot afford to ignore the vulnerabilities inherent in relying on foreign providers for launch services and system components. Failure to act will place the U.S. at the mercy of hostile nations or aggressive corporations and ultimately jeopardize U.S. dominance of the high ground.__

**2rd is high launch costs – inhibit commercial space development**
**Coppersmith, 10** – <span style="color: #000000;">historian of technology at Texas A&M University</span> (Jonathan, The Space Review, “Obama in space: bold but not bold enough,” 4/12, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1603/1]]</span>

__Lost in the attention given …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">as well as scientific opportunities.</span>

**Key to economic growth**
**Collard-Wexler 4**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Simon, Spacesecurity.org, Jessy Cowan-Sharp, Sarah Estabrooks, Amb. Thomas Graham, Jr. Dr. Robert Lawson, Dr. William Marshall, “Space Security 2004,” 2004, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.spacesecurity.org/SSI2004.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> DA; 5/15/11)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">New directions for civil programs </span>__… , advanced lubricants, and programmable pacemakers__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. 3 </span>

**Economic decline causes global war**
**Royal 10** [Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]
Less intuitive is how periods … debate and deserves more attention.

**It’s a controlling impact – economics cause wars across the globe**
**Harris and Burrows 9**
Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer is a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]</span>
Increased Potential for Global Conflict
Of course, the report encompasses … **__a more dog-eat-dog world.__**

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Even if we are wrong – any attempt at transition is impossible and would lead to war and poverty anyway</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Barnhizer 2006</span>**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">(David R., Emeritus Professor at Cleveland State University’s Cleveland-Marshall College of Law; “Waking from Sustainability's "Impossible Dream": The Decisionmaking Realities of Business and Government.” Georgetown International Environmental Law Review, Summer http://www.allbusiness.com/human-resources/employee-development-leadership/4077913-1.html)</span>
__The scale of social needs, … the pattern once again intensifies.__

**Economic collapse leads to extinction**
**Friedberg and Schoenfeld ‘8** (Aaron, Prof. Politics. And IR – Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School, and Gabriel, Senior Editor of Commentary and Visiting Scholar – Witherspoon Institute, Wall Street Journal, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”, 10-21, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html)
__Then there are the dolorous …__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">internal travails with external adventures.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">Plan Text</span>__**</span>
**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its space elevator development.**

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">Contention Three Is Solvency </span>__**</span>

**Current rocket programs fail – only the space elevator can solve**
**Edwards 06** (Bradley, Director of Research-Institute for Scientific Research, worked at Los Alamos researching advanced space technologies for 11 years, with Phillip Ragan, //Leaving the Planet by Space Elevator,// p. 153-4)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">So </span>__why do it with a … in. It is the only alternative.__

**That means only the space elevator can solve extinction**
**Ohlson 08**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Orbital express: here comes the space elevator, Issue 21 of Cosmos, June 2008, Kristin Ohlson, http://www.cosmosmagazine.com/features/print/2435/orbital-express?page=0%2C0)</span>
__"THE PATH TO SOLVING … to keep all its eggs in.'"__

**Space elevator solves a space economy**
**ISEC 11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Why do I want a Space Elevator? Thursday, 17 February 2011 01:09. ISEC - The International Space Elevator Consortium. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">© 2011 ISEC - The International Space Elevator Consortium - All rights reserved.)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> So what’s in it … </span>__way to provide this capability.__

**The aff let’s US control launches**
**Kent, 7** - Major, USAF, Blue Horizons Paper for the Center for Strategy and Technology at the Air War College (Jason, “Getting to Space on a Thread … Space Elevator as Alternative Access to Space,” April,
… <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">see through to the end.</span>

**Only the plan can solve high launch costs**
**Edwards 06** (Bradley, Director of Research-Institute for Scientific Research, worked at Los Alamos researching advanced space technologies for 11 years, with Phillip Ragan, //Leaving the Planet by Space Elevator,// p.161-162)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">A paradigm shift </span>__The reason__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, … </span>__history of the 21st century.__

**Tech is feasible – the space elevator will quickly become viable.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Edwards 09</span>** (Bradley, Director of Research-Institute for Scientific Research, worked at Los Alamos researching advanced space technologies for 11 years, Interview of Brad Edwards - Space Elevator Expert by Sander Olson, Dec 1, http://nextbigfuture.com/2009/12/interview-of-brad-edwards-space.html)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Question: Given proper funding, when … </span>__create a massive space-based industry__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

**The elevator absorbs damage – means no solvency turns**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Edwards 09</span>** (Bradley, Director of Research-Institute for Scientific Research, worked at Los Alamos researching advanced space technologies for 11 years, Interview of Brad Edwards - Space Elevator Expert by Sander Olson, Dec 1, http://nextbigfuture.com/2009/12/interview-of-brad-edwards-space.html)
__Question: Some critics have claimed … are by no means intractable.__

**Space elevator is key to the future of space development**
**Edwards 07** (Bradley, Director of Research-Institute for Scientific Research, worked at Los Alamos researching advanced space technologies for 11 years, Space Elevator: Expert Q&A, Jan 16, http://spectrum.ieee.org/aerospace/space-flight/a-hoist-to-the-heavens)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">It sounds like a crazy idea, … </span>__could become the next frontier__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

**It’s a ribbon – that solves your offense**
**Edwards 05** “A Hoist to the Heavens A space elevator could be the biggest thing to happen since the Stone Age, but can we build one?” http://spectrum.ieee.org/aerospace/space-flight/a-hoist-to-the-heavens/0
__To avoid problems with cable … would have high electrical resistance.__
=Round 2 - Neg Vs. Absurdity (1NC)= 

<span class="Underline"> First</span>

<span class="Underline">A. Interpretation --- the aff has to defend USFG action on space --- ‘resolved’ means to enact a policy by law.</span>
<span class="Underline">Words and Phrases, 1964 (Permanent Edition)</span>

<span class="Underline">Definition of the word “resolve,” given by Webster is “to express an opinion or determination by resolution or vote; as ‘it was resolved by the legislature;” It is of similar force to the word “enact,” which is defined by Bouvier as meaning “to establish by law”.</span>

<span class="Underline">B. Our interpretation is best ---</span>

<span class="Underline">1. Predictability --- ignoring the resolution opens up an infinite number of frameworks --- this undermines our ability to have in-depth research on their arguments destroying the value of debate.</span>

<span class="Underline">2. Ground --- the resolution exists to create fair division of aff and neg ground --- any alternative framework allows the aff to pick a moral high ground that destroys neg offense.</span>

<span class="Underline">3. Education --- academics must learn to engage the public’s line of thinking --- abstract moralism without addressing how to get our policies passed is useless.</span>
<span class="Underline">Jeffrey Isaac, Spring 2002. Professor of Political Science at Indiana University. “Ends, Means, and Politics,” Dissent, http://www.dissentmagazine.org/article/?article=601.</span>

<span class="Underline">What is striking about much of the political discussion on the left today is its failure to engage this earlier tradition of argument. The left, particularly the campus left—by which I mean “progressive” faculty and student groups, often centered around labor solidarity organizations and campus Green affiliates—has become moralistic rather than politically serious. Some of its moralizing—about Chiapas, Palestine, and Iraq—continues the third worldism that plagued the New Left in its waning years. Some of it—about globalization and sweatshops— is new and in some ways promising (see my “Thinking About the Antisweatshop Movement,” Dissent, Fall 2001). But what characterizes much campus left discourse is a substitution of moral rhetoric about evil policies or institutions for a sober consideration of what might improve or replace them, how the improvement might be achieved, and what the likely costs, as well as the benefits, are of any reasonable strategy. One consequence of this tendency is a failure to worry about methods of securing political support through democratic means or to recognize the distinctive value of democracy itself. It is not that conspiratorial or antidemocratic means are promoted. On the contrary, the means employed tend to be preeminently democratic—petitions, demonstrations, marches, boycotts, corporate campaigns, vigorous public criticism. And it is not that political democracy is derided. Projects such as the Green Party engage with electoral politics, locally and nationally, in order to win public office and achieve political objectives. But what is absent is a sober reckoning with the preoccupations and opinions of the vast majority of Americans, who are not drawn to vocal denunciations of the International Monetary Fund and World Trade Organization and who do not believe that the discourse of “anti-imperialism” speaks to their lives. Equally absent is critical thinking about why citizens of liberal democratic states—including most workers and the poor—value liberal democracy and subscribe to what Jürgen Habermas has called “constitutional patriotism”: a patriotic identification with the democratic state because of the civil, political, and social rights it defends. Vicarious identifications with Subcommandante Marcos or starving Iraqi children allow left activists to express a genuine solidarity with the oppressed elsewhere that is surely legitimate in a globalizing age. But these symbolic avowals are not an effective way of contending for political influence or power in the society in which these activists live. The ease with which the campus left responded to September 11 by rehearsing an all too-familiar narrative of American militarism and imperialism is not simply disturbing. It is a sign of this left’s alienation from the society in which it operates (the worst examples of this are statements of the Student Peace Action Coalition Network, which declare that “the United States Government is the world’s greatest terror organization,” and suggest that “homicidal psychopaths of the United States Government” engineered the World Trade Center attacks as a pretext for imperialist aggression. See http://www.gospan.org). Many left activists seem more able to identify with (idealized versions of) Iraqi or Afghan civilians than with American citizens, whether these are the people who perished in the Twin Towers or the rest of us who legitimately fear that we might be next. This is not because of any “disloyalty.” Charges like that lack intellectual or political merit. It is because of a debilitating moralism; because it is easier to denounce wrong than to take real responsibility for correcting it, easier to locate and to oppose a remote evil than to address a proximate difficulty. The campus left says what it thinks. But it exhibits little interest in how and why so many Americans think differently. The “peace” demonstrations organized across the country within a few days of the September 11 attacks—in which local Green Party activists often played a crucial role—were, whatever else they were, a sign of their organizers’ lack of judgment and common sense. Although they often expressed genuine horror about the terrorism, they focused their energy not on the legitimate fear and outrage of American citizens but rather on the evils of the American government and its widely supported response to the terror. Hardly anyone was paying attention, but they alienated anyone who was. This was utterly predictable. And that is my point. The predictable consequences did not matter. What mattered was simply the expression of righteous indignation about what is wrong with the United States, as if September 11 hadn’t really happened. Whatever one thinks about America’s deficiencies, it must be acknowledged that a political praxis preoccupation with this is foolish and self-defeating. The other, more serious consequence of this moralizing tendency is the failure to think seriously about global politics. The campus left is rightly interested in the ills of global capitalism. But politically it seems limited to two options: expressions of “solidarity” with certain oppressed groups—Palestinians but not Syrians, Afghan civilians (though not those who welcome liberation from the Taliban), but not Bosnians or Kosovars or Rwandans—and automatic opposition to American foreign policy in the name of anti-imperialism. The economic discourse of the campus left is a universalist discourse of human needs and workers rights; but it is accompanied by a refusal to think in political terms about the realities of states, international institutions, violence, and power. This refusal is linked to a peculiar strain of pacifism, according to which any use of military force by the United States is viewed as aggression or militarism. case in point is a petition circulated on the campus of Indiana University within days of September 11. Drafted by the Bloomington Peace Coalition, it opposed what was then an imminent war in Afghanistan against al-Qaeda, and called for peace. It declared: “Retaliation will not lead to healing; rather it will harm innocent people and further the cycle of violence. Rather than engage in military aggression, those in authority should apprehend and charge those individuals believed to be directly responsible for the attacks and try them in a court of law in accordance with due process of international law.” This declaration was hardly unique. Similar statements were issued on college campuses across the country, by local student or faculty coalitions, the national </span>
<span class="Underline">Campus Greens, 9- 11peace.org, and the National Youth and Student Peace Coalition. As Global Exchange declared in its antiwar statement of September 11: “vengeance offers no relief. . . retaliation can never guarantee healing. . . and to meet violence with violence breeds more rage and more senseless deaths. Only love leads to peace with justice, while hate takes us toward war and injustice.” On this view military action of any kind is figured as “aggression” or “vengeance”; harm to innocents, whether substantial or marginal, intended or unintended, is absolutely proscribed; legality is treated as having its own force, independent of any means of enforcement; and, most revealingly, “healing” is treated as the principal goal of any legitimate response. None of these points withstands serious scrutiny. A military response to terrorist aggression is not in any obvious sense an act of aggression, unless any military response—or at least any U.S. military response—is simply defined as aggression. While any justifiable military response should certainly be governed by just-war principles, the criterion of absolute harm avoidance would rule out the possibility of any military response. It is virtually impossible either to “apprehend” and prosecute terrorists or to put an end to terrorist networks without the use of military force, for the “criminals” in question are not law-abiding citizens but mass murderers, and there are no police to “arrest” them. And, finally, while “healing” is surely a legitimate moral goal, it is not clear that it is a political goal. Justice, however, most assuredly is a political goal. The most notable thing about the Bloomington statement is its avoidance of political justice. Like many antiwar texts, it calls for “social justice abroad.” It supports redistributing wealth. But criminal and retributive justice, protection against terrorist violence, or the political enforcement of the minimal conditions of global civility—these are unmentioned. They are unmentioned because to broach them is to enter a terrain that the campus left is unwilling to enter—the terrain of violence, a realm of complex choices and dirty hands. This aversion to violence is understandable and in some ways laudable. America’s use of violence has caused much harm in the world, from Southeast Asia to Central and Latin America to Africa. The so-called “Vietnam Syndrome” was the product of a real learning experience that should not be forgotten. In addition, the destructive capacities of modern warfare— which jeopardize the civilian/combatant distinction, and introduce the possibility of enormous ecological devastation—make war under any circumstances something to be feared. No civilized person should approach the topic of war with anything other than great trepidation. And yet the left’s reflexive hostility toward violence in the international domain is strange. It is inconsistent with avowals of “materialism” and evocations of “struggle,” especially on the part of those many who are not pacifists; it is in tension with a commitment to human emancipation (is there no cause for which it is justifiable to fight?); and it is oblivious to the tradition of left thinking about ends and means. To compare the debates within the left about the two world wars or the Spanish Civil War with the predictable “anti-militarism” of today’s campus left is to compare a discourse that was serious about political power with a discourse that is not. This unpragmatic approach has become a hallmark of post–cold war left commentary, from the Gulf War protests of 1991, to the denunciation of the 1999 U.S.-led NATO intervention in Kosovo, to the current post–September 11 antiwar movement. In each case protesters have raised serious questions about U.S. policy and its likely consequences, but in a strikingly ineffective way. They sound a few key themes: the broader context of grievances that supposedly explains why Saddam Hussein, or Slobodan Milosevic, or Osama bin Laden have done what they have done; the hypocrisy of official U.S. rhetoric, which denounces terrorism even though the U.S. government has often supported terrorism; the harm that will come to ordinary Iraqi or Serbian or Afghan citizens as a result of intervention; and the cycle of violence that is likely to ensue. These are important issues. But they typically are raised by left critics not to promote real debate about practical alternatives, but to avoid such a debate or to trump it. As a result, the most important political questions are simply not asked. It is assumed that U.S. military intervention is an act of “aggression,” but no consideration is given to the aggression to which intervention is a response. The status quo ante in Afghanistan is not, as peace activists would have it, peace, but rather terrorist violence abetted by a regime—the Taliban—that rose to power through brutality and repression. This requires us to ask a question that most “peace” activists would prefer not to ask: What should be done to respond to the violence of a Saddam Hussein, or a Milosevic, or a Taliban regime? What means are likely to stop violence and bring criminals to justice? Calls for diplomacy and international law are well intended and important; they implicate a decent and civilized ethic of global order. But they are also vague and empty, because they are not accompanied by any account of how diplomacy or international law can work effectively to address the problem at hand. The campus left offers no such account. To do so would require it to contemplate tragic choices in which moral goodness is of limited utility. Here what matters is not purity of intention but the intelligent exercise of power. Power is not a dirty word or an unfortunate feature of the world. It is the core of politics. Power is the ability to effect outcomes in the world. Politics, in large part, involves contests over the distribution and use of power. To accomplish anything in the political world, one must attend to the means that are necessary to bring it about. And to develop such means is to develop, and to exercise, power. To say this is not to say that power is beyond morality. It is to say that power is not reducible to morality. As writers such as Niccolo Machiavelli, Max Weber, Reinhold Niebuhr, and Hannah Arendt have taught, an unyielding concern with moral goodness undercuts political responsibility. The concern may be morally laudable, reflecting a kind of personal integrity, but it suffers from three fatal flaws: (1) It fails to see that the purity of one’s intention does not ensure the achievement of what one intends. Abjuring violence or refusing to make common cause with morally compromised parties may seem like the right thing; but if such tactics entail impotence, then it is hard to view them as serving any moral good beyond the clean conscience of their supporters; (2) it fails to see that in a world of real violence and injustice, moral purity is not simply a form of powerlessness; it is often a form of complicity in injustice. This is why, from the standpoint of politics—as opposed to religion—pacifism is always a potentially immoral stand. In categorically repudiating violence, it refuses in principle to oppose certain violent injustices with any effect; and (3) it fails to see that politics is as much about unintended consequences as it is about intentions; it is the effects of action, rather than the motives of action, that is most significant. Just as the alignment with “good” may engender impotence, it is often the pursuit of “good” that generates evil. This is the lesson of communism in the twentieth century: it is not enough that one’s goals be sincere or idealistic; it is equally important, always, to ask about the effects of pursuing these goals and to judge these effects in pragmatic and historically contextualized ways. Moral absolutism inhibits this judgment. It alienates those who are not true believers. It promotes arrogance. And it undermines political effectiveness.</span>

<span class="Underline">C. Voting issue --- resolving the framework is a pre-condition for debate to occur.</span>

<span class="Underline">Next</span>

<span class="Underline">A. Interpretation --- “Beyond” means outside the limits of</span>
<span class="Underline">Collins 9 (Collins English Dictionary Unabridged, “beyond”, http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/beyond)</span>

<span class="Underline">-- prep</span>
<span class="Underline">1. at or to a point on the other side of; at or to the further side of: beyond those hills there is a river</span>
<span class="Underline">2. outside the limits or scope of: beyond this country's jurisdiction</span>

<span class="Underline">Space exploration and development beyond the earth’s mesosphere means rockets—expert consensus.</span>
<span class="Underline">Space Yuga 3-3 (Space Yuga is an newly launched astronomy and space news portal providing the latest news and views on trends in Astronomy and Space Science “The Pull of Gravity in Space,” March 3, 2011, http://spaceyuga.com/pull-gravity/)</span>
<span class="Underline">A rocket has to clear the Earth’s atmosphere to travel in space or go into an orbit. The Earth’s atmosphere is a gaseous cover surrounding it. The atmosphere transmits solar heat and retains the warmth reflected by the Earth. The air is relatively uniform in its composition up to 80 km. above this height, there are different layers of gases (See Image given below). The nearest region to the Earth’s surface is called the ‘troposphere’, which has dust, clouds and winds. The weather is made mainly in this region, which ends with a tropopause. Over the equator, the troposphere extends up to 16 km. above the troposphere, there is a calm, cloudless region, called the ‘stratosphere’ which extends up to 50 km. ozone in this region absorbs the ultraviolet radiation from the sun and it is even said that life on Earth would have remained confined to the oceans but for the ozone. Above the stratopause is the mesosphere up to 90 km where the temperature reaches very low levels. The region from the tropopause to mesopause is also called the ‘middle atmosphere’, which is the area of special studies nowadays. The region above the mesopause (at 90 km) is the thermosphere and this and the region above are generally known as the ‘upper atmosphere’. Satellites are launched into space for working at different heights. But first of all, let us see where space begins. Recently, experts agreed that space begins at 100 km from the surface of the Earth. This is over 11 times the height of Mt Everest (8.84 km). The minimum height for a satellite to go into Earth orbit is 200 km. To get a perspective, we may point out that the International Space Station is orbiting at 354 km, while the US shuttles generally works some 30 km below the station. Compared to this height, resource satellites, such as IRS are around 800-900 km in what is called a low-Earth orbit. Far away from this region, above the equator, is the geosynchronous orbit where satellite such as INSAT operates. Through the Earth’s gravity exerts a force on any object on its surface, Nature helps in launching satellite. A satellite is taken to a height of 150 km to avoid the resistance of the atmosphere and launched horizontally. As the initial speed increases, the satellite tends to fall on farther and farther points on the Earth, until it reaches a speed and an altitude when it always misses falling on the Earth. As the satellite tries to go off at a tangent, the Earth’s gravity pulls it back. But if the satellite’s speed is decreased, it loses altitude and the Earth’s gravity pulls it faster. At nearly 8 km/s (even at 7.91 km/s), a satellite goes into a circular orbit and if the speed is increased slightly, it goes into an elliptical orbit. This speed (about 28,800 km an hour or 8 km/s) is about 70percent of the escape velocity (about 40,000 km/h or 11.26 km/s) at which a satellite will escape from the Earth’s gravity. In NASA’s New Horizons mission to Pluto, the satellite left the Earth at 13 km per second. At 11.11 km/s orbital velocity, a satellite will reach 27,400 km, the farthest point of the orbit called ‘apogee’. If Nature gives a helping hand in launching the satellites, it also places several hurdles in the path of an orbiting satellite. The gravitational attraction of the sun and the moon, gravity anomalies of the Earth and its magnetic field-all cause perturbances. Satellites are affected by electrons and protons injected by the sun into the Earth’s radiation belts. The density of the atmosphere decreases with height. At about 350 km, the density is only about 10g/cu km (grams per cubic kilometer). However, as the satellite is moving very fast, it collides with air molecules frequently and these results in a drag (See Image Below) . Below 100 km, satellite can no longer be in orbit. The net effect of the air drag is that the satellite moves faster and its orbital period decreases. A satellite’s stay in orbit depends on several factors, including the pressure of solar radiation and the satellite’s distance from the Earth. Nature has however made one big concession. It reduces the Earth’s gravitational pull as a rocket goes up. Through rockets, which had gunpowder, were used in China and India, the application of chemical fuels to rockets began only in the last century (Box 5). Galileo calculated that gravity would force a falling body to come down at the rate of 980 cm/s after every second. This is the force which gravity exerts on a body at sea level (9.81 meters/s²). This is also referred to as ‘1g’ or as a unit of acceleration due to gravity on the Earth’s surface. The Earth’s gravity would reduce the speed of a rocket by 35 km/h every second. Newton formulated a law on it, which stated that if the distance from the Earth is doubled, the pull of gravity is reduced to a quarter. As the gravitational intensity declines with height, doubling the initial velocity of an object hurled upward would more than double the height reached. For example, if the initial velocity is 1.6 km/s, the maximum height reached above the Earth’s surface is 130 km. but if the initial velocity is raised to 9.6 km/s, the height reached goes up to 17,900 km. the Earth’s sphere of influence has a radius of about 1,000,000 km. Beyond that boundary, the sun ‘captures’ the satellite. The only means available for any object that needs to be placed in orbit is rocket propulsion. Newton’s laws of motion govern the working of a rocket engine, a form of jet propulsion. The mass escaping through a rocket’s nozzle is described as action, while the rocket’s flight in the opposite direction is termed as its reaction. It illustrates the third Newtonian law that to every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction (See Image Below). The thrust provided by the rocket jet is balanced by an equal and opposite thrust on the rocket itself, resulting in increased velocity of the rocket as it discards its stages and reduces its fuel. This is in accordance with Newton’s second law- a force active upon a body causes it to accelerate in the direction of the force, the acceleration being directly proportional to the force and inversely proportional to the mass. And the rocket’s guidance system is based on the first law, viz. a body remains at rest or in a state of motion in a straight line unless acted upon by an external force. Current rocket propulsion systems are based on the use of chemical propellants, which may be liquid or solid.A liquid-propellant rocket has tanks to store the propellants that can be taken into the burning chamber either by using a high-pressure gas or high-speed pumps. Combustion of fuel and oxidant reduces a gas that is given a high velocity by expanding it through a nozzle (Box). </span>

<span class="Underline">B. Violation --- the plan increases exploration/development less than 50 miles from the surface</span>

<span class="Underline">C. Voting issue --- </span>

<span class="Underline">1. Limits --- a strict interpretation of “beyond the mesosphere” is the only way to prevent an explosion of Affs that expand research into other areas, like high-altitude testing, non-space rockets, aerospace, etc. --- making research impossible</span>

<span class="Underline">2. Ground --- the mesosphere is what distinguishes space from Earth’s environment, critically dividing literature relevant to the topic </span>

<span class="Underline">Next</span>

<span class="Underline">The 1AC makes lots of arguments. All of them are consistent with voting negative.</span>

<span class="Underline">You can individually make the same affirmations that they would ask you to when voting affirmative while voting negative.</span>

<span class="Underline">This is not a PIC. This is a non-intrinsicness argument. There is no internal link between the 1AC and voting affirmative. Given that, vote negative on presumption. </span>

<span class="Underline">To vote affirmative in spite of this situation is to ignore the role of narrativity.</span>

<span class="Underline">MORIARTY – 91</span>
<span class="Underline">[Michael – prof French, literary theory @ U. London – Roland Barthes – p97]</span>

<span class="Underline">Spontaneously, readers are perhaps indifferent to the signs of narrativity, viewed as tiresome preliminaries to be got through like the customs before acceding to the terra incognita of the story. Yet since they condition the encounter of narrator and reader, and thus the narrative as such, they must be viewed as forming the highest level of analysis, integrating the other two, functions and actions. Beyond this level, no further internal analysis of narrative is possible: the text enters the social, economic, ideological world in which it is consumed. The situation in which it does so can indeed be covered within the narrative codes. However (as we should by now perhaps expect), bourgeois society and its bastard offspring mass culture, work precisely to de-codify, to naturalize, the narrative situation, to conceal the status of narrative as such (AS, 198-200/126-8).It is in the final section of Barthes’s essay that he deals most fully with the question of narrative mimesis. We saw that a narrative has a formal dimension, in the sense defined above (p. 92) : that is, it can be broken down into smaller units, sequences, themselves resolvable into functions; but also that sequences could overlap so that the constituent units of one are separated by units from another or others. There is thus an ever-present possibility of dislocating the temporal order of reality while maintaining intact the logical order on which narrative depends. An action that in real life would follow immediately upon another action might be separated from it in a narrative by a potentially infinite series of insertions from another functional sequence. That is to say, the order of narrative is not tributary to the temporal order of life (AS 200-2/129-30). At the same time, these potentially disruptible narrative units are held in order by the meaning (again in Benveniste’s sense), their capacity to be integrated from the point of view of the higher levels of action and narrative (AS, 204/132). What structures a narrative is thus not the structure of the reality it is supposed to copy, but a specific combination of distributional (horizontal) and integrational (vertical) relationships.</span>
<span class="Underline">Next</span>

<span class="Underline">Increased launches collapse ozone</span>
<span class="Underline">Ross and Zittell 2k – Both PhDs in relevant fields</span>
<span class="Underline">Martin Ross, PhD from UCLA in Earth and Planetary Sciences, and Paul Zittel, PhD in Physical Chemistory, 6-2000, “Rockets and the Ozone Layer,” AeroSpace, http://www.aero.org/publications/crosslink/summer2000/01.html</span>
<span class="Underline">Rocket emissions have two distinct effects on ozone: short-term and long-term. Following launch, rapid chemical reactions between plume gases and particles and ambient air that has been drawn into the plume wake cause immediate changes in the composition of the local atmosphere. During this phase, which lasts for several hours, the concentrations of radicals in the plume can be thousands of times greater than the concentrations found in the undisturbed stratosphere, and the ozone loss is dramatic. Long-term effects occur as gas and particulate emissions from individual launches become dispersed throughout the global stratosphere and accumulate over time. The concentrations of emitted compounds reach an approximate global steady state as exhaust from recent launches replaces exhaust removed from the stratosphere by natural atmospheric circulation.</span>

<span class="Underline">Extinction</span>
<span class="Underline">Thomas 6</span>
<span class="Underline">William Thomas, Investigative Journalist, 8-7-2006, “Scientist Says Chemtrails, Shuttle Launches Endangering Earth,” Chem Trails, http://www.chemtrails911.com/docs/Space%20Shuttle%20Launch-Ozone%20Layer.htm</span>
<span class="Underline">A Canadian atmospheric scientist warns that chemtrails, airliners and shuttle launches are weakening the stratosphere and destroying Earth’s ozone layer—threatening all life on Earth. It was one of those messages that phones are notorious for delivering—the kind of call that cancels the sleep and makes flu symptoms worse. But this time, the health of the entire planet was at stake. A concerned Canadian scientist named Neil Finley was on the line to inform me that high-altitude jet traffic, space launches and chemtrails are threatening to destroy not only Earth’s protective radiation shielding—but the stratosphere itself.</span>

<span class="Underline">Next</span>

<span class="Underline">We should do without the aff without the word suicide because space is vast</span>

<span class="Underline">Alternative trivializes suicide—justifies murder of the other. </span>
<span class="Underline">Daube 72 (The Linguistics of Suicide David Daube—PhD from the University of Cambridge, Fellow of Gonville and Caius College, Philosophy & Public Affairs , Vol. 1, No. 4 (Summer, 1972), pp. 387-437 Published by: Blackwell Publishing Article Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/2265099)</span>

<span class="Underline">However, I shall not pursue this line, except for one remark. Experts distinguish between the person really determined to make an end of himself and the one who rather hopes he will be saved, whose action is basically a cry for attention and help. Already the ancients realized that a person might go through the motions of suicide while careful to stay alive.4 As is admitted on all hands, it may at times be extremely difficult to decide which category we have before us. Now it looks as if the latter category-those hoping to live on-are considerably less prone to suicide notes than the former. I shall not expatiate on the reasons: fear of committing oneself in black and white, reluctance to deceive in a formal statement, aversion to being confronted with such a paper later on, and so forth. Anyhow, the presence or absence of a suicide note does furnish some slight assistance (it is not, of course, conclusive) in classing a case. Perhaps this finding should not be publicized, lest it become a self-defeating prophecy: the seekers of attention and help will take to composing notes in order to be taken seriously. Another limitation: I shall not investigate in detail either euphemisms5 or styles of covering up. There is a difference. A euphemism does not conceal, it only expresses the shocking in a bearable manner. "Rest room" is a euphemism; it is a decent phrase, but everybody knows what indecency it signifies. A covering up would be to tell the company that I must go next door to make a phone call. Ins Wasser gehen, "to go into the water," is a German euphemism for "to drown oneself." If I claim that a man who threw himself from a roof was blown down by a storm, that is to pretend that no suicide has happened. I confine myself to a few points about the language used to cover up. Owing to a mixture of practical and emotional needs-which I do not propose to disentangle here-the misrepresentation of an event more often than not includes much that is truthful. A lady who met her lover for lunch will tell her husband not that she ate nothing and read a book, but that she lunched with her sister. In the case of suicide, if the person shot himself the denial will very likely maintain not that he had a stroke, but that the gun went off by accident; if he swallowed cyanide, he confused it with a cordial he was in the habit of taking. Arguments like "seems to have," "must have," are common in concealments of suicide; so common that their very presence arouses suspicion. One fairly recent development has to do with the ever more prominent expedient of suicide by means of sedatives. Up to not long ago, if admission was undesirable, as straight a lie as possible was resorted to: death was due to pneumonia, for instance. Nowadays the denial is often couched in terms which, by convention, signal the truth: there was an inadvertent taking of an overdose of sleeping pills. In certain circumstances the mere labeling of the death as tragic or sudden would convey the hint.6 No admission, but you are invited, if you so choose, to put two and two together. This development corresponds to the change in society's attitude toward suicide, from condemnation to a measure of tolerance. The tolerance is halfhearted and far from universal; so those who do not wish to hear need not, while sufficient information is supplied to the avant-garde. The frequency with which suicide is disguised must not make us overlook the case where a murder is concealed by giving out that the victim killed himself. This happened in antiquity: Tacitus suspects that Tiberius had Agrippina starved to death, making it appear suicide.7 It was a common stratagem of the National Socialists in Germany in the I930's, when, directly they had seized power, they arrested many of their opponents and did them to death in concentration camps. It led to the revival by the French of the ghastly verbal witticism etre suicide-as if in English we were to say of a man that "he has been suicided." I say revival, for the London Daily News of October I898 reports: "The actual forger was, to use a convenient piece of French slang, 'suicided' in gaol."8 At the beginning of the century German newspapers, when charging that one person had driven another to suicide, occasionally used the expression jemanden selbstmorden, "to suicide somebody."9 My main business will be to say something on the words for suicide in a number of Semitic and Indo-European languages.10 One of these words is "suicide" itself, whose origin, the dictionaries say, is obscure; I hope it will be less so by the end of this discussion. Two major trends will emerge: one from the concrete to the abstract, another from neutral expressions in antiquity via harsh ones in the Middle Ages to softer ones with the advent of humanism. We shall come across some curious instances of one culture influencing another in these matters. At the outset I should observe that no language known to me has a genuinely separate word for suicide, a word neither a composite nor receiving the sense from an added specification. ("Suicide" itself is, of course, a composite of "self" and "killing.") English has genuinely separate words for loving, drinking, dressing, but not for loving oneself, drinking barley water, dressing up somebody like a guy (that is, like Guy Fawkes).". To indicate an activity of the second group, you must employ a word of wider range and qualify it so as to arrive at your meaning. Similarly, no language-including, as I have made sure from colleagues, Japanese-has a genuinely separate word for suicide. The words denoting it are always qualifications of others, mostly either of "to die" or "to kill." Suicide, that is, is exhibited as a dying or a killing, with a twist. Latin mors voluntaria stresses the voluntary nature of such dying, English "suicide," ".self-killing,"t he fact that oneself is the object. </span>

<span class="Underline">Next </span>
<span class="Underline">The affirmative is a self-serving vacuous manipulation of language that doesn’t take responsibility for the power that we have as intellectuals to formulate positive change that can improve our human condition. It should therefore be rejected.</span>
<span class="Underline">Violet B. KETELS, associate professor of English at Temple University, where she formerly directed the IntellectualHeritage Program, “REMEMBERING FOR THE FUTURE: "Havel to the Castle!" The Power of the Word”.November 1996</span>

<span class="Underline">THE political bestiality of our age is abetted by our willingness to tolerate the deconstructing of humanist values. The process begins with the cynical manipulation of language. It often ends in stupefying murderousness before which the world stands silent, frozen in impotent "attentism"--a wait-and-see stance as unsuited to the human plight as a pacifier is to stopping up the hunger of a starving child. We have let lapse our pledge to the 6 million Jewish victims of the Holocaust that their deaths might somehow be transfiguring for humankind. We allow "slaughterhouse men" tactical status at U.N. tables and "cast down our eyes when the depraved roar past." n1 Peacemakers, delegated by us and circumscribed by our fears, temporize with thugs who have revived lebensraum claims more boldly than Hitler did. In the Germany of the 1930s, a demonic idea was born in a demented brain; the word went forth; orders were given, repeated, widely broadcast; and men, women, and children were herded into death camps. Their offshore signals, cries for help, did not summon us to rescue. We had become inured to the reality of human suffering. We could no longer hear what the words meant or did not credit them or not enough of us joined the chorus. Shrieking victims perished in the cold blankness of inhumane silence. We were deaf to the apocalyptic urgency in Solzhenitsyn's declaration from the Gulag that we must check the disastrous course of history. We were heedless of the lesson of his experience that only the unbending strength of the human spirit, fully taking its stand on the shifting frontier of encroaching violence and declaring "not one step further," though death may be the end of it--only this unwavering firmness offers any genuine defense of peace for the individual, of genuine peace for mankind at large. n2 In past human crises, writers and thinkers strained language to the breaking point to keep alive the memory of the unimaginable, to keep the human conscience from forgetting. In the current context, however, intellectuals seem more devoted to abstract assaults on values than to thoughtful probing of the moral dimensions of human experience. "Heirs of the ancient possessions of higher knowledge and literacy skills," n3 we seem to have lost our nerve, and not only because of Holocaust history and its tragic aftermath. We feel insecure before the empirical absolutes of hard science. We are intimidated by the "high modernist rage against mimesis and content," n4 monstrous progeny of the union between Nietzsche and philosophical formalism, the grim proposal we have bought into that there is no truth, no objectivity, and no disinterested knowledge. n5 Less certain about the power of language, that "oldest flame of the [*47] humanist soul," n6 to frame a credo to live by or criteria to judge by, we are vulnerable even to the discredited Paul de Man's indecent hint that "wars and revolutions are not empirical events . . . but 'texts' masquerading as facts." n7 Truth and reality seem more elusive than they ever were in the past; values are pronounced to be mere fictions of ruling elites to retain power. We are embarrassed by virtue. Words collide and crack under these new skeptical strains, dissolving into banalities the colossal enormity of what must be expressed lest we forget. Remembering for the future has become doubly dispiriting by our having to remember for the present, too, our having to register and confront what is wrong here and now. The reality to be fixed in memory shifts as we seek words for it; the memory we set down is flawed by our subjectivities. It is selective, deceptive, partial, unreliable, and amoral. It plays tricks and can be invented. It stops up its ears to shut out what it does not dare to face. n8 Lodged in our brains, such axioms, certified by science and statistics, tempt us to concede the final irrelevance of words and memory. We have to get on with our lives. Besides, memories reconstructed in words, even when they are documented by evidence, have not often changed the world or fended off the powerful seductions to silence, forgetting, or denying. Especially denying, which, in the case of the Holocaust, has become an obscene industry competing in the open market of ideas for control of our sense of the past. It is said that the Holocaust never happened. Revisionist history with a vengeance is purveyed in words; something in words must be set against it. Yet what? How do we nerve to the task when we are increasingly disposed to cast both words and memory in a condition of cryogenic dubiety? Not only before but also since 1945, the criminality of governments, paraded as politics and fattening on linguistic manipulation and deliberately reimplanted memory of past real or imagined grievance, has spread calamity across the planet. "The cancer that has eaten at the entrails of Yugoslavia since Tito's death [has] Kosovo for its locus," but not merely as a piece of land. The country's rogue adventurers use the word "Kosovo" to reinvoke as sacred the land where Serbs were defeated by Turks in 1389! n9 Memory of bloody massacres in 1389, sloganized and distorted in 1989, demands the bloody revenge of new massacres and returns civilization not to its past glory but to its gory tribal wars. As Matija Beckovic, the bard of Serb nationalism, writes, "It is as if the Serbian people waged only one battle--by widening the Kosovo charnel-house, by adding wailing upon wailing, by counting new martyrs to the martyrs of Kosovo. . . . Kosovo is the Serbianized [*48] history of the Flood--the Serbian New Testament." n10 A cover of Suddeutsche Zeitung in 1994 was printed with blood donated by refugee women from Bosnia in an eerily perverse afterbirth of violence revisited. n11 We stand benumbed before multiplying horrors. As Vaclav Havel warned more than a decade ago, regimes that generate them "are the avant garde of a global crisis in civilization." The depersonalization of power in "system, ideology and apparat," pathological suspicions about human motives and meanings, the loosening of individual responsibility, the swiftness by which disastrous events follow one upon another "have deprived us of our conscience, of our common sense and natural speech and thereby, of our actual humanity." n12 Nothing less than the transformation of human consciousness is likely to rescue us. THE INTELLECTUALS' DILEMMA Books, essays, speeches by eyewitnesses to totalitarian experience plead for a reaffirmation of basic human rights. They are exhortations to plunder history for usable analogy. But well-schooled intellectuals know that contingency rules human history. The flow of events does not stop, does not seem to hold fast long enough, for us to use the lessons historians exact from the past. Language seems pitifully unequal to history's caprice of presenting new configurations. In midthought, examples we adduce become obsolete as news of new horrors flash onto the screens of our moral imaginations. Preachments about basic human rights, however elegantly urged, do not summon us to virtue or insulate us from the predators who have turned civilized cities into killing fields. What, then, are they worth? Are they merely the fictions they are labeled by intellectuals of skeptical chic who choose disdainful withdrawal from the chaos of history? n13 Fear of mockery tempts even the humanists among us to retreat into a stance of nonassessment. The risk of being accused of vapid moralizing ties our tongues and retards reaction. Such failures of nerve seem justified by the history we are enjoined to plunder. They precipitate descent into a fatalistic nihilism that relieves us from responsibility. Words do not matter; they rarely mean what they say. What does it matter, then, how intellectuals use their verbal virtuosity? Values are relative and truth elusive. We stand precisely where many gifted French intellectuals stood during World War II, in spite of the myth of resistance promulgated by the most brilliant among them. They remained glacially unmoved, engrossed [*49] in vacuous verbal games, when the desperation of the situation should have aroused their moral conscience, their humane consciousness, and their civic spirit. They rushed to embrace the position "that language is not referential and the writing of history impossible," n14 because it let them off the hook. History has survived them and provides a regenerative, other view against nihilism and detachment. It testifies that our terror of being found guilty of phrases too smooth or judgment too simple is not in itself a value. Some longing for transcendence persists in the human spirit, some tenacious faith that truth and goodness exist and can prevail. What happened in the death camps, the invasion of Prague by Russian tanks, the rape of Muslim women, the dismembering of Bosnian men, the degrading of a sophisticated society to subsistence and barbarous banditry: these things do not become fictions simply because we cannot speak of them adequately or because composing abstractions is safer than responding to the heinous reality of criminal acts. No response to the Holocaust and its murderous wake or to the carnage in the former Yugoslavia could possibly be adequate to the atrocities alphabetized in file folders of perpetrators or to the unspeakable experiences burned into brains and bodies of survivors. But no response at all breeds new catastrophe. Saul Bellow warned about the "humanistic civilized moral imagination" that, seized with despair, "declines into lethargy and sleep." n15 Imagine the plight of human creatures if it were to be silenced altogether, extinguished or forgotten. "Humanism did not produce the Holocaust, and the Holocaust, knowing its enemies, was bent on the extermination of humanism. It is an odd consequence of an all-or-nothing mentality to repudiate humanist values because they are inadequate as an antidote to evil." n16 Basic human rights asserted in words cannot be restored in reality unless they are matched to practices in all the spheres of influence we occupy. We feel revulsion at the repudiation of humanist values so visible in the savagery of the battlefield and the councils of war. Yet we seem inoculated against seeing the brutalities of daily human interactions, the devaluing of values in our own intellectual spheres, the moral and ethical debunking formally incorporated into scholarly exegesis in literature, philosophy, the social sciences, and linguistics, the very disciplines that cradled humanist values. Remembering for the future by rehearsing the record, then, is not enough, as the most eloquent witnesses to Holocaust history have sorrowfully attested. We must also respond to the record with strategies that challenge humanist reductionism in places where we tend to overlook it or think it harmless. Our moral outrage should be intensified, not subdued, [*50] by what we know. We must search out alternatives to the anomie that seizes us when the linguistic distance between words and reality seems unbridgeably vast, and reflections upon historical events ill matched to the dark complexities of the human experience we would illumine. To be fair, it is not just a desire to evade responsibility or to forget that makes our responses so feeble. At times we simply have no words. At times we are not unlike the German "executor executioners" who were interviewed for the film Shoah, "physically incapable of finding the true words and attaching them to the deeds, as a paralyzed man cannot tie his tie or lift a pen." We need fresh air in our "separate national and linguistic rooms." n17 The executioners have not earned forgiveness. We have not earned the right to "turn away from the dilemmas posed by the writers who bore witness to the ugly European past." n18 A LESSON FOR INTELLECTUALS Even though, as Americans, we have not experienced "by fire, hunger and the sword" n19 the terrible disasters in war overtaking other human beings on their home ground, we know the consequences of human hospitality to evil. We know about human perfidy: the chasm that separates proclaiming virtue from acting decently. Even those of us trained to linguistic skepticism and the relativity of moral judgment can grasp the verity in the stark warning, "If something exists in one place, it will exist everywhere." n20 That the dreadful something warned against continues to exist anywhere should fill us with an inextinguishable yearning to do something. Our impotence to action against the brutality of mass slaughter shames us. We have the historical record to ransack for precedent and corollaries--letters, documents, testaments, books--written words that would even "preserve their validity in the eyes of a man threatened with instant death." n21 The truths gleanable from the record of totalitarian barbarism cited in them may be common knowledge; they are by no means commonly acknowledged. n22 They appear in print upon many a page; they have not yet--still not yet--sufficiently penetrated human consciousness. Herein lies the supreme lesson for intellectuals, those who have the projective power to grasp what is not yet evident to the general human consciousness: it is possible to bring down totalitarian regimes either by violence or by a gradual transformation of human consciousness; it is not possible to bring them down "if we ignore them, make excuses for them, yield to them or accept their way of playing the game" n23 in order to avoid violence. The history of the gentle revolutions of Poland, Hungary, and [*51] Czechoslovakia suggests that those revolutions would not have happened at all, and certainly not bloodlessly, without the moral engagement and political activism of intellectuals in those besieged cultures. Hundreds of thousands of students, workers, and peasants joined in the final efforts to defeat the totalitarian regimes that collapsed in 1989. Still, it was the intellectuals, during decades when they repeatedly risked careers, freedom, and their very lives, often in dangerous solitary challenges to power, who formed the unifying consensus, developed the liberating philosophy, wrote the rallying cries, framed the politics, mobilized the will and energies of disparate groups, and literally took to the streets to lead nonviolent protests that became revolutions. The most profound insights into this process that gradually penetrated social consciousness sufficiently to make revolution possible can be read in the role Vaclav Havel played before and during Czechoslovakia's Velvet Revolution. As George Steiner reflects, while "the mystery of creative and analytic genius . . . is given to the very few," others can be "woken to its presence and exposed to its demands." n24 Havel possesses that rare creative and analytic genius. We see it in the spaciousness of his moral vision for the future, distilled from the crucible of personal suffering and observation; in his poet's ability to translate both experience and vision into language that comes as close as possible to truth and survives translation across cultures; in the compelling force of his personal heroism. Characteristically, Havel raises local experience to universal relevance. "If today's planetary civilization has any hope of survival," he begins, "that hope lies chiefly in what we understand as the human spirit." He continues: If we don't wish to destroy ourselves in national, religious or political discord; if we don't wish to find our world with twice its current population, half of it dying of hunger; if we don't wish to kill ourselves with ballistic missiles armed with atomic warheads or eliminate ourselves with bacteria specially cultivated for the purpose; if we don't wish to see some people go desperately hungry while others throw tons of wheat into the ocean; if we don't wish to suffocate in the global greenhouse we are heating up for ourselves or to be burned by radiation leaking through holes we have made in the ozone; if we don't wish to exhaust the nonrenewable, mineral resources of this planet, without which we cannot survive; if, in short, we don't wish any of this to happen, then we must--as humanity, as people, as conscious beings with spirit, mind and a sense of responsibility--somehow come to our senses. n25 Somehow we must come together in "a kind of general mobilization of human consciousness, of the human mind and spirit, human responsibility, human reason." n26 The Prague Spring was "the inevitable consequence of a long drama originally played out chiefly in the theatre of the spirit and the conscience of society," a process triggered and sustained "by individuals willing to live in truth even when things [*52] were at their worst." n27 The process was hidden in "the invisible realm of social consciousness," conscience, and the subconscious. It was indirect, long-term, and hard to measure. n28 So, too, its continuation that exploded into the Velvet Revolution, the magic moment when 800,000 citizens, jamming Wenceslas Square in Prague, jingled their house keys like church bells and changed from shouting "Truth will prevail" to chanting "Havel to the castle." Havel developed his thinking in plays, petitions, letters, samizdat essays and addresses, written both in and out of prison, circulated at peril of new imprisonment, sometimes at peril of death: his is a humanist philosophy wrested from the logic of cruel experience, an anatomy of the process of social transformation, and a practical political strategy. He specifies to post-totalitarian societies, including Western democracies, for whom his reading of the Czech experience stands as warning and instruction, the relevance to us of his passionately argued convictions. His prescience is amazing; his candid truthfulness, startling. In an utterly original departure from received wisdom, he discredits the two basic political strategies between which he thinks Western intellectuals unwittingly oscillate: (1) inventing and deploying further weapons of mass destruction "for the defense of democracy"; and (2) joining peace movements. Both strategies "colonize" human consciousness by moving it toward the same global totalitarianism; the second effectively makes the just mind ineffectual by "preoccupying it, then occupying it, and ultimately rendering it intellectually harmless." n29 Opposition to totalitarian systems is fumbling and futile if we fail to see them for what they really are: "a convex mirror of all modern civilization and a harsh, perhaps final call for a global recasting of how that civilization understands itself." n30 The enemy is the momentum of impersonal power, whether wielded by technocrats or tyrants, which defines totalitarianism of territory and spirit. Defeating the enemy depends on routing totalitarianism from the structure of contemporary humanity, from our very souls. The question is whether we shall succeed in reconstituting the natural world as the true terrain of politics, rehabilitating . . . personal experience as the initial measure of things, placing morality above politics and responsibility above our desires, in making human community meaningful, in returning content to human speech, in reconstituting, as the focus of all social action, the autonomous, integral, and dignified human "I," responsible for ourselves because we are bound to something higher, and capable of sacrificing something, in extreme cases even everything . . . for the sake of that which gives life meaning. n31 Havel translates densely philosophical probing into simple principles of action by which individuals can resist alienating pressure. True to his genius for globalizing local experience, Havel defines the alienating pressure so as to include "consumption, [*53] advertising, repression, technology, or cliche--all of which are the blood brothers of fanaticism and the wellspring of totalitarian thought." n32 All of us, then, wherever we live, under whatever form of government, have a stake in the human struggle and a solution to try, personally, you and I, and all of us together. We are not powerless. Havel learned from his particular experiment in "anti-political politics" something of essential and universal importance: that a single, seemingly powerless person who dares to cry out the word of truth and to stand behind it with all his person and all his life, ready to pay a high price, has, surprisingly, greater power, though formally disfranchised, than do thousands of anonymous voters. n33 A realist as well as a visionary with projective imagination, Havel acknowledges that most of such individual expressions remain rudimentary revolts, but he points out, "Here and there, a more coherent and visible initiative may emerge . . . that transcends 'merely' individual revolt and is transformed into more conscious, structured, and purposeful work." n34 He cites as an example Soviet fears of just such a transformation in the case of Solzhenitsyn, who was expelled from Russia in the regime's desperate attempt "to plug up the dreadful wellspring of truth," a truth that might have caused "incalculable transformations in social consciousness, which in turn might one day produce political debacles unpredictable in their consequences." n35 Rockets aimed at this or that state are less dangerous to the enemy than human beings taking responsibility for the world, which presupposes our seeing ourselves in the convex mirror and absorbing the fearful lesson that suppression of human beings in Prague or Moscow or Mostar threatens suppression of all human beings everywhere. n36 In his speech on 8 May 1993 commemorating the Czech Liberation Day, Havel, now president, pointed to the "impotence of contemporary German democracy and the inability to present a united front to rampant Nazis." The policy of appeasement, suicidal in the 1930s and 1940s, is proving so now: It is bowing down before evil and its terrible consequences for the whole world, if politicians and whole nations forget that a threat to the freedom of one country threatens the freedom of all nations. Indifference to others and to the community opens the door to evil. The message is we cannot afford to be indifferent. This sensible statement, suggesting a Czech national moral obligation to intervene in Yugoslavia, prompted instant disavowal by the Czech prime minister. It is hard to resist seeing in that disavowal a political difference between the two men that, given the peculiar constraints of the Czech constitution, threatens to throttle the immediate effectiveness of Havel's presidency. It is, moreover, a lesson about the distance between morality and power that must be negotiated by anyone who tries to change anything from inside a political system. Havel's antipolitical politics is practical morality, service to truth, [*54] not a technique of power and manipulation. It is evident, he writes, "that wholly personal categories like good and evil still have their unambiguous content and, under certain circumstances, are capable of shaking the seemingly unshakable power with all its armies of soldiers, policemen, and bureaucrats." n37 He grounds his hopes on a conviction that "the essential aims of life are present naturally in every person," and he defines them as a desire for dignity, for free expression of being, and "a sense of transcendence over the world of existence," a yearning to live in truth. n38 Alongside this magnanimous view of human potential, he keeps in mind its opposite pole: that we are all capable of trivializing our humanity by merging into the manipulated, unprincipled, anonymous crowd, with its insatiable demand for complicity in its lies. n39 THAT BEAUTIFUL WORD "PEACE" Havel stresses the potential of truth and humane values to transform human consciousness incrementally over time. We must constantly work for every good thing and struggle against violence. But Havel is tough-minded, his vision comprehensive and realistic. Violence may be unavoidable in the face of totalitarian savagery. Still, it must remain a means of last resort. Repeatedly, he warns that violence breeds violence. Havel is not, however, a pacifist, as that term applies to Quakers or others who organize peace movements. n40 Although the regime Havel and his fellow dissidents resisted for more than thirty years accused them of terrorist tactics and plots, they conscientiously sought legal justification for their resistance, using the letter even of unjust laws to manifest support for the principle of legality. Their attitude was "fundamentally hostile to the notion of violent change--simply because it places its faith in violence," Havel writes in one place. He immediately restates the point, however, in a powerfully significant parenthesis: "the 'dissident' attitude can only accept violence as a necessary evil in extreme situations, when direct violence can only be met by violence and where remaining passive would in effect mean supporting violence." n41 He recalls us to the tragic blindness of European pacifism that helped to prepare the ground for World War II. He points to the fact that the Czechs sent troops to the Persian Gulf and stood willing to contribute to a U.N. force in the former Yugoslavia. But he is at pains to condemn violence used as a quick fix to change political systems--the sacrifice of human beings here and now for "abstract political visions of the future." The problems in human society "lie far too deep to be settled through [*55] mere systemic changes, either governmental or technological." n42 Havel writes and thinks out of a unique humanist tradition that has been continuous in Czech history. He has specifically identified with the humanism of the founder of the Czech state, Tomas Masaryk, who regarded "ethical, aesthetic and scientific categories" as "no less real than bread and butter." Masaryk felt the need for a social revolution "more moral and less materialistic than that envisaged by the Marxists." Like Havel, he hoped to avoid violence, but he does not rule it out altogether. His language is as circumspect as Havel's: We must consistently reject every act of violence; otherwise we shall never be able to disentangle ourselves from violence. We may, should, must protect, defend ourselves. In extreme cases with the sword. But even in self-defense we must restrain ourselves from new, active acts of violence. n43 In an address prepared for delivery at a 1985 peace conference, Havel explains the reticence of Europeans to join Western peace movements as rooted in the skepticism of those who have already been burned by succumbing to other forms of utopianism, specifically the Stalin-Leninist variety, which grotesquely deformed its utopian principles as soon as it got power. The very word "peace" has been drained of all content by the European experience of "peace in our time." n44 The Western version of peace sounds far too much like appeasement. Havel speculates whether World War II, with its millions of corpses, could have been avoided if the Western democracies had stood up to Hitler forcefully and in time. He ascribes to the Czech people as a whole the firmly rooted idea that the inability to risk, in extremis, even life itself to save what gives it meaning and a human dimension leads not only to the loss of meaning but finally and inevitably to the loss of life as well--and not one life only but thousands and millions of lives. n45 Lessons from the Munich betrayal of 1938 and the Czech submission in the Communist takeover of 1948! Disarmament negotiations, Havel argues, or opposition to particular weapons systems will not bring peace. Peace depends on fundamental restructuring of the political realities that cause the particular crises that justify the production and use of weapons. Policies based on power interests guarding the status quo or requiring the division of Europe into blocs must be abandoned to the "ideal of a democratic Europe as a friendly community of free and independent nations." n46 Havel returns to probing the troubling issue of peace in a 1989 address, "A Word About Words." In it, he celebrates the restoration, however briefly, of the word "peace" to its beautiful original meaning by the efforts of Charter 77 members and the young people of Prague's Independent Peace Association. But he uses the occasion to reflect more broadly "on the mysterious link between words and peace, and on the [*56] mysterious power of words in human history." n47 He reminds intellectuals that responsibility for words is not just a linguistic task but "a task which is intrinsically ethical." n48 "THE RESPONSIBILITY OF INTELLECTUALS" Intellectuals are not customarily thought of as men and women of action. Our circumstances are ambiguous, our credibility precarious. While our sense of past and future is "radically linguistic," n49 we scarcely have a common human language anymore, and our fashionable linguistic skepticism elevates the denying of verities to an article of faith, out of which we build academic careers of nay-saying. We use the written word as the primary political medium for gaining attention. We are "writing people," who traffic in words and thus carry an unavoidable accountability for what we say with them. n50 Havel defines intellectuals as people who devote their lives "to thinking in general terms about the affairs of this world and the broader context of things . . . professionally," n51 for their occupation. If we aspire to be distinguished from mere scribblers, history demands that we choose between being "the apologist for rulers [and] an advisor to the people; the tragedy of the twentieth century is that these two functions have ceased to exist independently of one another, and intellectuals like Sartre who thought they were fulfilling one role were inevitably drawn to play both." n52 Alternatively, we can choose with Richard Rorty, echoing Max Weber, to stay out of politics, "where passionate commitment and sterile excitation are out of place," keeping "politics in the hands of charismatic leaders and trained officials." We can choose to pursue "[our] own private perfection." n53 That particular stance, however expedient, did not work well in Germany. In Czechoslovakia, it produced wartime Nazi collaborator Gustave Husak, the "President of Forgetting," who sought to perfect totalitarianism by systematically purging "the Party and state, the arts, the universities, and the media of everyone who dared to speak critically, independently, or even intelligently about what the regime defined as politics." n54 It produced Tudjman and Milosevic in Yugoslavia. Intellectuals can choose their roles, but cannot not choose, nor can we evade the full weight of the consequences attendant on our choices. "It is always the intellectuals, however [*57] we may shrink from the chilling sound of that word . . . who must bear the full weight of moral responsibility." n55 Humanist intellectuals can aspire to be judged by more specifically exacting criteria: as those whose work is worthwhile because it has human uses; survives the test of reality; corresponds to history; represses rationalizing in favor of fact; challenges the veracity of rulers; refuses the safety of abstraction; recognizes words as forms of action, as likely to be lethal as to be liberating; scruples to heal the rupture between words and things, between things and ideas; remains incorruptibly opposed to the service of ideological ends pursued by unnecessary violence or inhumane means; and, finally, takes risks for the sake of true witness to events, to the truth even of unpopular ideas or to the lies in popular ones. Above all, intellectuals can resist the dreary relativism that neutralizes good and evil as if in defense of the theoretical pseudo-notion that distinguishing between them is not possible. The hour is too late, the situation too grave for such pettifoggery. THE CONSEQUENCES OF LINGUISTIC ABUSE AND CYNICISM Bearing witness is not enough, but it is something. At the dedication of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, D.C., Elie Wiesel spoke. "We must bear witness," he said. "What have we learned? . . . We are all responsible. We must do something to stop the bloodshed in Yugoslavia." He told a story of a woman from the Carpathian Mountains who asked of the Warsaw Uprising, "Why don't they just wait quietly until after the war?" In one year she was packed into a cattle car with her whole family on the way to Auschwitz. "That woman was my mother," Wiesel said. Vaclav Havel, the humanist intellectual from Bohemia, spoke too: of the Holocaust as a memory of democratic appeasement, live memory of indifference to the danger of Hitler's coming to power, of indifference to the Munich betrayal of Prague. "Our Jews went to concentration camps. . . . Later we lost our freedom." We have lost our metaphysical certainties, our sense of responsibility for what comes in the future. For we are all responsible, humanly responsible for what happens in the world. Do we have the right to interfere in internal conflict? Not just the right but the duty. Remember the Holocaust. To avoid war, we watched--silently and, so, complicitly, unleashing darker, deadlier demons. What should we have done about Yugoslavia? Something. Much earlier. We must vigilantly listen for the early warning signs of threats to freedoms and lives everywhere. We must keep the clamorous opposition to oppression and violence around the world incessant and loud. Cry out! Cry havoc! Call murderers murderers. Do not avoid violence when avoidance begets more violence. There are some things worth dying for. Do not legitimize the bloodletting [*58] in Bosnia or anywhere by negotiating with the criminals who plotted the carnage. Do not join the temporizers. Take stands publicly: in words; in universities and boardrooms; in other corridors of power; and at local polling places. Take stands preferably in written words, which have a longer shelf life, are likelier to stimulate debate, and may have a lasting effect on the consciousnesses of some among us. Havel lived under a system "in which words [proved] capable of shaking the entire structure of government," in which the words of a poet like Solzhenitsyn "were regarded as so dangerous that their author was bundled into an airplane and shipped out." n56 Havel himself paid in deprivation, humiliation, continual harassment, and life-threatening imprisonment for his stubborn insistence on "living in truth," an allegiance consistently annunciated in the words he uttered and wrote and refused to recant. He was denied the education his intellect would ordinarily have entitled him to. His books were removed from schoolrooms and libraries, his plays banned from the stage. He did odd jobs, rolling beer kegs in a brewery for a time, hard labor as a welder in prison. He never ceased committing his conscience to words in letters, petitions, and essays, circulated in secret in hand-copied samizdat. Words that gradually, over time, helped to create the climate for a shift in the social consciousness of citizens who had been terrorized into silence and schizophrenic complicity for half a century by two succeeding totalitarian regimes. Inevitably, Havel was arrested again and condemned to the dreaded Ruzyne prison. His crime? Seeking to deliver to authorities Charter 77, a declaration of basic human rights he helped to compose and distribute, each word of which was meant to be taken at face value. He refused to sign a false retraction that would have secured his release. He was freed, after four and a half years, only because word that he was near death in the prison hospital reached the outside world and the world protested--in words. The Velvet Revolution he led, his rise to the Czech presidency, were spelled out, argued, fueled, and sustained by words, and always they were words consonant with conscience and a sense of responsibility for the common good. During the most crucial days of the 1989 revolution, tens of thousands of Prague citizens flowed into Wenceslas Square, chanting "freedom, freedom!" as if the word were a freshly minted coinage. Hundreds queued up hourly in the freezing November fog for copies of a newspaper called The Free Word. n57 "Truth shall prevail," the Hussite slogan on the flag waving atop Hradcany Castle since the days of Masaryk, suddenly became words to be taken literally, words understood to mean what they seem to mean, words with radiant power to galvanize and regenerate. Czechs shouted them joyously in the streets, in a spontaneous eruption of civic courage [*59] against the Communist regime that had been kept running not only by their fear but by their silence. Successive Nazi and Communist conquests of Czechoslovakia, enforced by guns and tanks, had been reinforced by conquest of human speech and conscience through the poisoning of the linguistic environment and the going-along of citizens who fatalistically stopped protesting. The deadly consequences of linguistic abuse and skepticism, including their insidious seduction to silence, passivity, and nihilism, were vividly prefigured more than a century earlier by Georg Buchner in his plays and in his private correspondence. In Danton's Death, Robespierre and his followers mouth "empty and impersonal and formalistic oratory and rhetoric," not to enlighten but to delude citizens into accepting absolute state control without protest. The shouting of idealists and intellectuals had come to seem like idle foolishness to Buchner, as he reveals in a letter to his parents: "They write, but no one reads them; they shout, but no one hears them; they act, but no one helps them." n58 Driven by his obsessive conviction that all attempts to break the impenetrable barriers isolating people from each other were doomed, Buchner cries out in a letter to his fiancee: I am alone as though in the grave; when will your words waken me? My friends desert me, we scream in each other's ears like deaf men; I wish we were dumb, then we could only look at one another--nowadays I can hardly look at anyone without tears coming to my eyes. n59 In another letter he confides, "I am afraid of my voice and--of my mirror. . . . This silence is my damnation." n60 The central figure in Danton's Death cannot believe in the existence of a God who would not stop the ceaseless pain and suffering man is heir to. Woyzeck's statement in the play bearing his name, "When God goes, everything goes," anticipates the prescient Nietzsche, whose madman officially announces the death of God and accuses us: "We have killed him--you and I. All of us are his murderers." n61 Unluckily, the French deconstructionist Jacques Derrida seized on the linguistic implications of that death to announce a radical crisis of the Word. Michel Foucault wrote the epitaph: "The death of God profoundly influenced our language; the silence that replaced its source remains impenetrable." n62 Such untested pronouncements signaled a linguistic relativism as profligately spawned by scholars as by scoundrels. It has cast such a blight upon words like "love," "friendship," "truth," "goodness," and "responsibility" that we mumble in selfdepreciation when we use them, lest [*60] someone think we honor still the values they once called to mind. Curiously, the values attached to their opposites, words like "hate," "enmity," "lies," "corruption," and "venality," remain credible in our moral vocabularies. We seem to have no trouble comprehending the evil that people do or tolerating excuses that confirm our misanthropy. We are embarrassed by virtue. Stalin and Hitler debased and manipulated language as a terroristic strategy to make citizens easier prey to a corruption of values that proved hospitable to catastrophe of monumental scale. So, too, in the killing fields of Yugoslavia, where we became so used to slaughter sanitized as "ethnic cleansing" that rescuing the helpless from carnage seemed outside our tidy moral categories, shielded by definition from the combined might and will of the United Nations. The world watched, dumbly passive, as before, in the Holocaust against Jews. Killing the Jews began with "reducing them to the 'other,'" warned Croatian journalist and fiction writer Slavenka Drakulic, eyewitness to genocide in the bloody Balkan war: Today it is the slaughtering of civilians in Croatia or Bosnia. For Serbians, Croatians and Muslims are the "other." . . . For Europe, the "other" is the wild "Balkans" that they pretend not to understand. For the United States it's more or less a "European problem." . . . We don't seem to know that by such divisions . . . we expose ourselves to the possibility of one day becoming the "others." n63 Yet, knowing that, hearing the reiteration of the historical lesson, we still hesitated to intervene, or we intervened too tentatively, against wanton butchery, partly because our definitions of responsibility are bounded by arbitrary verbal categories. The wars in African countries are "tribal," a word with pejorative echoes and distancing force. The war between Muslims and Serbs was "civil." "Anarchy" prevails, placing the strife outside those exclusionary categories. In local matters, political correctness often ties our tongues, and we excuse murder by calling it mass hysteria. When Drakulic wrote the words cited previously, she still clung to faith in the power of words. But under the deranging prolongation of the war, her faith faded. Astonishment, then fear, gave way to anger and defeat as hope of Western intervention, which seemed merely logical, was extinguished. The utterly despairing tone of her later writing tragically echoes Buchner's terrible disillusion: My words--any words--have no real meaning. I am sick and tired of them. Finally, all we have achieved with words is to establish Sarajevo as a metaphor for tragedy. So what? . . . I can write about the war as long as I believe in the power of communication and my own moral right to do it. But . . . I do not believe in that power any longer. I somehow have used all my words, given to me as a writer, to make people understand pain, fear and suffering. With the coming winter in Bosnia, I am afraid that my words would just melt away. n64 [*61] Words do not matter? Do not mean? No, they are terrifyingly potent. A woman who escaped to Prague from Auschwitz and took part in the resistance against the Nazis wrote, "No act is too horrible . . . as long as no one speaks of it, no one calls it by its name, no one puts it into words. Just because of that, words are the only weapons of the defenseless." n65 Truth prevails when enough people, willing to proclaim it, come together in sufficient numbers to defend it. Words become deeds either for good or for ill. A Slovenian journalist, too, specifically indicts the lethal connection between words and deeds in the Balkan war: All the bestialities of this war were triggered by words--cliches put forward by intellectuals and eagerly appropriated by politicians. These words undermined an informed and refined democratic public discourse that was slowly developing after Tito's death and opened the way for the destruction of the institutions and social mechanisms that kept the multinational culture alive. n66 In 1987 when Slobodan Milosevic seized power, the language of Communist ideology was dead. But "a new discourse, simplistic and strong, was invented by intellectuals," the Slovenian continues. "These writings by intellectuals were recycled by journalists; soon draftees were sent to be killed with writers' words on their lips." n67 His charge against intellectuals is chilling. Candid regard for the integrity of words was once again a matter of life and death. Intellectuals are answerable for the ethics of the word in statement, reaction, and analysis. RESTORING THE INTEGRITY OF THE WORD Words have histories and power in the making of histories. They are predictive and they have consequences. "All important events in the real world . . . always have their prologue in words," writes Havel. Like the Slovenian writer, he traces the connections between words and events. He attests the potency of words. He weighs their mysterious ambiguity and warns intellectuals especially "to listen carefully to the words of the powerful, to be watchful of them, to forewarn of their danger, and to proclaim their dire implications or the evil they might invoke." n68 The connivances of political doublespeak, which have become staples of statesmanship, the cynical rationalizations deemed realistic adjustments in day-to-day politics, and the cliches that pass for conversation have no place in Havel's notions of how to live a life or conduct the affairs of a country. Havel did not succumb to the debased jargon of Communist ideology, nor did he lapse into the safety of silence, passively complicit in the "semantic occupation of the public sphere," n69 that typical preemptive strategy of tyrants. Havel stubbornly insists on equal regard for the liberating and redeeming potential of words even as he acknowledges their ambiguous, perfidious, terrifying, even lethal destructiveness. [*62] He shows that the seemingly powerless are empowered by recovering confidence in language, and courage to bear public witness against the public lies that amnesty slaughters. It is sometimes possible to change history by calling things by their proper names. Calling the emperor naked when he is, refuting the lie out loud, insisting on verbal veracity against bombast and other linguistic distortions may not work, but, then again, they might, Havel argues. What certainly foredooms to failure is doing nothing. Of course, the effectiveness of words in particular historical events depends on who says them, to whom, under what circumstances, and when. Effective response to inhumane totalitarianisms cannot be improvisationally applied or delayed. Havel's philosophical and political strategies have both an immediate and a long-range aspect. Violence, in the short run, in particular situations, may be the only defense against human brutality. But unless we are also taking steps at the same time to change human consciousness so that violence of any kind becomes simply unthinkable as a solution for human problems, then we are condemned to an endless cycle of barbarous savagery. On his unanimous election to the presidency of Czechoslovakia, Havel offered a cautionary observation as stunningly portentous in the West now as in Eastern Europe then: "We have become morally ill, because we have become accustomed to saying one thing and thinking another." n70 The schizophrenic pathology begins within the individual, but it also corrupts the relationship and drives a wedge of mistrustful incomprehension between the individual and those in power, thereby making dishonesty the norm in social and political interactions. Healing that schizophrenic split can begin by guarding the integrity of one's own word and holding others, especially those who wield power, accountable for theirs. In dozens of public statements, Havel presses his theme that we are rooted in the universe with a responsibility to other people and to the human community. He asserts as ethical imperative for a civil society that citizens refuse to forgive mendacity, especially in the name of expediency or pragmatic politics. We must cry down especially the formal lie. When we do so in sufficient numbers, the game is up. "Even something as seemingly ephemeral as the truth spoken aloud, as an openly expressed concern for the humanity of humans, bears within itself a certain power and . . . even a word is capable of a certain radiation, of leaving a mark on the 'hidden consciousness' of a community." n71 On the morning after the 1989 revolutions, the distinguished Polish poet Czeslaw Milosz wrote: The failure of Marx's vision has created the need for another vision, not for a rejection of all visions. I do not speak of "socialism with a human face," for that belongs to the past. I speak instead about a concern for society, civilization and humanity in a period when the 19th century idea of progress has died out and a related idea, communist revolution, has disintegrated. What remains today is the [*63] idea of responsibility, which works against the loneliness and indifference of an individual living in the belly of a whale. n72 Havel offers precisely such a vision, such a concern for society, civilization, and humanity. It restores to individuals the power to create history, to play a dynamic part in the polis, whether thought of as a local community or as the universal human family. It asks citizens to be responsible, not only to themselves but to something higher than themselves: the community, the family of humankind, to some notion, however inchoate, of good and evil. Havel's writing calls philosophers, critics, professors, theorists, and other public purveyors of the word to account for the undermining of faith in human communication. He reminds us that men who burn books know what they are doing. His moral authority resonates in every sentence. He writes, to borrow George Steiner's eloquently precise language, after an "intolerable wrestle with word and meaning," stripping language to the bone, choosing words from the common store as if "borrowed at high interest," assessing them with "supreme scruple" lest they lie. n73 Using language so that it comes as close as humanly possible to truth and intention, to choosing words with "supreme scruple," and reacting to words with like scruple, transforms literacy into "humane literacy." n74 To conceive of such nice precision as the civic duty of ordinary citizens, as a way of stirring the general consciousness, is the starting place for any individual who aspires to live in truth, according to Havel. Events have proved the virtue and validity of Havel's vision. It is practical politics acting continuously as a check on any system kept in power by "appearances, distortions, oppression or lies." It refers to any way a person resists manipulation. When even one person publicly refutes the lie by daring to cry out, "certain changes happen in communal moral and spiritual sensibility" that indirectly, over time, gain in significance and effect change. n75 Structures built on lies, any structures, from governments to block committees, work only as long as people are complicit by silence. THE POWER OF THE WORD FOR GOOD OR ILL One can see, as through a glass darkly, what Milosz apprehends as "the elimination of emotional luxuries" among the intellectuals who lived through the atrocities of war in Eastern Europe. Psychoanalytic novels make them laugh, he says. They consider "literature of erotic complications" as trash. Imitative abstract painting bores them. "They are hungry--but [*64] they want bread, not hors d'oeuvres." n76 Their latter-day Western counterparts, under less compelling exigencies, too often incline to careers devoted to theoretical deconstructions of literature and reality that, having no basis in lived experience, come to seem frivolously trivial. Intellectuals have much to answer for. In Germany, members and fellow travelers of the intellectual community were co-opted by the Nazis. Scholars, professors, clerics, writers, and philosophers rationalized and legitimized lebensraum and racial purity in shrouding clouds of linguistic theory and disingenuous metaphor, then kept silent about the daily exterminations in death camps by exterminators who nightly in their homes played Schubert and Brahms or read Christian Bibles. We know who they are. Franklin Littell, often called the father of Holocaust studies in America, has written of them with indignant righteousness for fifty years, as he has also written of morally courageous intellectuals like Bonhoeffer and Niemoller, who, in the name of decent human values they had no trouble defining, committed wit, pen, hands, indeed, their very lives to save the lives of others otherwise doomed to the ovens. n77 Intellectuals, "always a hindrance to a well-ordered strict regime," come in 57 varieties, "restless students and . . . eccentrics, truthseekers and holy fools" among them. n78 They wear coats of many colors and do not scruple to turn them. Intellectuals of the Left and intellectuals of the Right contradict themselves and betray each other. Distinction between intellectuals is wildly imprecise and transitory, but, for our purposes, not entirely irrelevant. There are behavioral commonalities separating one variety from another, betrayed in their responses to specific historical circumstances. Developments in Germany, France, Czechoslovakia, and the United States serve as cases in point. In Germany, Thomas Mann tried to answer the question of how the Nazi barbarism could be possible in the heart of a "civilized" country by pointing out that from Luther to Goethe, "German intellectuals had failed to incorporate the imperative of political and social responsibility into their central notion of what it is to be a civilized person." They neglected "the political obligations of true Humanitat--of being fully human." n79 In France, more baffling was the silence already alluded to among French intellectuals during and about the Nazi occupation; more baffling still the "silencing of the Holocaust literature that started appearing in France and in the French language as early as 1946." n80 French intellectuals of the 1960s through the 1980s, writers and thinkers of great learning and sensitivity, continued to [*65] ignore, though they could not have been ignorant of, Holocaust books. Even Elie Wiesel's Night, in its French version, La Nuit, was passed over by mainstream critics. n81 During the 1940s and 1950s, internationally prominent intellectuals--novelists, philosophers, playwrights, and moralists--were swept into the vortex of communism, even when they did not formally affiliate. Their writing still shocks and surprises us. As Tony Judt remarks, we cannot read "without discomfort of their insouciance in the face of violence, human suffering, and painful moral choices" or of the perfidious terms by which they "explained and justified the practice of contemporary Stalinism." n82 Indeed, a dominant theme in French intellectual life since the 1970s has been the question, "How in the face of literary evidence, not to mention the testimony of their own eyes, could intelligent people wilfully defend communism as the hope of the future and Stalin as the riddle of History?" n83 In Czechoslovakia, on 17 November 1939, Adolf Hitler, enraged by Czech resistance to German occupation, executed nine protesting student leaders and deported 1200 to the Sachsenhausen concentration camp. All Czech universities were closed down, their teaching staffs thrown out of work. Dark pink cards posted on every radio warned, "You are reminded that listening to broadcasts from abroad is forbidden and punishable by death." n84 The slightest linguistic misunderstanding led to death on the spot. The terrorizing of Czech youths "and the softening up of a significant part of the intelligentsia" is "retained in the [Czech] national consciousness by the annual act of homage to the memory of a young medical student, Jan Opletal, who was one of those fatally shot during an anti-German demonstration." n85 Remembering for the future. On 17 November 1989, at a cemetery in Prague, 15,000 people, led by a group of university students, gathered once more to remember the Czech student murdered by the Nazis fifty years earlier. Remembering for the future. This time the memorial became the spark that lit the Velvet Revolution. The way had been prepared, externally by the revolutions in Warsaw and Budapest, by perestroika and glasnost, and by the whispered word from Gorbachev that brought down the Berlin Wall; internally by the cumulative moral force of patient argument, exhortation, and remembrances of Czech cultural traditions circulated in samizdat by morally courageous dissident writers, Vaclav Havel preeminent among them, and by the distribution of Charter 77, signed by a coalition of disparate political groups agreed on the need for an ethical basis to politics. They were led by students and writers--intellectuals. Banners waved in the air, calling for "Democracy and Law," "Genuine Perestroika," and "Free Elections" [*66] and asking, "Who If Not Us? When If Not Now?" Memorial tributes to Opletal shortly gave way to shouts for academic freedom, human rights, and the liberation of political prisoners and to impassioned speeches more explicitly demanding. Demonstrators urged a march to Wenceslas Square. As if spontaneously, the swelling crowds surged toward the Vltava, marched along the embankment, then turned right, down Narodni Avenue, chanting "Freedom," singing the Czech national anthem and, in Czech, "We Shall Overcome." They were cut off and surrounded by riot police who began beating them with truncheons. They offered flowers to the police and placed lighted candles on the ground, then raised their hands to show they were not armed. Still the white-helmeted security forces continued ruthlessly beating men, women, even children. Units of the Red Beret "picked out individuals at random and worked them over" with truncheons and boots. The sight of bloodied heads sent shock waves through the demonstrators, and they began to flee the scene, but not the cause. n86 By 19 November, the crowds that swarmed to Wenceslas Square numbered 500,000 and more. Slogans began to appear in shop windows, at the metro stations, on walls: "Havel didn't keep quiet when we were frightened to speak. It's our turn now." n87 By then, Civic Forum, which Havel had created, was in charge of the revolution, its headquarters in the basement of the Magic Lantern Theatre. A few days later Havel was at work in Hradcany Castle, president of the new republic. The "old mendacious phrases with which people had lived for so long" were challenged, first by intellectuals, writers, and students, who labored to find "new, plain, true words" for what they wanted to say. Timothy Garton Ash, eyewitness to the meetings of Civic Forum, composed of leading dissidents in the Velvet Revolution of 1989, reports that "a great deal of what was happening was precisely about words." n88 Putting together a constitution for the new democracy, Havel and members of Civic Forum argued a whole hour over the single word "resignation," Ash reports. n89 A false vocabulary, they feared, would put the debate on false ground and make analysis of concrete reality impossible. They did not want to jeopardize even the slightest claims to justice and dignity that the very government they were bent on replacing might still have. They set for themselves high standards of ethical excellence! They had learned that means do become ends. They found words so close to the reality of Czech lives and hopes that they were taken up and shouted in the streets by hundreds, then thousands, and then tens of thousands of men and women, citizens who had not spoken truthfully in public for decades. The empire that had seemed impregnable began to collapse. American intellectuals bought into the utopian promises of communism, too. In spite of evidence that [*67] nowhere on the globe had communism been established without the most hideous record of persecution and murder, and ruthless suppression of human and civil rights, intellectuals rationalized to protect the purity of Marxist ideals, which have not yet been tried. Disillusion came too slowly. The influence of the French intellectuals took hold in the United States, and with it came the undermining of linguistic content and destructive assaults on values as inventions of bourgeois ideology. It still prevails, despite growing identification of its covert hostility to human rights and democratic institutions. From the safety of those institutions, theorists continue to argue the impotence of language, while its raw power, exploding from the propaganda arsenals of political opportunists, foments violence across the world and seeks sanctions for it afterward. While we quibble about the efficacy of speech, as if silence or nonverbal signifiers were preferable, murderers recast familiar words to erase geography, rewrite history, and disguise human exterminations. Distracted by lexemes, paroxytones, and phenomenological subjectivisms, we mindlessly neglect the connection between language and power. It really does matter that intellectuals undermine confidence in words. In the real world, words are means to power and powerful catalysts to action. When we are convinced that we cannot hold the word to account or take it at face value, we are muddled about what is going on in our own lives as well as in the larger human community. Yes, we must qualify inferences by all the variables we can bring to bear. But without a sense that language can be decipherable, we will not know what we know or be able to pass it on. The relation of language to "the murderous falsehoods it has been made to articulate and hallow in certain totalitarian regimes and to the great load of vulgarity, imprecision and greed it is charged with in a mass-consumer democracy" are problems Steiner wrestles with in Language and Silence. They are more disturbing now than when he raised them at the end of World War II. His consciousness was possessed "by the barbarism in modern Europe"; his anguish was deepened because the unanswered cries of the murdered "sounded in earshot of universities." n90 Is our consciousness less acute, our anguish immunized? Havel's concept of the parallel polis offers a way for individuals to lead society out of such moral obtuseness. He proposes that honest words spoken in one community and context have powerful ethical resonance that can gradually reach into other communities, fifth columns of truth that can gain acceptance in a vast variety of contexts composed of the widening and multiple spheres in which human activity occurs. Truthful words in daily interaction have power to ameliorate the general condition, even to change history. Truth ventured bravely and habitually can be as infectious as lies. Havel calls attention not only to the dislocations but also to the connections between words--words read, thought, spoken, written, heard--and all the aims and transactions [*68] of human existence. Words vigilantly guarded against corruption can become the weapon of choice in the human struggle to secure and protect peaceful, humane, human communities. Not the Czech experience alone but the whole of twentieth-century history starkly reminds us that we are language creatures who lie as well as speak truth. We use the word--sometimes the same word--to enlighten and deceive, to destroy and create. There are at least two meanings packed into every word, two ways for words to squint. The evidence of millennia shows we have the wit to tell the difference, to choose the better over the worse and to make a difference when we do. We seem to have gotten out of the habit of it. Even in America, where the ultimate sacrifice is never asked, the habit of public truth is uncommon. Otherwise, we would not tolerate the transparent dishonesty and smarmy pandering in political rhetoric--a "snowdrift of lies," n91 calculated ambiguities, distortions, pufferies, obfuscations, evasions, and diversions. While eloquence may not be absolute evidence of noble character, some proportional relation exists between reason and expression. As Emerson's essay Nature puts it, A man's power to connect his thought with its proper symbol, and so utter it, depends on the simplicity of his character, that is, upon his love and truth and his desire to communicate it without loss. The corruption of man is followed by the corruption of language. n92 We all make it possible. We allow it to happen. There is no them and us. There is only one us and, yes, we are responsible for each other. Where to begin? Who's to start? It is I. "It is I who must begin," writes Havel. n93 CONCLUSION: A CHALLENGE George Orwell connected political chaos with the decay of language. He thought it possible to arrest both by starting at the verbal end. He offers rules to improve linguistic clarity and exactness. Language, he said, "becomes ugly and inaccurate because our thoughts are foolish, but the slovenliness of our language makes it easier to have foolish thoughts." n94 The question of whether words or thoughts come first, travel different parallel paths, are interdependent, or even whether we think in words at all must not hang us up! If language does "not determine the way we think," psycholinguists now concede, "it does influence the way we perceive and remember and it affects the ease in which we perform mental tasks." n95 The "genuine politics" that Havel defines as "simply a way of serving those around us: serving the community, and serving those who will come after us" accustoms us to seeing the moral dimension in every aspect of human experience, including the way we use and understand language, because [*69] it is there. His genuine politics recognize that "directness can never be established by indirection, or truth through lies, or the democratic spirit through authoritarian directives." n96 As Havel wrote in his Summer Meditations, "People want to hear that decency and courage make sense, that something must be risked in the struggle against dirty tricks." n97 His reelection to the Czech presidency proves that "politics as the practice of morality is possible." n98 He matches his words to deeds and in the process restores to language something of its original integrity and moral authority. His way of being in the world is a victory of language over silence, of reason and decency over ignorance and mendacity. What he writes is primarily addressed to intellectuals, "warriors of the pen," like himself, but what he means permeates the consciousness of millions to revive moribund human hopefulness. We must, he says, be like Cassandra: predicting, warning, bearing witness, "always at odds with hard and fast categories"; like Sisyphus in persistence, even in the face of what looks like sure defeat n99 and is likelier to win us calumny than kudos. "Havel to the Castle!" Those words became reality when tens of thousands of Czech citizens swept Havel to the very doors of Prague's Hradcany. The words themselves still resonate with the vibrancy of Havel's most strikingly daring idea: "that the world might actually be changed by the force of truth, the power of a truthful word, the strength of a free spirit, conscience, and responsibility." n100 Perhaps, like the Czechs during their revolution, we need, at this crisis moment in human civilization just such an unembarrassed embrace of virtue, beginning with the will to restore and respect the integrity of the word in human interaction. </span>



<span class="Underline">***Case***</span>
<span class="Underline">AT: Absurdity </span>
<span class="Underline">Embracing the absurdity of life as per Camus is an overly romanticized response to something that really isn’t a problem. The affirmative is unpersuasive.</span>
<span class="Underline">WESTPHAL – 90</span>
<span class="Underline">[Jonathan – and Christopher Cherry – prof U Kent Canterbury (now prof @ Hampshire, PhD U London), prof U Hawaiii – Philosophy vol 65 no 252 p203]</span>

<span class="Underline">It makes much more sense to ignore the problem and the external perspective, and if we are unable to dismiss them intellectually, to dine, play backgammon and make merry with our friends: Hume's remedy for too much metaphysics. The same result can be achieved by occupying ourselves with interesting work. These ironic strategies towards the alleged ultimate disvalue are sensible, not because they blot out the problem, but because the problem is wrongly set, and real life can restore our intuition that this is so. Life really does not call for scorn or despair, and these large attitudes are, as Nagel himself notes, mis-placed. Camus' scorn, he says is, 'romantic and slightly self-pitying'.9 This is bad, of course. But why is irony any better? Because it is more refined? What is wrong here is not some feature of whatever attitude one takes to life, but the whole idea that it calls for one defiant last-ditch defence. This is the romantic idea, common to existentialism, certain Christian theologies, and the heroic materialism of the last century. For example, 'Brief and powerless is man's life: on him and all his race the slow sure doom falls pitiless and dark. Blind to good and evil, reckless of destruction, omnipotent matter rolls on its relentless way . . .'10 To avoid this cosmic version of the external perspective, all we have to do is to recognize it for the colourful rubbish it is.</span>

<span class="Underline">2AC Fasching (Nietzsche)</span>
<span class="Underline">They cause totalitarianism </span>
<span class="Underline">Fasching 93—professor of religious studies at the University of South Florida </span>
<span class="Underline">(Darrell J. “The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima: Apocalypse or Utopia?” pg.40)</span>

<span class="Underline">This rejection of the "cosmological" status of the world in favor of the "transvaluation of all values" by Nietzsche's Übermensch represents the other extreme in the apocalyptic distortion of utopian freedom. It is one we could call the existentialist distortion of technological utopianism. If it rejects technicism, it does so only in the name of a countertechnicism. It does so only with the intention of delivering on the promise of technological utopianism that technicism both offers and subverts. It is in effect a total rejection of the cosmological status of the world implied by the Procrustean mythos of technicism in favor of the countertechnicist mythos of Proteusthe myth of our infinite capacity to transform our selves and our world into whatever we desire. 25 Contrary to the technicist myth, the Protean myth sees the world not so much as "the cosmos writ small" but rather as "the human writ large." If the cosmological distortion of utopianism would smother human freedom and creativity in a world of necessity and secure mediocrity that invites an apocalyptic totalitarianism, the existential distortion of technological utopianism, at the other extreme, threatens the stability required by every human society with the danger of an anarchistic-apocalyptic conflict of opposing Nietzchean wills to power. If the cosmological distortion would impose an absolute normative order on society, the existentialist distortion threatens to submerge the human city in a sea of anarchic freedom and nihilistic ethical relativism. In reflecting on the murder of God, Nietzsche asks: "How were we able to drink up the sea? Who gave us the sponge to wipe away the entire horizon? What did we do when we unchained this earth from its sun? Whither is it moving now? Whither are we moving now? Away from all suns? Are we not plunging continually? Backward, sideward, forward, in all directions? Is there any up or down left?"26 Replacing God as creator of the world is a terrifying experience, for suddenly there is no frame of reference, no guiding star, no direction from which one can get one's bearings and begin.</span>
<span class="Underline">2AC Nietzsche</span>

<span class="Underline">Nietzsche’s denial of being leads to nihilism – Removing all meaning in life – This leads to an endless search for power which never is successful</span>
<span class="Underline">Hicks – 3 Prof and Chair of Philosophy @ Queens College of the CUNY</span>
<span class="Underline">(Steven V., “Nietzsche, Heidegger, and Foucault: Nihilism and Beyond,” Foucault and Heidegger: Critical Encounters, Ed. Alan Milchman and Alan Rosenberg, P. 109, Questia)</span>

<span class="Underline">Here again, one might raise objections to Heidegger's equating of Nietzsche's doctrine of will to power with the metaphysics of subjectivity. After all, Nietzsche often attacked Descartes's “ego cogito” as a logical or linguistic fiction (cf. BGE, §§ 16, 54). Yet according to Heidegger, Nietzsche still follows Descartes's lead in making human beings the subject or foundation of things. Unlike Descartes, however, Nietzsche's subject is not a fixed mental substance, but the body interpreted as a center of instincts, drives, affects, and sublimations, i.e., as will to power. Heidegger claims that this “body as given” idea still involves Nietzsche in a “fixity” that brings him into the philosophy of presence: “Nietzsche argues that being is as fixated, as permanent” (N, 2:200). And this forced sense of presence, Heidegger thinks, leads to the dangers of “radical objectifiability” and to the “disposability of beings, ” i.e., treating beings as nothing but objects of use, control, and management. 32 Moreover, like its Cartesian counterpart, the Nietzschean subject reins supreme over the whole of beings and posits “the measure for the beingness of every … being” (N, 4:121). 33 In claiming that “truths are illusions” and that “Being is an empty fiction, ” Nietzsche “fashions for the subject an absolute power to enjoin what is true and what is false” and hence to define what it means “to be” or “not to be” a being (N, 4:145). According to Nietzsche, what is true—what has being—is that which serves the interest of the subject whose essence is will to power (in the mode of existence of eternal recurrence; cf. N, 2:203). Being is thus reduced to the status of a value or a “condition of the preservation and enhancement of the will to power” (N, 4:176). This is why Heidegger considers Nietzsche the “consummation, ” and not the overcoming, of Western metaphysics: by reducing Being to a value, the doctrine of will to power makes the nihilism of the metaphysical tradition (the assumption that Being itself is nothing and the human will everything) a matter of philosophical principle. 34 Thus Nietzsche's “counter-ideals” of will to power and eternal recurrence, far from overcoming nihilism, actually express or exemplify the loss of any sense of Being, or the withdrawal of Being itself, in favor of beings (i.e., products of human will). As Heidegger reads him, Nietzsche understands Being in terms of value (or what is useful for enhancing the human will) because Being itself has totally withdrawn in default. And this brings to completion traditional metaphysics, which, according to Heidegger, is the history of Being in its withdrawal. As Heidegger sees it, Nietzsche's metaphysics of will to power is “the most extreme withdrawal of Being” and thus “the fulfillment of nihilism proper” (N, 4:204, 232). So Nietzsche brings to completion, in his denial of Being, the very nihilism he wanted to overcome. Far from twisting free of the ascetic ideal, Heidegger claims, Nietzsche 's doctrine of will to power actually provides the basis for its most complete expression in the modern “secularized” ascetic “will-tocontrol” everything. In other words, instead of seeking salvation in a transcendent world by means of ascetic self-denial—the aspect of metaphysics that Nietzsche most obviously rejects—salvation is now, Heidegger claims, sought “exclusively in the free self-development of all the creative powers of man” (N, 4:89). This unlimited expanding of power for power's sake parallels in many ways what Nietzsche characterized as the most terrifying aspect of the ascetic ideal: the pursuit of “truth for truth's sake.” It is, according to Heidegger, the “hidden thorn” in the side of modern humanity (cf. N, 4:99). This “hidden thorn” expresses itself variously in the Protestant “work ethic” and in the “iron cage” of bureaucratic-technological rationality (discussed in the works of Max Weber); it also expresses itself in the various power aims of modern scientific/technological culture as well as in the frenzied impulse to produce and consume things at ever faster rates. Heidegger even suggests that Nietzsche's own figure of the Overman (Ubermensch) foreshadows the calculating, technological attitude of modern secularized asceticism: “His Overman [stands] for the technological worker-soldier who would disclose all entities as standingreserve necessary for enhancing the ultimately aimless quest for power for its own sake.”35 This emerging technological human, grounded in a control-oriented anthropocentrism, compels entities to reveal only those one-dimensional aspects of themselves that are consistent with the power aims of a technological/productionist culture. Instead of dwelling and thinking in a world unified by what Heidegger metaphorically terms the “fourfold of earth and sky, gods and mortals, ” impoverished modern technocrats occupy a world “bereft of gods” in which thinking becomes calculating, and dwelling becomes tantamount to the “technological domination of nature” and what Nietzsche calls “the common economic management of the earth” in which “mankind will be able to find its best meaning as a machine in the service of this economy” (WP, § 866). Thus citizens come to be viewed primarily as consumers, wilderness is looked upon in terms of “wildlife management areas, ” and genuine human freedom is “replaced by the organized global conquest of the earth, and the thrust into outer space” (N, 4:248). As Heidegger sees it, “our era entertains the illusion that man, having become free for his humanity, has freely taken the universe into his power and disposition” (N, 4:248). In summary, Nietzsche tried to combat the nihilism of the ascetic ideal (e.g., the collapse of the Christian table of values) by bringing forth new nonascetic values that would enhance rather than devalue humanity's will to power. According to Heidegger, however, instead of overcoming nihilism, Nietzsche simply reinforced it. By characterizing Being as an “empty fiction” and “the last smoke of a vaporized reality ” (TI, 2:2, 481), and by degrading it to the status of a value for enhancing the subject's will to power, Nietzsche loses any sense of Being as such. For him it is a mere nothing, a “nihil.” And this brings to completion the “fundamental movement” of history in the West, which is nihilism: the withdrawal of Being itself and the consequent focus on beings as objects for “consolidating the power of Will and for expanding it out beyond itself” in an ever-increasing spiral. 36 As Heidegger sees it, this “eternally recurring” will to power, or “will to will, ” is a will-to-control that only reinforces the nihilism Nietzsche feared: the loss of meaning or direction, the devaluation of the highest values, the “constructs of domination, ” and the devotion to frenzied consumption and production.</span>

<span class="Underline">2AC Aesthetics </span>

<span class="Underline">Prioritizing aesthetics leads to mass murder and undermines their truth claims – we look at people as images and the beauty in death which inevitably reproduces the death drive – we look at the beauty of militarism, destruction, and people and they become objects for us to harvest for their beauty – that’s Jay – it internal link turns their offense because beauty just becomes a way to negate the freedom of the other </span>
<span class="Underline">Prioritizing aesthetics justifies mass murder and makes truth impossible </span>
<span class="Underline">Jay 92 (Martin, History @ UC Berkeley ’92 “"The Aesthetic Ideology" as Ideology; Or, What Does It Mean to Aestheticize Politics?” Cultural Critique 21 Spring p. 43-44)</span>

<span class="Underline">Any discussion of the aestheticization of politics must begin by identifying the normative notion of the aesthetic it presup- poses. For unless we specify what is meant by this notoriously ambiguous term, it is impossible to understand why its extension to the realm of the political is seen as problematic. Although a thorough review of the different uses in the literature cited above is beyond the scope of this essay, certain significant alternatives can be singled out for scrutiny. As Benjamin's own remarks demonstrate, one salient use de- rives from the l'art pour l'art tradition of differentiating a realm called art from those of other human pursuits, cognitive, reli- gious, ethical, economic, or whatever. Here the content of that realm apart-often, but not always, identified with something known as beauty-is less important than its claim to absolute au- tonomous and autotelic self-referentiality. For the obverse of this claim is the exclusion of ethical, instrumental, religious, etc. con- siderations from the realm of art. A politics aestheticized in this sense will be equally indiffer- ent to such extra-artistic claims, having as its only criterion of value aesthetic worth. Moreover, the definition of that worth im- plied by such a rigid differentiation usually suppresses those as- pects of the aesthetic, such as sensuous enjoyment and bodily pleasure, which link art and mundane existence; instead, formal considerations outweigh "sentimental" ones. On a visit to Paris in 1891, Oscar Wilde was reported to have said: "When Benvenuto Cellini crucified a living man to study the play of muscles in his death agony, a pope was right to grant him absolution. What is the death of a vague individual if it enables an immortal word to blossom and to create, in Keats' words, an eternal source of ec- stasy?" (Raynaud 397). Another classical expression of this atti- tude appeared in the notorious response of the Symbolist poet Laurent Tailhade to a deadly anarchist bomb thrown into the French Chamber of Deputies in 1893: "What do the victims mat- ter if the gesture is beautiful?"8 Not long after, F. T. Marinetti's Futurist Manifesto echoed the same sentiments in glorifying, along with militarism, anarchistic destruction, and contempt for women, "the beautiful ideas which kill" (182). Moving beyond the Futurists' flatulent rhetoric, Mussolini's son-in-law and foreign minister Ciano would confirm the practical results of its imple- mentation when he famously compared the bombs exploding among fleeing Ethiopians in 1936 to flowers bursting into bloom. The aestheticization of politics in these cases repels not merely because of the grotesque impropriety of applying criteria of beauty to the deaths of human beings, but also because of the chilling way in which nonaesthetic criteria are deliberately and provocatively excluded from consideration. When restricted to a rigorously differentiated realm of art, such antiaffective, formal- ist coldness may have its justifications; indeed, a great deal of modern art would be hard to appreciate without it. But when then extended to politics through a gesture of imperial dedifferentia- tion, the results are highly problematic. For the disinterestedness that is normally associated with the aesthetic seems precisely what is so radically inappropriate in the case of that most basic of hu- man interests, the preservation of life. Benjamin's bitter observa- tion that mankind's "self-alienation has reached such a degree that it can experience its own destruction as an aesthetic pleasure of the first order" ("Work of Art" 244) vividly expresses the dis- gust aroused by this callous apotheosis of art over life. </span>
<span class="Underline">Util Good</span>

<span class="Underline">Utilitarianism inevitable even in deontological frameworks</span>

<span class="Underline">Green 02 (Assistant Professor Department of Psychology Harvard University, Joshua, November 2002 "The Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Truth About Morality And What To Do About It", 314)</span>

<span class="Underline">Some people who talk of balancing rights may think there is an algorithm for deciding which rights take priority over which. If that’s what we mean by 302 “balancing rights,” then we are wise to shun this sort of talk. Attempting to solve moral problems using a complex deontological algorithm is dogmatism at its most esoteric, but dogmatism all the same. However, it’s likely that when some people talk about “balancing competing rights and obligations” they are already thinking like consequentialists in spite of their use of deontological language. Once again, what deontological language does best is express the thoughts of people struck by strong, emotional moral intuitions: “It doesn’t matter that you can save five people by pushing him to his death. To do this would be a violation of his rights!”19 That is why angry protesters say things like, “Animals Have Rights, Too!” rather than, “Animal Testing: The Harms Outweigh the Benefits!” Once again, rights talk captures the apparent clarity of the issue and absoluteness of the answer. But sometimes rights talk persists long after the sense of clarity and absoluteness has faded. One thinks, for example, of the thousands of children whose lives are saved by drugs that were tested on animals and the “rights” of those children. One finds oneself balancing the “rights” on both sides by asking how many rabbit lives one is willing to sacrifice in order to save one human life, and so on, and at the end of the day one’s underlying thought is as thoroughly consequentialist as can be, despite the deontological gloss. And what’s wrong with that? Nothing, except for the fact that the deontological gloss adds nothing and furthers the myth that there really are “rights,” etc. Best to drop it. When deontological talk gets sophisticated, the thought it represents is either dogmatic in an esoteric sort of way or covertly consequentialist. </span>

<span class="Underline">Existence is a prerequisite to value</span>
<span class="Underline">Wapner ‘3 (Paul, Associate Prof. and Dir. Global Env’t. Policy Prog. – American U., Dissent, “Leftist criticism of “nature””, Winter, 50:1, Proquest)</span>
<span class="Underline">All attempts to listen to nature are social constructions--except one. Even the most radical postmodernist must acknowledge the distinction between physical existence and nonexistence. As I have said, postmodernists accept that there is a physical substratum to the phenomenal world even if they argue about the different meanings we ascribe to it. This acknowledgment of physical existence is crucial. We can't ascribe meaning to that which doesn't appear. What doesn't exist can manifest no character. Put differently, yes, the postmodernist should rightly worry about interpreting nature's expressions. And all of us should be wary of those who claim to speak on nature's behalf (including environmentalists who do that). But we need not doubt the simple idea that a prerequisite of expression is existence. This in turn suggests that preserving the nonhuman world-in all its diverse embodiments-must be seen by eco-critics as a fundamental good. Eco-critics must be supporters, in some fashion, of environmental preservation. Postmodernists reject the idea of a universal good. They rightly acknowledge the difficulty of identifying a common value given the multiple contexts of our value-producing activity. In fact, if there is one thing they vehemently scorn, it is the idea that there can be a value that stands above the individual contexts of human experience. Such a value would present itself as a metanarrative and, as Jean Francois Lyotard has explained, postmodernism is characterized fundamentally by its "incredulity toward meta-narratives." Nonetheless, I can't see how postmodern critics can do otherwise than accept the value of preserving the nonhuman world. The nonhuman is the extreme "other"; it stands in contradistinction to humans as a species. In understanding the constructed quality of human experience and the dangers of reification, postmodernism inherently advances an ethic of respecting the "other." At the very least, respect must involve ensuring that the "other" actually continues to exist. In our day and age, this requires us to take responsibility for protecting the actuality of the nonhuman. Instead, however, we are running roughshod over the earth's diversity of plants, animals, and ecosystems. Postmodern critics should find this particularly disturbing. If they don't, they deny their own intellectual insights and compromise their fundamental moral commitment.</span>
<span class="Underline">AT: Onto</span>
<span class="Underline">focus on ontology and value to life produces mass murder</span>
<span class="Underline">Philip Graham School of Communication Queensland University of Technology, Heidegger’s Hippies Sep 15 1999 http://www.geocities.com/SunsetStrip/Palms/8314/index.html</span>
<span class="Underline">Societies should get worried when Wagner’s music becomes popular because it usually means that distorted interpretations of Nietzsche’s philosophy are not far away. Existentialists create problems about what is, especially identity (Heidegger 1947). Existentialism inevitably leads to an authoritarian worldview: this, my Dionysian world of the eternally self-creating, the eternally self-destroying, this mystery world of twofold voluptuous delight, my “beyond good and evil,” without a goal, unless the joy of the circle itself is a goal; without will, unless a ring feels good will towards itself – do you want a name for this world? A solution to all its riddles? A light for you, too, you best-concealed, strongest, most intrepid, most midnightly men? – This world is the will to power – and nothing besides! And you yourselves are also this will to power – and nothing besides! (Nietzsche 1967/1997). Armed with a volume of Nietzsche, some considerable oratory skills, several Wagner records, and an existentialist University Rector in the form of Martin Heidegger, Hitler managed some truly astounding feats of strategic identity engineering (cf. Bullock, 1991). Upon being appointed to the Freiberg University, Heidegger pronounced the end of thought, history, ideology, and civilisation: ‘No dogmas and ideas will any longer be the laws of your being. The Fuhrer himself, and he alone, is the present and future reality for Germany’ (in Bullock 1991: 345). Heidegger signed up to an ideology-free politics: Hitler’s ‘Third Way’ (Eatwell 1997). The idealised identity, the new symbol of mythological worship, Nietzsche’s European Superman, was to rule from that day hence. Hitler took control of the means of propaganda: the media; the means of mental production: the education system; the means of violence: the police, army, and prison system; and pandered to the means of material production: industry and agriculture; and proclaimed a New beginning and a New world order. He ordered Germany to look forward into the next thousand years and forget the past. Heidegger and existentialism remain influential to this day, and history remains bunk (e.g. Giddens , 1991, Chapt. 2).Giddens’s claims that ‘humans live in circumstances of … existential contradiction’, and that ‘subjective death’ and ‘biological death’ are somehow unrelated, is a an ultimately repressive abstraction: from that perspective, life is merely a series of subjective deaths, as if death were the ultimate motor of life itself (cf. Adorno 1964/1973). History is, in fact, the simple and straightforward answer to the “problem of the subject”. “The problem” is also a handy device for confusing, entertaining, and selling trash to the masses. By emphasising the problem of the ‘ontological self’ (Giddens 1991: 49), informationalism and ‘consumerism’ confines the navel-gazing, ‘narcissistic’ masses to a permanent present which they self-consciously sacrifice for a Utopian future (cf. Adorno 1973: 303; Hitchens 1999; Lasch 1984: 25-59). Meanwhile transnational businesses go about their work, raping the environment; swindling each other and whole nations; and inflicting populations with declining wages, declining working conditions, and declining social security. Slavery is once again on the increase (Castells, 1998; Graham, 1999; ILO, 1998). There is no “problem of the subject”, just as there is no “global society”; there is only the mass amnesia of utopian propaganda, the strains of which have historically accompanied revolutions in communication technologies. Each person’s identity is, quite simply, their subjective account of a unique and objective history of interactions within the objective social and material environments they inhabit, create, and inherit. The identity of each person is their most intimate historical information, and they are its material expression: each person is a record of their own history at any given time. Thus, each person is a recognisably material, identifiable entity: an identity. This is their condition. People are not theoretical entities; they are people. As such, they have an intrinsic identity with an intrinsic value. No amount of theory or propaganda will make it go away. The widespread multilateral attempts to prop up consumer society and hypercapitalism as a valid and useful means of sustainable growth, indeed, as the path to an inevitable, international democratic Utopia, are already showing their disatrous cracks. The “problem” of subjective death threatens to give way, once again, to unprecedented mass slaughter. The numbed condition of a narcissistic society, rooted in a permanent “now”, a blissful state of Heideggerian Dasein, threatens to wake up to a world in which “subjective death” and ontology are the least of all worries.</span>
<span class="Underline">Root Cause</span>

<span class="Underline">Root cause isn’t offense. We can still solve SOMETHING and minimize the harms if not eliminate them.</span>

<span class="Underline">No root cause. Blaming systems of thought or action is pointless. Violence is always proximately caused.</span>

<span class="Underline">Curtler ’97 (Hugh Mercer, Prof. Phil. – Southwest State U. “Rediscovering values: coming to terms with Postmodernism”, Netlibrary, p. 164-165)</span>
<span class="Underline">At the same time, we must beware the temptation to reject out of hand everything that stinks of modernism and the Enlightenment. We must resist the postmodern urge to reject and reduce in the conviction that everything Western humans thought prior to 1930 leads inevitably to the Holocaust and its aftermath and that every exemplary work of art and literature diminishes the human soul. In particular, we must maintain a firm hold on our intellectual center and, while acknowledging the need for greater compassion and heightened imaginative power, also acknowledge our need for reasonable solutions to complex issues. Indeed, the rejection of reason and "techno-science" as it is voiced by such thinkers as Jean-François Lyotard seems at times little more than resentment born of a sense of betrayal: "it is no longer possible to call development progress" (Lyotard 1992, 78). Instead, modernism has given us Auschwitz. Therefore, we will blame reason and science as the vehicles that have brought us to this crisis. Reason has yielded technology, which has produced nuclear weapons, mindless diversions, and choking pollution in our cities while enslaving the human spirit. Therefore, we reject reason. This is odd logic. Reason becomes hypostatized and is somehow guilty of having made false promises. The fault may not lie with our tools or methods, however, but with the manner in which we adapted them and the tasks we demanded they perform. That is to say, the problem may lie not with our methods but with ourselves. At times, one wonders whether thinkers such as Lyotard read Dostoyevsky, Freud, or Jung, whether they know anything about human depravity. Science is not at fault; foolish men and women (mostly men) who have expected the impossible of methods that were designed primarily to solve problems are at fault. We cannot blame science because we have made of it an idol. Lyotard was correct when he said that "scientific or technical discovery was never subordinate to demands arising from human needs. It was always driven by a dynamic independent of the things people might judge desirable, profitable, or comfortable" (Lyotard 1992, 83). But instead of focusing attention on the "dynamic," he chooses to reject the entire techno-scientific edifice. This is reactionary. We face serious problems, and the rejection of science and technology will lead us back to barbarism, not to nirvana. What is required is a lesson in how to control our methods and make them serve our needs. Thus, although one can sympathize with the postmodern attack on scientific myopia, one must urge caution in the face of hysteria. There are additional problems with postmodernism, however.</span>

<span class="Underline">1NC- No value to life</span>

<span class="Underline">There is always value to life and Preserving life is a prerequisite to determining value</span>
<span class="Underline">Schwartz 2 (Lisa, Medical Ethics, http://www.fleshandbones.com/readingroom/pdf/399.pdf)</span>

<span class="Underline">The second assertion made by supporters of the quality of life as a criterion for decision- making is closely related to the first, but with an added dimension. This assertion suggests that the determination of the value of the quality of a given life is a subjective determi-nation to be made by the person experiencing that life. The important addition here is that the decision is a personal one that, ideally, ought not to be made externally by another person but internally by the individual involved. Katherine Lewis made this decision for herself based on a comparison between two stages of her life. So did James Brady. Without this element, decisions based on quality of life criteria lack salient information and the patients concerned cannot give informed consent. Patients must be given the opportunity to decide for themselves whether they think their lives are worth living or not. To ignore or overlook patients’ judgement in this matter is to violate their autonomy and their freedom to decide for themselves on the basis of relevant informa- tion about their future, and comparative con- sideration of their past. As the deontological position puts it so well, to do so is to violate the imperative that we must treat persons as rational and as ends in themselves. It is important to remember the subjectiv-ity assertion in this context, so as to empha-size that the judgement made about the value of a life ought to be made only by the person concerned and not by others. </span>



=Round 3 - Space Elevator, New Econ Impacts= 

<span class="Heading2Char">Transition to a different economy is impossible – collapse only strengthens growth mindset</span>

<span class="Heading2Char"> Mead 09</span> (Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, Walter Russell, The New Republic, “Only Makes You Stronger: Why the Recession Bolstered America”)

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">But, in many other countries where capitalism rubs people the wrong way, this is not the case. On either side of the Atlantic, for example, the Latin world is often drawn to anti-capitalist movements and rulers on both the right and the left. Russia, too, has never really taken to capitalism and liberal society--whether during the time of the czars, the commissars, or the post-cold war leaders who so signally failed to build a stable, open system of liberal democratic capitalism even as many former Warsaw Pact nations were making rapid transitions. Partly as a result of these internal cultural pressures, and partly because, in much of the world, capitalism has appeared as an unwelcome interloper, imposed by foreign forces and shaped to fit foreign rather than domestic interests and preferences, many countries are only half-heartedly capitalist</span>. __When crisis strikes, they__ __are quick to decide that capitalism is a failure and look for alternatives. So far, such half-hearted experiments not only have failed to work; they have left the societies that have tried them in a progressively worse position, farther behind the front-runners__ as time goes by. Argentina has lost ground to Chile; Russian development has fallen farther behind that of the Baltic states and Central Europe. Frequently, the crisis has weakened the power of the merchants, industrialists, financiers, and professionals who want to develop a liberal capitalist society integrated into the world. __Crisis can__ also __strengthen the hand of religious extremists, populist radicals, or authoritarian traditionalists who are determined to resist liberal capitalist society__ for a variety of reasons. Meanwhile, __the companies and banks b__<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">as</span>__ed in these societies are often less established and more vulnerable to the consequences of a financial crisis than more established firms in wealthier societies. As a result, developing countries and countries where capitalism has relatively recent and shallow roots tend to suffer greater economic and political damage when crisis strikes__--as, inevitably, it does. __And, consequently, financial crises often reinforce rather than challenge the global distribution of power and wealth__. This may be happening yet again. __None of which means that we can just sit back and enjoy the recession. History may suggest that financial crises actually help capitalist great powers maintain their leads__--<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">but it has other, less reassuring messages as well. If financial crises have been a normal part of life during the 300-year rise of the liberal capitalist system under the Anglophone powers, so has war. The wars of the League of Augsburg and the Spanish Succession; the Seven Years War; the American Revolution; the Napoleonic Wars; the two World Wars; the cold war: The list of wars</span>

**Worst wars in history happened in the upswing – motive was in the downswing – and econ decline causes terrorism and interventionist major power wars**
Bruce **__Russett__** 19**__83__**, Yale, “Prosperity and Peace” Pg 384-385
<span style="font-size: 8px;">In considering the most destructive war of all time there are elements of this explanation that ring true. Surely Adolf</span> **__Hitler could not have come to power without the__** terrible economic **__depression that swept__** **__<span style="font-size: 8px;">Germany</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8px;"> at the beginning of the 1930s. Hitler certainly was bent on external adventures and aggression from the beginning, bu</span>t **__it took him time to tighten his grip on the German polity, to create an efficient propaganda division, to test his enemies' resolve, and,__** most importantly, **__to build the__** powerful **__military machine that might promise success in war__**. Thus Hitler came to power in 1933, but did not seriously risk war until 1938. **__His preparations for war extended years after the depth of the depression, and indeed were crucial in ending that depression. The new prosperity enabled him to produce__** both **__guns__** <span style="font-size: 8px;">and better. Similarly, the last war fought by the United States—its intervention in Vietnam—began not during the economically stagnant years of 1960 and 1961, but with the seriousintroduction of American military forces about 1964, a time of prosperity. The slow and rather reluctant buildup of American forces to fight that war cannot correctly be credited with causing the prosperity of the mid-1960s. The prosperity, however, enabled the war to continue without a tax increase or severe contemporaneous economic cost to any element of the American population. Countries experience global economic conditions in different ways and degrees. Economic decline often produces a decline in a state's political and military power. Indeed, a dynamic, technologically advanced economy is essential to the projection of global political influence</span>**__. Economic stagnation__**<span style="font-size: 8px;">relative to a state's rivals may lead to war through either of two routes. First</span>, **__it may embolden a rival to attack it during its__** **__period of weakness__**, <span style="font-size: 8px;">especially if that rival has been able to maintain the dynamism of its own economy. For example, Iraq chose 1980 as a time to settle affairs with an economically and seemingly politically enfeebled rival, Iran. Secondly</span>, **__the stagnation__** **__may produce insecurity, fear, and frustration in the minds of the governing elite, leading them to over-react to foreign threats, or to decide to fight a rival immediately, before their own economy has become still further weakened__****__.__** We do have some evidence—though not conclusive—that **__major powers are more likely to go to war during periods when their power position relative to that of their principal rivals has changed, and perhaps especially when the rate of decline intensifies or weakens__** (Doran and Parsons, 1980; Organski and Kugler, 1980; Gilpin, 1981).

=Round 4 - Neg Space Jam= 
T

A. Interpretation - Exploration means hyman
Logsdon, 9 – professor of political science at George Washington, former director of the Space Policy Institute (John, “Fifty Years of human Spaceflight Why Is There Still a Controversy?,” http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20100025875_2010028362.pdf)
Exploration as a Compelling Rationale
Many believe that the only sustainable rationale for a government-funded program of human spaceflight is to take the lead in exploring the solar system beyond low Earth orbit.20 The MIT white paper provides an insightful definition of exploration:
Exploration is a human activity, undertaken by certain cultures at certain times for particular reasons. It has components of national interest, scientific research, and technical innovation, but is defined by none of them. We define exploration as an expansion of the realm of human experience, bringing people into new places, situations, and environments, expanding and redefining what it means to be human. What is the role of Earth in human life? Is human life fundamentally tied to the earth, or could it survive without the planet?
human presence, and its attendant risk, turns a spaceflight into a story that is compelling to large numbers of people. Exploration also has a moral dimension because it is in effect a cultural conversation on the nature and meaning of human life. Exploration by this definition can only be accomplished by direct human presence and may be deemed worthy of the risk of human life.21 In the wake of the 2003 Columbia accident that took the lives of seven astronauts and the report of the Columbia Accident Investigation Board that criticized the absence of a compelling mission for human spaceflight as “a failure of national leadership,”22 the United States, in January 2004, adopted a new policy to guide its human spaceflight activities. The policy directed NASA to “implement a sustained and affordable human and robotic program to explore the solar system and beyond” and to “extend human presence across the solar system, starting with a human return to the Moon by the year 2020, in preparation for human exploration of Mars and other destinations.”23 This policy seems totally consistent with the definition of exploration provided in the MIT white paper. The issue is whether such a policy and its implementation, focusing on human exploration beyond Earth orbit, can provide an adequate and sustainable justification for a continuing program of government-sponsored spaceflight that will make contributions that will outweigh the costs and risks involved to the “primary objectives” of national pride and prestige, and also to some of the several “secondary objectives.”

Development means hyman
Livingston 07 – former adjunct professor in the Graduate School of Business at Golden Gate University his doctoral dissertation was titled “Outer Space Commerce: Its History and Prospects” citing Eric Westling co-author of “The Space Elevator” and numerous papers on space tech and development [quals in card] (9/10/07, “This Week On The Space Show: Eric Westling”, http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298)

Eric Westling is a science writer, pundit on science, technology, and economics. He is the co-author of “The Space Elevator” with Dr. Brad Edwards . In addition, Mr. Westling is retired and is a former Army officer and helicopter pilot, civilian Airline Transport Pilot (ATP), former consultant to many small companies regarding engineering, computer, and business troubleshooting. His most recent papers are on Solar Power Satellites, Economics of the Space Elevator, Energy and time lag in the 21st century , and Eric’s axioms (a list of principles of science, technology and economics). Mr. Westling stats that “Space Development is the only long term answer to the, just starting, energy shortage; which will otherwise continue until we have an economic collapse.” He believes that no-one is doing space development . Instead, we have space technology, not development. NASA has no TRL 10 – therefore no plans to develop space . He defines space development as the rapid expansion of [staffed] commercial projects in space.

A. Interpretation – ‘of space’ indicates that space must be the object of exploration or development
Bockstiegel 95 –Ph D., Directitor of the Institute of Air and Space Law, Chairman of the Space Law Committee of the International Law Association; Chairman of Council of the National German Space Agency (Dr. Karl-Heinz, 1995, “Research and invention in outer space: liability and intellectual property rights” pg 4.)


The official title of the Outer Space Treaty (‘OST’) mentions both exploration and use of outer space as the two ‘activities of States’ which one has to take into account and which are therefore covered by the Outer Space Treaty. The same pair of terms appears again in the Preamble as well as further articles such as Article I and Article III of the Treaty. Other articles and other space treaties either take up only one of these two terms or use a general terms such as ‘activities in outer space’ (Art. VI, OST) or generally deal with ‘objects launched into outer space’ (Art. VII, Art. VIII, OST and the Registration Convention) or ‘space objects’ (Liability Convention) or finally ‘activities of States on the Moon and other celestial bodies’ (Moon Treaty). At first sight the distinction between exploration and use may seem sufficiently clear. Indeed in connection with most space activities there may be little doubt which of these two terms is applicable. First doubts appear, however, because the Outer Space Treaty speaks of exploration ‘of outer space’. This wording could be interpreted to mean that space must be the object of exploration. The consequence would be that the great part of research which has to take place ‘in space’ in view of the specific physical conditions there, but which has as its object specific materials, would not be covered and might only be considered as ‘use’ of space.

B. Violation – the affirmative doesn’t increase exploration or development of space

C. Voting issue –

1. limits – they allow all robotic missions and satellites, this could be dozens of small additional affs

2. ground – we don’t have disad links to launching one additional probe – human missions are visible and contentious, and the core of the debate

K

Air war leads to serial policy failure by killing disposable populations and depersonalizes war – their “truth claims” are based in flawed epistemology
Engelhardt 11 [Tom Engelhardt, co-founder of the American Empire Project, runs the Nation Institute's TomDispatch.com.] March 18, 2011 3:32 AM PRINT TEXT What U.S. air power actually does By Tom Engelhardt http://www.cbsnews.com/2100-215_162-20044539.html
Over the years, Afghan civilian casualties from the air have waxed and waned, depending on how much air power American commanders were willing to call in, but they have never ceased. As history tells us, air power and civilian deaths are inextricably bound together. They can't be separated, no matter how much anyone talks about "surgical" strikes and precision bombing. It's simply the barbaric essence, the very nature of this kind of war, to kill noncombatants. One question sometimes raised about such casualties in Afghanistan is this: according to U.N. statistics, the Taliban (via roadside bombs and suicide bombers) kills far more civilians, including women and children, than do NATO forces, so why do the U.S.-caused deaths stick so in Afghan craws when we periodically investigate, apologize, and even pay survivors for their losses? New York Times reporter Alissa J. Rubin puzzled over this in a recent piece and offered the following answer: "[T]hose that are caused by NATO troops appear to reverberate more deeply because of underlying animosity about foreigners in the country." This seems reasonable as far as it goes, but don't discount what air power adds to the foreignness of the situation. Consider what the 20-year-old brother of two of the dead boys from the Kunar helicopter attack told the Wall Street Journal in a phone interview: "The only option I have is to pick up a Kalashnikov, RPG [rocket-propelled grenade], or a suicide vest to fight." Whatever the Taliban may be, they remain part of Afghan society. They are there on the ground. They kill and they commit barbarities, but they suffer, too. In our version of air "war," however, the killing and the dying are perfectly and precisely, even surgically, separated. We kill, they die. It's that simple. Sometimes the ones we target to die do so; sometimes others stand in their stead. But no matter. We then deny, argue, investigate, apologize, and continue. We are, in that sense, implacable. And one more thing: since we are incapable of thinking of ourselves as either predators or Predators, no less emotionless Terminators, it becomes impossible for us to see that our air "war" on terror is, in reality, a machine for creating what we then call "terrorists." It is part of an American Global War for Terror. In other words, although air power has long been held up as part of the solution to terrorism, and though the American military now regularly boasts about the enemy body counts it produces, and the precision with which it does so, all of that, even when accurate, is also a kind of delusion -- and worse yet, one that transforms us into Predators and Terminators. It's not a pretty sight. So count on this: there will be no more Top Guns. No knights of the air. No dogfights and sky-jousts. No valor. Just one-sided slaughter and targeted assassinations. That is where air power has ended up. Live with it.

Our alternative is to personalize war – the affirmative view causes dehumanization and incentivizes further highly militarized conflicts.
Ignatieff 00 academic and former politician. He was the leader of the Liberal Party of Canada and Leader of the Official Opposition from 2008 until 2011. Known for his work as a historian, Ignatieff has held senior academic posts at the University of Cambridge, the University of Oxford, Harvard University and the University of Toronto. Virtual war MICHAEL IGNATIEFF 20th April 2000 — Issue 51 http://www.prospectmagazine.co.uk/2000/04/virtualwar/
In Kosovo, war enlisted western citizens only in virtual ways. If future wars don't require mobilisation or sacrifice then what democratic restraints will remain on the resort to force? The kosovo conflict looked and sounded like a war: jets took off, buildings were destroyed and people died. For the civilians and soldiers killed by Nato air strikes, and the Kosovars murdered by Serbian police and paramilitaries, the war was as real and as terrible as war always is. For citizens of the Nato countries, on the other hand, the war was virtual. They were mobilised not as combatants but as spectators. The war was a spectacle and the events were as remote from their essential interests as a football game. Virtual war is war with death removed, waged in conditions of impunity. If this is to be the future of war for us, it raises a question: what democratic restraints will remain on the resort to force? Precision weaponry may force us to re-assess an old assumption about democracies: that they go to war less often than authoritarian regimes; and that they rarely, if ever, go to war against fellow democracies. Democracies may remain peace-loving only so long as the risks of war remain real to their citizens. If war becomes virtual-without risk-democratic electorates may be more willing to fight, especially if the cause is justified in the language of human rights and democracy itself. For much of the 20th century in the west, the power to wage war has resided with presidents and prime ministers. As Peter Hennessy and Matt Lyus have pointed out, parliament was not consulted over the Korean war, the Suez war, the Falklands war or the Gulf war. Nevertheless, in each of those cases the executive was able to act in the knowledge that parliamentary opinion was broadly behind it. In the wars of the future, prime ministers are likely to appeal over the heads of our elected representatives to seek directly the virtual consent of voters. This is essentially what happened in Kosovo, and those who favoured military intervention strongly approved of Tony Blair’s skill in creating a consensus for military action. But there are real dangers in virtual consent. Ordinary citizens are in no position to subject a military operation to the kind of scrutiny it needs. Only parliament can do that. The institutional checks and balances of a democratic system help to clarify the goals and purposes of war. When military operations are unsanctioned and undeclared, as they were in Kosovo, their objectives can change from week to week, depending on what our leaders decide they should be. At first, citizens were asked only to support a limited air campaign in Kosovo, designed to force a recalcitrant regime back to the negotiating table. Within days, the military objective had expanded into an all-out crusade to stop and reverse ethnic cleansing. Even when the ambit of operations widened, the public was never told what kind of result was being sought. The decay of institutional checks and balances on the war-making power of the executive has received little attention in the debate over the Kosovo conflict. The only issue of political legitimacy to arouse discussion was the failure of the Nato allies to seek Security Council approval for the use of military force under Chapter VII of the UN Charter. Intervention in Kosovo was justified at the UN on the grounds that urgent necessity over-rode the requirement of formal consent, which in any case could not have been achieved in the face of the Chinese and Russian vetoes. When a house is on fire, you do not seek a search warrant before entering to put out the blaze. This argument drew on the UN’s experience in Rwanda, where inaction in the Security Council led to the death of 1m people. This argument from necessity has merit, but failure to secure formal approval further undermined the legitimacy of the military operation. Opposition to the war focused on Nato’s failure to abide by the letter of the Charter. The claim that its spirit was being respected was convincing to those who made it, but sounded like an argument from force majeure to everyone else. Thus, one lesson of the conflict is that there needs to be a renewal of both national and international institutions with the power to ratify the decision to go to war. The Security Council must be reformed; enlarged so that it can become more representative of the world’s populations; and restructured so that military operations can be authorised by a majority vote, rather than obstructed indefinitely by a veto. Of course this is unlikely-but reform remains necessary even if it is difficult to achieve. The great powers, especially the US, face a difficult choice: they can either embark on unsanctioned military adventures, only to see these fail because they lack international approval; or they can surrender autonomy in return for the increased likelihood of that approval. The same executive power which authorised a Kosovo today, also authorised Vietnam and El Salvador yesterday. The day will surely come when the executive will seek to intervene somewhere in the name of human rights, and will do so in a manner which violates the principles it purports to defend. Then, our democracies may be too weak to save themselves from disgrace. in virtual war, citizens are not only divested of their power to give consent. They are also demobilised. War no longer demands the type of physical involvement or moral attention it required over the past two centuries. War has been associated with mass mobilisation since the first French revolutionary army of the 1790s. The revolutionary armies transformed war from a battle between dynasties into a confrontation between peoples. Total mobilisation proved to be a malign consequence of the marriage between democracy and nationalism: if all are citizens, all must serve; if a nation is attacked, all its sons must defend it. In the total wars of the 20th century, mobilisation of the population sank deep roots into the psyche, helping to define the ideals of masculine and feminine identity and connecting masculinity with the idea of the upright carriage of the drill-yard, the coarse jocularity of the barracks, and strict self-control in the face of danger and death. Military ideals of discipline-vertical, hierarchical, unquestioning-exerted an influence well beyond military life; in school, prison and factory. We cannot understand the deliriously happy crowds which greeted war in 1914 unless we appreciate that the general mobilisation offered them a moment of ecstatic moral communion with fellow citizens. Moreover, to the degree that these crowds could anticipate the bloodshed that lay ahead, they did so within a framework of assumptions very different from our own. The sacrifices of war were somewhat easier to accept in societies used to high infant mortality and the unchecked scourges of illness and disease. Moreover, in cultures that still soldered the identity of the individual and the identity of the nation together in the idea of the “ultimate sacrifice,” death in battle retained its glory. At Charles Jagger’s brooding tribute to the Royal Artillery at Hyde Park Corner in London, we see an affirmation of sacrifice which is now utterly remote. The warrior has become an anomalous figure in what Edward Luttwak calls a post-heroic culture. The arrival of the nuclear era further eroded the logic of mobilisation for national defence. Britain got rid of national service in the early 1960s; the US abolished the draft in the 1970s. One month after victory in the Kosovo war, Congress did away with the funding for maintaining a draft lottery in peacetime. Just before the Kosovo war France announced that it would end conscription. The conflict occurred just as a large parenthesis in the history of warfare was closing: the end of the 200-year history of conscription and the mobilisation of society that went with it. But when war ceases to be connected to national survival, it can lose its reservoir of support among citizens. The fissure between war and vital national interest first became apparent in Vietnam. The longer the war went on-in the name of values, of defending a small “democratic” country against invasion from the communist north-the less defensible it seemed to the US public. It is often said that this disaffection was the work of television news. Once citizens see the body-bags lined up on the landing pads, their taste for foreign adventure is bound to evaporate. Yet war does not become illegitimate simply because citizens see carnage on their screens. It becomes illegitimate when the political reasons for it no longer convince. The Vietnam war was made unsustainable by the doubt lodged by the anti-war campaign in the minds of the political elite, a doubt reinforced by the tenacity of the north Vietnamese.
CP
Text: The United States Federal Government should eliminate the nuclear missions of all but one squadron of nuclear-capable B-2 and B-52 bomber aircraft.

CP is key to solve conventional air power- dual-use bombers undermine our air forces and deterrence
Wilcox ‘09 [Christopher M., Major in the US Air Force, “Lessons from Vietnam: Should B-52 Squadrons Perform Both Nuclear and Conventional Missions?” Air Command and Staff College, Air University, April, [[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_5ec09d73-8747-45ca-b267-2f45547af700/display.aspx?rs=enginespage]]]
The B-52 was given the consideration for “alternate bomb” carrying at its inception and it has certainly performed more missions and employed many more weapons than its creators envisioned. B-52 crews have met the challenge of mastering both the missions and all new weapons to provide a versatile and lethal bombing platform. When the SAC leaders objected to the dual use of B-52s in the 1960’s, they had no way of knowing that future conventional accomplishments would contribute to the recent mistakes the Air Force is recovering from today. The dual missions are not the only cause, but certainly a large contributing factor because both missions demand a complex, thorough knowledge of all the requirements. Allowing B-52s to see combat in Vietnam helped both the crews and the aircraft evolve into lethal instruments of American airpower and was a fortunate historical event to extend longevity. The lessons from Linebacker II were many for all the organizations involved and have shaped many of the TTPs still in use today. The lessons not learned well were those of the crews struggling to keep proficient at both nuclear and conventional weapons employment as the face of war changed. It is fair to say that after long exposure to conventional mission requirements that crews tend to lose proficiency in the equally demanding role of nuclear deterrence. This was seen in the poor performance of returning crews in nuclear Generation exercises and the high failure rate of checkrides in regards to nuclear related tasks. Both of these indicators show the degradation of overall nuclear readiness and certainly caught the attention of SAC leadership. Only after a return to “normal” nuclear operations did crews eventually recover their Generation skills and were able to do so by the great emphasis placed on the mission by SAC and US policies during the Cold War. The successful regeneration of nuclear deterrence has yet to fully develop and the measurement of success is open to interpretation. It may be years of error-free stewardship or passing grades on Nuclear Operational Readiness Inspections that prove the mission is on track, but one thing is certain, the separation of missions by B-52 units would greatly aid in the task. The ability of the post Cold War and former SAC warriors to balance the missions is commendable, but the drawn down of forces, de-emphasis of the mission, and complexity of conventional obligations is too much to reasonably ask of crews spread thin by the GWOT. If there ever was a time to split the missions, it is now with the massive organizational restructure effort and renewed interest. 21 This research has further reinforced the findings of Phase I and II of the Schlesinger reports in terms of the gradual atrophy of the nuclear deterrence mission for B-52s. It also discovered the historical link between the crews of SAC during the Vietnam War and those of ACC in the ongoing GWOT. Leaders in the 1960’s disagreed with allowing B-52s to be employed in a conventional role to avoid the degradation of the nuclear commitment, but both can be done with the proper level of attention and consideration for crucial differences. Little did they know how prophetic those objections would become in the long line of conventional and irregular wars that followed the lessons of Vietnam and the end of the Cold War. It stands to reason that divided attention will lead to mistakes in a zero-defect climate and the proof is in the performance of the units that were dual tasked. If one wants the best effort from an athlete, they are not asked to play both cricket and baseball even though they have elements in common. It would be wise to allow crews to prove they are a “polished, skilled force”61 in their directed specialty by keeping the two missions of national power separate and fully supported.

DA

Jackson Vanik repeal coming now – Obama has launched an all-out push. Capital is key
Verona 3-29 [Ed, pres and CEO of the US-Russia Business Council, “The true cost of Jackson-Vanik,” National Interest, http://nationalinterest.org/commentary/the-true-cost-jackson-vanik-6702?page=1
In January, the Obama administration publicly stated that lifting Jackson-Vanik and extending Permanent Normal Trade Relations (PNTR) to Russia is now its top trade priority. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk and other officials have testified on Capitol Hill in support of such action. Business has intensified its congressional-lobbying efforts over the past three months, briefing members and staff on the urgency of action to prevent damage to U.S. commercial interests and the loss of American jobs. The National Council on Soviet Jewry (NCSJ), a leading proponent of Jackson-Vanik during the debate over its adoption, has joined the Coalition for U.S.-Russia Trade in calling for the amendment to be lifted. Hearings have been held in the Senate Foreign Relations, Senate Finance and House Foreign Affairs Committees focusing on Russia, including Jackson-Vanik. Senators and Representatives with whom I have spoken overwhelmingly accept the economic and commercial rationale for lifting Jackson-Vanik and extending PNTR. At the same time, most of those Senators and Representatives express strong reservations about many aspects of Russia’s foreign and domestic policies. In addition, they largely hold the view that lifting Jackson-Vanik without replacing it with more relevant legislation in the area of human rights would amount to acquiescence in the face of human-rights violations and the weak rule of law in Russia. Discussion on Capitol Hill revolves around the Sergey Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act (S.1039), a bill sponsored by Senator Benjamin Cardin (D-Maryland) which as of this writing now has thirty-one cosponsors. Essentially, that bill would deny visas and impose financial sanctions on Russian officials allegedly responsible for the wrongful incarceration and death of a Russian lawyer working for an American law firm, apparently in reprisal for his denunciation of official corruption. It is up to Congress and the administration to determine the merits of the Magnitsky bill or other measures that may be introduced in conjunction with the lifting of Jackson-Vanik. An association such as the U.S.-Russia Business Council is reluctant to take a stand on an issue beyond our commercial and economic remit. But we are confident that failure to take action on Jackson-Vanik would place U.S. businesses and workers at a serious disadvantage once Russia becomes a member of the WTO, certain to occur no later than the end of August. It is abundantly clear that Jackson-Vanik provides no leverage on the Russian government now that the country is joining the WTO. On the contrary, Jackson-Vanik may even serve as a convenient anti-American foil for hard-liners within the Russian political establishment, as was asserted in recent open letters by leading members of Russia’s political opposition.

Expanding space exploration is perceived as controversial new spending -- guarantees backlash.
Handberg, 11 - Professor and Chair of the Department of Political Science at the University of Central Florida (Rodger, “Small ball or home runs: the changing ethos of US human spaceflight policy,” The Space Review, 1/17, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1759/1]])
The US space program remained focused, not on duplicating Apollo, but on achieving another difficult goal such as going to Mars, a logical extension truly of the Apollo effort. Twice, the presidents Bush provided the presidential rationale, if not support, for achieving great things. The Space Exploration Initiative (SEI) in 1989 and the Vision for Space Exploration (VSE) in 2004 were announced with great fanfare but neither survived the realities of congressional and presidential budgeting. The VSE appeared on paper more realistic about funding, but its choices were draconian: the ISS and space shuttle were both to be sacrificed on the altar of the new program. The earlier SEI died quickly, so hard choices were not required, while the VSE in the form of the Constellation Program lingers on although its effective demise appears certain. The Obama Administration prefers another approach while the new Congress is likely more hostile to big ticket discretionary spending. If the Tea Party faction in the Republican House caucus means what it says, the future for Constellation or any other similar program is a dim one. The reality is that the Apollo program, the SEI, and the VSE are examples in space terms of the home run approach. Such efforts confront the cruel but obvious reality that the human spaceflight program is considered by the public and most of Congress to be a “nice to have,” but not a necessity when compared to other programs or national priorities. Congressional support is narrow and constituency-driven (i.e. protect local jobs), which means most in Congress only support the space program in the abstract. Big ticket items or programs are not a priority for most, given other priorities. What happens is what can be loosely termed normal politics: a situation where human spaceflight remains a low priority on the national agenda. Funding for bold new initiatives is going to be hard to come by even when the economy recovers and deficits are under control. The home run approach has run its course at least for a time; now the small ball approach becomes your mantra.

Obama’s capital is key
Allison and Blackwill 11 [Graham Allison and Robert D. Blackwill October 2011 Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs Harvard University Russia and U.S. National Interests: Why Should Americans Care? A Report of the Task Force on Russia and U.S. National Interest Graham Allison Director of Harvard Kennedy School’s Belfer Assistant Secretary of Defense in the first Clinton Administration Robert D. Blackwill is the Henry A. Kissinger senior fellow for U.S. foreign policy at the Council on Foreign Relations. Deputy national security adviser for strategic planning under President George W. Bush, presidential envoy to Iraq and was the administration’s coordinator for U.S. policies regarding Afghanistan and Iran]
Finally, given the disparities between U.S. and Russian interests and governance, lasting cooperation is unlikely if not impossible without determined leadership from far-sighted leaders in the executive and legislative branches, particularly the President. To take the difficult steps necessary to build a foundation for a sustainable U.S.-Russian relationship, the White House must not only discipline the executive branch and focus its efforts, but also spend political capital in the U.S. Congress. Preoccupation with domestic priorities in a highly polarized domestic political environment cannot Task Force on Russia and U.S. National Interests Report 19 but limit the administration’s ability to build a bipartisan consensus on a controversial topic like American policy toward Russia.

Failure to repeal undermines US-Russia relations
Miller 11 [Jacqueline, senior associate, “The WTO and the Reset” EastWest Institute -- April 8 --http://www.ewi.info/wto-and-reset]
It took Barack Obama several months and some tough lobbying to finally win congressional approval for the New START treaty last December, which was seen as the key to the administration’s reset with Russia. Another fight could already be brewing over Obama’s support for Russia’s World Trade Organization (WTO) membership, which is the next big goal of the administration’s Russia policy. Citing Russian human rights abuses and lack of democratic development, congressional critics want to keep Russia subject to the Jackson-Vanik amendment—a Cold War relic that, if left in place, would effectively nullify both Russian and U.S. gains from Russian WTO membership. But, somewhat surprisingly, the administration could develop a win-win outcome by taking a page from its dealings with China, another country whose human rights practices stir congressional unease. The Jackson-Vanik amendment to the 1974 Trade Act denies permanent normal trade relations (PNTR) to non-market economies that restrict emigration. The amendment was passed unanimously by both houses of Congress to pressure the Soviet Union to allow Soviet Jews to emigrate. In 1994, the Clinton administration found Russia to be in full compliance with the amendment’s freedom-of-emigration requirements. And in 2002, the United States officially began describing Russia as a market economy. Presidents Clinton, Bush, and now Obama all declared their intention to work with Congress to repeal the legislation as it applies to Russia, but no action has been taken. The reason: Congress still sees Jackson-Vanik as a lever to punish Russia for its human rights record even when the executive branch is prioritizing the security aspects of the bilateral relationship. Jackson-Vanik’s ongoing application has been a major symbolic irritant in the relationship, even though the United States has granted Russia a waiver every year since 1992. But once Russia joins the WTO, which could happen next year, Jackson-Vanik will go from being a symbol of mistrust to inflicting actual harm both to Russia and the U.S.-Russia relationship.

Relations solve nuclear war and turn the case
Allison and Blackwill 11 [Graham Allison, Director, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs; Douglas Dillon Professor of Government; Faculty Chair, Dubai Initiative, Harvard Kennedy School, Robert D. Blackwill, International Council Member, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs 10-30, "10 Reasons Why Russia Still Matters"http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/21469/10_reasons_why_russia_still_matters.html]
That central point is that Russia matters a great deal to a U.S. government seeking to defend and advance its national interests. Prime Minister Vladimir Putin’s decision to return next year as president makes it all the more critical for Washington to manage its relationship with Russia through coherent, realistic policies. No one denies that Russia is a dangerous, difficult, often disappointing state to do business with. We should not overlook its many human rights and legal failures. Nonetheless, Russia is a player whose choices affect our vital interests in nuclear security and energy. It is key to supplying 100,000 U.S. troops fighting in Afghanistan and preventing Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons. Ten realities require U.S. policymakers to advance our nation’s interests by engaging and working with Moscow. First, Russia remains the only nation that can erase the United States from the map in 30 minutes. As every president since John F. Kennedy has recognized, Russia’s cooperation is critical to averting nuclear war. Second, Russia is our most consequential partner in preventing nuclear terrorism. Through a combination of more than $11 billion in U.S. aid, provided through the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction program, and impressive Russian professionalism, two decades after the collapse of the “evil empire,” not one nuclear weapon has been found loose. Third, Russia plays an essential role in preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons and missile-delivery systems. As Washington seeks to stop Iran’s drive toward nuclear weapons, Russian choices to sell or withhold sensitive technologies are the difference between failure and the possibility of success. Fourth, Russian support in sharing intelligence and cooperating in operations remains essential to the U.S. war to destroy Al Qaeda and combat other transnational terrorist groups. Fifth, Russia provides a vital supply line to 100,000 U.S. troops fighting in Afghanistan. As U.S. relations with Pakistan have deteriorated, the Russian lifeline has grown ever more important and now accounts for half all daily deliveries. Sixth, Russia is the world’s largest oil producer and second largest gas producer. Over the past decade, Russia has added more oil and gas exports to world energy markets than any other nation. Most major energy transport routes from Eurasia start in Russia or cross its nine time zones. As citizens of a country that imports two of every three of the 20 million barrels of oil that fuel U.S. cars daily, Americans feel Russia’s impact at our gas pumps. Seventh, Moscow is an important player in today’s international system. It is no accident that Russia is one of the five veto-wielding, permanent members of the U.N. Security Council, as well as a member of the G-8 and G-20. A Moscow more closely aligned with U.S. goals would be significant in the balance of power to shape an environment in which China can emerge as a global power without overturning the existing order. Eighth, Russia is the largest country on Earth by land area, abutting China on the East, Poland in the West and the United States across the Arctic. This territory provides transit corridors for supplies to global markets whose stability is vital to the U.S. economy. Ninth, Russia’s brainpower is reflected in the fact that it has won more Nobel Prizes for science than all of Asia, places first in most math competitions and dominates the world chess masters list. The only way U.S. astronauts can now travel to and from the International Space Station is to hitch a ride on Russian rockets. The co-founder of the most advanced digital company in the world, Google, is Russian-born Sergei Brin. Tenth, Russia’s potential as a spoiler is difficult to exaggerate. Consider what a Russian president intent on frustrating U.S. international objectives could do — from stopping the supply flow to Afghanistan to selling S-300 air defense missiles to Tehran to joining China in preventing U.N. Security Council resolutions. So next time you hear a policymaker dismissing Russia with rhetoric about “who cares?” ask them to identify nations that matter more to U.S. success, or failure, in advancing our national interests.
***Solvency***
--1NC C2 Short

Information overload on the brink – new information destroys C2
Bateman et al. 2/5 [Scott Bateman University of Saskatchewan, Aaron Genest University of Saskatchewan, Anthony Tang University of Calgary, Stacey Scott University of Waterloo, Carl Gutwin University of Saskatchewan] Feb 5, 2012 “Why Expressiveness Matters in Command & Control Visualizations” http://crisisinformatics.wineme.fb5.uni-siegen.de/files/Genest.pdf
A key aspect of our investigation is the amount of information that can reasonably be used in these contexts. Crisis management is a time-constrained task, thus all information competes with other information. Therefore, any embodiment information added to an already complex C2 display will compete for users’ attention, and may create information overload. Thus, methods of minimizing distraction and overload must be a priority when designing new information visualizations. We are beginning to explore the limits of what can be expressed and understood in this context, informed by earlier work on embodiments that shows that this limit is remarkably high [9]

C2 solves heg and is a prerequisite to solvency
Moseley 07 [T. Michael Moseley General, USAF Chief of Staff] “Command and Control” Air Force Doctrine Document 2-8 1 June 2007 http://www.fas.org/irp/doddir/usaf/afdd2-8.pdf
C2 is not unique from other military functions. It enables mission accomplishment by collaborative planning and synchronizing forces and operations in time and purpose. Effective C2 enables a commander to use available forces at the right place and time to optimize the attributes of global vigilance, reach, and power, thereby allowing decision superiority over adversaries. Good horizontal and vertical information flow enables effective C2 throughout the chain of command. This information flow, and its timely fusion, enable optimum decision-making. This allows the centralized control and decentralized execution so essential to effective command of forces. A robust and redundant C2 system provides commanders the ability to effectively employ their forces despite the “fog and friction of war,” while simultaneously minimizing the enemy’s capability to interfere with the same. Facilitating timely and informed decisions is at the heart of C2. Technological advances in the transfer and handling of information have created the information age. Advancements such as the global information grid (GIG) have accelerated the process 4 of information sharing immensely. This capability foreshadows new opportunities for informed decision-making. It can, at the same time, threaten commanders with “information overload,” challenging their ability to synthesize data and make timely decisions. Therefore, the identification of mission-essential information is paramount to successful information flow. Commanders and their staffs have a process for information flow, both within the headquarters or C2 center, or up and down the chain of command. This process should be formally documented in an information management plan (IMP). A portion of this information is provided by tools available to the commander, such as the commander’s estimate of the situation, course of action (COA) selection, and detailed plans. By analyzing these and other products, commanders can determine the information they need to conduct operations and filter out the unnecessary. C2 is one of the Air Force’s key operational functions as described in Air Force Doctrine Document (AFDD) 1, Air Force Basic Doctrine. C2 as a construct fits in with the principles of war that are universally held by the joint community. The tenets of air and space power refine these further by adding context, from the Airman’s perspective, about how air and space power should best be applied. The functions of air and space power take this discussion to the next level of granularity, by describing the actual operational constructs Airmen use to apply air and space power to achieve objectives. The Air Force’s operational functions (see AFDD 1) are the broad, fundamental, and continuing activities of air and space power. These functions are not necessarily unique to the Air Force. Some, including C2, predate air and space power as a separate military discipline. They have evolved steadily since air and space power’s inception. Air Force forces employ air and space power globally through these basic functions to achieve strategic, operational, and tactical level objectives. These battle-proven functions can be conducted at any level of war and enable the Air Force to shape and control the operational environment. As one of these functions, effective C2 of forces is woven throughout each level of conflict and is accepted as a necessity for successful military operations. C2, as one of the basic constructs Airmen use to employ air and space power, is one of the functions that cuts across all other functions in the Air Force. C2 cannot occur without the other functions. Likewise, if C2 of forces is not present other Air Force functions are somewhat difficult, if not impossible, to conduct. C2 is a commonly accepted term in military operations, even though its meaning can be interpreted in different ways. To frame a discussion of C2, we must break down its components for definition and analysis. By defining the terms separately and analyzing them, we can re-form the construct of C2 with a clearer concept of what C2 really entails.
--1NC Jamming
New CEASAR missions solves jamming- our aircraft are uniquely effective
Druzin 4-17-12 [Heath, veteran journalist for Stars and Stripes who spent years reporting in Iraq and Afghanistan, “New technology can jam, intercept insurgent transmissions,” http://www.stripes.com/news/new-technology-can-jam-intercept-insurgent-transmissions-1.174720]

As British Marines pour out of Chinook helicopters into a village in eastern Helmand province, the crystal clear Pashto chatter coming through 1st Lt. Daniel Fackel’s headset heats up. It’s 4:30 a.m. and Fackel says that, at this hour in this dodgy neighborhood, no one speaking on a walkie-talkie is up to any good. Twenty thousand feet below, a British ground controller checks in with the lieutenant. “You getting any chatter?” Fackel is circling high above an air assault in an unassuming twin propeller Beechcraft King Air plane, using one of the Army’s latest gadgets to jam and intercept insurgent transmissions. As he listens to the air assault unfolding through coalition communications, he also keeps an ear on what locals are saying. After he gets a lock on where the transmissions are coming from, interpreters embedded with the coalition start picking up insurgents talking about gathering rocket-propelled grenades launchers. While the details of the technology are secret, insurgents know the broad-brush capabilities of the United States. “Some are trained pretty good and when we start jamming they’ll get off (radios) for a couple hours,” Fackel said. “Others will keep trying.” The CEASAR, which stands for communications electronic attack with surveillance and reconnaissance, is a rectangular metal box that holds technology capable of both knocking out cell phones and radios and intercepting transmissions, while an electronic warfare officer onboard speaks directly to troops on the ground. It’s precise enough to cover friendly soldiers while jamming insurgents, but not knocking out communications for an entire village near a given operation. “We can disrupt any kind of coordinated enemy action by stopping their communication,” said National Guard Maj. Darrell Rasor, a pilot and commander of Task Force CEASAR, which operates out of Kandahar Air Field. “We take away the element of surprise.” CEASAR’s mission is less than a year old and Rasor’s men are just the second Army unit to fly with the technology in battle. Rasor and his soldiers rave about the technology and the relatively low cost of attaching it to a small, fuel-efficient plane, rather than fighter jets, which are often used for surveillance. “Two of these airplanes can replace a whole squadron of (EA-6B Prowlers),” he said, referring to the much more expensive electronic warfare plane that costs tens of millions more to produce than the Air King-CEASAR combination. This is the kind of support the Afghan security forces most worry about losing when the coalition leaves the country. While Afghans more and more are being thrust in front for ground operations, it’s still the U.S. that provides almost all of the electronic intelligence capabilities. The CEASAR plane often shares the skies with drones and spy planes providing clear overhead views of the battlefield, in addition to the attack helicopters and fighter jets that can be scrambled in minutes if ground troops get in a jam. There’s a reason infantry troops are more relaxed with aircraft overhead, and as the planned 2014 troop drawdown nears, many Afghan soldiers look nervously to the sky.

***Heg***
--1NC Heg Uniqueness
Hegemony is resilient for a slew of reasons- their evidence is snapshot hype that’s empirically denied and based on false studies
Beckley ‘11 [Michael Beckley is a research fellow in the International Security Program at Harvard Kennedy School’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. He will become an assistant professor of political science at Tufts University in the fall of 2012, “China’s Century? Why America’s Edge Will Endure,” International Security, Vol. 36, No. 3, Winter, http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/Chinas_Century.pdf]

According to the Global Language Monitor, which tracks the top 50,000 media sources throughout the world, the “rise of China” has been the most read-about news story of the twenty-ªrst century, surpassing the September 11 terrorist attacks, the Iraq War, the election of Barack Obama, and the British royal wedding. 1 One reason for the story’s popularity, presumably, is that the rise of China entails the decline of the United States. While China’s economy grows at 9 percent annually, the United States reels from economic recession, costly wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and massive budget deªcits. This divergence in fortunes has produced two pieces of conventional wisdom in U.S. and Chinese foreign policy debates. 2 First, the United States is in decline relative to China. Second, much of this decline is the result of globalization—the integration of national economies and resultant diffusion of technology from developed to developing countries—and the hegemonic burdens the United States bears to sustain globalization. An alternative, though less prevalent, perspective rejects both of these assumptions. 3 In this view, U.S. power is durable, and globalization and America’s hegemonic role are the main reasons why. The United States derives competitive advantages from its preponderant position, and globalization allows it to exploit these advantages, attracting economic activity and manipulating the international system to its benefit. Resolving the debate between these two perspectives is imperative for prudent policymaking. If proponents of the dominant, or “declinist,” perspective are correct, then the United States should contain China’s growth by “[adopting] a neomercantilist international economic policy” and subdue China’s ambitions by “disengag[ing] from current alliance commitments in East Asia.” 4 If, however, the United States is not in decline, and if globalization and hegemony are the main reasons why, then the United States should do the opposite: it should contain China’s growth by maintaining a liberal international economic policy, and it should subdue China’s ambitions by sustaining a robust political and military presence in Asia. With few exceptions, however, existing studies on the decline of the United States and the rise of China suffer from at least one of the following shortcomings. 5 First, most studies do not look at a comprehensive set of indicators. Instead they paint impressionistic pictures of the balance of power, presenting tidbits of information on a handful of metrics. In general, this approach biases results in favor of the declinist perspective because most standard indicators of national power—for example, gross domestic product (GDP), population, and energy consumption—conºate size with power and thereby overstate the capabilities of large but underdeveloped countries. For example, in a recent study Arvind Subramanian contends that “China’s dominance is a sure thing” based on “an index of dominance combining just three factors: a country’s GDP, its trade (measured as the sum of its exports and imports of goods), and the extent to which it is a net creditor to the world.” 6 The United States and China, however, are each declining by some measures while rising in terms of others. To distinguish between ascendance and decline writ large, therefore, requires analyzing many indicators and determining how much each one matters in relation to others. Second, many studies are static, presenting single-year snapshots of U.S. and Chinese power. This flaw tends to bias results in favor of the alternative perspective because the United States retains a significant lead in most categories. The key question, however, is not whether the United States is more powerful than China at present, but whether it will remain so in the future. Without a dynamic analysis, it is impossible to answer this question. This study addresses these shortcomings by comparing the United States and China across a large set of economic, technological, and military indicators over the past twenty years. The results are mixed, but the bulk of the evidence supports the alternative perspective. Over the last two decades, globalization and U.S. hegemonic burdens have expanded significantly, yet the United States has not declined; in fact it is now wealthier, more innovative, and more militarily powerful compared to China than it was in 1991. China has narrowed the gap in terms of GDP and now exports a greater volume of high-technology products and employs more scientists than any country in the world. However, GDP correlates poorly with national power; more than 90 percent of China’s high-tech exports are produced by foreign ªrms and consist of low-tech components; and China’s quantitative advantage in scientists has not yet translated into qualitative advantages in innovation. The United States suffers from a huge debt problem that its political system appears ill-suited to solve. China, however, faces its own fiscal mess, which may be more intractable than America’s.
--1NC Air Power
Alt cause to air power- budget cuts and operational inconsistency
Axe 4-15-12 [David, The Diplomat, “U.S. Air Power Plans in Flux,” http://the-diplomat.com/flashpoints-blog/2012/04/15/u-s-air-power-plans-in-flux/]
The Pentagon has released a new 30-year plan for its aviation force – its second such plan in two years. The document projects an essentially constant force of 14,000 Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine Corps warplanes, helicopters and medium and large drones through the early 2040s. But inconsistencies between the plans belie hidden volatility in the U.S. air arsenal. The previous aviation plan, published in February 2010, forecast a force structure of 3,168 manned fighter-attack aircraft in 2013 declining to 2,929 aircraft in 2020 as new F-35s slowly replace a larger number of older F-15s, F-16s and other jets. The more recent plan, by contrast, has today’s roughly 3,374-strong fighter force actually growing to 3,448 in 2020. It’s not clear how the 2012 report could show larger current and future fighter holdings than the 2010 report, considering that in just the past few months the Pentagon has deferred production of nearly 100 F-35 fighters and cut some 120 existing Air Force A-10s and F-16s – reductions not expected in 2010. No new production appears to have occurred that might make up for the retired and delayed airframes. Semantics could account for the apparent inconsistency between the plans. It’s possible that the 2010 plan counted only “combat-coded” aircraft, whereas the 2012 plan counts combat-ready planes plus aircraft held back for testing and training and as crash replacements. If so, the Pentagon could prevent future confusion by defining its terms more clearly and sticking to one set of definitions across reports. The plan also obscures other changes in the American aerial arsenal. In February, the Air Force announced it would reduce its fleet of long-range, heavy airlifters from 312 C-5s and C-17s to just 275 of the huge planes – a cut of more than 10 percent. The 2010 report breaks strategic cargo planes into their own category, but the 2012 report folds them into an overall “airlift/cargo/utility” force that also includes helicopters and short-range supply planes belonging to all the military branches – and which holds steady at around 4,500 airframes through 2020. Needless to say, it's disingenuous to compare an Army transport helicopter that can carry just a couple thousand pounds of cargo to an Air Force strategic airlifter that hauls up to 130 tons. The combined airlift category in the 2012 report masks deep cuts to transport capacity. The 2012 plan also omits aircraft production projections that were present in the 2010 report. That omission disguises the Air Force’s recent decision to cut purchases of new MQ-9 armed drones from 48 per year to just 24. Again, semantics help bury the cuts. As with airlifters, in the 2012 plan the Air Force’s medium drones are lumped into a category that also includes Army scout helicopters, Air Force and Navy radar-warning planes and other reconnaissance and surveillance aircraft, presently numbering around 1,200. In that context, a 50 percent production cut for the Pentagon’s main armed drone doesn’t seem so shocking.

Air power alone fails- they oversimplify conflict prevention
Sheldon and Gray ‘11 [John B. Sheldon, Professor, School of Advanced Air & Space Studies, Maxwell AFB, Alabama, and Marshall Institute Fellow and Colin S. Gray, professor of International Relations and Strategic Studies at the University of Reading, where he is the director of the Centre for Strategic Studies. In addition, he is a Senior Associate to the National Institute for Public Policy, “Theory Ascendant? Spacepower and the Challenge of Strategic Theory,” http://www.ndu.edu/press/space-Ch15.html]

"Space power, alone, is insufficient to control the outcome of terrestrial conflict or ensure the attainment of terrestrial political objectives."29 The same is true of air- and seapower. The seat of political power for all polities resides on the land, where people live. Control of such power can only be ultimately won or lost by controlling land. Spacepower, along with air- and seapower, can help leverage—even critically—land power to achieve victory on land, but can never do so by itself. An exception to this may come about should human beings colonize other celestial bodies, such as the Moon or Mars. In that event, one might see spacepower take the lead role in delivering sovereign effects, with other forms of military power (especially land and airpower delivered by a preponderant spacepower) providing support.

Airpower limited
Mueller, 10 (Karl, senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation specializing in military and national security, “Air Power”, RAND Corporation, [[http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/reprints/2010/RAND_RP1412.pdf]])
The first is the ability of air power to bypass the enemy’s army and navy, and terrain that would impede or prevent the movement of land or naval forces. This not only gives air power unique ability to act across a wide area, but also allows it to strike at targets deep in hostile territory without first achieving success on the surface battlefield. It is easy to overstate the extent of this freedom of action, and air power advocates have often done so. Weather and darkness, the “terrain” of the atmosphere, constrain air operations even today, although these limits have eroded dramatically over the years. Moreover, although aircraft can fly above armies, penetrating enemy air defenses has almost never been a simple matter except when facing grossly inferior opponents – hence the preeminent importance airmen tend to place on achieving air superiority as a precondition for military operations. Yet there are important differences between air and land warfare in this respect: although it is not true that “the bomber will always get through,” it is usually the case that some bombers will do so, if they are willing to suffer losses. Even effective air defenses tend to be permeable compared to front lines on conventional land battlefields, where successful attacks usually result either in driving the enemy back en masse or shattering them.


--1NC Heg Defense
Heg solves nothing- past two decades prove
Mearsheimer 2011 (John J., R. Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago, The National Interest, Imperial by Design, lexis)
One year later, Charles Krauthammer emphasized in "The Unipolar Moment" that the United States had emerged from the Cold War as by far the most powerful country on the planet.2 He urged American leaders not to be reticent about using that power "to lead a unipolar world, unashamedly laying down the rules of world order and being prepared to enforce them." Krauthammer's advice fit neatly with Fukuyama's vision of the future: the United States should take the lead in bringing democracy to less developed countries the world over. After all, that shouldn't be an especially difficult task given that America had awesome power and the cunning of history on its side. U.S. grand strategy has followed this basic prescription for the past twenty years, mainly because most policy makers inside the Beltway have agreed with the thrust of Fukuyama's and Krauthammer's early analyses. The results, however, have been disastrous. The United States has been at war for a startling two out of every three years since 1989, and there is no end in sight. As anyone with a rudimentary knowledge of world events knows, countries that continuously fight wars invariably build powerful national-security bureaucracies that undermine civil liberties and make it difficult to hold leaders accountable for their behavior; and they invariably end up adopting ruthless policies normally associated with brutal dictators. The Founding Fathers understood this problem, as is clear from James Madison's observation that "no nation can preserve its freedom in the midst of continual warfare." Washington's pursuit of policies like assassination, rendition and torture over the past decade, not to mention the weakening of the rule of law at home, shows that their fears were justified. To make matters worse, the United States is now engaged in protracted wars in Afghanistan and Iraq that have so far cost well over a trillion dollars and resulted in around forty-seven thousand American casualties. The pain and suffering inflicted on Iraq has been enormous. Since the war began in March 2003, more than one hundred thousand Iraqi civilians have been killed, roughly 2 million Iraqis have left the country and 1.7 million more have been internally displaced. Moreover, the American military is not going to win either one of these conflicts, despite all the phony talk about how the "surge" has worked in Iraq and how a similar strategy can produce another miracle in Afghanistan. We may well be stuck in both quagmires for years to come, in fruitless pursuit of victory. The United States has also been unable to solve three other major foreign-policy problems. Washington has worked overtime-with no success-to shut down Iran's uranium-enrichment capability for fear that it might lead to Tehran acquiring nuclear weapons. And the United States, unable to prevent North Korea from acquiring nuclear weapons in the first place, now seems incapable of compelling Pyongyang to give them up. Finally, every post-Cold War administration has tried and failed to settle the Israeli-Palestinian conflict; all indicators are that this problem will deteriorate further as the West Bank and Gaza are incorporated into a Greater Israel. The unpleasant truth is that the United States is in a world of trouble today on the foreign-policy front, and this state of affairs is only likely to get worse in the next few years, as Afghanistan and Iraq unravel and the blame game escalates to poisonous levels. Thus, it is hardly surprising that a recent Chicago Council on Global Affairs survey found that "looking forward 50 years, only 33 percent of Americans think the United States will continue to be the world's leading power." Clearly, the heady days of the early 1990s have given way to a pronounced pessimism.

--1NC Nukes

Nuclear deterrence solves all their impacts and conventional fails
Schneider 08 Mark, July. Senior Analyst with the National Institute for Public Policy, Ph.D in history at the University of Southern California and JD from George Washington University, former senior officer in the DoD in positions relating to arms control and nuclear weapons policy. “The Future of the U.S. Nuclear Deterrent,” Comparative Strategy 27.4, Ebsco.

Today, the United States, the world's only superpower with global responsibilities, is the only nuclear weapons state that is seriously debating (admittedly largely inside the beltway) about whether the United States should retain a nuclear deterrent. By contrast, the British Labour Government has decided to retain and modernize its nuclear deterrent. In every other nuclear weapons state—Russia, China, France, India, Pakistan, and allegedly Israel—there is general acceptance of the need for a nuclear deterrent and its modernization. Amazingly, the United States is the only nuclear-armed nation that is not modernizing its nuclear deterrent. Distinguished former leaders such a George P. Shultz, William J. Perry, Henry A. Kissinger, and Sam Nunn, despite the manifest failure of arms control to constrain the weapons of mass destruction (WMD) threat, call for “A world free of Nuclear Weapons” because “… the United States can address almost all of its military objectives by non-nuclear means.”1 This view ignores the monumental verification problems involved and the military implication of different types of WMD—chemical and biological (CBW) attack, including the advanced agents now available to potential enemies of the United States and our allies. A U.S. nuclear deterrent is necessary to address existing threats to the very survival of the U.S., its allies, and its armed forces if they are subject to an attack using WMD. As former Secretary of Defense Harold Brown and former Deputy Secretary of Defense John Deutch wrote in The Wall Street Journal, “However, the goal, even the aspirational goal, of eliminating all nuclear weapons is counterproductive. It will not advance substantive progress on nonproliferation; and it risks compromising the value that nuclear weapons continue to contribute, through deterrence, to U.S. security and international stability.”2 Why can't the United States deter WMD (nuclear, chemical, biological) attack with conventional weapons? The short answer is that conventional weapons can't deter a WMD attack because of their minuscule destructiveness compared with WMD, which are thousands to millions of times as lethal as conventional weapons. Existing WMD can kill millions to hundreds of millions of people in an hour, and there are national leaders who would use them against us if all they had to fear was a conventional response. The threat of nuclear electromagnetic pulse (EMP) attack, as assessed by a Congressional Commission in 2004, is so severe that one or at most a handful of EMP attacks could demolish industrial civilization in the United States.3 The view that conventional weapons can replace nuclear weapons in deterrence or warfighting against a state using WMD is not technically supportable. Precision-guided conventional weapons are fine substitutes for non-precision weapons, but they do not remotely possess the lethality of WMD warheads. Moreover, their effectiveness in some cases can be seriously degraded by counter-measures and they clearly are not effective against most hard and deeply buried facilities that are associated with WMD threats and national leadership protection. If deterrence of WMD attack fails, conventional weapons are unlikely to terminate adversary WMD attacks upon us and our allies or to deter escalation. Are there actual existing threats to the survival of the United States? The answer is unquestionably “yes.” Both Russia and China have the nuclear potential to destroy the United States (and our allies) and are modernizing their forces with the objective of targeting the United States.4 China is also increasing the number of its nuclear weapons.5 Russia is moving away from democracy, and China remains a Communist dictatorship. A number of hostile dictatorships—North Korea, Iran, and possibly Syria—have or are developing longer-range missiles, as well as chemical, biological, and nuclear weapons.6 They already have the ability to launch devastating WMD attacks against our allies and our forward deployed forces, and in time may acquire capabilities against the United States. Iran will probably have nuclear weapons within approximately 2 to 5 years.7 The United States already faces a chemical and biological weapons threat despite arms control prohibitions. Due to arms control, we do not have an in-kind deterrent. Both Iranian and Syria acquisition of nuclear weapons could be affected by sales from North Korea, which have been reported in the press.8

Even if the technical difference is nill, people still perceive nuclear weapons as key.
Dr. Clifton W. Sherrill, May 2004. Adjunct professor @ FSU, MSc in Defense and Strategic Studies and a Ph.D. in International Relations in addition to a Juris Doctor. “Thinking About Deterrence: Credibility and Warfighting,” Strategic Insights 3.5, http://www.ccc.nps.navy.mil/si/2004/may/sherrillMay04.asp#author.
A response to the argument above might hold that instead of reshaping our nuclear forces to provide credibility, we might instead rely on conventional superiority for all deterrence missions as no taboo surrounds conventional weapons. A conventional response would thus have greater credibility and provide a superior deterrent. The trouble with this policy is that nuclear weapons are often perceived to have capabilities far in excess of conventional weapons. With the advances brought about through precision guided munitions, laser targeting, and deep penetration primaries, this perceived gap may in truth be quite small for many purposes. However, because deterrence is a psychological event, perception is more important than fact. If a tyrant believes that nuclear weapons are superior, than for the purposes of deterrence, they are.


***China***
No internal link from jamming to China – that was in CX
--1NC China
No US-China war- economic globalization
Xuetong and Haixia 4-6-12 [Yan Xuetong is Professor of International Relations and Director of Institute of Modern International Relations, Tsinghua University. Qi Haixia is Lecturer at Department of International Relations, Tsinghua University, “Football Game Rather Than Boxing Match: China–US Intensifying Rivalry Does not Amount to Cold War,” online]

Economic globalization created a strategic need for superficial friendship between China and the United States. While scholars disagree over exactly when economic globalization began, all agree that it sped up after the end of the Cold War. This is because the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance ended after the collapse of the Soviet Union, resulting in a global market. Meanwhile, the pace of information-flow increased among states, shrinking the size of the globe and leading to popularization of the expression ‘global village’. Levels of interdependence have increased along with the growing proximity of international economic relations. That a strategy of complete confrontation can no longer effectively protect national interests is now obvious. It is for this reason that certain scholars argue that there has been a qualitative change in the nature of the security dilemma since end of the Cold War.35 Under the conditions of globalization, interdependence between China and the United States has continued to grow, and for the sake of economic interests, neither is willing to adopt a strategy of all-out confrontation. Economic interdependence, however, will not diffuse the political and security conflicts between the two states. Different interests in different spheres have thus created a foundation for superficial friendship between the United States and China.

Both sides prefer cooperation over war- we’ll peacefully resolve any conflict
Lieberthal and Jisi ‘12 [Kenneth Lieberthal is Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy and in Global Economy and Development and is Director of the John L. Thornton China Center at the Brookings Institution. Wang Jisi is Director of the Center for International and Strategic Studies and Dean of the School of International Studies at Peking University, “Addressing U.S.-China Strategic Distrust,” March, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2012/0330_china_lieberthal/0330_china_lieberthal.pdf]

The U.S. and China have a wide-ranging, deep and relatively mature relationship. The presidents of both countries have repeatedly indicated the value of developing a cooperative relationship for the future. Both sides have a pragmatic awareness of the issues on which they disagree, and both appreciate the importance of not permitting those specific disagreements to prevent cooperation on major issues where cooperation can be mutually beneficial. In addition, the leaders and top working-level officials on both sides have gained substantial experience in dealing with each other and, in many cases, have come to know each other fairly well. 1 The above are promising dimensions of U.S.-China relations and should bode well for the future. There is no more important bilateral relationship, and thus its future direction is of enormous importance to each country, the region, and the world. For regional and global issues such as nonproliferation and climate change, active U.S.-China cooperation or at least parallel actions makes issues more manageable; having the U.S. and China work at cross purposes makes those issues more difficult, or even impossible, to manage.


No escalation. We would win.

Lieber and Press '06 (Keir A. Lieber - assistant professor in the Department of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame, PhD from the University of Chicago, held fellowships from the Brookings Institution, Earhart Foundation, John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Andrew Mellon Foundation, and Smith Richardson Foundation, **AND Daryl G. Press - Associate Professor of Government at Dartmouth, PhD in political science at MIT, associate of the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard; "The Rise of U.S. Nuclear Primacy", Foreign Affairs Vol. 85, Iss. 2, pg. 42, Mar/Apr 2006, ProQuest)
China's nuclear arsenal is even more vulnerable to a U.S. attack. A U.S. first strike could succeed whether it was launched as a surprise or in the midst of a crisis during a Chinese alert. China has a limited strategic nuclear arsenal. The People's Liberation Army currently possesses no modern SSBNs or long-range bombers. Its naval arm used to have two ballistic missile submarines, but one sank, and the other, which had such poor capabilities that it never left Chinese waters, is no longer operational. China's medium-range bomber force is similarly unimpressive: the bombers are obsolete and vulnerable to attack. According to unclassified U.S. government assessments, China's entire intercontinental nuclear arsenal consists of 18 stationary single-warhead ICBMs. These are not ready to launch on warning: their warheads are kept in storage and the missiles themselves are unfueled. (China's ICBMs use liquid fuel, which corrodes the missiles after 24 hours. Fueling them is estimated to take two hours.) The lack of an advanced early warning system adds to the vulnerability of the ICBMs. It appears that China would have no warning at all of a U.S. submarine-launched missile attack or a strike using hundreds of stealthy nuclear-armed cruise missiles. Many sources claim that China is attempting to reduce the vulnerability of its ICBMs by building decoy silos. But decoys cannot provide a firm basis for deterrence. It would take close to a thousand fake silos to make a U.S. first strike on China as difficult as an attack on Russia, and no available information on China's nuclear forces suggests the existence of massive fields of decoys. And even if China built them, its commanders would always wonder whether U.S. sensors could distinguish real silos from fake ones. Despite much talk about China's military modernization, the odds that Beijing will acquire a survivable nuclear deterrent in the next decade are slim. China's modernization efforts have focused on conventional forces, and the country's progress on nuclear modernization has accordingly been slow. Since the mid-1980s, China has been trying to develop a new missile for its future ballistic missile submarine as well as mobile ICBMs (the DF-31 and longer-range DF-31A) to replace its current ICBM force. The U.S. Defense Department predicts that China may deploy DF-31s in a few years, although the forecast should be treated skeptically: U.S. intelligence has been announcing the missile's imminent deployment for decades. Even when they are eventually fielded, the DF-31s are unlikely to significantly reduce China's vulnerability. The missiles' limited range, estimated to be only 8,000 kilometers (4,970 miles), greatly restricts the area in which they can be hidden, reducing the difficulty of searching for them. The DF-31s could hit the contiguous United States only if they were deployed in China's far northeastern corner, principally in Heilongjiang Province, near the Russian-North Korean border. But Heilongjiang is mountainous, and so the missiles might be deployable only along a few hundred kilometers of good road or in a small plain in the center of the province. Such restrictions increase the missiles' vulnerability and raise questions about whether they are even intended to target the U.S. homeland or whether they will be aimed at targets in Russia and Asia. Given the history of China's slow-motion nuclear modernization, it is doubtful that a Chinese second-strike force will materialize anytime soon. The United States has a first-strike capability against China today and should be able to maintain it for a decade or more.

No threat from China – space proves.
Hagt, 8 – director of the China Program at the World Security Institute and is editor of China Security Quarterly (2/26/08, Eric, Survival, “China’s Military Space Strategy; An Exchange – ‘Mirror-Imaging and Worst-Case Scenarios,’” Vol. 50, No. 1, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/SurvivalTellis.pdf, Sawyer)
Tellis overstates both China’s ability and its incentives to use space in a conflict with the United States. He draws the analogy of Cold War competition between the Soviet Union and the United States: ‘neither side had an incentive to attack the other’s space systems, even though both developed modest instruments for this purpose, because the costs to each individually far outweighed the benefits’. The unstated implication is that China does have the incentive to attack America’s disproportionately vulnerable space assets. He is partly right; the United States is arguably now more vulnerable to asymmetric ASAT weapons that China could employ. But concluding that China has the incentive to act on this advantage removes the ‘battle’ of space out of the context of the larger conflict that such a battle would either be a part of, or would most probably escalate to. It wrongly isolates space from the US capabilities that could be brought to bear on a much inferior China in the dynamic of any military conflict.
The United States has overwhelming military superiority over China. Besides vastly outnumbering China’s conventional and nuclear forces, other key elements include the dramatic advantage the United States has accrued in the past decade in precision-strike conventional weapons. These may even be capable of taking out even hardened nuclear silos in certain circumstances, thus comprising a new threat to China’s nuclear deterrence. 1 There is also the developing US multi-layered missile defence system with boost-phase components based in space that threaten China’s missile force. Even considering space alone, US capabilities and programmes far exceed those of China: for example micro- or nanosatellites, such as the XSS-10, XSS-11, DART, MiTex, Orbital Express and the new DARPA TICS and F6 programmes. There are also laser weapons: MIRACL, the ABL and its COIL, various solid-state HEL and FEL programmes, and the Starfire adaptive optics range, all of which have powerful ASAT capabilities.

No risk of miscalc – the U.S. won’t strike because China isn’t on alert and China NFU means nuclear miscalc is impossible
Lewis 9 (Jeffrey, Director of the Nuclear Strategy and Nonproliferation Initiative at the New America Foundation, “Chinese Nuclear Posture and Force Modernization,” Center for Nonproliferation Studies, July, http://www.isn.ethz.ch/isn/ Digital-Library/Publications/ Detail/?ots591=0C54E3B3-1E9C- BE1E-2C24-A6A8C7060233&lng=en& id=98894)

Although such increases are within China’s economic and industrial capabilities, especially if China were to de-ploy as many as five new ballistic missile submarines, it is also possible that China’s modernization will occur within the general parameters of its overall force posture, characterized by keeping warheads in storage and a restrictive nuclear no-fi rst-use declaratory policy. China’s nuclear arsenal also stands out from the other nuclear powers not merely due to its small size, but also because China keeps its nuclear forces off alert and under the strictures of a no-fi rst use pledge. By all indications, Chinese nuclear warheads are not normally mated


to their missiles. Robert Walpole, then national intelligence offi cer for strategic and nuclear programs at the CIA, stated in 1998 that “China keeps its missiles unfueled and without warheads mated.”20 Th e warheads are stored at nearby, but separate, bases. Press reports of Chinese mobile ballistic missile exercises published by the state-run Xinhua News Agency indicate that nuclear warheads would be mated in the fi eld to mobile ballistic missiles before launch, similar to the procedure used by Soviet Mobile Technical Rocket Bases (PRTB, in Russian) stationed in East Germany and elsewhere during the Cold War.

--AT: Korea

No war- and resource shortages mean war wouldn’t escalate
Edwards 10 ­– International development specialist and policy analyst
(Michael, “Full-scale war on Korean peninsula ‘unlikely’,” 11/25/10, [[http://www.abc.net.au/news/stories/2010/11/24/3075727.htm]], CJC)
"I actually think that they can absorb a lot of provocation because the risk of war," he said. "Given that Seoul, which represents roughly 80 per cent of their economy, is within striking distance of artillery and rockets from North Korea means that we would have to see a lot more violence at this point before the South will be willing to actually conduct military operations against the North." Professor Hayes does expect North Korea's main ally China to intervene. "I think what is much more likely at this point is that we will see the great powers lean very heavily on each other and particularly on China, which is the main backer at this point both politically and economically of North Korea," he said. "It will send a message to Pyongyang and this will probably be a military to military message between the Chinese PLA and the North Korean People's Army, that they simply can't go about business this way. "That they will pull the plug and by pulling the plug I mean turn off the oil, which goes from a pipeline from China to North Korea. Without oil, the North Korean military actually can't run for much more than a month before they actually run out of fuel."


=Round 5 - Neg ORS= 
<span class="Underline"> 1NC T </span>

<span class="Underline">A. Interpretation - Exploration means hyman </span>
<span class="Underline">Logsdon, 9 – professor of political science at George Washington, former director of the Space Policy Institute (John, “Fifty Years of human Spaceflight Why Is There Still a Controversy?,” http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20100025875_2010028362.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Exploration as a Compelling Rationale</span>
<span class="Underline">Many believe that the only sustainable rationale for a government-funded program of human spaceflight is to take the lead in exploring the solar system beyond low Earth orbit.20 The MIT white paper provides an insightful definition of exploration:</span>
<span class="Underline">Exploration is a human activity, undertaken by certain cultures at certain times for particular reasons. It has components of national interest, scientific research, and technical innovation, but is defined by none of them. We define exploration as an expansion of the realm of human experience, bringing people into new places, situations, and environments, expanding and redefining what it means to be human. What is the role of Earth in human life? Is human life fundamentally tied to the earth, or could it survive without the planet?</span>
<span class="Underline">human presence, and its attendant risk, turns a spaceflight into a story that is compelling to large numbers of people. Exploration also has a moral dimension because it is in effect a cultural conversation on the nature and meaning of human life. Exploration by this definition can only be accomplished by direct human presence and may be deemed worthy of the risk of human life.21 In the wake of the 2003 Columbia accident that took the lives of seven astronauts and the report of the Columbia Accident Investigation Board that criticized the absence of a compelling mission for human spaceflight as “a failure of national leadership,”22 the United States, in January 2004, adopted a new policy to guide its human spaceflight activities. The policy directed NASA to “implement a sustained and affordable human and robotic program to explore the solar system and beyond” and to “extend human presence across the solar system, starting with a human return to the Moon by the year 2020, in preparation for human exploration of Mars and other destinations.”23 This policy seems totally consistent with the definition of exploration provided in the MIT white paper. The issue is whether such a policy and its implementation, focusing on human exploration beyond Earth orbit, can provide an adequate and sustainable justification for a continuing program of government-sponsored spaceflight that will make contributions that will outweigh the costs and risks involved to the “primary objectives” of national pride and prestige, and also to some of the several “secondary objectives.”</span>

<span class="Underline">Development means hyman </span>
<span class="Underline">Livingston 07 – former adjunct professor in the Graduate School of Business at Golden Gate University his doctoral dissertation was titled “Outer Space Commerce: Its History and Prospects” citing Eric Westling co-author of “The Space Elevator” and numerous papers on space tech and development [quals in card] (9/10/07, “This Week On The Space Show: Eric Westling”, http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298)</span>

<span class="Underline">Eric Westling is a science writer, pundit on science, technology, and economics. He is the co-author of “The Space Elevator” with Dr. Brad Edwards . In addition, Mr. Westling is retired and is a former Army officer and helicopter pilot, civilian Airline Transport Pilot (ATP), former consultant to many small companies regarding engineering, computer, and business troubleshooting. His most recent papers are on Solar Power Satellites, Economics of the Space Elevator, Energy and time lag in the 21st century , and Eric’s axioms (a list of principles of science, technology and economics). Mr. Westling stats that “Space Development is the only long term answer to the, just starting, energy shortage; which will otherwise continue until we have an economic collapse.” He believes that no-one is doing space development . Instead, we have space technology, not development. NASA has no TRL 10 – therefore no plans to develop space . He defines space development as the rapid expansion of [staffed] commercial projects in space. </span>

<span class="Underline">A. Interpretation – ‘of space’ indicates that space must be the object of exploration or development </span>
<span class="Underline">Bockstiegel 95 –Ph D., Directitor of the Institute of Air and Space Law, Chairman of the Space Law Committee of the International Law Association; Chairman of Council of the National German Space Agency (Dr. Karl-Heinz, 1995, “Research and invention in outer space: liability and intellectual property rights” pg 4.)</span>


<span class="Underline">The official title of the Outer Space Treaty (‘OST’) mentions both exploration and use of outer space as the two ‘activities of States’ which one has to take into account and which are therefore covered by the Outer Space Treaty. The same pair of terms appears again in the Preamble as well as further articles such as Article I and Article III of the Treaty. Other articles and other space treaties either take up only one of these two terms or use a general terms such as ‘activities in outer space’ (Art. VI, OST) or generally deal with ‘objects launched into outer space’ (Art. VII, Art. VIII, OST and the Registration Convention) or ‘space objects’ (Liability Convention) or finally ‘activities of States on the Moon and other celestial bodies’ (Moon Treaty). At first sight the distinction between exploration and use may seem sufficiently clear. Indeed in connection with most space activities there may be little doubt which of these two terms is applicable. First doubts appear, however, because the Outer Space Treaty speaks of exploration ‘of outer space’. This wording could be interpreted to mean that space must be the object of exploration. The consequence would be that the great part of research which has to take place ‘in space’ in view of the specific physical conditions there, but which has as its object specific materials, would not be covered and might only be considered as ‘use’ of space.</span>

<span class="Underline">B. Violation – the affirmative doesn’t increase exploration or development of space</span>

<span class="Underline">C. Voting issue – </span>

<span class="Underline">1. limits – they allow all robotic missions and satellites, this could be dozens of small additional affs</span>

<span class="Underline">2. ground – we don’t have disad links to launching one additional probe – human missions are visible and contentious, and the core of the debate</span>

<span class="Underline">1NC T</span>

<span class="Underline">Our interpretation is that the plan must define what ORS is</span>

<span class="Underline">This is best:</span>
<span class="Underline">a) The term ‘ORS’ is vague – it is impossible to make a coherent 1NC</span>
<span class="Underline">Larrimore, 07 – Lt Col, USAF (April, Scott C., Air Force Fellows Air University, “Operationally Responsive Space: A New Paradigm or Another False Start?” </span>
<span class="Underline">https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_5ea32116-b119-43ab-8fcb-9565110bb741/display.aspx?rs=enginespage)RK</span>
<span class="Underline">A sampling of these writings reveals one thing: there is not a simple, clear and consistent definition of what constitutes ORS. Analysis of ORS elements Disparate Definitions The OFT began the current ORS initiative as a better means to develop tactically oriented satellites and rapidly get them to orbit. VADM Cebrowski wanted to create a “new business model” that focused on operational demand. Smaller, less costly spacecraft would be emphasized that tolerated greater reliability risk than traditional national security satellites due to overall system cost.2 This definition broadened as ORS transitioned from just a technology demonstration program to an operational concept involving Combatant Commands, the services, Congress, and the acquisition, and science and technology communities. These different constituent groups have various viewpoints on what ORS really means. Congress sees the program as a way to contain space systems costs while supporting the deployed warfighter. The Combatant Commands see the program as a means to satisfy urgent warfighter support requirements. The Science and Technology community views ORS as a test bed to develop new spacecraft technologies, payloads, and launcher capabilities in order to provide space services to the military forces. The acquisition community sees ORS as a means to complement established space systems support to tactical forces. Industry, in particular smaller companies, envisions ORS as a new market opportunity.3 Appendix B presents additional definitions from ORS stakeholders. According to Brian Green, Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Forces Policy, the lack of a commonly accepted ORS definition has contributed to the difficulty of coordinating various aspects of the initiative within the DOD.4 Compounding the problem, space leaders have included other ancillary elements in their own ORS definitions. Lieutenant General Frank Koltz, AFSPC Vice Commander, included near-space5 as one of the four ORS components in a speech at a 2006 conference. The other elements were responsive satellites, spacelift, and launch ranges. A year later, AFSPC Commander Kevin Chilton ORS had three missions: 1. Augmenting surveillance and reconnaissance systems in response to combatant commander’s needs 2. Replacing space assets that have been disabled by attack or natural phenomenon 3. Enhancing space situational awareness6</span>

<span class="Underline">b) Defining ORS is a prerequisite to their solvency debate – they can’t solve, vote neg on presumption </span>
<span class="Underline">GAO 2k8 – US Government Accountability Office (US Government Accountability Office, “Defense Space Activities: DOD Needs to Further Clarify the Operationally Responsive Space Concept and Plan to Integrate and Support Future Satellites,” 7/14/2k8, http://www.gao.gov/htext/d08831.html /mr)</span>

<span class="Underline">DOD is making some progress in developing the ORS concept, but whether it will meet warfighter requirements is unclear, principally because the concept is in the early stages of development and not commonly understood by all members of the warfighter and national security space communities. Our prior work examining successful organizational transformations shows the need to communicate to stakeholders often and early and to clearly define specific objectives. Since the Joint ORS Office was established in May 2007, it has developed a process for converting warfighter needs into formal requirements and identifying potential ORS solutions. Moreover, DOD issued the ORS Implementation Plan in April 2008 and is also developing new ORS guidance documents. However, GAO found disparity in stakeholder understanding of the ORS concept within the warfighter and national security space communities. This disparity exists because DOD has not clearly defined key elements of the ORS concept and has not effectively communicated the concept with key stakeholders. For example, initial ORS planning documents are broad and lack the specificity needed to guide the ORS concept, according to some members of the warfighter and national security space communities. Moreover, officials from the intelligence community were concerned about DOD’s lack of consultation and communication with them regarding the ORS concept. Without having a well-defined and commonly understood concept, DOD’s ability to fully meet warfighter needs may be hampered. </span>

<span class="Underline">C) Plan text is key – we can only see if the plan affirms the resolution if we know what the plan does. It is impossible to disprove them meeting the resolution without a coherent plan</span>

<span class="Underline">1NC CP</span>
<span class="Underline">The United States federal government should develop Operationally Responsive Space by developing a military launch infrastructure that allows for launch on demand, small satellite development, reconstitution, maneuverability, and hardening of military satellites. The United States federal government should not preemptively strike China</span>

<span class="Underline">The United States federal government should substantially increase tier 1, tier 2, and tier 3 of Operationally Responsive Space, except for space situational awareness capabilities. </span>


<span class="Underline">Net benefit –</span>
<span class="Underline">Information overload on the brink – new information destroys C2 </span>
<span class="Underline">Bateman et al. 2/5 [Scott Bateman University of Saskatchewan, Aaron Genest University of Saskatchewan, Anthony Tang University of Calgary, Stacey Scott University of Waterloo, Carl Gutwin University of Saskatchewan] Feb 5, 2012 “Why Expressiveness Matters in Command & Control Visualizations” http://crisisinformatics.wineme.fb5.uni-siegen.de/files/Genest.pdf</span>
<span class="Underline">A key aspect of our investigation is the amount of information that can reasonably be used in these contexts. Crisis management is a time-constrained task, thus all information competes with other information. Therefore, any embodiment information added to an already complex C2 display will compete for users’ attention, and may create information overload. Thus, methods of minimizing distraction and overload must be a priority when designing new information visualizations. We are beginning to explore the limits of what can be expressed and understood in this context, informed by earlier work on embodiments that shows that this limit is remarkably high [9] </span>

<span class="Underline">C2 key to nuclear deterrence </span>
<span class="Underline">DoD ‘11 (Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Nuclear, Chemical, and Biological Defense Programs, U.S. Department of Defense, Chapter 4: Nuclear Command, Control, and Communications System, Nuclear Matters Handbook, Expanded Edition, 2011,http://www.acq.osd.mil/ncbdp/nm/nm_book_5_11/chapter_4.htm)</span>
<span class="Underline">The U.S. nuclear command, control, and communications system refers to the collection of activities, processes, and procedures performed by appropriate military commanders and support personnel that—through the chain of command—allow for senior-level decisions on nuclear weapons employment to be made based on relevant information and subsequently allow for those decisions to be communicated to forces for execution.[1] The nuclear C3 (NC3) system is an essential element to ensure crisis stability, deter attack against the United States and its allies, and maintain the safety, security, and effectiveness of the U.S. nuclear deterrent. The purpose of the nuclear C3 system is to provide the president with the means to authorize the use of nuclear weapons in a crisis and to prevent unauthorized or accidental use. The former is accomplished through the assets of the nuclear C3 system, managed by the Military Services, nuclear force commanders, and the defense agencies. (For more information on the prevention of unauthorized or accidental use, see Chapter 5: Nuclear Safety and Security.) 4.2 Nuclear Command and Control Nuclear command and control (C2)—or the exercise of authority and direction by the president through established command lines over nuclear weapons operations, as the Chief Executive over all nuclear weapon activities that support those operations, and as the Head of State over required multinational actions that support those operations—is provided through a survivable “thin line” of communications and warning systems that ensure dedicated connectivity from the president to all nuclear-capable forces. The fundamental requirements of nuclear C2 are paramount; nuclear C2 must be assured, timely, secure, survivable, and enduring in providing the information and communications for the president to make and communicate critical decisions without being constrained by limitations in the systems, the people, or the procedures that make up the full nuclear C3 system. The president’s ability to exercise these authorities is ensured by the Nuclear Command and Control System (NCCS)—the facilities, equipment, communications, procedures, and personnel that are essential for supporting the president’s nuclear C2. The NCCS is an interagency system that includes stakeholders from the White House, the Department of Defense (DoD), the Department of State (DOS), the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), the Department of Justice (DOJ)/Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the Department of Energy (DOE), and the Director of National Intelligence (DNI). The DoD has been directed to ensure that the C2 architecture for the nuclear deterrent can serve as the core component of a broader national command, control, communications, computers, and intelligence system supporting the president. Because the NCCS is an interagency system, this chapter will use the term nuclear C3 system to refer to the DoD portion of the NCCS that would be used in responding to a nuclear crisis.[2]</span>

<span class="Underline">Extinction </span>
<span class="Underline">Patrick M. Morgan, and T.V. Paul, 2009. professor of political science and the Tierney Chair in Peace and Conflict Studies at the University of California, Irvine; and Professor of International Relations at McGill University. Complex Deterrence: Strategy In the Global Age, p. 9-11.</span>
<span class="Underline">Among the great powers (the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council), nuclear weapons are largely seen as a hedge against the emergence of great-power conflict in the future. The great-power relationships in the post-cold war era are characterized by “recessed general deterrence,” or dissuasion, in which states do not expect immediate militarized conflict, but weapons are kept in the background as insurance given the inherent uncertainties of world politics. The end of the cold war witnessed substantial changes in the deterrence dynamics involving great powers, and, as a result, general deterrence and dissuasion became operational concepts. Although they do maintain large arsenals, neither the United States nor Russia is presumed to hold automatic launch-on-warming attack plans, anymore, although some elements of the previous era are continuing. In addition, they have reduced the number of weapons they possess, although the numbers still exceed a minimum nuclear deterrence posture. The three other old nuclear powers—China, the United Kingdom, and France—also have been maintaining their smaller arsenals, but this might change as Chinese nuclear force modernization plans come to fruition in the coming decades. The logic behind the maintenance of nuclear capabilities is that the great powers want to be prepared in case their relations deteriorate in the future. Nuclear capability can also be construed as an assurance against the expansionist pathologies of great powers as described in perspectives such as offensive realism. Moreover, uncertainties in Russia and China give pause to Western nuclear powers, while, for Moscow, the fear of American influence in its former spheres in Eastern Europe and Central Asia is the cardinal source of anxiety. For the rising power, China, nuclear weapons offer a major insurance against direct assault on its strategic sphere, allowing it to rise peacefully. Nuclear weapons also offer a limited but crucial deterrent against potential conflict escalation between the United States and China involving Taiwan. The great-power deterrence calculations are thus based on “recessed general deterrence” as well as “existential deterrence”: no immediate expectations of war exist among them. However, as Patrick Morgan states, “if serious conflicts emerge again, then deterrence will be in vogue—if not, at least for a lengthy period, then deterrence will operate offstage, held in reserve, and will not be the cornerstone of security management for the system.” This does not mean that the relations in the U.S.-Russia and U.S.-China dyads would remain the same in the long run. Power transition has invariably been turbulent in the international system, and herein lies the role that nuclear weapons may play in deterring a transition war. U.S.-Russia relations could deteriorate, and deterrence could become more relevant if tensions build up over the establishment of missile defenses in Eastern Europe and over Russian efforts to repudiate major arms-control agreements in its effort to regain its lost superpower status. As discussed in Morgan and Paul’s chapter in this volume, nuclear deterrent in this context has offered the major powers greater maneuverability. It has allowed the major power states to sustain their credentials as system managers and has prevented the emergence of active security dilemmas among them that can be caused by conventional arms races and technological breakthroughs. Absent the fear of existential wars, the potentially rival states have engaged in greater economic interactions. The increasing trade relations between the United States and China and China and India, an emerging power, suggest that general nuclear deterrence may offer economic spin-off benefits. To some extent, the stability in relations among the great powers, with no war in sight between them, points to the pacifying role that nuclear weapons may be playing, although other causes are present as well. In that sense, nuclear weapons may act as crucial factors in preventing a power-transition war akin to those that the world experienced in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. For Russia, the superpower that declined, nuclear deterrence offers an opportunity not to be excessively alarmed by the expansion of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.</span>

<span class="Underline">1NC K</span>

<span class="Underline">The aff’s epistemology, expectations, discourse and pronouncement are the starting point of geopolitical capitalist colonialism. Our alternative is to vote negative as a means of viewing space through the postcolonial spatial theory. </span>
<span class="Underline">Collis and Graham 09 Political geographies of Mars: A history of Martian management Management & Organizational History August 2009 4: 247-261, http://eprints.qut.edu.au/21225/1/21225.pdf</span>
<span class="Underline">Explorer missions set out, as do Mariners, Vikings, and Pathfinders. Their mission is to explore, map, and thus, as this recognizable discourse has it, to possess ‘new’ territories. While some groups plan exploration missions – designing ever bigger and more expensive crafts – others plan for colonization: testing building materials, gardening equipment, and determining who the best people might be to settle these spaces. The discursive field, as well as the practices here, are instantly recognizable, even hackneyed: this is colonialism, the project of which is to gain control of new territory and resources. The difference from other deployments of this discourse is the time and the place: the time is now, and the place to be colonized is not another continent, but another planet: Mars. ‘Colonialism’ has a specific meaning here: rather than a vague pejorative portmanteau used to house a myriad of power relations, it refers to the creation of distant land as the property of a metropolitan state, generally for the economic benefit of the colonizer.1 As such, colonialism incorporates expansionist capitalism. Martian colonialism does not begin with the launch of the first exploration ships or at the moment the first rocket touches down on Mars. It begins with ideas, epistemologies, expectations, discourses, and pronouncements, an organizing of the world in a legal, logical, and managerial framework that demands colonization. Martian colonialism is therefore not science fiction fantasy: it has begun in earnest, with many millions of dollars already invested in its success. There are political, strategic, marketing, and operational plans at work. In his 2004 announcement of the USA’s new space policy, George W. Bush (2004) stated that Mars would be the next body on which the USA’s human presence would be felt. Bush’s Martian vision was not a new development in the USA. Since the 1986 US National Commission on Space’s declaration of its aim to settle on Mars and the Moon, Space colonialism has featured on US Space policy agendas.2 The European Space Agency, similarly, is investing heavily in robotic probes that will scour the Martian surface foroptimal colonization sites (BBC 2006). China and Russia announced in March 2007 that they would send a joint mission to Mars by 2009. And in schools around the world, children design Martian colonies as part of their homework, with teachers being trained in how best to bring Mars into the classroom (Middle 2006), and companies offering schools ready</span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‐</span><span class="Underline">made Martian exploration simulation programs (Space Explorers 2007). We use the term ‘spatiality’ to refer to the composite nature of any geographical space: it works as a shorthand for the combination of physical, imagined, and epistemological spaces that together comprise a single place. We attend to Martian spatiality for two key reasons. The first motivation driving this study is a straightforward concern with spatial accountancy: what kind of a space is Mars at this moment? What kind of a place is Mars before the work of its physical colonization begins? Can Mars be legally owned, and if so, by whom and through which processes? And are any of the numerous lessons learned from European colonialisms of the past relevant to Mars? And is the future of Mars necessarily colonial? The second motivation is a curiosity about the ways in which geographies are produced as artefacts of systemic trends in political economic terms. Mars presents a unique case for postcolonial spatial analysis: it is precolonial, a space at the threshold of a significant spatial change. It represents an opportunity for postcolonial studies to refocus on the present – and future – tense, and on colonialisms other than those of the European past. Postcolonial spatial theory is an analytical lens through which to view Martian spatiality in its historical character: it allows for a useful view on the cultural construction of the planet, the discursive production of its spatiality, and the ways in which established power groups work to prefigure the planet as an object of capitalist commodification and strategic managerialism. Yet frustratingly, despite the proliferation of postcolonial analyses of past colonial spatialities, when it comes to new colonialisms, there is a curious critical silence. To generalize, postcolonialism tends to figure imperialism and colonialism and their associated spatialities as historical European phenomena from whose ruins nations such as Australia, Indonesia, and Canada have emerged. As Ferro (1997, viii) argues, postcolonialism is inherently Eurocentric because it focuses almost entirely on European empires, European epistemologies, and European spaces of the past. Or as Dodds (2006, 60) points out in his discussion of the difficulty of accommodating contemporary Antarctic colonialisms within existing postcolonial theoretical frameworks, ‘post</span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‐</span><span class="Underline">colonial studies are too preoccupied with a linear account of liberation in certain countries’. For example, despite the fact that Australia has laid contentious claim to 42 per cent of Antarctica since 1933 – a claim solely based on acts of imperial exploration and flagraising, and ongoing colonization – the voluminous field of Australian postcolonial studies has refused or failed to acknowledge this situation. A survey of leading postcolonial journals demonstrates this refusal: of the hundreds of articles in these publications, not one deals with Antarctica, and not one addresses Space.3 And while there are clear similarities between past and present colonialisms, the planned colonization, exploration, and spatial production of Mars are decidedly unlike British practices of the last few centuries. But this does not automatically eliminate Mars from the field of colonial spatiality</span>

<span class="Underline">Justifies all wars and violence</span>
<span class="Underline">Santos leading Portuguese social theorist, the director of the Center for Social Studies at the University of Coimbra 2003 (Boaventura de Sousa “Collective Suicide?” http://bad.eserver.org/issues/2003/63/santos.html) </span>
<span class="Underline">According to Franz Hinkelammert, the West has repeatedly been under the illusion that it should try to save humanity by destroying part of it. This is a salvific and sacrificial destruction, committed in the name of the need to radically materialize all the possibilities opened up by a given social and political reality over which it is supposed to have total power. This is how it was in colonialism, with the genocide of indigenous peoples, and the African slaves. This is how it was in the period of imperialist struggles, which caused millions of deaths in two world wars and many other colonial wars. This is how it was under Stalinism, with the Gulag, and under Nazism, with the Holocaust. And now today, this is how it is in neoliberalism, with the collective sacrifice of the periphery and even the semiperiphery of the world system. With the war against Iraq, it is fitting to ask whether what is in progress is a new genocidal and sacrificial illusion, and what its scope might be. It is above all appropriate to ask if the new illusion will not herald the radicalization and the ultimate perversion of the Western illusion: destroying all of humanity in the illusion of saving it. Sacrificial genocide arises from a totalitarian illusion manifested in the belief that there are no alternatives to the present-day reality, and that the problems and difficulties confronting it arise from failing to take its logic of development to ultimate consequences. If there is unemployment, hunger and death in the Third World, this is not the result of market failures; instead, it is the outcome of market laws not having been fully applied. If there is terrorism, this is not due to the violence of the conditions that generate it; it is due, rather, to the fact that total violence has not been employed to physically eradicate all terrorists and potential terrorists. This political logic is based on the supposition of total power and knowledge, and on the radical rejection of alternatives; it is ultra-conservative in that it aims to reproduce infinitely the status quo. Inherent to it is the notion of the end of history. During the last hundred years, the West has experienced three versions of this logic, and, therefore, seen three versions of the end of history: Stalinism, with its logic of insuperable efficiency of the plan; Nazism, with its logic of racial superiority; and neoliberalism, with its logic of insuperable efficiency of the market. The first two periods involved the destruction of democracy. The last one trivializes democracy, disarming it in the face of social actors sufficiently powerful to be able to privatize the state and international institutions in their favor. I have described this situation as a combination of political democracy and social fascism. One current manifestation of this combination resides in the fact that intensely strong public opinion, worldwide, against the war is found to be incapable of halting the war machine set in motion by supposedly democratic rulers. At all these moments, a death drive, a catastrophic heroism, predominates, the idea of a looming collective suicide, only preventable by the massive destruction of the other. Paradoxically, the broader the definition of the other and the efficacy of its destruction, the more likely collective suicide becomes. In its sacrificial genocide version, neoliberalism is a mixture of market radicalization, neoconservatism and Christian fundamentalism. Its death drive takes a number of forms, from the idea of "discardable populations", referring to citizens of the Third World not capable of being exploited as workers and consumers, to the concept of "collateral damage", to refer to the deaths, as a result of war, of thousands of innocent civilians. The last, catastrophic heroism, is quite clear on two facts: according to reliable calculations by the Non-Governmental Organization MEDACT, in London, between 48 and 260 thousand civilians will die during the war and in the three months after (this is without there being civil war or a nuclear attack); the war will cost 100 billion dollars, enough to pay the health costs of the world's poorest countries for four years.</span>

<span class="Underline">1NC DA</span>

<span class="Underline">Jackson Vanik repeal coming now – Obama has launched an all-out push. Capital is key</span>
<span class="Underline">Verona 3-29 [Ed, pres and CEO of the US-Russia Business Council, “The true cost of Jackson-Vanik,” National Interest, http://nationalinterest.org/commentary/the-true-cost-jackson-vanik-6702?page=1</span>
<span class="Underline">In January, the Obama administration publicly stated that lifting Jackson-Vanik and extending Permanent Normal Trade Relations (PNTR) to Russia is now its top trade priority. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk and other officials have testified on Capitol Hill in support of such action. Business has intensified its congressional-lobbying efforts over the past three months, briefing members and staff on the urgency of action to prevent damage to U.S. commercial interests and the loss of American jobs. The National Council on Soviet Jewry (NCSJ), a leading proponent of Jackson-Vanik during the debate over its adoption, has joined the Coalition for U.S.-Russia Trade in calling for the amendment to be lifted. Hearings have been held in the Senate Foreign Relations, Senate Finance and House Foreign Affairs Committees focusing on Russia, including Jackson-Vanik. Senators and Representatives with whom I have spoken overwhelmingly accept the economic and commercial rationale for lifting Jackson-Vanik and extending PNTR. At the same time, most of those Senators and Representatives express strong reservations about many aspects of Russia’s foreign and domestic policies. In addition, they largely hold the view that lifting Jackson-Vanik without replacing it with more relevant legislation in the area of human rights would amount to acquiescence in the face of human-rights violations and the weak rule of law in Russia. Discussion on Capitol Hill revolves around the Sergey Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act (S.1039), a bill sponsored by Senator Benjamin Cardin (D-Maryland) which as of this writing now has thirty-one cosponsors. Essentially, that bill would deny visas and impose financial sanctions on Russian officials allegedly responsible for the wrongful incarceration and death of a Russian lawyer working for an American law firm, apparently in reprisal for his denunciation of official corruption. It is up to Congress and the administration to determine the merits of the Magnitsky bill or other measures that may be introduced in conjunction with the lifting of Jackson-Vanik. An association such as the U.S.-Russia Business Council is reluctant to take a stand on an issue beyond our commercial and economic remit. But we are confident that failure to take action on Jackson-Vanik would place U.S. businesses and workers at a serious disadvantage once Russia becomes a member of the WTO, certain to occur no later than the end of August. It is abundantly clear that Jackson-Vanik provides no leverage on the Russian government now that the country is joining the WTO. On the contrary, Jackson-Vanik may even serve as a convenient anti-American foil for hard-liners within the Russian political establishment, as was asserted in recent open letters by leading members of Russia’s political opposition.</span>

<span class="Underline">SSA unpopular </span>
<span class="Underline">Wiest 07 AIR COMMAND AND STAFF COLLEGE AIR UNIVERSITY UPON THIS ROCK… A FOUNDATIONAL SPACE SITUATIONAL AWARENESS TECHNOLOGY FOR 2030 by Todd E. Wiest, Maj, USAF A Research Report Submitted to the Faculty In Partial Fulfillment of the Graduation Requirements Advisor: Lt Col Christopher Shannon Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama April 2007</span>
<span class="Underline">Even with political will and an unchanging legal environment, the cost of fielding this system may be prohibitive because many satellites will be necessary to perform the activities identified in Section 6, especially in the “Stormy Weather” scenario. Because lasers have a limited field of view, the volume of space a single satellite can cover is small. In addition, the distance the light must travel to an object and back is significant. 98 This distance limits how far away the space object can be from the conceptual SSA satellite. In addition, larger distances between the space object and the conceptual SSA satellite require larger optics for the passive sensor to obtain a detailed image of the space object. 99 To sufficiently cover space and frequently reconnoiter other countries’ space order of battle, the U.S. requires many conceptual SSA satellites. Further, while small satellites are the basis of this system to reduce the cost, physical and design realities may increase satellite size and total development cost. Even though the capabilities of the system may allow it to provide SSA data to help diagnose and attribute space activities to a specific satellite, the size or number of conceptual SSA satellites may make development cost-prohibitive. </span>

<span class="Underline">Obama’s capital is key</span>
<span class="Underline">Allison and Blackwill 11 [Graham Allison and Robert D. Blackwill October 2011 Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs Harvard University Russia and U.S. National Interests: Why Should Americans Care? A Report of the Task Force on Russia and U.S. National Interest Graham Allison Director of Harvard Kennedy School’s Belfer Assistant Secretary of Defense in the first Clinton Administration Robert D. Blackwill is the Henry A. Kissinger senior fellow for U.S. foreign policy at the Council on Foreign Relations. Deputy national security adviser for strategic planning under President George W. Bush, presidential envoy to Iraq and was the administration’s coordinator for U.S. policies regarding Afghanistan and Iran]</span>
<span class="Underline">Finally, given the disparities between U.S. and Russian interests and governance, lasting cooperation is unlikely if not impossible without determined leadership from far-sighted leaders in the executive and legislative branches, particularly the President. To take the difficult steps necessary to build a foundation for a sustainable U.S.-Russian relationship, the White House must not only discipline the executive branch and focus its efforts, but also spend political capital in the U.S. Congress. Preoccupation with domestic priorities in a highly polarized domestic political environment cannot Task Force on Russia and U.S. National Interests Report 19 but limit the administration’s ability to build a bipartisan consensus on a controversial topic like American policy toward Russia.</span>

<span class="Underline">Failure to repeal undermines US-Russia relations</span>
<span class="Underline">Miller 11 [Jacqueline, senior associate, “The WTO and the Reset” EastWest Institute -- April 8 --http://www.ewi.info/wto-and-reset]</span>
<span class="Underline">It took Barack Obama several months and some tough lobbying to finally win congressional approval for the New START treaty last December, which was seen as the key to the administration’s reset with Russia. Another fight could already be brewing over Obama’s support for Russia’s World Trade Organization (WTO) membership, which is the next big goal of the administration’s Russia policy. Citing Russian human rights abuses and lack of democratic development, congressional critics want to keep Russia subject to the Jackson-Vanik amendment—a Cold War relic that, if left in place, would effectively nullify both Russian and U.S. gains from Russian WTO membership. But, somewhat surprisingly, the administration could develop a win-win outcome by taking a page from its dealings with China, another country whose human rights practices stir congressional unease. The Jackson-Vanik amendment to the 1974 Trade Act denies permanent normal trade relations (PNTR) to non-market economies that restrict emigration. The amendment was passed unanimously by both houses of Congress to pressure the Soviet Union to allow Soviet Jews to emigrate. In 1994, the Clinton administration found Russia to be in full compliance with the amendment’s freedom-of-emigration requirements. And in 2002, the United States officially began describing Russia as a market economy. Presidents Clinton, Bush, and now Obama all declared their intention to work with Congress to repeal the legislation as it applies to Russia, but no action has been taken. The reason: Congress still sees Jackson-Vanik as a lever to punish Russia for its human rights record even when the executive branch is prioritizing the security aspects of the bilateral relationship. Jackson-Vanik’s ongoing application has been a major symbolic irritant in the relationship, even though the United States has granted Russia a waiver every year since 1992. But once Russia joins the WTO, which could happen next year, Jackson-Vanik will go from being a symbol of mistrust to inflicting actual harm both to Russia and the U.S.-Russia relationship. </span>

<span class="Underline">Relations solve nuclear war and turn the case</span>
<span class="Underline">Allison and Blackwill 11 [Graham Allison, Director, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs; Douglas Dillon Professor of Government; Faculty Chair, Dubai Initiative, Harvard Kennedy School, Robert D. Blackwill, International Council Member, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs 10-30, "10 Reasons Why Russia Still Matters"http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/21469/10_reasons_why_russia_still_matters.html]</span>
<span class="Underline">That central point is that Russia matters a great deal to a U.S. government seeking to defend and advance its national interests. Prime Minister Vladimir Putin’s decision to return next year as president makes it all the more critical for Washington to manage its relationship with Russia through coherent, realistic policies. No one denies that Russia is a dangerous, difficult, often disappointing state to do business with. We should not overlook its many human rights and legal failures. Nonetheless, Russia is a player whose choices affect our vital interests in nuclear security and energy. It is key to supplying 100,000 U.S. troops fighting in Afghanistan and preventing Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons. Ten realities require U.S. policymakers to advance our nation’s interests by engaging and working with Moscow. First, Russia remains the only nation that can erase the United States from the map in 30 minutes. As every president since John F. Kennedy has recognized, Russia’s cooperation is critical to averting nuclear war. Second, Russia is our most consequential partner in preventing nuclear terrorism. Through a combination of more than $11 billion in U.S. aid, provided through the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction program, and impressive Russian professionalism, two decades after the collapse of the “evil empire,” not one nuclear weapon has been found loose. Third, Russia plays an essential role in preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons and missile-delivery systems. As Washington seeks to stop Iran’s drive toward nuclear weapons, Russian choices to sell or withhold sensitive technologies are the difference between failure and the possibility of success. Fourth, Russian support in sharing intelligence and cooperating in operations remains essential to the U.S. war to destroy Al Qaeda and combat other transnational terrorist groups. Fifth, Russia provides a vital supply line to 100,000 U.S. troops fighting in Afghanistan. As U.S. relations with Pakistan have deteriorated, the Russian lifeline has grown ever more important and now accounts for half all daily deliveries. Sixth, Russia is the world’s largest oil producer and second largest gas producer. Over the past decade, Russia has added more oil and gas exports to world energy markets than any other nation. Most major energy transport routes from Eurasia start in Russia or cross its nine time zones. As citizens of a country that imports two of every three of the 20 million barrels of oil that fuel U.S. cars daily, Americans feel Russia’s impact at our gas pumps. Seventh, Moscow is an important player in today’s international system. It is no accident that Russia is one of the five veto-wielding, permanent members of the U.N. Security Council, as well as a member of the G-8 and G-20. A Moscow more closely aligned with U.S. goals would be significant in the balance of power to shape an environment in which China can emerge as a global power without overturning the existing order. Eighth, Russia is the largest country on Earth by land area, abutting China on the East, Poland in the West and the United States across the Arctic. This territory provides transit corridors for supplies to global markets whose stability is vital to the U.S. economy. Ninth, Russia’s brainpower is reflected in the fact that it has won more Nobel Prizes for science than all of Asia, places first in most math competitions and dominates the world chess masters list. The only way U.S. astronauts can now travel to and from the International Space Station is to hitch a ride on Russian rockets. The co-founder of the most advanced digital company in the world, Google, is Russian-born Sergei Brin. Tenth, Russia’s potential as a spoiler is difficult to exaggerate. Consider what a Russian president intent on frustrating U.S. international objectives could do — from stopping the supply flow to Afghanistan to selling S-300 air defense missiles to Tehran to joining China in preventing U.N. Security Council resolutions. So next time you hear a policymaker dismissing Russia with rhetoric about “who cares?” ask them to identify nations that matter more to U.S. success, or failure, in advancing our national interests.</span>
<span class="Underline">***CASE***</span>
<span class="Underline">Solvency</span>
<span class="Underline">ORS works now – solves their aff </span>
<span class="Underline">Defense Systems 11/03/11 Terry Costlow (contributing editor) Modularity in satellite design is key to quick response Nov 03, 2011 http://defensesystems.com/articles/2011/11/15/c4isr-1-operationally-responsive-space-initiatives.aspx</span>
<span class="Underline">The Defense Department's efforts to quickly establish networks in any region are extending into space. The Operationally Responsive Space Office (ORS), which has already overseen four launches, is driving changes that shorten development times for satellites. ORS has demonstrated that it can respond quickly when urgent needs are determined by its five partners, DOD and the Army, Air Force, Navy and Marines. Two of the launches, ORS-1 and Tactical Satellite 4, were made this year. With each launch, ORS is fine tuning its quick response processes and technologies. On the technical side, ORS now focuses on using more modular components and improving communications compatibility. “One thing we’ve learned is that we want to focus on being interoperative with the current ground architecture,” said Valerie Skarupa, a spokeswoman at Kirtland Air Force Base, N.M., where ORS has been headquartered since its inception in 2007. “This has to fit into systems that let the warfighters talk and share information.” The trend to standardized modules follows trends seen in computing and telecommunications, where cost and complexity are reduced by using standard interfaces instead of designing these basic elements for every program. In 2010, ORS finalized a contract to design and launch a satellite built around modular buses and platforms. “We’re going to take this concept a step further and fly a modular system,” Skarupa said. When common interfaces are used, modules such as sensors can quickly be commissioned quickly. For example, Goodrich Corp. converted an imager used on unmanned aerial vehicle platforms for use on the ORS-1. Modularity also lets more vendors compete, which should help increase the number of launches even as budgets shrink. “As long as things plug into the standard interfaces, we can use modules from different vendors. Standardization will help us lower costs,” Skarupa said. “When costs come down, volume can go up.” Modularity has always been a mainstay of the design processes. The bus on ORS-1, which was launched earlier this year at a cost of $226.3 million, helped set the stage for the latest project. “The bus we used on ORS-1 was modular, but it is not as modular as the bus currently being designed for the ORS Office’s Modular Space Vehicle Program,” said Brendan Regan, ORS program manager at ATK Aerospace Systems Group. ATK completed the ORS-1 bus in about 17 months, shaving roughly seven months off the typical design cycle. ORS now plans to focus on tactical systems such as TS-4. “We want to complement the capabilities of the strategic systems with low-cost tactical systems,” Skarupa said. “This changes the way we fight, it’s much more adaptable.” ORS will also alter some of its design processes. It has already eliminated mission creep so its projects won’t be delayed by managers who add requirements. The ORS also lets vendors order some complex equipment before conventional design gates are opened, which helps shorten overall program schedules. Suppliers also said when modules have already been used successfully, they can be deployed with fewer tests. It may also be possible to eliminate some redundant testing. Tests are run on components, modules, boxes, systems and on up the line to full vehicle tests. As vendors gain experience in these quick turn designs, program managers can better understand which tests provide value. “We’ve done two of these projects, so we feel we’re ready to look at places where we don’t need redundant testing for every step,” Regan said. </span>

<span class="Underline">ORS satellite development fails</span>
<span class="Underline">Day, 8 - program officer with the Space Studies Board of the National Research Council, PhD (Dwayne, “Some ORS for ORS,” The Space Review, 1/28, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1048/1)</span>

<span class="Underline">So far, most of the well-known problems have involved the launch vehicle side of the equation, where ORS still lacks an inexpensive and reliable launcher. But that is really less than half the equation. The RAND study noted that they heard from many persons who stated that the payload challenge—developing a useful satellite within the weight limitations—was greater than the launch vehicle challenge. RAND claimed (p. 42) that the ORS demonstration satellites cannot achieve the kind of optical quality that military commanders need. They based this on a 2004 study by the Air Force’s Scientific Advisory Board (SAB). Maybe a lot of progress has been made since 2004 and this is no longer the case. More likely, this is a definitional problem, and perhaps the Scientific Advisory Board was demanding performance that ORS advocates believe is unnecessary to fulfill many military requirements.</span>
<span class="Underline">Dr. Wertz stated that the goal for ORS is $20–25 million for the launch, payload, spacecraft bus, and one year of operations (excluding the non-recurring development cost). The Government Accountability Office stated that TacSats 2-4 cost approximately $40 million each, and the only currently available booster is the Minotaur, which cost $25–31 million apiece. So the demonstration flights all will cost $65–71 million apiece, excluding the operations costs. That’s very little in space terms, although for a one-year lifetime satellite, it looks less attractive at second blush. More to the point, the cost target is less than a third of these demonstration projects, and how confident are ORS advocates that those goals can be achieved? Certainly part of the answer hinges on what happens with the Falcon 1 rocket, which could potentially cut up to $23 million off the topline cost. But first Falcon 1 has to successfully reach orbit. Then it has to reach its cost goal. And the satellites have to come down in price as well, something that RAND said is going to be tough. The best way to bring the costs down is to build a lot of satellites, but that may run counter to the goal of matching what the military builds to what it needs over a long period of time, so that spares don’t sit on the ground for a decade gathering dust and becoming obsolete.</span>
<span class="Underline">No matter what they end up costing, ORS will have to demonstrate its cost superiority to other relatively cheap alternatives like UAVs (a Global Hawk UAV costs approximately $26 million, whereas a Predator costs about $4 million) whose costs can be amortized over decades of operation, compared to the nominal one-year lifetime of an ORS satellite. Yes, ORS will be able to do some things that UAVs, and big satellites, cannot do. But are those things sufficient to justify their cost?</span>

<span class="Underline">[MAYBE] ORS doesn’t have a function – empirically launch rates are low, and it wouldn’t solve any barriers to higher flight rates</span>
<span class="Underline">Foust, 03 – editor and publisher of The Space Review (10/13/03, Jeff, The Space Review, “Operationally Responsive Spacelift: A solution seeking a problem?” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/52/1)RK</span>

<span class="Underline">Who needs it?</span>
<span class="Underline">There’s no question that operationally responsive spacelift has generated a buzz in the launch industry, either out of genuine interest in the concept itself or because of the possibility of lucrative government contracts to develop such a vehicle. What remains unclear, though, is exactly what payloads require both low cost and responsive launch vehicles.</span>
<span class="Underline">Lou Amorosi, vice president of Orbital Sciences Corporation, noted during the Space 2003 panel session that operationally responsive spacelift is not really a new concept. Orbital designed the Pegasus launch vehicle to carry out one to two launches a month, he said, with a surge rate of one a week. The Taurus, meanwhile, was designed to launch on a flat pad on just eight days’ notice.</span>
<span class="Underline">While Pegasus and Taurus were designed for relatively high launch rates and launches on short notice, in practice these attributes have not been utilized. The Pegasus has flown only 35 times since its introduction in 1990, an average of less than three launches a year. The Taurus, introduced in 1994, has launched only six times (a seventh is scheduled for next month.)</span>
<span class="Underline">If operationally responsive spacelift is so important, why aren’t existing vehicles capable of launching on short notice in greater demand? The Space 2003 panelists offered a variety of answers. Amorosi suggested that a lack of payloads has been a big part of the problem. Conger, on the other hand, said that the high cost of existing vehicles—a Pegasus launch is estimated to cost $20-25 million—is keeping these vehicles from being used. He suggested that if the total cost of a mission, including the launch vehicle, spacecraft, and all operations, could be reduced to below $20 million, such a system could become “a real driver” for launch demand.</span>
<span class="Underline">However, what payloads would require launch on such short notice is something that remains to be determined. Air Force officials have talked about launching reconnaissance satellites on short notice to keep an eye on hot spots as they develop around the world. However, to date the Defense Department has focused on much larger reconnaissance satellites, too big to fit on a FALCON SLV. While the Air Force has experimented with a number of small spacecraft, primarily to develop new technologies, whether the military develops any small reconnaissance or other satellites that can be built and stored for launch on short notice is today uncertain.</span>
<span class="Underline">Another uncertainty is if a vehicle can both be operationally responsive and still be low cost. Amorosi pointed that that launching on even two days’ notice may require a dedicated vehicle and launch site for a ground-launched vehicle, or a dedicated aircraft and vehicle for air-launched systems. The expense required to maintain these assets, particularly if they are used fairly infrequently, could wipe out any low-cost attributes of the vehicle itself.</span>
<span class="Underline">While the responsiveness needs of the FALCON SLV are uncertain, there is near unanimity that there is strong demand for a small low-cost launcher. Many university-built satellites are sitting on the ground because of a lack of affordable launch opportunities, and there is plenty of anecdotal evidence from industry and the government that high launch costs have hindered the utilization of small satellites. Air Force Colonel Rich White, director of the Space Test Program, said that there is a need to reduce space access costs. “The STP budget is fixed, so we need launch vehicle costs to go down,” he said.</span>
<span class="Underline">Right now vehicle developers are optimistic that they can provide boosters that can meet both the cost and responsiveness requirements of FALCON. However, history is littered with vehicle projects that have failed to meet their performance expectations. Should the time come when the Pentagon and/or a vehicle developer is facing a tradeoff between low cost and responsiveness, they should think long and hard about what the needs for responsive launch really are before altering a vehicle that could offer affordable access to space for small payloads.</span>

<span class="Underline">1NC SSA</span>
<span class="Underline">--SSA</span>

<span class="Underline">Space fence solves now</span>
<span class="Underline">Lee 12 (http://www.pcworld.com/article/251582/lockheed_martin_develops_a_space_fence_to_track_orbiting_space_trash.html Lockheed Martin Develops a 'Space Fence' to Track Orbiting Space Trash By Kevin Lee, PCWorld Mar 9, 2012 10:31 AM)</span>

<span class="Underline">There's a lot of space debris caught within the Earth's orbit. This includes everything from dead satellites to rocket parts, and when two pieces of debris collide, it can break up into even more, even smaller pieces of space trash. We've seen a few concepts for to deal with all this junk, including recycling the dead satellites or capturing them with a giant net, but we are practically blind as to where all this space trash is going. We covered Lockheed Martin's plans to track space junk in the past, but the company just activated its prototype radar system that can monitor our entire sky and track more than 200,000 objects in orbit. Lockheed’s ground-based radar system can detect any space object that's larger than 0.8 inches across. So far the system has detected over 20,000 objects. The radar also catalogs, tracks, and predicts the course of each piece of space debris. The radar incorporates the Solid-State S-band, which pings at a higher wavelength frequency than the VHF band used by the Air Force Space Surveillance System. Lockheed’s radar allows them to detect much smaller--and many more--objects in space than other systems. The eventual goal of the Space Fence project is to replace the Air Force’s aging system that has been in place since 1961. The scientists say the system could dramatically improve our “space situational awareness.” The prototype radar would also prove to be extremely useful in protecting the International Space Station and our other working satellites from collisions long before they even happen. Both Lockheed Martin and Raytheon are currently competing to win a contract from the US Air Force for the Space Fence Project. The Air Force hopes to award the final production contract within the year, and expects to have the first Space Fence site operational by 2017. Personally, I’m hoping they discover hidden alien probes or spaceships out there... </span>

<span class="Underline">--Slots </span>

<span class="Underline">ITU coordination solves slot issues</span>
<span class="Underline">Smith 8 – PhD Student @ University of Reading</span>
<span class="Underline">M.V., Lt. Col, PhD student in the strategic studies program under Professor Colin Gray at the University of Reading in the UK, winner of the National Space Society’s 2008 Space Pioneer Award, Chief of Future Concepts (Dream Works) the Pentagon, http://spacesolarpower.wordpress.com/2008/08/31/parking-slots-and-frequencies/</span>
<span class="Underline">How does a company obtain a geostationary parking slot for a SBSP satellite? Parking slots are allotted internationally, by the International Telecommunications Union (ITU). However, the ITU only allocates orbital slots to countries, and not to private sector companies. Companies must negotiate with countries who hold the rights to orbital slots of interest. They must establish an agreement whereby space-based solar power satellites can thereafter occupy the countries’ allocated orbital slot(s). This is a common and standard practice by companies operating communications satellites in the geostationary belt. Space-based solar power companies will follow these routine and well established procedures to acquire orbital parking slots. When satellites are located close to each other, their up-link and downlink frequencies and polarisations are to be coordinated, so that there is no interference. Sometimes this requires that existing frequencies or polarisations be altered by existing satellites, to accommodate a new entrant. The ITU which allocates the orbital slots (to countries who in turn may grant use of their slots to commercial ventures) requires that all players coordinate their frequencies so that there is no disruption of service. The new entrant is obliged to ensure that their transmissions will not disrupt existing services.</span>

<span class="Underline">[SKIP] Orbit separation solves</span>
<span class="Underline">Nelson 9 – PhD</span>
<span class="Underline">Robert, “GEO Satellite question,” Applied Technology Institute, http://www.aticourses.com/blog/index.php/2009/11/18/geo-satellite-question/</span>
<span class="Underline">Dear Dr. Nelson: I understand that GEO satellites are 2 degree appart in its orbital position. How is possible that some satellites ( Telstar 11N and NSS 10 located at 37.5W; Astra 2C and 1D at 31.5 E) occupied the same orbital position ?. Could you please, help me to understand this ?. Thank you Dr. Nelson. Dr. Nelson responded as follows: The two-degree spacing requirement applies to satellites that use the same frequencies at C-band or Ku-band. Interference is avoided through the use of highly directional Earth Station antennas, although there is inevitably some adjacent satellite interference, with a C/I typically around 22 dB. Satellites that share the same orbital slot use different frequency bands and sometimes also different polarizations. For example, at 101 degrees WL, there are several satellites, including an SES Americom C/Ku-band satellite, an MSAT L-band satellite, and three or four DirectTV satellites that use a special portion of Ku-band for DBS and also use different polarizations. These satellites are separated by only about 0.02 degrees, or about 15 kilometers. Very exact station keeping must be maintained.</span>

<span class="Underline">--Miscalc</span>
<span class="Underline">Space coop high now</span>
<span class="Underline">Boucher 3/26 (Marc, co-founder of aTerra Technologies, SpaceRef Ineractive, and the Mars Institute. SpaceRef has licensed out is contect to the Discovery Channel, “Canada and Japan Sign Memorandum for Promotion of Space Cooperation,” SpaceRef, March 26, 2012, http://spaceref.ca/missions-and-programs/canadian-space-agency/canada-and-japan-to-sign-memorandum-for-promotion-of-space-cooperation.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">On his latest stop in Japan as part of an Asian tour promoting all things Canadian, Prime Minister Stephen Harper announced several initiatives with the Japanese government that includes a new Canada-Japan Memorandum for Promotion of Space Cooperation. According to the announcement the memorandum will be signed in the coming days. The initiative is part of the Canadian Space Agency President Steve MacLean's ongoing goal to broaden Canadian co-operative agreements with other like minded countries. Canada is currently working towards further cooperation with China and has been for many months in negotiations with Russia for closer ties. This includes potentially buying rides on their Soyuz spacecraft for future Canadian astronauts to visit the International Space Station. The Aerospace Industries Association of Canada (AIAC) put out a statement in support of the new Canada-Japan effort. Jim Quick, President and CEO of AIAC said "Canada's Space technological capabilities and knowhow are crucial to meeting several of our national strategic needs and priorities. Investments in our Space capabilities are investments in our national security and quality of life. Cooperation with other space nations such as Japan will help enhance those capabilities and will likely result in an increased trade between the two nations. We congratulate the CSA and it's President Dr. Steve MacLean for this significant accomplishment." MacDonald, Dettwiler and Associates Ltd. who have been conducting business for two decades in Japan also released a statement wherein they said they were looking to growing their business in Japan in particularly in the communications, space exploration and Earth observation areas. UPDATED: Ed Fast, Minister of International Trade and Minister for the Asia-Pacific Gateway has signed the memorandum of understanding on behalf of the Canadian government. According to the statement released by media office: "The new agreement will enhance cooperation between Canada and Japan in science and technology; support competitiveness of the Canadian space sector by creating opportunities for Canadian industry in Japanese markets; promote increased access to the Japanese market and facilitate strategic alliances between Canadian and Japanese companies; and encourage academic institutions to work together. The main fields of collaboration covered by this agreement include earth observation, space exploration, and science and research." </span>

<span class="Underline">SSA causes weaponization</span>
<span class="Underline">Gasparini and Miranda 10 [Giovanni, space expert at Istituto Affari Internazionali, Italy and Valerie, “Space situational awareness: an overview,” Studies in Space Policy, 2010, Volume 4, 4, 73-87]</span>

<span class="Underline">A Space Awareness system that does not work as a conﬁdence-building measure between potentially competing space actors will inevitably increase the likelihood of a conﬂictual posture in space that exploits the asymmetrical vulnerability of U.S. military space assets. This could also create an environment in which non-military security and commercial satellites would not be adequately protected. A commonly agreed governance and data policy system that resolves the tradeoff between the effectiveness of the transparency approach and the secrecy requirements of the military and intelligence community could bridge the current gap between the European and U.S. positions. The key to this approach is to allow differentiated access to data according to the real “need to know” of the potential users. In the case of commercial operators and the wider public, this would exclude knowledge of the characterisation of satellites unless speciﬁcally requested when an event requiring the assessment of legal liability occurs. U.S. authorities need to take more account of the dual character of space. At the same time, European institutions need to think more strategically. This discussion should take place between all U.S. Space Agencies on the one side and the European Council, the European Commission and ESA on the other. The problem with other space nations that are not bound by the Transatlantic Alliance is however much more complicated. China and to a lesser extent Russia, as well as other minor space-capable countries such as Iran, would feel potentially threatened by a non-inclusive American or even transatlantic approach to space awareness. As it is unlikely that they will ﬁeld a national SSA system, the incentive for them to develop ASAT capabilities would be high. This is particularly true due to the complexity and high cost of defending a space asset compared to the relative small cost of attacking it.</span>

<span class="Underline">No accidental escalation- empirics</span>
<span class="Underline">Quinlan 05- former senior fellow at the International Institute of Strategic Studies </span>
<span class="Underline">(Sir Michael, “Thinking About Nuclear Weapons,” http://www.rusi.org/downloads/assets/WHP41_QUINLAN.pdf, first published in 1997, reedited in 2005,)</span>

<span class="Underline">There have certainly been, in over fifty years since the Second World War, many accidents involving nuclear weapons, from transporters skidding off roads to strategic bombers crashing with or losing the weapons they carried (in past days when such carriage was a frequent feature of readiness arrangements). A few of these accidents may have released into the nearby atmosphere highly toxic material. None however has entailed a nuclear explosion. Some commentators suggest that this reflects remarkable good fortune amid such massive activity and deployment over so long. A more rational deduction from the facts of this experience would however be that the probability of any accident's triggering a nuclear explosion is extremely low. It might be further noted that the mechanisms needed to set off such an explosion are highly complex; and that in a large number of ways the half-century has seen extensive improvements in safety arrangements. It is undoubtedly possible to see respects in which, after the Cold War, some of the factors bearing upon risk may be new or more adverse; but some are plainly less so. The half-century we have come through entirely without accidental explosion included early years in which knowledge was sketchier, weapon design less safety-oriented and precautions less developed than they later became, as well as years in which weapon numbers were larger, deployments more widespread and alert arrangements more tense. </span>
<span class="Underline">1NC DT</span>
<span class="Underline">--1NC DT</span>

<span class="Underline">Deterrence by denial fails – adversaries will attack even if success chances are small because the pay-off is large</span>
<span class="Underline">Morgan, 10 - defense policy researcher working in RAND Corporation's Pittsburgh Office. Prior to joining RAND in January 2003, Dr. Morgan served a 27-year career in the U.S. Air Force (Forrest, “Deterrence and First-Strike Stability in Space,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522541&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf</span>
<span class="Underline">The Difficulties of Denial-Based Deterrence in Space</span>
<span class="Underline">Efforts to deter would-be aggressors by persuading them that the United States can deny them the benefits of attacking its space capa bilities also face serious challenges. While the United States should always emphasize the resilience of its space systems in order to discourage potential adversaries from attacking them, several factors may make this difficult. First, it is necessary to assume that potential adversaries are well aware that the transformational capabilities that give U.S. military forces their qualitative advantage are significantly enhanced by space support. They are likely to believe that attacking U.S. space systems offers a high payoff, because even limited success in attacks on some high-value, low-density assets might provide substantial warfighting benefits. Second, future enemies will also understand how difficult it is to defend space assets. Satellites possess inherent vulnerabilities, and all claims to the contrary are unlikely to be believed until proven. That presents a problem. There are passive defenses that the United States can employ to make satellites somewhat more resilient, but unlike visible forces and fortifications in the terrestrial environment, passive defenses on satellites are not observable in ways that deter attack. Electromagnetic pulse (EMP) shielding, radio frequency (RF) filters, and shuttered optics are not visible to the naked eye or even observable in the data collected by space surveillance systems. In fact, some defenses may need to be concealed in order to remain viable, thus eliminating the deterrent value of their existence. Consequently, the challenge will be to find ways to reduce the prospective benefits of attacking U.S. space systems that are demonstrable to potential enemies without undermining their effectiveness. Several approaches are possible, but all of them suffer certain limitations.</span>

<span class="Underline">--1NC Heg</span>
<span class="Underline">Hegemony is resilient for a slew of reasons- their evidence is snapshot hype that’s empirically denied and based on false studies</span>
<span class="Underline">Beckley ‘11 [Michael Beckley is a research fellow in the International Security Program at Harvard Kennedy School’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. He will become an assistant professor of political science at Tufts University in the fall of 2012, “China’s Century? Why America’s Edge Will Endure,” International Security, Vol. 36, No. 3, Winter, http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/Chinas_Century.pdf] </span>

<span class="Underline">According to the Global Language Monitor, which tracks the top 50,000 media sources throughout the world, the “rise of China” has been the most read-about news story of the twenty-ªrst century, surpassing the September 11 terrorist attacks, the Iraq War, the election of Barack Obama, and the British royal wedding. 1 One reason for the story’s popularity, presumably, is that the rise of China entails the decline of the United States. While China’s economy grows at 9 percent annually, the United States reels from economic recession, costly wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and massive budget deªcits. This divergence in fortunes has produced two pieces of conventional wisdom in U.S. and Chinese foreign policy debates. 2 First, the United States is in decline relative to China. Second, much of this decline is the result of globalization—the integration of national economies and resultant diffusion of technology from developed to developing countries—and the hegemonic burdens the United States bears to sustain globalization. An alternative, though less prevalent, perspective rejects both of these assumptions. 3 In this view, U.S. power is durable, and globalization and America’s hegemonic role are the main reasons why. The United States derives competitive advantages from its preponderant position, and globalization allows it to exploit these advantages, attracting economic activity and manipulating the international system to its benefit. Resolving the debate between these two perspectives is imperative for prudent policymaking. If proponents of the dominant, or “declinist,” perspective are correct, then the United States should contain China’s growth by “[adopting] a neomercantilist international economic policy” and subdue China’s ambitions by “disengag[ing] from current alliance commitments in East Asia.” 4 If, however, the United States is not in decline, and if globalization and hegemony are the main reasons why, then the United States should do the opposite: it should contain China’s growth by maintaining a liberal international economic policy, and it should subdue China’s ambitions by sustaining a robust political and military presence in Asia. With few exceptions, however, existing studies on the decline of the United States and the rise of China suffer from at least one of the following shortcomings. 5 First, most studies do not look at a comprehensive set of indicators. Instead they paint impressionistic pictures of the balance of power, presenting tidbits of information on a handful of metrics. In general, this approach biases results in favor of the declinist perspective because most standard indicators of national power—for example, gross domestic product (GDP), population, and energy consumption—conºate size with power and thereby overstate the capabilities of large but underdeveloped countries. For example, in a recent study Arvind Subramanian contends that “China’s dominance is *a sure thing” based on “an index of dominance combining just three factors: a country’s GDP, its trade (measured as the sum of its exports and imports of goods), and the extent to which it is a net creditor to the world.” 6 The United States and China, however, are each declining by some measures while rising in terms of others. To distinguish between ascendance and decline writ large, therefore, requires analyzing many indicators and determining how much each one matters in relation to others. Second, many studies are static, presenting single-year snapshots of U.S. and Chinese power. This flaw tends to bias results in favor of the alternative perspective because the United States retains a significant lead in most categories. The key question, however, is not whether the United States is more powerful than China at present, but whether it will remain so in the future. Without a dynamic analysis, it is impossible to answer this question. This study addresses these shortcomings by comparing the United States and China across a large set of economic, technological, and military indicators over the past twenty years. The results are mixed, but the bulk of the evidence supports the alternative perspective. Over the last two decades, globalization and U.S. hegemonic burdens have expanded significantly, yet the United States has not declined; in fact it is now wealthier, more innovative, and more militarily powerful compared to China than it was in 1991. China has narrowed the gap in terms of GDP and now exports a greater volume of high-technology products and employs more scientists than any country in the world. However, GDP correlates poorly with national power; more than 90 percent of China’s high-tech exports are produced by foreign ªrms and consist of low-tech components; and China’s quantitative advantage in scientists has not yet translated into qualitative advantages in innovation. The United States suffers from a huge debt problem that its political system appears ill-suited to solve. China, however, faces its own fiscal mess, which may be more intractable than America’s. </span>

<span class="Underline">[MAYBE] Heg solves nothing- past two decades prove</span>
<span class="Underline">Mearsheimer 2011 (John J., R. Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago, The National Interest, Imperial by Design, lexis)</span>
<span class="Underline">One year later, Charles Krauthammer emphasized in "The Unipolar Moment" that the United States had emerged from the Cold War as by far the most powerful country on the planet.2 He urged American leaders not to be reticent about using that power "to lead a unipolar world, unashamedly laying down the rules of world order and being prepared to enforce them." Krauthammer's advice fit neatly with Fukuyama's vision of the future: the United States should take the lead in bringing democracy to less developed countries the world over. After all, that shouldn't be an especially difficult task given that America had awesome power and the cunning of history on its side. U.S. grand strategy has followed this basic prescription for the past twenty years, mainly because most policy makers inside the Beltway have agreed with the thrust of Fukuyama's and Krauthammer's early analyses. The results, however, have been disastrous. The United States has been at war for a startling two out of every three years since 1989, and there is no end in sight. As anyone with a rudimentary knowledge of world events knows, countries that continuously fight wars invariably build powerful national-security bureaucracies that undermine civil liberties and make it difficult to hold leaders accountable for their behavior; and they invariably end up adopting ruthless policies normally associated with brutal dictators. The Founding Fathers understood this problem, as is clear from James Madison's observation that "no nation can preserve its freedom in the midst of continual warfare." Washington's pursuit of policies like assassination, rendition and torture over the past decade, not to mention the weakening of the rule of law at home, shows that their fears were justified. To make matters worse, the United States is now engaged in protracted wars in Afghanistan and Iraq that have so far cost well over a trillion dollars and resulted in around forty-seven thousand American casualties. The pain and suffering inflicted on Iraq has been enormous. Since the war began in March 2003, more than one hundred thousand Iraqi civilians have been killed, roughly 2 million Iraqis have left the country and 1.7 million more have been internally displaced. Moreover, the American military is not going to win either one of these conflicts, despite all the phony talk about how the "surge" has worked in Iraq and how a similar strategy can produce another miracle in Afghanistan. We may well be stuck in both quagmires for years to come, in fruitless pursuit of victory. The United States has also been unable to solve three other major foreign-policy problems. Washington has worked overtime-with no success-to shut down Iran's uranium-enrichment capability for fear that it might lead to Tehran acquiring nuclear weapons. And the United States, unable to prevent North Korea from acquiring nuclear weapons in the first place, now seems incapable of compelling Pyongyang to give them up. Finally, every post-Cold War administration has tried and failed to settle the Israeli-Palestinian conflict; all indicators are that this problem will deteriorate further as the West Bank and Gaza are incorporated into a Greater Israel. The unpleasant truth is that the United States is in a world of trouble today on the foreign-policy front, and this state of affairs is only likely to get worse in the next few years, as Afghanistan and Iraq unravel and the blame game escalates to poisonous levels. Thus, it is hardly surprising that a recent Chicago Council on Global Affairs survey found that "looking forward 50 years, only 33 percent of Americans think the United States will continue to be the world's leading power." Clearly, the heady days of the early 1990s have given way to a pronounced pessimism.</span>

<span class="Underline">--1NC China</span>

<span class="Underline">No US-China war- economic globalization </span>
<span class="Underline">Xuetong and Haixia 4-6-12 [Yan Xuetong is Professor of International Relations and Director of Institute of Modern International Relations, Tsinghua University. Qi Haixia is Lecturer at Department of International Relations, Tsinghua University, “Football Game Rather Than Boxing Match: China–US Intensifying Rivalry Does not Amount to Cold War,” online]</span>

<span class="Underline">Economic globalization created a strategic need for superficial friendship between China and the United States. While scholars disagree over exactly when economic globalization began, all agree that it sped up after the end of the Cold War. This is because the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance ended after the collapse of the Soviet Union, resulting in a global market. Meanwhile, the pace of information-flow increased among states, shrinking the size of the globe and leading to popularization of the expression ‘global village’. Levels of interdependence have increased along with the growing proximity of international economic relations. That a strategy of complete confrontation can no longer effectively protect national interests is now obvious. It is for this reason that certain scholars argue that there has been a qualitative change in the nature of the security dilemma since end of the Cold War.35 Under the conditions of globalization, interdependence between China and the United States has continued to grow, and for the sake of economic interests, neither is willing to adopt a strategy of all-out confrontation. Economic interdependence, however, will not diffuse the political and security conflicts between the two states. Different interests in different spheres have thus created a foundation for superficial friendship between the United States and China. </span>

<span class="Underline">[MAYBE] China attack would at most set the US back a few hours</span>
<span class="Underline">Forden, 8 - Massachusetts Institute of Technology (Geoffrey, Astropolitics, 6:138–153, “VIEWPOINT: CHINA AND SPACE WAR,” Ebsco Political Science)</span>

<span class="Underline">The answers to these questions should influence how the U.S. responds to the threats China’s ASAT represents. There is at least one way to answer these questions, i.e., ‘‘war-gaming’’ a massive Chinese attack on U.S. satellites, where China is only limited by the laws of physics and the known properties of their ASAT, and see how much damage could be done. Such an exercise also reveals what the U.S. could do, and what it could not do, to minimize the consequences. The results are reported herein.</span>
<span class="Underline">They assume that China launches a massive attack and that everything works exactly as planned; every ASAT launches, the U.S. does not respond until after the attacks are launched even though it will have overwhelming evidence ahead of time, and every ASAT hits its target. Thus, this is a worst case scenario for the U.S. In the end, the U.S. would still possess sufficient space assets to fight a major conventional war with China, even after such an attack. America’s military capabilities would be reduced, for a few hours at a time, but they would not be crippled. Back in 2001, a commission lead by Donald Rumsfeld warned of a ‘‘Pearl Harbor’’ in space whereby a single strike could cripple America’s satellite network.1 It turns out that there is no such thing.</span>

<span class="Underline">[MAYBE] Chinese dependence on space means it won’t attack</span>
<span class="Underline">Watts, 11 - Senior Fellow, Center for Strategic & Budgetary Assessments (Barry, CQ Congressional Testimony, “MILITARY AND CIVIL SPACE PROGRAMS IN CHINA; COMMITTEE: SENATE U.S.-CHINA ECONOMIC AND SECURITY REVIEW COMMISSION,” 5/11, lexis)</span>

<span class="Underline">Chinese appreciation of the vital role information will play in future hitech local wars has two main ramifications. The first is that, from a modernization perspective, the PLA has no choice but to invest in the capability to get information for its forces from space. It is not unreasonable to suspect that, without some inflight target updates, a DF21D reentry vehicle, even with terminal guidance, might be hardpressed to hit a U.S. aircraft carrier operating hundreds of miles off the Chinese coast. After all, during a notional fiveminute DF21D time of flight, a U.S. carrier moving at 25 knots could change its position by some two nautical miles, and radiofrequency aerosol obscurants could defeat the warhead's radar terminal guidance. China's emerging ASBM capability, therefore, is likely to require inflight target updates, and Chinese writings indicate that these updates will come from satellites.</span>
<span class="Underline">These observations about the dependence of the DF21D ASBM on spacebased sensors raise an important point about U.S. perceptions of PLA approaches to space systems in the event of a conflict with the United States. A frequent move by the China team in U.S. war games has been to mount attacks early on to deny the use of satellites to both sides on the premise that U.S. forces have more to lose than China's. If, however, the 2nd Artillery Corps needs information from overhead sensors to carry out its own missions in time of war, the strategy may not make as much sense as war games have tended to suggest. Selectively dazzling or blinding U.S. EO satellites as they come into view over Chinese territory with groundbased lasers is one thing. Rendering LEO unusable for all nations either by generating debris from multiple kinetic attacks on U.S. reconnaissance satellites, 10 or by detonating a nuclear weapon above the mesosphere to charge up the Earth's van Allen radiation belts, is another. Both are essentially "Samson" options.</span>
<span class="Underline">1NC Launch Costs</span>
<span class="Underline">--Small Sats</span>
<span class="Underline">The SWIFT program will do your aff now </span>
<span class="Underline">DARPA 11 [2012 Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency] Exhibit R-2, RDT&E Budget Item Justification: PB 2012 Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DATE: February 2011 http://www.dtic.mil/descriptivesum/Y2012/DARPA/0603287E_3_PB_2012.pdf</span>
<span class="Underline">Title: Single Wafer Integrated Femto Satellites (SWIFT)*</span>
<span class="Underline">Description: *Formerly Advanced Nano/Micro-Satellite Technology for Tactical Applications The goal of the Single Wafer Integrated Femto Satellites (SWIFT) program is to demonstrate critically needed technologies enabling a very small (nano- and micro-) satellite constellation for persistent tactical military applications. SWIFT will develop, fabricate, and demonstrate fully functional "femtosat" spacecraft (less than 100 grams) which can enable new missions not currently possible with singular monolithic satellites by means of an adaptable hardware architecture and microfabrication technologies. Swarms of femtosats are ideally suited for distributed missions, such as sparse aperture arrays for remote sensing or fly-around inspectors for larger spacecraft. The U.S. Army, U.S. Air Force, intelligence community, and other potential users have identified such small satellites as a potential technical approach for delivering affordable support to the tactical warfighter. By deploying large numbers of very low cost nano-satellites in distributed constellations a persistent effect can be provided to terrestrial forces. Today's technology limits the ability to do this and advances in key areas are needed to make this vision a reality. Specifically, nanosatellites lack sufficient power, communications, propulsion and imaging capacity to address many tactical needs. Key technologies include: deployable communications antennas, crosslink communications, interferometric technologies, small imaging systems, attitude control subsystems, efficient solar electric arrays, efficient maneuver capability, efficient upper stages, and revolutionary manufacturing techniques. The anticipated transition partner is the Air Force. FY 2011 Plans: - Conduct trade study of available technologies and investment opportunities. - Initiate concept design. FY 2012 Plans: - Perform military utility analysis and develop concepts of operation </span>

<span class="Underline">--Col</span>

<span class="Underline">We have a billion years until the Earth becomes unlivable</span>
<span class="Underline">Baum 10 (Seth D. Baum, M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Northeastern University, Research Assistant in the Rock Ethics Institute at Pennsylvania State University, “Is Humanity Doomed? Insights from Astrobiology” Sustainability, Volume 2, 2010, p. 600, www.mdpi.com/2071-1050/2/2/591/pdf)</span>

<span class="Underline">The fact that the universe will remain habitable for much longer than Earth will means that, if we care about long-term sustainability, then it is extremely important for us to colonize space [38]. Colonizing space will permit us to take advantage of all that the rest of the universe has to offer [39]. But this does not mean that we should focus our current efforts on space colonization. The reason for this is simple: Earth will remain habitable for another billion years or so. While a billion years is quite small compared to the universe’s lifetime, it is quite large compared to the amount of time it probably takes to colonize space, especially given our current rapid rates of technological change. If we are to colonize space before the world ends, then we have plenty of time to do it—as long as nothing really bad happens first. These “really bad” things can be any global catastrophe so large that it would permanently eliminate our capacity to colonize space before the world ends. Several phenomena may be so catastrophic, including nuclear warfare, pandemic outbreaks, ecological collapse, disruptive technology, and of course impact from a large asteroid. Risks of these events have been called global catastrophic risks or existential risks [40]. I will use the term existential risk here because it is our existence that is ultimately at stake. These risks are far more imminent than the end of the world. Therefore, if we care about long-term sustainability, then we should focus our efforts on avoiding these catastrophes, i.e., on reducing existential risk, so that future generations can colonize space.</span>

<span class="Underline">Space col fails- laundry list of reasons </span>
<span class="Underline">Humi ’11- An Interactive Qualifying Project Report completed in partial fulfillment of the Bachelor of Science degree at Worcester Polytechnic Institute Produced By: Michael Egan and John Kreso Submitted to Worcester Polytechnic Institute Professor Mayer Humi Mathematical Sciences (Mayer, 4/17/11, “Expediting Factors in Developing a Successful Space Colony,” http://www.wpi.edu/Pubs/E-project/Available/E-project-041911-134845/unrestricted/IQP_Final.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">In order to fully understand the detrimental effects that space has on humans, testing would need to focus on the aspects of the earth's environment that differ most with those in space. First, humans are very susceptible to radiation so they would either need to be highly protected, or treated so that radiation does not have as much of a negative effect on the body. Humans would also have to withstand great temperature variations in space if a suitable environment could not be designed. Our chemical makeup would have to change severely if unprotected humans would be able to withstand the harsh temperatures of our solar system. Certain pressures would also have to be maintained in order for our bodies to function normally as they do on earth. The levels of gravity take a toll on human bones and muscles as well, and would have to be increased in space for us to exist for long periods of time. Finally, light is a very important but often overlooked factor that contributes to the function of the brain. In order to maintain sanity and normal biological processes, humans in space would need to get the right amount of sunlight. Many of these variables could be tested in the extreme environments on earth to see how different levels affect the human body, but eventually the research would have to be continued in space to see how versatile our body truly is. </span>

<span class="Underline">--Resource Wars</span>

<span class="Underline">Empirics and studies are conclusive – resource shortages don’t cause wars; surplus does </span>
<span class="Underline">Salehyan 07 – Idean Salehyan Professor of Political Science at the University of North Texas. “The New Myth About Climate Change Corrupt, tyrannical governments—not changes in the Earth’s climate—will be to blame for the coming resource wars.” By Idean Salehyan | August 14, 2007 http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2007/08/13/the_new_myth_about_climate_change</span>
<span class="Underline">First, aside from a few anecdotes, there is little systematic empirical evidence that resource scarcity and changing environmental conditions lead to conflict. In fact, several studies have shown that an abundance of natural resources is more likely to contribute to conflict. Moreover, even as the planet has warmed, the number of civil wars and insurgencies has decreased dramatically. Data collected by researchers at Uppsala University and the International Peace Research Institute, Oslo shows a steep decline in the number of armed conflicts around the world. Between 1989 and 2002, some 100 armed conflicts came to an end, including the wars in Mozambique, Nicaragua, and Cambodia. If global warming causes conflict, we should not be witnessing this downward trend. Furthermore, if famine and drought led to the crisis in Darfur, why have scores of environmental catastrophes failed to set off armed conflict elsewhere? For instance, the U.N. World Food Programme warns that 5 million people in Malawi have been experiencing chronic food shortages for several years. But famine-wracked Malawi has yet to experience a major civil war. Similarly, the Asian tsunami in 2004 killed hundreds of thousands of people, generated millions of environmental refugees, and led to severe shortages of shelter, food, clean water, and electricity. Yet the tsunami, one of the most extreme catastrophes in recent history, did not lead to an outbreak of resource wars. Clearly then, there is much more to armed conflict than resource scarcity and natural disasters. </span>

<span class="Underline">[SKIP] It is reverse causal – no resources mean no wars</span>
<span class="Underline">Bennett and Nordstrom 00 [D. Scott Bennett and Timothy Nordstrom, February 2000. Department of Political Science Professors at Pennsylvania State. “Foreign Policy Substitutability and Internal Economic Problems in Enduring Rivalries,” Journal of Conflict Resolution, Ebsco]</span>
<span class="Underline">In this analysis, we focus on using economic conditions to understand when rivalries are likely to escalate or end. Rivalries are an appropriate set of cases to use when examining substitutability both because leaders in rival states have clearly substitutable choices and because rivalries are a set of cases in which externalization is a particularly plausible policy option.7 In particular, when confronted with domestic problems, leaders in a rivalry have the clear alternatives of escalating the conflict with the rival to divert attention or to work to settle the rivalry as a means of freeing up a substantial amount of resources that can be directed toward solving internal problems. In the case of the diversion option, rivals provide logical, believable actors for leaders to target; the presence of a clear rival may offer unstable elites a particularly inviting target for hostile statements or actual conflict as necessary. The public and relevant elites already consider the rival a threat or else the rivalry would not have continued for an extended period; the presence of disputed issues also provides a casus belli with the rival that is always present. Rivals also may provide a target where the possible costs and risks of externalization are relatively controlled. If the goal is diversion, leaders willwant to divert attention without provoking an actual (and expensive)war. Over the course of many confrontations, rival states may learn to anticipate response patterns, leading to safer disputes or at least to leaders believing that they can control the risks of conflict when they initiate a new confrontation. In sum, rivals provide good targets for domestically challenged political leaders. This leads to our first hypothesis, which is as follows: Hypothesis 1: Poor economic conditions lead to diversionary actions against the rival. Conflict settlement is also a distinct route to dealing with internal problems that leaders in rivalries may pursue when faced with internal problems. Military competition between states requires large amounts of resources, and rivals require even more attention. Leaders may choose to negotiate a settlement that ends a rivalry to free up important resources that may be reallocated to the domestic economy. In a “guns versus butter” world of economic trade-offs, when a state can no longer afford to pay the expenses associated with competition in a rivalry, it is quite rational for leaders to reduce costs by ending a rivalry. This gain (a peace dividend) could be achieved at any time by ending a rivalry. However, such a gain is likely to be most important and attractive to leaders when internal conditions are bad and the leader is seeking ways to alleviate active problems. Support for policy change away from continued rivalry is more likely to develop when the economic situation sours and elites and masses are looking for ways to improve a worsening situation. It is at these times that the pressure to cut military investment will be greatest and that state leaders will be forced to recognize the difficulty of continuing to pay for a rivalry. Among other things, this argument also encompasses the view that the cold war ended because the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics could no longer compete economically with the United States. Hypothesis 2: Poor economic conditions increase the probability of rivalry termination. Hypotheses 1 and 2 posit opposite behaviors in response to a single cause (internal economic problems). As such, they demand a research design that can account for substitutability between them. </span>


=Round 6 - ISS= 
<span class="Underline"> Contention One is Science Diplomacy </span>
<span class="Underline">The US is key to global science diplomacy</span>
<span class="Underline">Turekian, 2010 [Vaugh, Director of Center for Science Diplomacy, American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS); Keynote Address at USC Center for on Public Diplomacy Conference, 2010, http://uscpublicdiplomacy.org/media/Science%20Diplomacy%20Proceedings.pdf]</span>
<span class="Underline">Dr. Vaughan Turekian began his keynote speech at the opening dinner of Science Diplomacy and the Prevention of Conflict with the proposition that a new era of science diplomacy is emerging, one that brings together a number of relevant actors, including the public diplomacy community, scientists, NGOs, universities, foundations, and governments. In recent years we have seen the waning effectiveness of hard, soft, and smart power, and the time is ripe for an emphasis on science diplomacy. Turekian pointed out that the world appears to be becoming multipolar, with coalitions forming around specific interests and issues. Nearly every major issue, whether global or national in scale, features science and technology as either the underlying cause or ultimate cure. In setting the context for the conference, Turekian noted that the United States is currently, and for the foreseeable future will be, the world’s major scientific center. Not only does the United States employ the most scientists in major research areas, it also spends the most money, produces the most publications, and is home to many of the world’s top ranked research universities. However, the United States’ lead is decreasing as other countries begin to see the potential for science to boost economic growth and improve standards of living. Turekian went on to explain his view of science diplomacy. Since science and diplomacy are two terms that may not always mesh coherently, he found it useful to delineate the terms in three ways. First, “science in diplomacy” explains how science can help identify and address many of the global and foreign policy issues we face today, as can be seen in the case of climate change. Second, “diplomacy for science” occurs when the science community requires access to the resources of other nations and must turn to the diplomatic community for assistance. The International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor (ITER) serves as a prime example. Lastly, there exists “science for diplomacy,” commonly known as science diplomacy, which Turekian defined as: the application of international science cooperation, motivated by the desire to establish or enhance relationships between societies. Turekian addressed the concept of access in science. Scientists desire access to tangible items such as counterparts, ideas, samples, funding, equipment, and machinery, which may only be obtainable through foreign cooperation. While the science community may desire such tangible resources, the foreign policy community is primarily interested in influence. Influence may include the ability to affect how countries make decisions, how they develop, and how foreign publics view the home country. Science diplomacy is the nexus of access and influence.</span>

<span class="Underline">Try-or-die – extinction is inevitable without science diplomacy – and it’s key to solving all other impacts</span>
<span class="Underline">Sackett, 10 – former Chief Scientist for Australia, former Program Director at the NSF, PhD in theoretical physics, the Director of the Australian National University (ANU) Research School of Astronomy and Astrophysics and Mount Stromlo and Siding Spring Observatories (2002 – 07) [August 10, 2010, Penny Sackett, “Science diplomacy: Collaboration for solutions,” published in the Forum for Australian-European Science and Technology cooperation magazine, http://www.chiefscientist.gov.au/2010/08/science-diplomacy-collaboration-for-solutions/]</span>
<span class="Underline">Now turn your attention to today’s reality. Almost 7 billion people inhabit the planet and this number increases at an average of a little over one per cent per year. That’s about 2 more mouths to feed every second. Do these 7 billion people have an impact on the planet? Yes. An irreversible impact? Probably. Taken together this huge number of people has managed to change the face of the Earth and threaten the very systems that support them. We are now embarked on a trajectory that, if unchecked, will certainly have detrimental impacts on our way of life and to natural ecosystems. Some of these are irreversible, including the extinction of many species. But returning to that single individual, surely two things are true. A single person could not have caused all of this, nor can a single person solve all the associated problems. The message here is that the humyn-induced global problems that confront us cannot be solved by any one individual, group, agency or nation. It will take a large collective effort to change the course that we are on; nothing less will suffice. Our planet is facing several mammoth challenges: to its atmosphere, to its resources, to its inhabitants. Wicked problems such as climate change, over-population, disease, and food, water and energy security require concerted efforts and worldwide collaboration to find and implement effective, ethical and sustainable solutions. These are no longer solely scientific and technical matters. Solutions must be viable in the larger context of the global economy, global unrest and global inequality. Common understandings and commitment to action are required between individuals, within communities and across international networks. Science can play a special role in international relations. Its participants share a common language that transcends mother tongue and borders. For centuries scientists have corresponded and collaborated on international scales in order to arrive at a better and common understanding of the natural and humyn world. Values integral to science such as transparency, vigorous inquiry and informed debate also support effective international relation practices. Furthermore, given the long-established global trade of scientific information and results, many important international links are already in place at a scientific level. These links can lead to coalition-building, trust and cooperation on sensitive scientific issues which, when supported at a political level, can provide a ‘soft politics’ route to other policy dialogues. That is, if nations are already working together on global science issues, they may be more likely to be open to collaboration on other global issues such as trade and security. </span>

<span class="Underline">And, science diplomacy checks escalation of conflicts – it’s an impact filter </span>
<span class="Underline">The Royal Society, 10 –[Replaced Other Royal Society Card] a Fellowship of more than 1400 outstanding individuals from all areas of science, mathematics, engineering and medicine, who form a global scientific network of the highest calibre. The Fellowship is supported by over 130 permanent staff with responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Society and its activities. [January, 2010, “New frontiers in science diplomacy”]</span>
<span class="Underline">Cooperation on the scientific aspects of sensitive issues may sometimes be the only way to initiate a wider political dialogue. The soft power of science, and the universality of scientific methods, can be used to diffuse tensions even in ‘hard power’ scenarios, such as those relating to traditional military threats. For example, technologies to verify nuclear arms control agreements were a rare focus of joint working between the US and USSR during the Cold War. Lessons from the Cold War are once again highly pertinent. In the run-up to the May 2010 Review Conference of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT), nuclear disarmament is firmly back on the international agenda. However, the timescale for disarmament is long, as illustrated by the history of negotiations over the Chemical Weapons Convention. After the Geneva Convention banned the use of chemical weapons in 1925, negotiations for a treaty banning their production and stockpiling did not start until the 1980s, and the convention entered into force only in 1997. Even now, stockpiles of chemical weapons in the US and Russia have yet to be destroyed. So focusing in 2010 on the challenges of the final stages of a nuclear disarmament process may be premature. A more practical next step could be to establish the scientific requirements for the verification regime necessary to support future stages of negotiation (Pregenzer 2008). In 2008, the Norwegian Minister of Foreign Affairs suggested that a high-level Intergovernmental Panel on Nuclear Disarmament could be established (based on the model of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change). This panel could begin by identifying the scientific and technical aspects of disarmament, and then set out a research agenda necessary to achieve them. International cooperation would be essential, both between nuclear and non-nuclear weapon states, as all would need to have confidence that reductions are taking place. The recent initiative between the UK and Norwegian governments on disarmament verifi cation sets a precedent here, and could be expanded to include additional States (VERTIC 2009). However, security threats now extend beyond the military domain, with environmental security attracting particular attention (Abbott C, Rogers P & Sloboda S 2007). Essential resources, such as freshwater, cultivable land, crop yields and fish stocks, are likely to become scarcer in many parts of the world, increasing the risk of competition over resources within and between states (UNEP 2009). This could intensify as previously inaccessible regions, such as the Arctic Ocean, open up as a consequence of climate change and ice melt. Substantial parts of the world also risk being left uninhabitable by rising sea levels, reduced freshwater availability or declining agricultural capacity. Many of the regions that are vulnerable to the impacts of these multiple stresses are already the locus of existing instability and conflict (see Figure 2). 5 Conclusions The main conclusions to emerge from the discussions at the Royal Society/AAAS meeting were as follows: 5.1 The three dimensions of science diplomacy The concept of science diplomacy is gaining increasing currency in the US, UK, Japan and elsewhere. It is still a fl uid concept, but can usefully be applied to the role of science, technology and innovation in three related areas: • informing foreign policy objectives with scientifi c advice (science in diplomacy); • facilitating international science cooperation (diplomacy for science); • using science cooperation to improve international relations between countries (science for diplomacy). 5.2 Science and universal values Scientific values of rationality, transparency and universality are the same the world over. They can help to underpin good governance and build trust between nations. Science provides a non-ideological environment for the participation and free exchange of ideas between people, regardless of cultural, national or religious backgrounds. 5.3 The soft power of science Science is a source of what Joseph Nye terms ‘soft power’ (Nye 2004). The scientific community often works beyond national boundaries on problems of common interest, so is well placed to support emerging forms of diplomacy that require non-traditional alliances of nations, sectors and non-governmental organisations. If aligned with wider foreign policy goals, these channels of scientific exchange can contribute to coalition building and conflict resolution. Cooperation on the scientific aspects of sensitive issues—such as nuclear nonproliferation—can sometimes provide an effective route to other forms of political dialogue. Similarly the potential of science as an arena for building trust and understanding between countries is gaining traction, particularly in the Middle East and wider Islamic world (see Case study 1). 5.4 Motivations for science diplomacy Science diplomacy seeks to strengthen the symbiosis between the interests and motivations of the scientific and foreign policy communities. For the former, international cooperation is often driven by a desire to access the best people, research facilities or new sources of funding. For the latter, science offers useful networks and channels of communication that can be used to support wider policy goals. Foreign ministries should place greater emphasis on science within their strategies, and draw more extensively on scientific advice in the formation and delivery of policy objectives. In the UK, the appointment of Professor David Clary FRS as the Chief Scientific Adviser at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office creates an important opportunity to integrate science across FCO priorities, and develop stronger linkages with science-related policies in other government departments. Mechanisms to help achieve this could include: • ensuring messages about the value of science are promulgated throughout foreign ministries and embassies, including to all Heads of Mission; • incorporating science policy training into induction courses and training for foreign ministry staff, and specialist diplomatic training for dedicated science officers; • involving more scientists in foreign ministries to advise at senior and strategic levels; • encouraging the recruitment of science graduates as part of the general intake to the foreign service; • encouraging secondments and pairing between diplomats and scientists; • encouraging independent scientific bodies to provide science policy briefi ngs for foreign ministry and embassy staff.</span>
<span class="Underline">Contention Two is Microgravity </span>

<span class="Underline">We isolate two scenarios:</span>
<span class="Underline">First is industry:</span>

<span class="Underline">The pharmaceutical industry is key to preventing bioterrorism </span>
<span class="Underline">Washington Post ‘1 (Justin Gillis, 2001 "Scientists Race for Vaccines," lexis) </span>
<span class="Underline">U.S. scientists, spurred into action by the events of Sept. 11, have begun a concerted assault on bioterrorism, working to produce an array of new medicines that include treatments for smallpox, a safer smallpox vaccine and a painless anthrax vaccine.  At least one major drug company, Pharmacia Corp. of Peapack, N.J., has offered to let government scientists roam through the confidential libraries of millions of compounds it has synthesized to look for drugs against bioterror agents. Other companies have signaled that they will do the same if asked. These are unprecedented offers, since a drug company's chemical library, painstakingly assembled over decades, is one of its primary assets, to which federal scientists usually have no access. "A lot of people would say we won World War II with the help of a mighty industrial base," said Michael Friedman, a onetime administrator at the Food and Drug Administration who was appointed days ago to coordinate the pharmaceutical industry's efforts. "In this new war against bioterrorism, the mighty industrial power is the pharmaceutical industry."  One example of the new urgency is an initiative launched by Eli Lilly & Co. One of the company's infectious-disease experts, Gail Cassell, realized during the anthrax scare that her company had three drugs that might work as treatments for smallpox, even scarier than anthrax as a potential terrorist weapon.  In a matter of days Cassell, a Lilly vice president, tore through paperwork that normally would have taken months, put samples of the drugs on a plane and flew them to government laboratories in the Washington area to be tested against smallpox. It's not clear yet whether the drugs will prove effective.  "We all have to think of the situation as being rather urgent," Cassell said. "You're kind of waiting for the next shoe to drop, given the events of the last two months." Researchers say a generation of young scientists never called upon before to defend the nation is working overtime in a push for rapid progress. At laboratories of the National Institutes of Health, at universities and research institutes across the land, people are scrambling.  "This has been such a shock to so many people," said Carole Heilman, a division director at NIH, which is paying for much of the bioterror research. "People aren't sleeping anymore. Everybody is working as much as they possibly can. Bureaucracy is not a word that's acceptable anymore." But the campaign, for all its urgency, faces hurdles both scientific and logistical. The kind of research now underway would normally take at least a decade before products appeared on pharmacy shelves. Scientists are talking about getting at least some new products out the door within two years, a daunting schedule in medical research.  If that happens, it will be with considerable assistance from the nation's drug companies. They are the only organizations in the country with the scale to move rapidly to produce pills and vials of medicine that might be needed by the billions. The companies and their powerful lobby in Washington have been working over the past few weeks to seize the moment and rehabilitate their reputations, tarnished in recent years by controversy over drug prices and the lack of access to AIDS drugs among poor countries.  The companies have already made broad commitments to aid the government in the short term, offering free pills with a wholesale value in excess of $ 1 billion, as well as other help. The question now is whether that commitment will extend over the several years it will take to build a national stockpile of next-generation medicines. "This is a time of crisis," Friedman said. "I think the industry is going to be very patient and going to be making a long-term commitment. It's the right thing to do."</span>
<span class="Underline">1AC Bioterror Impact</span>

<span class="Underline">Now is key – bioterror threats increasing</span>
<span class="Underline">Garrett, 1/5/12 [Laurie, Senior fellow for global health at the Council on Foreign Relations, recipient of the 1996 Pulitzer Prize for her coverage of the Ebola epidemic in what was then Zaire, and author of I Hear the Sirens Scream: How American Responded to the 9/11 and Anthrax Attacks; “Flu Season,” Foreign Policy, January 5, 2012, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/01/05/flu_season]</span>
<span class="Underline">Meanwhile, bird flu is back, causing human and bird infections and deaths in Hong Kong, mainland China, India, Bangladesh, and Egypt. A Shenzhen bus driver died of H5N1 on Dec. 31; the source of his infection has not been determined. Nature carries out its own mutations. Indeed, all five of the mutations that were the key in Fouchier's experiments to transforming garden-variety bird flu into a supercontagious mammalian killer have already occurred separately in nature. Yes, the birds and viruses have already done it -- but not with all five mutations in a single viral strain. The biological clock is ticking. In late December, the U.S. CDC issued a warning, noting that yet another flu threat looms, combining the 2009 H1N1 "swine flu" with a H3N2 influenza now circulating in American commercial pig farms. The naturally occurring recombinant flu had infected a dozen Americans by Christmas.</span>

<span class="Underline">Independently, even research on small diseases solves major ones</span>
<span class="Underline">Dana-Farber, 2002 [Since its founding in 1947, Dana-Farber has been committed to providing cancer patients with the best treatment available today while developing tomorrow's cures through cutting-edge research. Research into rare disease leads to discovery of six new breast cancer-susceptibility genes, June 13, http://www.dana-farber.org/abo/news/press/061302b.asp]</span>
<span class="Underline">A decade of research into one of the world's least-known diseases has resulted in a major advance against one of the best-known: the discovery of six genes linked to inherited breast cancer. In a study published online by the journal Science on June 13, investigators at Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Children's Hospital Boston report that an error in any of the half-dozen genes involved in Fanconi anemia - a rare childhood condition - can increase an individual's chances of developing breast cancer. The discovery raises the prospect that the ranks of known breast cancer-susceptibility genes - best known as BRCA1 and BRCA2 - will soon increase four-fold, to a total of eight. "Just as women today can be tested for BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations to determine if they have an inherited predisposition for breast cancer, testing for mutations in these other six genes may soon become a routine part of gauging inherited breast cancer risk," says the study's senior author, Alan D'Andrea, MD, of Dana-Farber. "Women and their doctors can then use the information in deciding how to keep that risk at a minimum." The finding may also spur the development of new treatments capable of preventing or quelling breast cancer in women at risk for the disease. Drugs that can counteract the flaws in specific genes promise to be more effective than therapies that take a more generic approach. The discovery of the new cancer-susceptibility genes grew out of more than 10 years of research by D'Andrea into Fanconi anemia, a condition known to affect only 500 families in the United States. Children born with the condition usually develop bone marrow failure early in life, leaving them unable to produce oxygen-carrying red blood cells. If they survive into young adulthood - often with the help of a bone marrow transplant - they're at risk for a variety of cancers - most often leukemia, but also tumors of the brain, head and neck, breast, colon, and other parts of the body. "This work is a prime example of how research into rare conditions can lead to better diagnosis and treatment for people with far more common diseases," D'Andrea explains. </span>

<span class="Underline">The impact is extinction</span>
<span class="Underline">Darling and Shultz-Makuch, ‘12 [Astrobiologist Dirk Schulze-Makuch and British astronomer David Darling Seattle's Big Blog, http://blog.seattlepi.com/thebigblog/2012/03/18/9-strange-ways-the-world-really-might-end/?fb_xd_fragment, Washington State University]</span>
<span class="Underline">Catastrophometer Scale 7.5: The enemy within (Pandemics) Our body is in constant competition with a dizzying array of viruses, bacteria, and parasites, many of which treat us simply as a source of food or a vehicle for reproduction. What’s troubling is that these microbes can mutate and evolve at fantastic speed – the more so thanks to the burgeoning humyn population – confronting our bodies with new dangers every year. HIV, Ebola, bird flu, and antibiotic-resistant “super bugs” are just a few of the pathogenic threats to humynity that have surfaced over the past few decades. Our soaring numbers, ubiquitous international travel, and the increasing use of chemicals and biological agents without full knowledge of their consequences, have increased the risk of unstoppable pandemics arising from mutant viruses and their ilk. Bubonic plague, the Black Death, and the Spanish Flu are vivid examples from history of how microbial agents can decimate populations. But the consequences aren’t limited to a high body count. When the death toll gets high enough, it can disrupt the very fabric of society. According to U.S. government studies, if a global pandemic affecting at least half the world’s population were to strike today, health professionals wouldn’t be able to cope with the vast numbers of sick and succumbing people. The result of so many deaths would have serious implications for the infrastructure, food supply, and security of 21st century man. While an untreatable pandemic could strike suddenly and potentially bring civilization to its knees in weeks or months, degenerative diseases might do so over longer periods. The most common degenerative disease is cancer. Every second men and every third women in the western world will be diagnosed with this disease in their lifetime. Degeneration of our environment through the release of toxins and wastes, air pollution, and intake of unhealthy foods is making this problem worse. If cancer, or some other form of degenerative disease, were to become even more commonplace and strike before reproduction, or become infectious (as seen in the transmitted facial cancer of the Tasmanian Devil, a carnivorous marsupial in Australia) the very survival of our species could be threatened. </span>

<span class="Underline">Biological terrorist attack would cause extinction </span>
<span class="Underline">Kellman, 2008 [Barry, Director of the International Weapons Control Center at the DePaul University College of Law and author of Bioviolence—Preventing Biological Terror and Crime; “Bioviolence: A Growing Threat,” The Futurist, May-June 2008, http://www.wfs.org/March-April09/MJ2008_Kellman.pdf]</span>
<span class="Underline">What Might Bioviolence Accomplish? Envision a series of attacks against capitals of developing states that have close diplomatic linkages with the United States. The attacks would carry a well-publicized yet simple warning: “If you are a friend of the United States, receive its officials, or support its policies, thousands of your people will get sick.” How many attacks in how many cities would it take before international diplomacy, to say nothing of international transit, comes to a crashing halt? In comparison to use of conventional or chemical weapons, the potential death toll of a bioattack could be huge. Although the number of victims would depend on where an attack takes place, the type of pathogen, and the sophistication of the weapons maker, there is widespread consensus among experts that a heightened attack would inflict casualties exceedable only by nuclear weapons. In comparison to nuclear weapons, bioweapons are far easier and cheaper to make and transport, and they can be made in facilities that are far more difficult to detect. The truly unique characteristic of certain bioweapons that distinguishes them from every other type of weapon is contagion. No other type of weapon can replicate itself and spread. Any other type of attack, no matter how severe, occurs at a certain moment in time at an identifiable place. If you aren’t there, you are angry and upset but not physically injured by the attack. An attack with a contagious agent can uniquely spread, potentially imperiling target populations far from where the agents are released. A bio-offender could infect his minions with a disease and send them across borders before symptoms are obvious. Carriers will then spread it to other unsuspecting victims who would themselves become extended bioweapons, carrying the disease indiscriminately. There are challenges in executing such an attack, but fanatical terrorist organizations seem to have an endless supply of willing suicide attackers. All this leads to the most important characteristic of bioviolence: It raises incomparable levels of panic. Contagious bioviolence means that planes fly empty or perhaps don’t fly at all. People cancel vacation and travel plans and refuse to interact with each other for fear of unseen affliction. Public entertainment events are canceled; even going to a movie becomes too dangerous. Ultimately, bioviolence is about hiding our children as everyone becomes vulnerable to our most fundamental terror: the fear of disease. For people who seek to rattle the pillars of modern civilization and perhaps cause it to collapse, effective use of disease would set in motion political, economic, and health consequences so severe as to call into question the ability of existing governments to maintain their citizens’ security. In an attack’s wake, no one would know when it is over, and no government could credibly tell an anxious population where and when it is safe to resume normal life. While it is difficult to specify when this danger will strike, there should be no doubt that we are vulnerable to a rupture. Just as planes flying into the Twin Towers on September 11, 2001, instantly became a historical marker dividing strategic perspectives before from after, the day that disease is effectively used as an instrument of hate will profoundly change everything. If you want to stop modern civilization in its tracks, bioviolence is the way to go. The notion that no one will ever commit catastrophic bioviolence is simply untenable.</span>

<span class="Underline">The second scenario is Nanotech – </span>

<span class="Underline">Global development inevitable – 60 countries heavily invested. </span>
<span class="Underline">Sargent, 2008 </span>
<span class="Underline">[John F., Specialist in Science and Technology Policy Resources, Science, and Industry Division, 5-15, “Nanotechnology and U.S. Competitiveness: Issues and Options,” CRS Report for Congress, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/RL34493.pdf]</span>
<span class="Underline">Public Investments. The United States has led, and continues to lead, all nations in public investments in nanotechnology R&D. However the estimated U.S. share of global public R&D investments in nanotechnology has fallen as other nations have established similar programs and increased funding. In the early part of this decade, many nations followed the U.S. lead and established formal national nanotechnology programs in recognition of the potential contributions nanotechnology may offer for economic growth, job creation, energy production and energy efficiency, environmental protection, public health and safety, and national security. According to Mike Roco, past chair of the National Science and Technology Council’s (NSTC) Nanoscale Science, Engineering, and Technology (NSET) subcommittee, at least 60 countries have adopted national nanotechnology projects or programs.25 Japan, Germany, and South Korea are making substantial sustained investments across a broad range of nanoscale science, engineering, and technology and are strong competitors for global leadership. More recently, China and Russia have increased investments in nanotechnology. In addition, others — such as Israel, Singapore, and Taiwan — have focused their resources on either a specific nanotechnology niche or on technology development (in contrast to fundamental research).26 Lux Research estimates that total 2006 public global R&D investments increased 10% over the 2005 level, reaching $6.4 billion. International investment levels can be compared using differing methods, producing substantially different perspectives on leadership. For example, using a currency exchange rate comparison, the United States ranks ahead of all others, with federal and state investments of $1.78 billion in 2006 (27.8% of global public R&D investments), followed by Japan ($975 million, 15.2%) and Germany ($563 million, 8.8%). When national investments are adjusted using purchasing power parity (PPP) exchange rates (which seek to equalize the purchasing power of currencies in different countries for a given basket of goods and/or services),27 China ranks second in public nanotechnology spending in 2006 at $906 million, behind only the United States; Japan drops to third as its PPP-adjusted investment falls to $889 million.28 Comparative international public funding for nanotechnology R&D is provided in Table 1.</span>

<span class="Underline">Microgravity is uniquely key for nanotech</span>
<span class="Underline">Ferrari et al. 09 (Mauro Ferrari, Ph.D., Professor, The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston and President, Alliance for NanoHealth; Alessandro Grattoni, Sr. Research Assistant; Arturas Ziemys, Postdoctoral Fellow; Dan Fine, Postdoctoral Fellow; Enrica De Rosa, Postdoctoral Fellow. “Decoupling Diffusive Transport Phenomena in Microgravity,” http://www.labflight.com/UT_Health_Sciences.pdf accessed 1/9/2012.)</span>
<span class="Underline">In the liquid or gas phase, increasing particle size renders those particles less susceptible to Brownian diffusion and more strongly driven by gravity [Dailey et al., 2007]. However other studies suggest that solutions containing relatively small particles, with sizes less than 1 µm such as proteins, can be affected by gravity. The study of tubulin polymerization into microtubules revealed that gravity controls the growth of polymeric species along the axis of a microtubule [Papaseit et al., 2000]. The study was performed with the help of the European Space Agency, and suggests that gravity modifies the orientation of microtubules and affects the concentration distribution around heavier oligomers. The interpretation of the phenomena in a reaction diffusion system is that the interaction of concentration fluctuations with gravity results in a small directional transport term that destabilizes the equilibrium state at the bifurcation point and thus favors the formation of a macroscopic pattern [Papaseit et al., 2000]. This clearly illustrates that gravitational forces cannot be discarded absolutely from a general or macroscopic point of view of the system. Although the tubulin is a protein with a typical size, it shows that oligomeric tubulin structures and different tubulin concentrations can be affected. Therefore the results of nano- or microconfinement studies might be affected by subtle effects of gravity (stratified and/or laminar flow of liquid in channels; analyte particle in reservoir) through the positioning of nano- or microdevices. Another important fact is that experimental studies are quite restricted at the nanoscale. The microscale can give an additional boost to apply conventional techniques to analyze the transport in microchannels. Frequently scientists face analyzing the “macro” outcome of nano- or micro experiments, like measuring the total flux of analytes through nanochannels. Microgravity yields a valuable gift for scientists to study larger particles transported over microchannels, which in standard gravity would sediment in the reservoir without any flux through the microchannels. Moreover, the ability to use large particles would allow for optical analysis that would entail direct visualization of the distribution of the particles over a chosen dimension of the microchannels. This unique scale-up of systems would bring a penalty of lower diffusivities of the particles that can be resolved by specific tuning of the microchannel dimensions. In this framework it would be of great benefit to perform studies of the transport of micro and nano particles within microsystems in space. At the microscale all geometrical and chemical proprieties can be controlled to a much greater extent, and measurements can be performed more easily. A particular advantage of having experimental data of free diffusion not affected by gravity at the microscale is the possibility to correlate these data with similar results obtained on Earth at the nanoscale. Moreover, with this experiment it will be possible to quantify the effect of size, charge and chemistry on diffusive transport and even lead to a theoretical relationship able to describe diffusion at nanoscale as well. This finding would allow for predictions of nanosystem performance and, hence, to design, adjust and refine them so as to obtain the optimal properties before the arduous experimental task of synthesis and characterization. </span>

<span class="Underline">US leadership creates a responsible model, causes regulation which makes nanotech safe</span>
<span class="Underline">Forrest, 1989 [David, President of the Institute for Molecular Manufacturing and a Senior Fellow at the Foresight Nanotech Institute, member of the Working Group for the International Technology Roadmap for Productive Nanosystems, and of the Technical Advisory Group to the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) on the ISO Technical Committee on Nanotechnology (TC/229), “Regulating Nanotechnology Development,” 3-23, http://www.foresight.org/nano/forrest1989.html]</span>
<span class="Underline">If we tried to block or slow the development of nanotechnology in the United States, or in other democracies, we would increase the chances that nanotechnology is first developed in a country without a free press. In which case we could not be certain that that country would not use nanotechnology to oppress its neighbors or the rest of the world. So efforts to slow progress only serve to threaten our own freedom. Therefore, a sensible course of action when formulating nanotechnology policy is to assume that nanotechnology will be here sooner than most people expect (the ten-year time horizon) and concentrate on guiding development to avoid the dangers instead of blindly opposing development. When we consider what must be accomplished in that time frame, it seems clear that we should begin the task as soon as possible. </span>

<span class="Underline">Only the US can serve as a catalyst for international cooperation</span>
<span class="Underline">Goel, 2008 [Dr. Anita, MD, PhD, is the president and scientific director of Nanobiosym Labs and president and CEO of Nanobiosym Diagnostics, the commercial arm of Nanobiosym that is developing next-generation diagnostic capabilities, 4-28, “Harnessing Nanotechnology to Drive the New Global Economy,” http://www.xconomy.com/boston/2008/04/28/harnessing-nanotechnology-to-drive-the-new-global-economy/2/]</span>
<span class="Underline">I envision that the new global economy will take shape as the economies of major nations become more interdependent and intertwined via science, technology, and commerce. Nanotechnology by its very multidisciplinary and international nature is thus likely to play a major role in driving the new global economy. Nanotechnology will spur American entrepreneurs to think and act even more globally. As Americans, we should take a bold step towards global leadership in the nanotechnology revolution by engaging other players around the world and also by embracing global challenges (such as the energy crisis, global health, and the environment) as our own, including those of the developing world. Together we should focus on using our best scientific and technological tools to solve real-world problems. The very nature of the way innovation and commercialization is proceeding in nanotech enables us to reach out to a global market. For example our product, because of its portability and small size, has a large potential in the developing world. Similar to the cell phone industry which has made a disruptive impact on telecommunications in emerging markets, there are six billion people on Earth and everybody gets infected at some point in their life. If we can make our products cheap enough we can improve global healthcare as well as cater to the needs of a growing multibillion-dollar market. </span>

<span class="Underline">Unilateral nanotech causes an arms race and insures extinction – only international cooperation can solve</span>
<span class="Underline">Treder And Phoenix, 8 Mike , Executive Director of CRN, BS Biology, University of Washington, Research Fellow with the Institute for Ethics and Emerging Technologies, a consultant to the Millennium Project of the American Council for the United Nations University AND Chris Phoenix, CRN’s Director of Research, has studied nanotechnology for more than 15 years. BS, Symbolic Systems, MS, Computer Science, Stanford University. Center For Responsible Nanotechnology, “The Need for International Control” http://www.crnano.org/int_control.htm</span>
<span class="Underline">Overview: International administration appears to be necessary for several reasons. Some of the risks of molecular nanotechnology (MNT) are potentially global in scope. At least one of the sources of risk, the possibility of a nanotech arms race, is explicitly international. Even well-intentioned and well-policed nations cannot always prevent internal terrorism, and companies with strong financial incentive do not always design secure products. Each additional MNT program increases the risk that unrestricted molecular manufacturing will fall into the wrong hands. For all these reasons, it seems best to have a single, trustworthy, international administration imposing tight controls on the technology. However, unless the technology is made widely available for a wide variety of applications and purposes, there will be strong incentive for independent MNT programs. Any successful administration program must satisfy many competing interests. Nanotech problems and nanotech solutions are international. Both nanotech problems and nanotech solutions are international. If MNT goes wrong, some of its problems may be global in scope. Grey goo and military nanobots will not respect national borders. Economic collapse of any large nation will shake all the rest. Likewise, MNT risk prevention must also be global. Programs and policies for reducing poverty must be international. Administration to detect and prevent rogue MNT programs must have global jurisdiction. An accretion of national programs may be able to mitigate some problems and risks, but cannot address all of them. International policies, and international bodies, must be designed and created before molecular manufacturing arrives. Nanotech arms races can only be prevented internationally. Conflict between nations killed millions in the last century. MNT-based conflict could be even worse. Nations attack when they feel threatened by others, or to satisfy internal political pressures including desperate domestic conditions. As discussed on our Dangers page, molecular manufacturing can easily lead to an unstable arms race—a very threatening situation. Even nations that are ostensibly allies may be uneasy about each other's ultimate intentions, and there are many combinations of powerful nations that maintain at best an uneasy truce. Unless nations can find some basis for trusting that MNT won't be used against them in unexpected ways, they will have no choice but to develop defensive, and probably offensive, nanotechnology. International MNT arms control, with strict and trustworthy verification, appears to be the best alternative. Internal politics may drive a nation to war even when this is not a wise course. A nation that is starving may go to war out of desperation, or a single war-minded leader can drag a nation into a pattern of conflict and conquest. MNT can help with one of these problems—the technology can be deployed far faster than humans reproduce, and can alleviate material shortages for at least a few generations. Bad leaders cannot be prevented by technology, but again, the best way of dealing with such situations appears to be an international institution that protects each nation from each other. It will require careful design to implement a system that nations can trust enough not to engage in ultimately suicidal arms races on a national level. But without such a system, arms races and eventual conflict are far too likely. Preventing rogue nanotech requires international effort and cooperation. Unrestricted molecular manufacturing is far too risky, but useful restrictions will require international cooperation. With millions of criminals and thousands of terrorists in the world, immense damage could be done to people and to society. Hackers, even without intending harm, could create a self-replicating device that could do billions of dollars of damage—as software worms and viruses have done. Unfortunately, creating and maintaining useful restrictions is a huge job. Companies with strong incentive to protect their intellectual property have failed. The DVD standard, eBook format, audio watermarking, WAP, and at least one cell phone encryption system have been cracked. A multiplicity of security systems only multiplies the chance that one of them will be broken, removing all restrictions on the technology. The safest course appears to be a single security infrastructure, designed and implemented with a maximum of scrutiny from military, commercial, and private experts, applied to all nanotechnology that could be used to create unrestricted molecular manufacturing systems. A lot would be riding on this system: international arms control, commercial intellectual property control, and the continued ability to innovate without creating unacceptable risk. In the broader picture, independent or rogue nanotechnology programs would have to be discovered and prevented. This requires a body with global jurisdiction, perhaps analogous to the International Atomic Energy Agency. </span>

<span class="Underline">There are multiple scenarios for extinction and your impact defense is wrong</span>
<span class="Underline">Nagel ‘7 (MC - , “Do the potential dangers of nanotechnology to society outweigh the potential benefits,” Science Clarified, Volume 1, http://www.scienceclarified.com/dispute/Vol-1/Do-the-potential-dangers-of-nanotechnology-to-society-outweigh-the-potential-benefits.html) </span>
<span class="Underline">Against the background of the many promises of nanotechnology, there is a strong and legitimate concern about the potential dangers of this new capability. The true power of nanotechnology is unproven, but with claims ranging from self-assembling nanobots to sky hook elevators into space, the potential for both good and harm exist with this new technology. Can we handle all this power? Do we have the social frameworks and technical understanding and skills to deal with both the direct and indirect effects of nanotechnology? History suggests that we do not. The power to heal is also the power to harm. Technology has always been a two-edged sword. It may actually be easier to design a nanobot to target healthy cells than to attack cancer cells. One can imagine a new age of weapons, specifically designed to avoid the body's defenses. Similarly, nanodevices, aimed at removing toxins and restoring the environment, could be refashioned to destroy crops or selectively cause environmental damage within an enemy's territory. Unlike biological warfare, which is indiscriminate and can turn on the aggressor, nanodevices could be programmed to work within boundaries and to self-destruct when their jobs were completed. Monofilaments, if manufacturable, might become essential building blocks for a sky hook and open up space exploration. They could also be used to make nearly invisible, gruesome weapons. Finer than a spider web but as strong as steel, these incredibly thin polymers could slice through almost any materials, making vandalism, breaking and entering, and even murder easier. Of course, the most celebrated and remarkable promise is the promise of immortality. The flip side of this promise is the risk of extinction itself. Indeed, nightmare scenarios of the entire biosphere being transformed into "gray goo" of nanodevices have become an object of serious discussion. Dangers of Nanotechnology Recognition of the two-edged nature of nanotechnology is not new. It dates back to at least to 1986, with the publication of Engines of Creation , a largely upbeat view of nanotechnology. More recently, Bill Joy, one of the pioneers of computer technology, has raised concerns about the dangers of nanotechnology, most notably in an article in Wired magazine. Although the risks of nanotechnology have been expressed in many fashions over the years, they can be viewed in four distinct ways: nanotechnology puts powerful means of destruction into the hands of irresponsible people; the unknowns of nanotechnology threaten us with pollution and other unintended consequences; nanotechnology can take away our humanity; and nanotechnology contains the seeds of mass extinction. Nanotechnology puts powerful means of destruction into the hands of irresponsible people. Among the promises of nanotechnology is the ability to manufacture sophisticated devices at extremely low costs. Much of this is predicated upon the ability of nanodevices to create nanodevices, either through the use of specialized assemblers or via self-replication. This could put exquisitely designed weapons into the hands of individuals, terrorists, and rogue nations. Both known weaponry, such as chemical weapons, and unimagined nanoweapons could become available. With current weapons of mass destruction, testing, obtaining exotic precursors, and specific evidence, such as radioactivity, make monitoring and control possible in many instances. In contrast, nanoweapons, by definition, very small and made from common materials, would be almost undetectable. Many people have the ability to create computer viruses, with over 1,000 new ones created each year. In fact, it's even possible for teenagers with low levels of skill (so-called "script kiddies") to copy code and vandalize sites. The combined forces of government and industry have not stopped the creation of new viruses, and there have been numerous instances in our connected world of the quick and destructive spread of these damaging programs. If such capability were extended to the world in general (a not unlikely event given the pervasiveness of networks and smart devices, combined with significant availability of assemblers), the results could be tragic. Even if this technology doesn't become available to the individual, it's likely to be available to many nations. It is not unreasonable to project a significant probability of a costly and risky arms race based on nanotechnology. Advances in nanotechnology are driven almost entirely by curiosity and economics, with little concern for precedents that might be set and the establishment of both moral guidelines and inherent security. This means that it is left to chance who will become the first mover for significant advances, such as the development of assemblers, and how much safety will be built into these devices. There is not even good agreement on when the different advances are likely to take place. In fact, discussions tend to smear out options and possibilities. Speculation about using nanobots to clean the blood stream are likely to be made in the same conversation with predictions of sky hooks and advanced computer components. Going further, there may be even greater challenges if nanotechnology is hybridized in any way with other technologies. No technology exists in isolation, and the combination of nanotechnology and genetic engineering, or nanotechnology and robotics, could result in even more danger. </span>

<span class="Underline">Contention Three is Solvency </span>
<span class="Underline">The Obama administration has cut funding for the shuttle and NASA has no clear goals to restart humyn spaceflight</span>
<span class="Underline">Cunningham and Olson, 2011 [Walter, Colonel and served as the NASA lunar module pilot for Apollo 7 and Pete, the former ranking member for the House Science Committee, Space and Aeronautics Subcommittee. He represents the Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas; "NASA at a Turning Point", Politico, July 22, 2011, http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0711/59647.html]</span>
<span class="Underline">However, last year President Barack Obama shifted NASA policy away from humyn spaceflight. His budget cancelled the next-generation Constellation humyn flight system rather than modifying any deficiencies — wasting a $9 billion taxpayer investment. Instead, NASA was directed to pursue a riskier course, diverting billions of dollars to a group of companies – most devoid of experience in staffed (manned) space vehicles – to take over operations to low-earth orbit and the transport of astronauts to the International Space Station. The goal was to generate a private marketplace to support the cost of these manned missions. Meanwhile, NASA’s plan for deep space exploration, requiring development of new heavy lift rockets and crew vehicles, leaves them without a specific destination and timetable. Really, without a mission. We don’t believe that a private market capable of supporting a low-earth orbit system, independent of government, exists in the near-term. If it did, it wouldn’t need government support. Space exploration is likely to continue to be a government-sponsored mission for the foreseeable future — if the U.S. is to retain its preeminence in space. This investment is vital to national security and our ability to remain competitive in science, engineering and technology. China, Russia, India and Japan continue to pursue their humyn space programs at breakneck speeds, and are likely to surpass us if we stop. NASA has been subjected to the whims of changing budget and policy priorities for several decades, fostering bureaucratic inefficiency in an organization that had prided itself on original thinking and team-driven, can-do attitude. With last year’s NASA Authorization law, Congress placed a roadblock in front of much of the administration’s plan. But even if we had a clear direction, we will be reliant on the Russians for transportation to space for a number of years – at a cost of more than $60 million per seat. We are at the crossroads. The direction we choose will affect not only foreign perceptions of the U.S., but our economy and national security.</span>

<span class="Underline">Shuttle cancellation meant abandonment of the ISS and an increase in unilateral policies by allies – this destroys cooperation and removes the key benefits of the ISS</span>
<span class="Underline">Newton and Griffin, 2011 [Elizabeth K., PhD, alumna of the graduate school at University of Alabama, Huntsville and Michael D., King-McDonald Eminent Scholar and Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, and Director of the Center for System Studies at The University of Alabama in Huntsville; “United States space policy and international partnerships,” Space Policy. January 8, 2011; Accessed at:</span>
<span class="Underline">http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S026596461000113X]</span>
<span class="Underline">3. Will the USA have more influence on the world stage? 3.1. Perceptions of style President Obama’s 2010 policy is notable for the shift over the 2006 version, which most agree to be more a stylistic change of tone, rather than one of substance. The messages conveying the need for multilateral action are likely to be welcome to external audiences’ ears and suggest a more consultative approach. That said, the cancellation of the Constellation program was done without prior notice or consultation with international partners, and much of the debate on the subject has centered on the domestic repercussions of the decision, not the impact on the partners. There is evidently a mismatch between intent and such unilateralist actions. 3.2. Perceptions of reliability as a partner The president’s request and congressional authorization for continued funding of the ISS’s operations delivers on commitments made to international partners beginning in the mid-1980s when the program was conceived. However, without a successor system to the Shuttle, the USA has abrogated intergovernmental agreements to provide crew and cargo transportation, and crew rescue, as partial compensation for partner investments in the ISS’s infrastructure and operations. Reliance on the Russian Soyuz for limited down-mass cargo transport seriously inhibits the value that can be realized from ISS utilization until a commercial solution is available. In addition, the USA’s unilateral abandonment of the Moon as a near-term destination shakes partners’ political support for their exploration plans, some of which were carefully premised on US intentions, and more than five years of collaborative development of lunar base plans.3.3. Leadership The USA is a majority funder for many space programs and is a technology leader, two features which have provided sufficient motivation for partners to accept US leadership, even when unfortunately high-handed. It is a stunning failure of political will to lack a successor system to the retiring Space Shuttle, and so the US cedes leadership in humyn spaceflight with its inability to access the ISS independently, for itself or for its partners, until a new commercial capability has been demonstrated. The USA further relinquishes leadership when abandoning years of work on strategic planning and guidance, the evaluation of alternatives, and orchestration of diverse but important contributions that were manifested in the Global Exploration Strategy. Sudden redirections without consultation are not hallmarks of leadership and will no doubt motivate partners to do more unilateral planning and execution, at least for a while. Finally, leadership in the future is at risk: how can the USA hope to influence outcomes and protect interests -- strategic, commercial, and cultural -- on the Moon if it is not present?</span>

<span class="Underline">And, cancellation makes continued support for the ISS physically impossible </span>
<span class="Underline">Abbey, 2011 [George W. S., Baker Botts Senior Fellow in Space Policy at the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy at Rice University; “Restore the Vision,” July 20, 2011; http://www.bakerinstitute.org/publications/SPACE-pub-AbbeySpaceShuttleVision-072011.pdf]</span>
<span class="Underline">The director general of the European Space Agency (ESA), Jean-Jacques Dordain, has stated that the International Space Station is facing lean times as a result of the U.S. shuttle phaseout and has said project planning for transport to the ISS had been “anarchy.” The shuttle has been the key means to take humyns and freight to and from the ISS, and Dordain stated that NASA made a unilateral 2004 decision to stop the shuttle. The space shuttle’s retirement after the mission launched on July 8, 2011, means that the station will depend entirely on the Russian Soyuz system for transporting astronauts. The European automated transfer vehicle (ATV) and the Japanese H-II transfer vehicle (HTV) are unstaffed (unmanned) supply ships, as is Russia’s Progress freighter. These three cargo systems are all designed to be one-way systems, which mean they burn up in the atmosphere after leaving the station. The Soyuz, which does return for a landing, cannot take large nonhumyn payloads, such as large experiments or equipment that needs to be returned to be repaired on Earth. Dordain has said the scheduled phaseout of the shuttle meant “we are not in a very comfortable situation, and that’s just a euphemism.” The International Space Station was designed to be not only built and assembled with the space shuttle, but it was designed to be logistically supported by the shuttle. The uncomfortable situation cited by Dordain is an understatement. On June 12, 2011, the New York Daily News printed an opinion article by Christopher Kraft, former director of NASA’s Manned Spaceflight Center in Houston, and Scott Spencer, a transportation management consultant, that emphasized the need to continue to operate the space shuttle in support of the station. As they state in their article, “For more than 10 years, space crews from the United States, Russia, and the other countries have successfully loved and worked year round, in six-month shifts, on the International Space Station, where they have conducted scientific research. In the coming years, that work will continue—but with a crucial safeguard missing: the space shuttle fleet that gives humyn beings a unique capability to fix the space station’s guidance system and the rocket thrusters in the event of a terrible failure.” They point out what will become a clear and present danger: “Loss of control of the space station would mean a catastrophic reentry into the Earth’s atmosphere of the massive structure—the largest object ever placed in orbit around the Earth, measuring over three football fields long and weighing more than 400 tons. The tons of falling debris that would survive reentry would pose an unprecedented threat to populated areas around the world.” They point out that the space station does have redundant life support and control systems that might make such a failure unlikely. But to say it is so redundant that it could never happen ignores the tragic lesson learned due to overconfidence in fail-safe technology in disasters throughout history, from the sinking of the Titanic to the nuclear reactor crisis in Japan. Such a catastrophe would have significant international ramifications and liability for the United States, Russia, and the other space station partners. In the event of damage from a fire, space debris, or a potential collision from the frequent docking of staffed (manned) or unstaffed (unmanned) commercial resupply spacecraft, the space station backup systems offer little margin safety. If the life suppirt or guidance systems or rocket thrusters are damaged, the station could need a rapid resuce mission to stay in orbit. The shuttles have uniques capabilities as repair vehicles. They are the only spacecraft that have the vital airlocks and life-support supplies, and the robotic arm that is needed to move the equipment necessary for spacewalking repair crews. Spare parts needed for critical repairs have been taken up by the space shuttle, and stowed on the station—but none could be installed to repair and regain control and use of the $100 billion space station if it is deemed uninhabitable for repair crews. The Soyuz and other potential commercial spacecraft that are intended to support the station all lack the life support systems needed for the multiple six-hour repair spacewalks.</span>

<span class="Underline">And, the ISS is key to science diplomacy - visibility, technical complexity, and precedent</span>
<span class="Underline">Hauser and John, 2009 [Marty, Vice President of Washington Operations, Research Analysis and Mariel, Research Analyst at the Space Foundation; “The International Space Station: Decision 2015,” Space Foundation, 2009, http://www.spacefoundation.org/docs/ISS_Decision_2015.pdf]</span>
<span class="Underline">As the world becomes increasingly interconnected, strong international partnerships are essential to the success of any nation, including the United States. The ISS allows the United States to maintain and continue to forge such partnerships and to explore ways of working successfully with other nations on technical projects. It provides a starting point for future collaboration beyond space programs, for projects of any kind. The utility of international partnerships was recognized early in NASA’s history. In 1969, considering the future of the U.S. space program, the Space Task Group noted the importance of international participation and communication. It believed this would promote a sense of world community; optimize international scientific, technical, and economic participation; apply space technology to humynity’s needs; and share the benefits and costs of space research and exploration.16 These factors continue to drive international cooperation today. Even if increased cooperation is desirable and has been put into action during the construction phase, one may still question whether the ISS program is designed to promote future collaboration. In The Evolution of Cooperation by Robert Axelrod, an expert on strategic interactions, two of the primary methods for promoting future partnerships include making interactions more durable and more frequent.17 The ISS does both. It is a highly visible, long-lasting program backed by international agreements, and therefore is more durable than other, less publicized or less formal international arrangements. Due to the technological challenges involved in design, development, production, launch, and operation of so complex an orbital facility, frequent international interaction and iterative cooperation are essential. Global cooperation on large-scale technical projects is a growing phenomenon, and the International Space Station has been studied as a model for these types of partnerships.18 A great example is the 2008 integration of two international laboratories, the European Columbus lab and the Japanese Kibo lab, into the ISS. The Canadian Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator has been added, and both the European Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV) and the Japanese H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV) have successfully performed servicing missions. These concrete steps forward provide strong evidence that the program is succeeding.19</span>

<span class="Underline">And, abandonment destroys our credibility as a scientific partner - prevents future projects</span>
<span class="Underline">Hauser and John, 2009 [Marty, Vice President of Washington Operations, Research Analysis and Mariel, Research Analyst at the Space Foundation; “The International Space Station: Decision 2015,” Space Foundation, 2009, http://www.spacefoundation.org/docs/ISS_Decision_2015.pdf]</span>
<span class="Underline">International partners place a great deal of importance in the ISS. The name of the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency’s (JAXA) laboratory Kibo means “hope” in Japanese. When the first module of the laboratory was delivered in March 2008, the Prime Minister of Japan hailed it as the beginning of Japan’s new “home in space.”20 Each international partner mentions its participation in the ISS program as a major effort of its space program. The JAXA vision statement, written in 2005, notes that participation in the ISS program shows Japan’s status as an “equal partner with the United States and European countries” and establishes its status in the international community.21 Russian, European, and Japanese space policy documents all mention the importance of research done on the ISS to successful future humyn spaceflight missions.22 If U.S. support for the ISS program lapses in 2015, it is likely that one of the most significant negative impacts would be on international relations, and global perceptions as to whether or not the U.S. is a reliable partner. Concern over U.S. intentions is already apparent. Even amid the excitement of the Kibo module being launched, an article was published in the Daily Yomiuri, an English-language online supplement to Japan’s largest selling newspaper, that warned people not to be overly optimistic.23 The article notes that the United States plans to shut down the ISS in 2015 and, if that happens, the Kibo laboratory will not be operational for the 10 years it was designed to last, in which case benefits from the project may be limited. The article highlights the risks of “international projects in cooperation with countries like the United States, where policies can change abruptly with the changing of administrations.” The article also says that Europe has engaged in diplomatic talks with Russia and the United States about the ISS, while Japan, “has relied almost completely on the United States, and has fallen behind Europe as a result.”24 At the 2009 Paris Air Show, international partners voiced their interest in continuing the ISS mission past 2015, possibly to 2025. European Space Agency partners noted that they have a strong desire to extend the program to fully exploit their Columbus science lab.25 The ramifications of a decision to withdraw from the ISS program in 2015 would, therefore, extend far beyond this single project. The United States’ choice to honor (or not) international commitments vis-à-vis the ISS will affect other countries’ views of the United States as a partner in virtually all future endeavors. The ISS provides the opportunity to cement lasting partnerships and cooperation in many areas. A unilateral U.S. decision to end the program against the wishes of the international partners will adversely affect future programs. If the United States is unable to sustain its engagement with its international partners, it will either have to forgo future large-scale space programs, or undertake all costs on its own.</span>

<span class="Underline">NASA’s Vision for Space Policy of 2004 changed the scope of the ISS which functionally decreased research and scientists</span>
<span class="Underline">Gordon and Nelson, 2009 [Bart, Chairman of the Committee on Science and Technology, US House of Rep and Bill, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Science and Space (Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation), US Senate; Government Accountability Office Report to Congressional Requesters. “International Space Stations: Significant Challenges May Limit Onboard Research.” GAO-10-9 November. http://www.gao.gov/ new.items/d109.pdf]</span>
<span class="Underline">Facilities on board the ISS and NASA’s plans for its own utilization of the ISS have changed over time. When NASA adopted The Vision for Space Exploration (Vision) in 2004, it set forth a plan to explore space and extend a humyn presence across our solar system with dual goals of returning humyns to the moon by 2020 and later sending humyns to Mars and other destinations.6 It also dictated that NASA focus its research efforts on board the ISS on its Humyn Research Program supporting future humyn space exploration, including studying the effects of the space environment on humyns; on technology development and test for exploration; and on developing operational protocols for successful long-duration space operations. Though ISS had originally been intended to be a broad-based research facility, the Vision required NASA to focus its ISS research on supporting space exploration goals with an emphasis on understanding the impacts of the space environment on astronauts and developing countermeasures to these effects. As a result, NASA reduced the scope of its ISS research; the agency conducted a zero-based review in the fall of 2005 and determined that some fundamental life and physical sciences tasks were not “highly relevant” to achieving the goals of the Vision. The agency canceled some existing grants in this area and stopped soliciting any new research, which caused affected ISS scientific research communities to shrink or turn to other research areas. NASA also reassigned its personnel involved with the fundamental sciences, including space biology (such as animal, plant, and microbial research), and reduced its portfolio of research on fluid physics, combustion, materials science, biotechnology, and fundamental physics. Table 1 depicts some changes in ESMD flight research conducted in 2002 and 2008 that illustrate the redirection of focus. Hardware needed for research projects was also canceled or delayed by NASA or commercial developers, either because of the change in research priorities or other constraints, such as the pause in shuttle flights after the loss of the Space Shuttle Columbia. This included animal research facilities, the Life Sciences Glovebox, the Centrifuge Accommodation Module, and the Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (AMS).7 In 2003, the National Research Council and the National Academy of Public Administration reported that NASA drastically reduced the overall ability of the ISS to support science, and that this reduction limited or foreclosed the scientific community’s ability to maximize the research potential of the ISS.8 NASA’s Plan to Support the Operations and Utilization of the International Space Station Beyond 2015 states that it would cost several billion dollars to reinstate the full scope of planned ISS facilities.</span>


<span class="Underline">ISS microgravity is key to the pharmaceutical industry</span>
<span class="Underline">Gunther et al, 2001 [Seibert, Günther et al. “ESA SP1251 A World Without Gravity: Research in Space for Health and Industrial Processes”. 2001. http://www.esa.int/esapub/sp/sp1251/sp1251web.pdf. Gunther Seibert is the former head of the ESA’s Microgravity and ISS Utilisation Department.]</span>
<span class="Underline">- Growth of Protein Crystals and of Other Large Biomolecules Protein crystallography is a method of determining the three-dimensional structure of proteins by the analysis of X-ray diffraction data. The results provide the keys for basic structure studies, drug design and protein engineering. Crystallisation of proteins and nucleic acids with the required homogeneity and size is therefore one of the key issues for the analysis of the three-dimensional structure and the determination of functional groups of proteins and similar large organic molecules. The growth of such crystals in a terrestrial laboratory is, in many cases, a difficult or even impossible task. Though a number of experimental techniques have been developed, they often fail to produce crystals of sufficient size and quality. It has been observed that several different parameters influence the crystallisation process, one of them being the action of gravity. Though the exact mechanisms are still not known, it is believed that the nucleation and growth processes suffer from the presence of convection and sedimentation. Further problems stem from the non-reproducibility of experiments and the lack of rational (empirical) methods to predict under what conditions a certain protein may or may not crystallise. Positive results on early Spacelab missions stimulated worldwide attempts to carry out systematic experiments in the field of protein crystal growth. Those experiments partly involved the participation of a number of pharmaceutical companies, particularly in the United States. In Europe, several attempts were made to grow protein crystals on unmanned spacecraft, with a view to commercial production. For certain substances (especially lysozyme, a generally accepted test substance), the growth of larger, more uniform crystals with higher order at the molecular level is possible in space. All of the various methods used are believed to benefit from microgravity experiments. The parameters that affect the crystallisation of proteins are diffusion rate, convection, density (sedimentation) and wall/interface effects. The goal is to find conditions that favour the nucleation of a small number of crystals, which should then grow to larger sizes and with greater crystallographic perfection (see Section 2.3.1). Growth experiments by the University of Alabama in the USA have received substantial contributions from the pharmaceutical industry. Among those proteins that could be grown in microgravity to larger sizes, displaying more uniform morphology, and yielding diffraction data to significantly higher resolutions than the best crystals of these proteins grown on Earth, were porcine elastase and gamma interferon D, bovine and humyn serum albumin, malic enzyme, proline isomerase and HIV-1 reverse transcriptase. Recent space experiments on humyn insulin (by Eli Lilly Co.) gave an improvement in resolution from 2.0 (ground) to 1.4 Å, allowing the crystal structure to be determined. In European programmes, the efforts have primarily concentrated on increasing the basic understanding of the influence of gravity on nucleation and growth of proteins through experiments on Spacehab-1 and IML-2, in the ESA-developed Advanced Protein Crystallisation Facility (APCF). The results, similar to those supported by NASA, showed a certain portion of crystals that were better and diffracted to higher resolution than the best samples grown on Earth. The relevant experiments are designed to achieve better-ordered crystals from growth in space, as well as to improve the Earth-based methods by learning about the influence of gravity through space experimentation. Industrial participation focuses on proteins for structure-based drug design and protein engineering. The final goal is to develop pharmaceuticals that are important in combating diseases, or for the production of special enzymes that may be used as detergents in separation processes. After about ten years of protein crystal growth research in space, the facts are that in about 20 to 25% of the experiments under microgravity the crystals grew larger or were better ordered than their best counterparts in terrestrial laboratories. So far, the strongest increase in resolution has generally been observed in those proteins that also crystallised on Earth, but did so with a slightly disordered structure (mosaic), attributed to the presence of convection and sedimentation. Further research will improve our understanding of the mechanisms and the conditions that lead to better-ordered proteins in the absence of convection and sedimentation. Consequently, there is a good chance that the crystallisation of proteins with the size and structural order needed for the analysis of the threedimensional arrangement of functional groups, can be successfully achieved in space. There are more than a million different proteins, only a small fraction of which could be analysed so far for their three-dimensional structure. For industry, the most important target is to determine an unknown structure as fast as possible, in order to gain an advantage over possible competitors. The resolution of de-novo protein structures normally requires 3 to 6 months, but in particularly difficult cases up to a year may be spent on a single protein. The ISS will provide an environment in which protein crystallisation can be routinely carried out with short turnaround times. The industrial demand will be based on the possibility to conduct a large number of trials in parallel with extremely small sample sizes (in the micro-litre range). This requires only relatively small pieces of hardware, with an arrangement of hundreds of identical chambers. To be able to obtain the structural data as fast as possible, the operation of a low voltage X-ray facility onboard the Space Station is being considered. This would greatly facilitate the transfer of results to the ground, because the delicate transport of the newly-grown tiny crystals would be avoided. </span>

<span class="Underline">And, the ISS provides critical infrastructure to conduct microgravity experiments </span>
<span class="Underline">NASA 08 (National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 5/20/08, “Unlocking Mysteries in Microgravity: NASA Glenn Provides the Keys With the Fluids and Combustion Facility,” http://www.nasa.gov/centers/glenn/about/fs07grc.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">The term "microgravity" will become more commonplace when the International Space Station (ISS) is fully operational. The ISS will be the largest orbiting space structure and the largest international scientific and technological endeavor in history. So far 16 countries, including the United States, are participating in this recordbreaking project. The ISS will be a permanent laboratory in space where studies can be performed without the effects of gravity. The Space Station will provide researchers with all the laboratory space and equipment and electrical power needed for safe, long-term research by humyn beings in space. The ISS will enable larger and longer experiments than are possible on the typical two-week space shuttle mission. This will give scientists time for more detailed observation in the microgravity environment. The knowledge gained from ISS microgravity experiments will benefit research on Earth in many fields. Our understanding of theories relevant to everything from high-temperature superconductivity to weather prediction will be advanced. New insights into areas such as humyn health and disease prevention and treatment will be achieved. In addition, scientists will use the microgravity environment to uncover other, more subtle forces and interactions in fluids and materials. By essentially taking gravitational effects out of the equation, researchers will be able to study as primary characteristics what would have been secondary behaviors on Earth. Simple investigations of fluid interfaces and combustion processes can be addressed in small, contained experiments, such as the shuttle Glovebox experiments. However, more complex and challenging investigations require dedicated facilities to contain fluids and products of combustion in a controlled and safe environment.</span>


<span class="Underline">Continuing the shuttle solves.</span>
<span class="Underline">Wall, 2011 [Mike, SPACE.com senior writer), Citing Neil Armstrong (First man on the moon, former US senator), and Eugene Cernan (Commander of Apollo 17), " Apollo astronauts to Congress: Bring back the space shuttles", MSNBC, September 22, 2011, accessed September 22, 2011, http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/44631718/ns/technology_and_science-space/#]</span>
<span class="Underline">The United States desperately needs a way to get its astronauts to space and back — and one solution could be taking NASA's space shuttle fleet out of retirement, famed moonwalkers Neil Armstrong and Gene Cernan told Congress Thursday. Without an independent way to launch astronauts into low-Earth orbit, the United States risks ceding its global leadership in space to other nations such as Russia and China, the former Apollo astronauts said. So developing that access should be a top priority for NASA and the country, with other space exploration goals and capabilities following naturally afterward. The recently retired shuttles provide one ready-made answer, according to Cernan, who commanded NASA's Apollo 17 mission in 1972 and is the last man to leave footprints on the moon. "Get the shuttle out of the garage," Cernan told members of the House of Representatives' Committee on Science, Space and Technology. "It's in its prime of its life. How could we just put it away?" Getting back to space The shuttle program ended this past July after 30 years of operation. The three remaining space-flown orbiters — Atlantis, Endeavour and Discovery — are now retired and being readied for display as museum showpieces. But it might not be too late to press the shuttles back into action, said Armstrong, who was the first person ever to walk on the moon during NASA's historic Apollo 11 lunar landing mission in July 1969."Proposals exist for continuing to fly the space shuttle under commercial contract," Armstrong wrote in testimony for today's hearing, which discussed NASA's humyn spaceflight operations. "Such proposals should be carefully evaluated prior to allowing them to be rendered 'not flightworthy' and their associated ground facilities to be destroyed." At the moment, NASA is relying on Russian Soyuz vehicles to ferry its astronauts to and from the International Space Station. But the space agency wants private spaceflight companies to take over this taxi role by 2015 or so, and it's funding a handful of firms to develop their capabilities. Cernan is dubious about this timeline, however. "It will be near the end of the decade before these new entrants will be able to place a humyn safely and cost-effectively in Earth orbit," he said. Hence Cernan's push to reconsider the shuttle's retirement. He also expressed some hope that a derivative of NASA's newly announced Space Launch System — the heavy-lift rocket that will carry humyns to deep space destinations like asteroids and Mars — might allow access to low-Earth orbit sometime soon. Government capabilties needed The panel that testified before Congress included Armstrong, Cernan, former NASA Administrator Mike Griffin and MIT professor Maria Zuber, principal investigator of NASA's robotic Grail mission to the moon. All of them stressed the importance of establishing safe, reliable access to low-Earth orbit. All other achievements in humyn spaceflight will flow from that first step, they said. "The most important thing is to develop a sense of forward motion," Zuber said. "And that means the ability to get off the planet." NASA shouldn't leave this crucial task solely in the hands of private spaceflight firms, said Griffin, who led the space agency from 2005 to 2009. Spaceflight is a difficult endeavor, he stressed, with about one in 50 rocket launches failing around the world. A Russian Soyuz rocket similar to the one that launches astronauts failed during a cargo mission to the space station this August, for example. "To me, when we say that NASA should be working the hard problems — well, I think that's a hard problem," Griffin said. "Our nation should secure for itself, independent of commercial capability, the ability to again place our people in orbit and get them back." Committee chairman Ralph Hall (R-Texas) agreed. "We need a viable backup system to ferry astronauts to and from the International Space Station should commercial crew launch companies not be able to deliver as hoped," Hall said. Moving forward in space Armstrong, Cernan and Griffin all lamented the demise of NASA's moon-oriented Constellation program, which President Barack Obama cancelled last year. Constellation aimed to return humyns to the moon by 2020; Obama instead directed NASA to work toward getting humyns to an asteroid by 2025, then on to Mars by the mid-2030s. The three panelists stressed that NASA needs coherent goals to work toward, and that getting humyns back to the moon should be one of them. Griffin, for example, said that the nation's chief humyn spaceflight goal after establishing access to low-Earth orbit should be setting up a manned base on the moon. The U.S. wouldn't have to do everything by itself, however. "I think it should be this nation's privilege to lead an international partnership back to the moon, just as we did on space station," Griffin said. Working toward this goal would pave the way for other, more ambitious efforts, such as a manned mission to Mars, he and others added. It would also help the U.S. develop advanced technologies and retain its global leadership in space, which has been key to the nation's international dominance since World War II. "When China can reach the moon and we cannot, I don't see why any other nation would regard us as a world leader," Griffin said. Inspiring future scientists Having coherent, clear-cut goals would also help convince current aerospace workers that their jobs are secure and inspire young people to want to work in the field, Armstrong said. "People can be highly motivated if there is hope," Armstrong told the committee. "Too many young people have the view that there's too little going on in American space effort in the next decade, which they're preparing for, so they may turn in other directions." Committee member Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-Texas) also stressed the importance of vision and inspiration. Throughout its history, she said, NASA has inspired many young people to take up careers in science and technology, so funding the agency properly should be a national priority. "Unless we inspire our young minds, as space exploration has done in the past, we won't have the people," Johnson said. "When we cut back, we lose our talent." </span>

<span class="Underline">ISS key to cooperation and innovation – historical failures don’t matter because the research stage is just starting and the shuttle is key</span>
<span class="Underline">Matthews 4/21, staff writer, Originally published April 21, 2012 at 8:04 PM | Page modified April 21, 2012 at 11:55 PM Share: Share on facebook Share on twitter Share on linkedin More Sharing Services Comments (20) E-mail article Print International space station's value to science questioned Some are asking whether the international space station can live up to its promises, but NASA says it's confident of its future. By Mark K. Matthews The Orlando Sentinel </span>
<span class="Underline">But, Foust said, "there is a rationale for the ISS that goes beyond simply science" — promoting partnerships and better relations among space-faring nations, including Russia. "Tip of the iceberg" NASA officials, however, say research is just beginning and already there have been advances. Scientists at Johnson Space Center have taken advantage of the station's lack of gravity to develop "micro-balloons" the size of red blood cells that can carry drugs to cancer tumors. And the European Space Agency is looking to help doctors better diagnose asthma by using an air-monitoring device developed for astronauts. "It's the tip of the iceberg," said Marybeth Edeen, NASA manager of the station's national laboratory. The inability to completely fill NASA's science racks, she said, is simply one of priorities. Up until now, NASA has been more focused on building the station. Indeed, the station crew — which expanded from three to six members in 2009 — now spends about 50 hours a week on science, as opposed to just three hours a week in 2008. "Our goal is to get the racks fully utilized," she said. To help do that, NASA hired a nonprofit group last summer called the Center for the Advancement of Science in Space (CASIS) to manage the national lab and find new experiments. The early efforts of the Florida-based group, however, hit a bump when the center's director resigned in March and lawmakers started to raise concerns about its effectiveness. Congress now has put CASIS on notice to get its act together or risk losing its contact. Resupplying station These issues, though, are less worrisome to Congress than concerns about how NASA plans to resupply the station with U.S. crew and cargo. The retirement of the space shuttle last year left NASA completely reliant on its international partners — primarily Russia — for these services, and NASA's plan to fix that situation depends on new commercial "space taxis" from companies such as SpaceX. While tests have been promising, these companies have yet to successfully dock with the station. </span>


<span class="Underline">Plan Text</span>
<span class="Underline">Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its staffed shuttle missions to the International Space Station</span>
<span class="Underline">1AC Science Diplomacy Impact</span>

<span class="Underline">Strong science diplomacy is the vital internal link to every major impact—collapse makes extinction inevitable.</span>
<span class="Underline">Fedoroff, 08 - Science and Technology Adviser to the Secretary of State and the Administrator of USAID (Nina, Testimony Before the House Science Subcommittee on Research and Science Education, 4/2, http://www.state.gov/g/oes/rls/rm/102996.htm</span>
<span class="Underline">Science by its nature facilitates diplomacy because it strengthens political relationships, embodies powerful ideals, and creates opportunities for all. The global scientific community embraces principles Americans cherish: transparency, meritocracy, accountability, the objective evaluation of evidence, and broad and frequently democratic participation. Science is inherently democratic, respecting evidence and truth above all. Science is also a common global language, able to bridge deep political and religious divides. Scientists share a common language. Scientific interactions serve to keep open lines of communication and cultural understanding. As scientists everywhere have a common evidentiary external reference system, members of ideologically divergent societies can use the common language of science to cooperatively address both domestic and the increasingly trans-national and global problems confronting humynity in the 21st century. There is a growing recognition that science and technology will increasingly drive the successful economies of the 21st century. Science and technology provide an immeasurable benefit to the U.S. by bringing scientists and students here, especially from developing countries, where they see democracy in action, make friends in the international scientific community, become familiar with American technology, and contribute to the U.S. and global economy. For example, in 2005, over 50% of physical science and engineering graduate students and postdoctoral researchers trained in the U.S. have been foreign nationals. Moreover, many foreign-born scientists who were educated and have worked in the U.S. eventually progress in their careers to hold influential positions in ministries and institutions both in this country and in their home countries. They also contribute to U.S. scientific and technologic development: According to the National Science Board’s 2008 Science and Engineering Indicators, 47% of full-time doctoral science and engineering faculty in U.S. research institutions were foreign-born. Finally, some types of science – particularly those that address the grand challenges in science and technology – are inherently international in scope and collaborative by necessity. The ITER Project, an international fusion research and development collaboration, is a product of the thaw in superpower relations between Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev and U.S. President Ronald Reagan. This reactor will harness the power of nuclear fusion as a possible new and viable energy source by bringing a star to earth. ITER serves as a symbol of international scientific cooperation among key scientific leaders in the developed and developing world – Japan, Korea, China, E.U., India, Russia, and United States – representing 70% of the world’s current population. The recent elimination of funding for FY08 U.S. contributions to the ITER project comes at an inopportune time as the Agreement on the Establishment of the ITER International Fusion Energy Organization for the Joint Implementation of the ITER Project had entered into force only on October 2007. The elimination of the promised U.S. contribution drew our allies to question our commitment and credibility in international cooperative ventures. More problematically, it jeopardizes a platform for reaffirming U.S. relations with key states. It should be noted that even at the height of the cold war, the United States used science diplomacy as a means to maintain communications and avoid misunderstanding between the world’s two nuclear powers – the Soviet Union and the United States. In a complex multi-polar world, relations are more challenging, the threats perhaps greater, and the need for engagement more paramount.</span>
<span class="Underline">Using Science Diplomacy to Achieve National Security Objectives</span>
<span class="Underline">The welfare and stability of countries and regions in many parts of the globe require a concerted effort by the developed world to address the causal factors that render countries fragile and cause states to fail. Countries that are unable to defend their people against starvation, or fail to provide economic opportunity, are susceptible to extremist ideologies, autocratic rule, and abuses of humyn rights. As well, the world faces common threats, among them climate change, energy and water shortages, public health emergencies, environmental degradation, poverty, food insecurity, and religious extremism. These threats can undermine the national security of the United States, both directly and indirectly. Many are blind to political boundaries, becoming regional or global threats. The United States has no monopoly on knowledge in a globalizing world and the scientific challenges facing humynkind </span>
<span class="Underline">are enormous. Addressing these common challenges demands common solutions and necessitates scientific cooperation, common standards, and common goals. We must increasingly harness the power of American ingenuity in science and technology through strong partnerships with the science community in both academia and the private sector, in the U.S. and abroad among our allies, to advance U.S. interests in foreign policy. There are also important challenges to the ability of states to supply their populations with sufficient food. The still-growing humyn population, rising affluence in emerging economies, and other factors have combined to create unprecedented pressures on global prices of staples such as edible oils and grains. Encouraging and promoting the use of contemporary molecular techniques in crop improvement is an essential goal for US science diplomacy.</span>
<span class="Underline">An essential part of the war on terrorism is a war of ideas. The creation of economic opportunity can do much more to combat the rise of fanaticism than can any weapon. The war of ideas is a war about rationalism as opposed to irrationalism. Science and technology put us firmly on the side of rationalism by providing ideas and opportunities that improve people’s lives. We may use the recognition and the goodwill that science still generates for the United States to achieve our diplomatic and developmental goals. Additionally, the Department continues to use science as a means to reduce the proliferation of the weapons’ of mass destruction and prevent what has been dubbed ‘brain drain’. Through cooperative threat reduction activities, former weapons scientists redirect their skills to participate in peaceful, collaborative international research in a large variety of scientific fields. In addition, new global efforts focus on improving biological, chemical, and nuclear security by promoting and implementing best scientific practices as a means to enhance security, increase global partnerships, and create sustainability.</span>



=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]