=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
Democracy AC

1) we presume aff because we always presume towards equality
2) if national security matters, we should give same rights to both parties

v/m

Democracy is hte best way to protect rights because it gives everyone a voice

also, Us is currently a democracy so it should use it to guide action

we use military commissions in the status quo
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">New York Office, Human Rights First, 333 Seventh Avenue, 13th Floor, New York, NY 10001-5108. Washington Office, Human Rights First, 100 Maryland Avenue, NE, Suite 500, Washington, DC 20002-5625/. For media inquiries call 202-370-3323 .</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">"On OCtober 28...it was committed"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">But this kills democracy</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Ed Price (Johns Hopkins University Ph.D Philosophy) Johns Hopkins Newsletter, November 10, 2011.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">"To legitimize military... in a criminal court"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">I don't know athe article name for the price card so ill just post the full text of the card. </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Military tribunals ought to be outlawed as they subvert our system of justice, disregard our court system, undermine our moral standing on the world stage, and undercut our objective in the War on Terror. **__To legitimize military tribunals is to allow the president to hold men without charge and strip them of their rights to effective counsel, assumption of innocence, appeal, due process and habeas corpus__**. It is to promote a system that runs contrary to the system of justice we have upheld for our entire history. This nation is founded on the principle, as President Kennedy described, "that observance of the law is the eternal safeguard of liberty and defiance of the law is the surest road to tyranny." If this nation's government does not respect the laws it orders its citizens to obey, then the laws of our courts and the writ of our judges are rendered irrelevant. Any liberal democracy must practice what it preaches or it runs the risk of degenerating into anarchy and lawlessness. With the acceptance of military tribunals as a credible form of justice, the president is undermining the criminal courts of this country. **__By choosing the tribunals over the courts, he is ignoring the long history of success in criminal courts and their precedent in trying and convicting hundreds of enemy combatants__**: when Timothy McVeigh blew up a federal courthouse in Oklahoma City, he was tried and convicted in a criminal court. **__When Omar Abdel Rahman attempted in 1993 to blow up the World Trade Center, he was tried and convicted in a criminal court. And when Zacarias Moussaoui conspired to kill American citizens in the 9/11 attacks, he was tried and convicted in a criminal court.__** Many terrorists were convicted in courts which respect the rule of law set by government, defend the doctrine of justice afforded by the Constitution and ensure the success of liberty ingrained in the fabric of history. Furthermore, these criminal courts are better for justice. A military tribunal is inherently unfair: military officers, not common citizens, are the judges and the jurors. Anybody with a basic idea of the workings of our adversarial system will see this as the ultimate trespass upon the exercise of the law. The purpose of a jury of peers is to provide an impartial body to render a verdict on a case in which it has no vested interest. But in a military tribunal, this integral safeguard of justice falls by the wayside. Any claims of impartiality in the tribunal system are rendered null and void. A military officer with a vested interest in the outcome of the case will clearly have a tendency to rule against the defendant. With such a system, wrongful convictions are inevitable, and thus necessary justice is not upheld. The real criminal might be left at large, and the suffering families of the victims of his barbaric crimes will be stripped of their fundamental right to see justice done. But military tribunals go even further than this: they don't just erode our code of law - they dismantle our morality as well. After 9/11, President Bush called on "all Americans from every walk of life to unite in our resolve for justice and peace." It is our duty, he declared, to "go forward to defend freedom and all that is good and just in this world." And throughout the War on Terror, this has been our rallying cry. This country has pledged throughout its history to try men, not to lynch them - to listen to their cases publicly, not to shove them into some dark private basement and besiege them with an unrelenting military brigade. To that end, to win this War on Terror, we must live up to these claims of moral rectitude and fidelity to the rule of law. **__We must be the example to the world. If we are to fail in this regard, if we continue to approve of these military tribunals, then everything we stand for falls too. If we do not outlaw this system of injustice, we will lose this war because we will come to resemble the very enemy we seek to destroy__**</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Also, constitutionality affirms as verified by SC precedent</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Gerald Neuman [Professor of International, Foreign, and Comparitive Law, Harvard] "The Extraterritorial Constitution After Boumediene V. Bush" Southern California Law Review. Vol. 82. 2006.</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">. </span></span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">"The US Supreme...nationals detained there"</span></span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Also, polls affirm, which is the essence of democracy</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">World Public Opinion. Americans Support Full Due-Process Rights for Terrorism Suspects. July 17, 2006. http://www.worldpublicopinion.org/pipa/articles/home_page/228.php?nid=&id=&pnt=228&lb=hmpg1. METHODOLOGY:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">In the United States, the poll of 1059 respondents was fielded June 27-July 2 with a margin of error of +/- 3.1-4.3% depending on the sample size for each question. The poll was fielded by Knowledge Networks, using its nationwide panel, which is randomly selected from the entire adult population and subsequently provided internet access.</span>


"Americans threated with...tortured there"




Free WIll AC
v/m

presume aff

Freedom is the source of normativity for several reasons.

Geoffrey Sayre-McCord.UNC/Chapel Hill. A More than Half-Hearted Defense. http://www.unc.edu/~gsmunc/Mill/Mill_Proof.pdf

"When What we... us to embrace"

THis collapses into practical reason
Ralph Wedgwood. Practical Reason and Desire.

"The relation between...required to have"

Also, it's the starting point for all ethical theories.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Lewis, C.S. Miracles. 1942. Collins. Print.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">"If the value...getting inside it again"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">vc: consistency with freedom</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">1. we deny accused terrorists' liberty by using them as a means to an end</span>


<span style="color: #141413; font-family: Helvetica;">Jules Lobel. </span>**<span style="color: #141413; font-family: Optima; font-size: 14pt;">The War on Terrorism and Civil Liberties. </span>**

<span style="color: #141413; font-family: Helvetica;">"by reserving the...to the people"</span>

<span style="color: #141413; font-family: Helvetica;">And, rights like the right to counsel are key to preventing arbitrarniess. </span>


//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">James W. Nickel-2007 "Due Process Rights and Terrorist Emergencies" EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF LEGAL STUDIES: ISSUE : Lexis</span>//<span class="highlight2">//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">. </span>//</span>


<span class="highlight2"> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">"There must be...universality of DPRs"</span></span>






==Negative== 

Drone DA

TK increasing now
<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">“Targeted Killings,” Jonathan Masters, Assoc. Staff Writer, Council on Foreign Relations. January 26th, 2012. </span>[[http://www.cfr.org/intelligence/targeted-killings/p9627]]

"Targeted attacks launched....on the source"

But, they're exclusive of due process
<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Law and Policy of Targeted Killing Gabriella Blum and Philip Heymann Assistant Professor of Law, Harvard Law School. James Barr Ames Professor of Law, Harvard Law School. June 27, 2010</span>

"A targeted killing...any impartial body"

Stopss terrorism
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hellfire and Grey Drones: An Empirical Examination of the Effectiveness of Targeted Killings Matthew A. Morehouse University of Nebraska under the supervision of Professor Patrice C. McMahon and Professor Ross Miller Lincoln Nebraska Political Science Department May, 2011</span>

<span class="LDDebateCut">"Taking the qualitative....of targeted killing"</span>

also deters war
<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Levy, Barry (Adjunct Prof. Community Health at Tufts U School of Medicine, former medical epidemiologist for the Centers for Disease Control) and Victor Sidel (Prof. of Social Medicine at the Albert Einstein Medical College, epidemiology and biostatistics at Harvard Medical School). “War and Public Health.” 2007. p. ix.</span>

"War accounts for....of our civilization"

Terrorism risks extinction
Alexander Prof and Director of Inter-University for Terrorism Studies<span class="cite"> 3</span> (Yonah, Terrorism Myths and Realities, Washington Times, Prof and Director of Inter-University For Terrorism Studies)


"Last week's brutal...and global security"


Existentialism NC


Ortega and Gasset.Man Has No Nature. Excerpted from History as a System, 2nd ed. (1961).
Translation by H. Weyl, E. Clark, and W. Atkinson. Originally appeared in Existentialism from Dostoevsky to Sartre,
Walter Kaufmann, ed., revised and expanded edition (New York: New American Library, 1961
Man creates a life for himself and maps out his own being.
: "At every moment...for his life"

Man is completely free in his actions
Ortega and Gasset.Man Has No Nature. Excerpted from History as a System, 2nd ed. (1961).
Translation by H. Weyl, E. Clark, and W. Atkinson. Originally appeared in Existentialism from Dostoevsky to Sartre,
Walter Kaufmann, ed., revised and expanded edition (New York: New American Library, 1965)
"Among these given....any given beings"

This requires a rejection of state power.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Robert F. Schopp, Professor-University of Nebraska College of Law, 1998, Justification Defenses and Just Convictions, p. 199</span>

"The Criminal Law...officials and citizens"

Contractarianism NC

Motivational internalism is true
<span style="font-family: Tahoma; font-size: 8pt;">Internal and External Reasons” Foundations of Ethics: An Anthology. Edited by </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Tahoma; font-size: 8pt;">Russ Shafer-Landau, Terence Cuneo. 2007]</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Tahoma; font-size: 8pt;">"If something can..belief is needed"</span>


Only <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">contractarianism gives us a reason to act morally because it only holds us to principles that rational, self-interested actors would agree to, namely, it only holds us to principles that would benefit us. Gauthier explains:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Morals by agreement begin from an initial presumption against morality, as a constraint on each person's pursuit of his own interest. </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A person is </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">conceived as</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> an independent centre of activity, endeavoring to direct his capacities </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">and resources</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> to the fulfillment of his interests.</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> **__He__** considers what he can do, but **__initially draws no distinction between what he may and may not do.__** How then does he come to acknowledge the distinction? How does a person come to recognize a moral dimension to choice, if morality is not initially present? Morals by agreement offer a contractarian rationale for distinguishing what one may and may not do. </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Moral principles are introduced as the objects of fully voluntary </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">ex ante</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> agreement among rational persons. </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Such agreement is hypothetical, in supposing a pre-moral context for the adoption of moral rules and practices. But **__the parties to agreement are__** real, determinate **__individuals__**, **__distinguished by their capacities__**, situations, **__and concerns.__** In so far as **__[since] they would agree to constraints on their choices, restraining their pursuit of their own interests, they acknowledge a distinction between what they may and may not do.__** As rational persons understanding the structure of their interaction, **__they recognize a place for mutual constraint, and so for a moral dimension in their affairs.__** That there is a contractarian rationale for morality must of course be shown. That is the task of our theory. Here our immediate concern is to relate the idea of such a rationale to the introduction of fundamental moral distinctions. This is not a magical process. **__Morality__** does not emerge as the rabbit from the empty hat. Rather, as we shall argue, it **__emerges__** quite simply **__from the application of the maximizing conception of rationality to certain structures of interaction__**: Agreed mutual constraint is the rational response to these structures. Reason overrides the presumption against morality. </span>

But, it's not mutually beneficial to give non terrorists dp rights.

Chantal Mouffe. Citizenship and political identity. The Identity in Question. p. 28-32. JSTOR

"Second with respect...in continuous reenactment"



=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]