[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Icebreakers 1ac== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Inherency/Solvency</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Plan: The United States federal government should invest in the construction of six heavy duty icebreaker ships and four medium icebreaker ships.</span>**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The Coast Guard’s polar ice-breaker fleet is aging and insufficient – mission fulfillment requires new ships</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Klimas 12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Jacqueline, “Coast Guard asks to buy new Arctic icebreaker”, 3.24.12, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.navytimes.com/news/2012/03/navy-coast-guard-arctic-ice-breaker-032412w/]]</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">, [CL])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">The Defense Department will help… to move forward,” he said.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Melting ice increases the need for ice-breakers – more Arctic activity means more risk</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">O’Rourke 12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Ronald O’Rourke June 14, 2012. Specialist in Naval Affairs. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/RL34391.pdf]]</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Although polar ice is diminishing… Coast Guard, Admiral Robert Papp,</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">We need 6 heavy and 4 medium ice-breakers </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">AP 6/15 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Anchorage Daily News, “Reprieve for Seattle-based icebreaker Polar Sea, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.adn.com/2012/06/15/2506330/reprieve-for-seattle-based-icebreaker.html]]</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">The Coast Guard has postponed… Baird told The Seattle Times.</span>


==== ==== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Advantage 1- Safety</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Ice-breakers key to Arctic safety</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">CRS 2008 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(“Report to Congress: U.S. Coast Guard Polar Operations,” www.uscg.mil/history/docs/2008CRSUSCGPolarOps.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">If more vessels operate in… to provide extended operational presence.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Safety should always come first in transportation policy – role-playing requires that you prioritize this impact</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety 4 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(July 16, “Victory For Truck Safety,” http://www.saferoads.org/victory-truck-safety)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">In a unanimous decision, a… priority of government transportation officials."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">This ruling in congress applies to all modes of transportation. Safety in transit must be a priority and icebreakers are key to safe shipping.</span>

==== ==== 

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Advantage 2 - Research</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Inability to resupply Arctic research bases collapses the Antarctic Treaty System and causes a scramble for control</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">TNAP 7 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(The National Academies Press, National Advisers in Science, “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs” 2007, Online [HT])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Until recently, the two Polar… their associated outlying field sites. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">ATS Collapse breaks down the backbone that structures research sciences in the Antarctic</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Dastidar and Persson 5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Prabir G. Dastidar, Department of Ocean Development in New Delhi, and Olle Persson, Umea University Department of Sociology, “Mapping the global structure of Antarctic research vis-à-vis Antarctic Treaty System” IAS, Current Science Volume 89 Number 9, 11-10-2005, Online [HT])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">ANTARCTICA is a continent of… is occupying a central place</span>




====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Impact – Science Diplomacy</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">**Specifically – icebreaker cooperation is a key catalyst for science diplomacy. Without the ATS, the WHOLE framework for scientific cooperation collapses – US presence in South Pole station is a key modeling point. The impact is earth science cooperation.** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Erb 10 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Karl A., Director of the Office of Polar Programs, “International Collaboration in the Antarctic for Global Science”, pg. 1-6, [CL])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">The Antarctic Treaty did not… pressing questions will be answered.</span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Advantage 3 - Shipping</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">**Shipping sector is in a recession** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Khalid 12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Nazery Khalid is a senior fellow at the Maritime Institute of Malaysia Jan 16, 2012, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://thestar.com.my/maritime/story.asp?file=/2012/1/16/maritime/10259415&sec=maritime]]</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">The shipping sector is set… would prove hard to attain.</span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Melting ice increases the opportunities and hazards of Arctic transit – making routes safe is key to shipping</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Wilkinson 11 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Dr Angela Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment University of Oxford, November, http://www.smithschool.ox.ac.uk/wp-content/uploads/2011/03/SSEE-Arctic-Forecasting-Study-November-2011.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Historically, transiting northerly routes over… least in the near future.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">**Icebreakers key to arctic shipping** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Keil 12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Kathrin, Research Associate- Arctic security, cooperation, and institution, “The Arctic Institute”, 4/27, 12, http://www.thearcticinstitute.org/2012/04/arctic-shipping-routes-forecasts-and.html, Canada in the Arctic - Arctic Shipping: Routes, Forecasts, and Politics, Accessed: 6/28/12, CD)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">According to the above-mentioned… natural resource exploration or development”.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Artic shipping saves time, money, and fuel</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Scarpati 12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Kevin Scarpati, 10/5/12 “Melting Polar Ice Opens New Arctic Shipping Routes” </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.supplychaindigital.com/global_logistics/melting-polar-ice-opens-new-arctic-shipping-routes]]</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Whether you believe in global… very good business for us.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The shipping industry is the backbone of global commerce.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Lautenbacher 6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(ADM Conrad C. Lautenbacher, Jr., USN (Ret.) Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere NOAA Administrator “World Maritime Technology Conference” </span><span style="font-family: Wingdings; font-size: 8pt;">ß</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> spoken March 6, 2006; </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.pco.noaa.gov/PPTs/IMarEST.ppt|www.pco.noaa.gov/PPTs/IMarEST.ppt]]</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> //STRONG])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">I would like to start… information from multiple data sources.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Impact - Poverty</span>==== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Economic growth is the solution to global poverty</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Ben-Ami 6 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Daniel, Journalist with a Specialty in Economics, Editor of Fund Strategy, “Who’s afraid of economic growth?” May 4, 2006, http://www.spiked-online.com/Articles/0000000CB04D.htm, AD: 7-6-9) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Perhaps the best starting point… only about 10 years today.' (22)</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Impact - Globalization</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Arctic shipping sparks a new wave of globalization</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Borgerson 8</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Scott G., “Arctic Meltdown” The Economic and Security, Implications of Global Warming, April, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://library.arcticportal.org/1570/1/BorgersonForeignAffairsarticle.pdf]]</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Arctic shipping could also dramatically… the North American rail network.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Globalization solves war</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Griswold 5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Daniel- Director of Center for Trade @ Cato Institute, Free Trade, 12.29.5, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">http://www.freetrade.org/node/282</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Many causes lie behind the… with its own peace dividend. </span>

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]