[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

====<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">Form AC</span>==== 
The **OED** defines extend as “**__To widen the__** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">range, scope</span>, **__area of application of (a law__**, <span style="font-size: 7pt;">operation, dominion</span>, **__state of things, etc.__**); <span style="font-size: 7pt;">to enlarge the scope or meaning of (a word).”</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Oxford English Dictionary. “Extend.” June 2012. Published in 1894. Oxford University Press. </span>


Same as “<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With forward reference:</span> **__Identical__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">with what is indicated in the following context</span>.”
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Oxford English Dictionary. “Identical.” June 2012. Published in 1894. Oxford University Press.</span>

Accused as **__“charged with or on trial for a crime.”__**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Oxford English Dictionary. “Accused.” Oxford University Press.</span>

Presume AFF
A) The AFF only has 4 minutes to respond to the 7 minute NC which skews my

B) The AC must be read before the NC while the NC is reactive, allowing the NC to pick and choose the best strat

C) Moral theories presume people are equal when no relevant distinction is proven since the basis of morality is equal human worth

**Value: Morality** from OED/ought = moral imperative
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Oxford English Dictionary. “Ought.” June 2012. Oxford University Press.]</span>

Denying the premises does not make the statement false or true but rather indeterminate of truth value.


Moral thought is based on ought as a concept the proper function of an agent or object. Anscombe
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">G.E.M. Anscombe “Modern Moral Philosophy” The Journal of the Royal Institute of Philosophy, Vol. XXXIII No. 124, January 1958. The terms “should” … required by law</span>


1. Good is attributive adjective. Geach
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">P.T. Geach, Professor of Logic in the Department of Philosophy at the University of Leeds. “Good and Evil.” //Analysis// 17, No. 2 (1956). I can now … my thesis, illegitimate</span>


2. From “X is agood pen,” saying “X is a good” has no substantive content.


3. Without function, we cannot derive ought from is, which makes norms infinitely regressive.


Form of US is the Constitution.
1. Creation of US based on Constitution
2. It is the “supreme law of the land,” so it codifies US function
3. All other laws and institutions are checked back by Constitution
4. Prefer specific functions since Constitution constrain how US pursues other obligations


CR: **CONSISTENCY WITH US CONSTITUTION**

The Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments state that due process rights are guaranteed for all non-citizens. Cole 1/2
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">David Cole. Law Professor at Georgetown. Are Foreign Nationals Entitled to the Same Constitutional Rights As Citizens? 25 T. Jefferson L. Rev. 367-388 (2003). The constitution does … on their nationality; Are foreign nationals … the constitutional rule.</span>


Military commissions violate the Constitution’s system of checks and balances. Dickinson
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Laura A. Dickinson [Associate Professor, University of Connecticut School of Law]. //Southern California Law Review//. Vol. 75:1407. 2002. In addition to … actions brush aside.</span>


The Supreme Court has ruled that the Constitution grants protections to both citizens and non-citizens. Greenwald
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Glenn Greenwald. American </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-family: Times;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_journalism|political journalist]]</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">. Collins Spreads Central Myth about the Constitution.” Feb. 2010. The Salon. First, the U.S. … of the court.</span>



<span style="font-family: Times;">Giving due process is the only way to solve for the threat of terrorism since double standards increase resentment. Cole 2</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">David Cole. Law Professor at Georgetown. Are Foreign Nationals Entitled to the Same Constitutional Rights As Citizens? 25 T. Jefferson L. Rev. 367-388 (2003). Putting aside their … terrorists’ recruitment propaganda.</span>



Those anti-American sentiments alienate local populations, which destroys a vital source of intelligence. Roth
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Kenneth </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Roth</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, Executive Director of Human Rights Watch, May/June </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">2008</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, “After Guantanamo: The Case Against Preventive Detention.” Foreign Affairs. Preventative detention also … source of intelligence. </span>
==Negative== 
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Aribtrary NC:</span>__
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The aff must defend extending due process rights //currently// ensured to citizens.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">value – morality </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Morality is premised on the notion that humans have some value necessary to protect.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Moral theories must prohibit arbitrariness. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">First, questions of morality arise when actions of an agent violate another. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Second, arbitrariness of treatment means that one is allowed to be violated even if they don’t deserve that violation.</span>
Third, moral statements are truth-functional. Korsgaard. “In the case…to the truth.” Christine Korsgaard, <span style="color: #1a1a1a;">Arthur Kingsley Porter Professor of Philosophy Director of Graduate Studies in Philosophy Harvard University</span>. “The Activity of Reason”(Presidential Address delivered before the One Hundred Fifth Annual Eastern Division Meeting of The American Philosophical Association in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, on Monday, December 29, 2008), p. 25 “In the case… to the truth.” http://www.people.fas.harvard.edu/~korsgaar/CMK.Activity.of.Reason.pdf

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">criterion – preventing arbitrary treatment</span>
A: The Constitutional mandate to be given a trial by jury results in skewed results. Vidmar. “Al-Qaeda-linked…influence jury outcomes.” Neil Vidmar [S<span style="color: #464646;">cholarly research involves the empirical study of law across a broad spectrum of topics in civil and criminal law. A Hhe is a leading expert on jury behavior Is currently engaged in a project with the Law School’s Center for Criminal Justice and Ethical Responsibility.</span><span class="apple-converted-space" style="color: #464646;">]</span> Trial by Jury Involving Persons Accused of Terrorism. Duke Law School Faculty Scholarship Series. 2006. [[http://lsr.nellco.org/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1054&context=duke_fs]]

B: Unilateral state prosecution of terrorists by giving them US-centric due process proceedings skews results. Anzalone. “Such varying legal…long-term solution.” Joseph Anzalone. George Washington University. Under guidance of Law Professor Gregory Maggs. “EXTRAORDINARY TIMES DEMAND EXTRAORDINARY MEASURES: A PROPOSAL TO ESTABLISH AN INTERNATIONAL COURT FOR THE PROSECUTION OF GLOBAL TERRORISTS.” Davis Journal of International Law and Policy. 2009.

C: The adversarial system of justice invites the worst abuse. Menkel. “Although I cannot…search for truth.” Carrie Menkel-Meadow [<span style="color: #222222;">Founding Faculty Chancellor's Professor of Law Joint appointment in Law and Political Science] The Trouble with the Adversary System in a Postmodern, Multicultural World. 38 Wm. & Mary L. Rev. 5 (1996), </span>[[http://scholarship.law.wm.edu/wmlr/vol38/iss1/3]]<span style="color: #222222;">. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">This is specifically bad for non-citizens.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">A: They often don’t understand those rights or are taken advantage of by actors in the adversarial system. International Commission of Jurists. “Two factors contribute…and asylum seekers.” INTERNATIONAL COMMISSION OF JURISTS [</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> is an international human rights non-governmental organization devoted to the promotion of the understanding and observance of the rule of law]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">. NON-CITIZENS AND THE ADMINISTRATION OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE. Submission to the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination. 2004.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">B: Prosecutors have a social incentive to find the terrorist guilty.</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Security NC:</span>__
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial,Helvetica,Sans-Serif',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Value is governmental legitimacy </span>**

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The state must always seek to protect its citizens i</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">n order to maintain power and promote its interests. John Mearsheimer, professor of political science at the University of Chicago. “This unrelenting pursuit … their chances of survival”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The state must adjudicate between different claims of its people and thus maximize the interest of its citizens. IN THE NATIONAL INTEREST: Arthur Schlesinger, Jr [He served as special assistant and "court historian"[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arthur_M._Schlesinger,_Jr.#cite_note-0|[1]]] to President Kennedy from 1961 to 1963, Pulitzer Prize winner.] “Niebuhr insisted that … other people’s interest.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Arial,Helvetica,Sans-Serif',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Standard is maximizing national security </span>**

//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Only impacts to the state’s citizens matter since state’s obligations arise from </span>////<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">those whose rights it limits. </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">A. John Simmons, “Locke and the Right to Punish,” Philosophy and Public Affairs, Vol. 20, No. 4 (Autumn, 1991), pp. 311-349. “Locke and other … a utilitarian gain”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The Constitutional tenet of disclosing evidence compromises sensitive intelligence and undermines US security. </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Ruth Wedgwood [Edward B. Burling Professor of International Law and Diplomacy; Director of the International Law and Organizations Program]. Military Commissions: Al Qaeda, Terrorism, and Military Commissions. The American Journal International Law. April, 2002. “In Federal Court … who care to listen.”</span>

The prosecution of Abdel-Rahman empirically proves it compromises intelligence. Michael B. Mukasey [Former US Attorney General] “Civilian Courts Are No Place to Try Terrorists.” //Wall Street Journal.//19 October 2009. [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704107204574475300052267212.html]] “thus in the multidefendant … was aware of”

Five reasons why leaking information is bad for national security. White. <span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">[1]</span><span style="font-family: Times;"> Laura White. B.S. With Honors at Bucknell University. US Navy Civil Engineer Corps Officer. University of Virginia School of Law. “Need for Governmental Secrecy: Why the U.S. Government Must Be Able to Withhold Information in the Interest of National Security.” Virginia Journal of International Law. 2003. </span>“To date, the government’s … distort that evidence”

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Procedural aspects of due process demand certain standards of guilt to be met, which makes it easier for terrorists to go free. </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Ruth Wedgwood [Edward B. Burling Professor of International Law and Diplomacy; Director of the International Law and Organizations Program]. Military Commissions: Al Qaeda, Terrorism, and Military Commissions. The American Journal International Law. April, 2002. “second is the problem … it would be hearsay”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Giving Constitutional due process protections through the US judicial system sends a message that US is acting unilaterally in the fight against terrorism by only conforming to Western ideals of justice. Laura A. Dickenson. [Associate Professor, University of Connecticut School of Law] Using legal process to fight terrorism: detentions, military commissions, international tribunals and the rule of law. 2002. http://www-bcf.usc.edu/~usclrev/pdf/075602.pdf “increased protection of … world as fair” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The idea of US exceptionalism is what fosters terrorism. Only by avoiding a US-oriented approach to terrorism can backlash be stopped. Laura A. Dickenson. [Associate Professor, University of Connecticut School of Law] Using legal process to fight terrorism: detentions, military commissions, international tribunals and the rule of law. 2002. http://www-bcf.usc.edu/~usclrev/pdf/075602.pdf “Finally, an international … information campaigns” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Our world faces a growing probability of a major terrorist attack if we don’t do something to stop it. Dick Pelletier [Science and technology columnist</span><span class="apple-converted-space" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">]. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://memebox.com/futureblogger/show/355-terrorist-wmd-attack-likely-within-decade-say-analysts|Terrorist WMD attack likely within decade, say analysts]]. [[http://memebox.com/futureblogger/show/355-terrorist-wmd-attack-likely-within-decade-say-analysts.%20April%202008|http://memebox.com/futureblogger/show/355-terrorist-wmd-attack-likely-within-decade-say-analysts. April 2008]]. “the world faces an … by 10 percent.”</span>


=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]