<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">[[toc|flat]]

</span>
=<span style="text-align: left;">**Substantial**</span>= 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Substantial means more than 50%**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Merrick B. **Garland, 1997**, Garland, Judge, United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, "Grand Canyon Air Tour Coalition v. Federal Aviation Administration, No. 97-1003, US DC Circuit Court, FindLaw, caselaw.lp.findlaw.com/cgi-bin/getcase.pl?court=dc&navby=case&no=971003a</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">"Substantial" may well be defined as meaning "more than half." See Webster's Third New International Dictionary 2280 (1993) ("being that specified to a large degree or in the main") (4th meaning).</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Current transportation spending is $556 billion, means plan must spend $278 billion**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**The Economist**, 4/28/**11** (The Economist is an authoritative weekly newspaper focusing on international politics and business news and opinion. “Life in the slow lane.” [[http://www.economist.com/node/18620944]])</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Mr Obama is thinking big. His 2012 budget proposal contains $556 billion for</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">AND</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">commas around the word “investment” when Democrats apply it to infrastructure.</span>
=<span style="text-align: left;">Increase - Pre-exist</span>= 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Increase requires pre-existence**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Buckley et al, 06** - attorney (Jeremiah, Amicus Curiae Brief, Safeco Ins. Co. of America et al v. Charles Burr et al, [[http://supreme.lp.findlaw.com/supreme_court/briefs/06-84/06-84.mer.ami.mica.pdf]])</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">First, the court said that the ordinary meaning of the word “increase”</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">AND</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">a phrase gathers meaning from the words around it”) (citation omitted).</span>
=<span style="text-align: left;">Pipelines</span>= 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Transportation infrastructure is NOT pipelines – we have a case list**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Chamber of Commerce 10** Transportation Performance Index Summary Report U.S. Chamber of Commerce 9/23/2010 [[http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/lra/files/LRA_TPI%20_Summary_Report%20Final%20092110.pdf]] BK</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">*Dr. Martin Regalia was involved in guiding the development of the Index.</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">AND</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">of the Infrastructure Performance Index it is considered an element of energy infrastructure.</span>
=<span style="text-align: left;">Military</span>= 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**U.S. law defines “infrastructure” as only non-military**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**National Infrastructure Improvement Act , ‘7**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">(National Infrastructure Improvement Act of 2007 – Passed by the Senate, [[http://uspolitics.about.com/od/legislation/l/bl_s775.htm]])</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">(4) INFRASTRUCTURE(A) IN GENERAL- The term `infrastructure'</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">AND</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">dock or port; and (x) a solid waste disposal facility.</span>
=<span style="text-align: left;">Transportation Infrastructure</span>= 
**Transportation infrastructure includes 9 topic areas**
**The White House Office of the Press Secretary 11**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The American Job Act: President Obama’s Plan To Create Jobs Now [[http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/omb/legislative/reports/american-jobs-act.pdf]]</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">(B) TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT- The term `transportation infrastructure project' means the</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">AND</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">, including high-speed rail. (ix) Freight rail systems.</span>
=<span style="text-align: left;">Telecommunications</span>= 
**Transportation infrastructure excludes telecommunications**
**Snieska and Simkunaite 9**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">(Vytautas, Professor – Kaunas University of Technology, and Ineta, Professor – Projectu Vadybos Centras, “Socio-Economic Impact of Infrastructure Investments”, Inzinerine Ekonomika-Engineering Economics, Vol 3, p. 17, ken)</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Authors of scientific literature suggest many definitions of infrastructure sector and its components, they</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">AND</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">telephone lines), power infrastructure (power plants, transmission and distribution lines).</span>
=<span style="text-align: left;">Vehicles</span>= 
**Vehicles are part of our transportation system, not our transportation infrastructure**
**Amosweb 12**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">(“Taking A Ride On TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE” A pedestrian’s guide to the economy, [[http://www.amosweb.com/cgi-bin/awb_nav.pl?s=pdg&c=dsp&k=47]], ken)</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">We usually think about transportation in terms of vehicles -- like cars, trucks,</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">AND</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">need tracks, airplanes need airports, and boats need docks and ports.</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
=<span style="text-align: left;">Increase - Net Greater</span>= 
**Increase means to make net greater**
**Rogers** et al, judge in the State of New York, 6/24/<span style="font-size: 13pt;">’</span>**5**
(PETITIONERS v. U.S. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY, RESPONDENT, NSR MANUFACTURERS ROUNDTABLE, ET AL., INTERVENORS, 2005 U.S. App.)
[**48] Statutory Interpretation. [[http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=1fe428155fdfc9074f3623f0dae9d78a&docnum=14&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVlz-zSkAW&_md5=0ebd338d6a7793de8561db53b915effd&focBudTerms=term%20increase&focBudSel=all#clscc16|HN16]]While the CAA defines a "modification"
AND
car five or ten years ago when the engine was in perfect condition.

**Infrastructure bank won’t increase total transportation investment**
**Lambertson, 11**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (9/7/2011, Giles, “Feds Weigh Infrastructure Financial Solutions,” </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.constructionequipmentguide.com/Feds-Weigh-Infrastructure-Financial-Solutions/16865/]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, JMP)</span>
The proposals are more alike than they are different, but some differences are noted
AND
away from what would otherwise go through the existing highway and transit programs.”