[[toc]]
=1AC Wildlife Crossings - Glenbrooks Round 2= 
==Inherency== 
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Status quo wildlife crossing investment focuses only on cost-minimization, creating ineffective and unused crossings</span>
**Ruediger 01** [William Ruediger, USDA Forest Service, Washington Office. “High, wide, and handsome: designing more effective wildlife and fish crossings for roads and Highways.” September 24, 2001.] AP
Our past has largely been
<span style="text-decoration: none;">and</span>
out to be shortsighted in their economic costs and benefits<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
==Plan== 
**Plan: the United States federal government should substantially increase investment in wildlife crossings and fish culverts in the United States.**
==Biodiversity Advantage== 
**Roads are devastating biodiversity – they affect nearly every ecological process and relationship**
**Bissonette and Adair 08** [J.A Bissonette, US Geological Survey, Utah Cooperative Fish and Wildlife Research Unit, Department of Wildland Resources, Utah State University, and William Adair, Utah State University. “Restoring habitat permeability to roaded landscapes with isometrically-scaled wildlife crossings.” February 21, 2008] AP
The activities of humans <span style="font-size: 7pt;">around the </span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">and</span>
isolated populations<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Burnett, 1992; Wang and Schreiber, 2001; Kattan et al., 2004; Seiler and Folkeson, 2006).</span>

**There are three internal links –**

**First is fragmentation - Absent crossings, roads __split up populations__ and __leave them vulnerable__ to environmental disasters and threats – extinction becomes inevitable**
**Noss 95** [Reed Noss, Provost's Distinguished Research Professor at the University of Central Florida and President of the Florida Institute for Conservation Science.. “The Ecological Effects of Roads.” June 29, 1995. [[http://www.wildlandscpr.org/ecological-effects-roads]]] AP
Some species of animals simply refuse to cross barriers as wide as a road<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
then extinction is inevitable

**Second is genetic diversity – road mortality and migration barriers are __devastating__ genetic variation and resilience of animal and plant populations**
**Jackson and Fahrig 11** [Nathan D. Jackson and Lenore Fahrig, Geomatics and Landscape Ecology Research Laboratory, Carleton University. “Relative effects of road mortality and decreased connectivity on population genetic diversity.” October 17, 2011] AP
Roads can have two important effects
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
is expected given that a reduction in abundanceand connectivity may be occurring simultaneously.

**Third is keystone species – roads are __decimating__ large predators, cascading down to diminish ecosystem diversity across the food chain**
**Noss 95** [Reed Noss, Provost's Distinguished Research Professor at the University of Central Florida and President of the Florida Institute for Conservation Science.. “The Ecological Effects of Roads.” June 29, 1995. [[http://www.wildlandscpr.org/ecological-effects-roads]]] AP
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This scenario is fictitious, but every part of it has been documented somewhere. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
The end result is an impoverishment of global biodiversity.

**There are two scenarios –**

**First is Ecosystem Collapse -**
**Species decline causes extinction of the biosphere – each new extinction risks total collapse**
**Diner 94** [Judge Advocate’s General’s Corps of US Army, David N., Military Law Review, Winter, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161]
No species has ever dominated its fellow species as man has<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">and</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>one by one, the rivets from an aircraft's wings, [hu]mankind may be edging closer to the abyss.

**Biosphere collapse outweighs nuclear war – it is the only __irreparable__ scenario – all of their impacts will be repaired over time**
**Wilson 84** [Edward O. Wilson, Joseph Pellegrino University Research Professor in Entomology for the Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology at Harvard University. “Biophilia.” 1984] AP
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">For </span>if the whole process of our life is directedtoward
<span style="text-decoration: none;">and</span>
evenknowing fully what they contained.

**Second is Food –**

**Biodiversity is a __necessary pre-requisite__ to agriculture – it’s key to __every single part__ of the supply chain**
**Dollacker and Valero 08** [Annik Dollacker and Juan Gonzalez-Valero, Ecosystems Focus Area, World Business Council for Sustainable Development. “Agriculture and biodiversity: challenges and opportunities for agri-business.” March 27, 2008. [[http://www.businessgreen.com/bg/analysis/1802275/agriculture-biodiversity-challenges-opportunities-agri-business]]] AP
Agriculture is one of the key motors
<span style="text-decoration: none;">and</span>
rising costs of key resources and inputs, such as raw materials and water, for example.

**Agriculture solves extinction – accesses __every impact__**
**Lugar 11** [Richard G. Lugar, a US Senator from Indiana, is Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and a member and former chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee. “Plant Power.” 3/18/11 (Last Modified)]
In a world confronted by global terrorism, turmoil
<span style="text-decoration: none;">and</span>
humanitarian role in the survival of billions of people and the health of our planet

**Biodiversity is key to food security – it’s both the __safety-net__ and a __main market access-point__**
**Sunderland 11** [T.C.H. Sunderland, Principal Scientist, CIFOR. “Food security: why is biodiversity important?” International Forestry Review 13 (3). 2011] AP
Biodiversity at three levels, ecosystems,
<span style="text-decoration: none;">and</span>
or components of it; processes that are critical to the maintenanceof agricultural systems<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Thrupp 2000, Benton 2007).</span>

**Independently, food security prevents extinction – it’s an __impact filter__**
**Trudell 05** [Robert H., J.D. Candidate 2006, Food Security Emergencies And The Power Of Eminent Domain: A Domestic Legal Tool To Treat A Global Problem, 33 Syracuse J. Int'l L. & Com. 277, Lexis]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today, </span>more than 842 million people<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - nearly three times the population of the United States – </span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">and</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">world </span>must be taken on now lest we find ourselves facing some far worse danger in the days to come
==Salmon Advantage== 
**Poor culvert design in the Northwest is destroying salmon populations**
**Frank 12** (Billy, chairman of the Northwest Indian Fisheries Commission. GUEST EDITORIAL: STATE GOVERNMENT STILL IGNORES FISH-BLOCKING CULVERTS
Thursday, 27 September 2012 [[http://www.puyalluptribalnews.net/news/view/guest-editorial-state-government-still-ignores-fish-blocking-culverts/]])
**__Habitat is the key to salmon recovery,__**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">and</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">of Transportation (WSDOT). Its lack of commitment to fish-blocking culverts – and obeying state laws – has not changed.</span>

**Salmons’ trip up the river is integral to Northwest tribal tradition and culture**
**Perron 01** [B.A., Pacific Lutheran University, J.D. Candidate, William and Mary, former Fullbright Scholar to Germany in environmental law and economics, William and Mary Environmental Law and policy Review, spring, l/n]
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Historically</span>**__, salmon not only served the__**
<span style="text-decoration: none;">and</span>
the future of the salmon and Indian<span style="font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none;">¶</span> culture are now walking hand in hand.

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Preservation of the cultures of indigenous peoples is necessary to solve extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Weatherford 94</span>** (Jack, Anthropologist, Savages and Civilization: Who Will Survive?, pp. 287-291)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today we have no local and regional civilizations</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">and</span>
and one day the descendants of some alien civilization will stare at our ruined cities and wonder why we disappeared.

**Destruction of culture is the most perilous threat to humanity and all other existential problems—it has intrinsic and utilitarian value**
**Guruswamy et al 99** (Lakshman, Jason Robert, & Catina Drywater, Prof of law & Director of the Natoinal energy & environmental law & policy institute, JD U of Tulsa, 34 Tulsa LJ 713, Summer, l/n “Protecting the Cultural and Natural Heritage: Finding Common Ground” sjg)
The cultural heritage of indigenous peoples,
<span style="text-decoration: none;">and</span>
form part of the religious and cultural traditions of people and civilizations, desecrates the sacred<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
==Solvency== 
**The plan is necessary for permeability and connectivity of species across landscapes and ecosystems**
**CRS 08** [Creative Research Strategies, for Metro. “Wildlife Crossings: The State of the Science – A Literature Review.” 2008] AP
Landscape permeability allows for free daily movement of a species
<span style="text-decoration: none;">and</span>
about management, restoration, and protection of native habitats.

**International conflict is obsolete - the costs far outweigh any benefits**
**Mandelbaum** **99** [Michael Mandelbaum, Christian A. Herter Professor and Director of the American Foreign Policy program at Johns Hopkins University**.** “Is Major War Obsolete?” Great Debate Series. February 25, 1999. [[http://www.ciaonet.org/conf/cfr10/]]]
**__My argument says__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, tacitly, that while this point of view, </span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">and</span>
**__the ideology that is now in the ascendant, our own, liberalism, tends to be pacific.__**

**Empirics disprove war and escalation claims – power wars are inconceivable**
**Goldstein and Pinker 11** Joshua S. Goldstein and Steven Pinker, professor emeritus of international relations at American University and psychology professor at Harvard, respectively. “War is really going out of style.” The New York Times. December 18, 2011. Lexis.] AP
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">THE departure of the last American troops from Iraq </span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">and</span>
**__Neither North nor South Korea could win a war at an acceptable cost.__**


**Extinction comes first - there’s option value in preserving life**
**Bostrom 02**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Nick Bostrom, philosopher at Oxford. nickbostrom.com, “Existential Risk”]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">These reflections on moral uncertainty suggest an alternative</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">and</span>
**__we must prevent any existential catastrophe__**


=1AC Glenbrooks Round 5= 
==Plan== 
**Plan: the United States federal government should substantially increase investment in wildlife overpasses and underpasses in the United States.**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Didn't read the Salmon Advantage - it was just Biodiversity - we added these cards</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nuclear war is survivable and nuclear winter isn’t real</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nyquist 1999</span>** __(__J.R., Defense Analyst, Worldnetdaily.com, May 20, 1999)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I patiently reply to these correspondents that</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">and</span>
__these <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">weapons would produce few (if any) fallout casualties</span>__.

**No alt causes - U.S. biodiversity is uniquely key to global ecosystems**
**Bruce et al 2k** [Bruce A. Stein, Associate Director, Wildlife Conservation and Global Warming, National Wildlife Federation, and Lynn S. Kutner, and Jonathan S. Adams. “Precious Heritage: Executive Summary.” NatureServe.] AP
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A vast land of contrasts, </span>the United States harbors an extraordinary diversity of life<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">and</span>
temperate grasslands, and Mediterranean-climate vegetation.
= =