[[toc]]
=September/October= 
==Affirmative== 
===1AC---Hegemony (Greenhill)=== 
**In order to value something, you must also value what makes that valuation possible**
**Uyl & Rasmussen 81**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Douglas Den Uyl is a Professor of Philosophy at Bellarmine College Douglas Rasmussen is a Professor of Philosophy at St. John’s University, “Reading Nozick” p. 245</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In so far as one…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">which makes valuation possible</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="cite">**Extinction prevents the possibility of valuing moral goodness and is always impermissible**</span>
**<span class="cite">Seeley 86</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Central Committee for Conscientious Objectors, “The Handbook of Non-Violence” p. 269-70</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In moral reasoning prediction of…under any</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> sane </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">moral code</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Thus the standard is mitigating existential risk**

**Prefer this standard:**

**Normative uncertainty—**
**Humanity has a minimal understanding of ethics---there is a high likelihood that we can advance in our moral understanding**
**a. Parfit 86**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Derek Parfit, MA, FBA, is an Emeritus Fellow at All Souls College, Oxford University and a Visiting Professor of Philosophy at NYU, Harvard and Rutgers University, “Reasons and Persons” Oxford University Press, 1986, ISBN-13: 9780198249085</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">154. How Both Human History…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">irrational to have high hopes</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**b. This means extinction is a side constraint on __any ethical theory__**
**Bostrom 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Nick Bostrom is a Professory of Philosophy and Director of the Future of Humanity Institute and the Pogramme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, “The Concept of Existential Risk” Future of Humanity Institute, 2011, Draft http://www.existential-risk.org/concept.pdf</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Our present understanding of axiology…must prevent any existential catastrophe</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Agent specificity**—
**a. A governments only obligation is to protect its citizens from harm**
**Keenan 86**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> George F. Kennan, “Morality and Foreign Policy” Foreign Affairs, Winter 1985/1986, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/40521/george-f-kennan/morality-and-foreign-policy</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Second, let us recognize that…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">on the basis of them</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**b.****Governments can only base their decisions off calculations of harm**
**Gooden 95**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Robert, philsopher at the Research School of the Social Sciences, Utilitarianism as Public Philosophy. P. 62-63</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Consider, first, the argument from…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">each alternative possible general rules</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**My advocacy is that the USFG should provide equal constitutional due process protections to both citizens and non-citizens accused of terrorism**

**Advantage one is leadership**

**Status quo US terrorism policies are currently eroding the legitimacy and international support for US policies**
**Lunday & Rishikof 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Kevin E. Lunday is a Captain and judge advocate in the U.S. Coast Guard, Harvey Rishikof is a Professor of Law and former chair of the Department of National Security Strategy at the National War College, “Due Process is a Strategic Choice: Legitimacy and the Establishment of an Article III National Security Court” California Western International Law Journal, Vol. 39, 12/19/2008, http://www.cwsl.edu/content/journals/Rishikof.pdf</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Legitimacy remains a vital…for the rule of law</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Absence of equal due process undermines US credibility and international support for the military**
**Radack 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Jesselyn A. Radack, J.D. from Yale Law School, is Executive Director of the Coalition for Civil Rights and Democratic Liberties, “You Say Defendant, I say Combatant: Opportunistic Treatment of Terrorism Suspects Held in the United States and the Need for Due Process” Review of Law and Social Change, Vol. 29:525, 2005</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The revolving door between the…danger of similar treatment later</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”135 </span>

**Perception is key---denial of due process is destroying our perceived legitimacy and causing others to resist US primacy**
**Walt, Prof. of IR @ Harvard, 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Stephen M. Walt is Academic Dean and Robert and Renee Belfer Professor of International Affairs at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government, “Taming American Power” Foreign Affairs, Vol. 84, No. 5, September-October, 2005, p. 105-120, [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/20031709]]</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Attacking U.S. legitimacy is</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">U</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">S</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">even more</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**International support is critical to maintaining military supremacy**
**Nash, Sr. Fellow @ CFR, 2k**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> William L. Nash is the General John W. Vessey Senior Fellow for Conflict Prevention and Director of the Center for Preventive Action at the Council on Foreign Relations and was a fellow and visiting lecturer at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, an adjunct professor at Georgetown University, and a military consultant to ABC News, “The ICC and the Deployment of U.S. Armed Forces” in “The United States and the International Criminal Court” Ed. Sarah Sewall and Carl Kaysen, Published by Rowman & Littlefield, 2000 http://www.amacad.org/publications/icc9.aspx</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Judging from recent experiences, the…U.S. position toward the ICC.</span>

**US decline causes extinction---collapse of democracy, free trade and great power conflict**
**Kagan, Sr. Fellow @ Brookings Institute, 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Robert Kagan is a senior fellow in foreign policy at the Brookings Institution, “Why the World Needs America” The Wall Street Journal, February 11, 2012 http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970203646004577213262856669448.html</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">If</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> all of </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">this sounds…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">American order came into being. </span>

**Advantage two is terrorism**

**A nuclear attack is a threat---recent uranium smuggling proves**
**GSN 8/1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Chris Schneidmiller is Editor of Global Security Newswire, “Nuclear Smuggling Shows Terrorist WMD Threat Persists: State Department” Global Security Newswire, August 1, 2012, http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/state-report/</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">State Department</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on…killed several Iranian nuclear scientists.</span>

**That causes Extinction**
**Ayson 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Robert Ayson is Professor of Strategic Studies, Director of Strategic Studies: New Zealand and Senior Research Associate with Oxford’s Centre for International Studies, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects” Studies in Conflict and Terrorism, Vol. 33, No. 7, July 2010, p. 571-593</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Washington's early response to a…unable or unwilling to provide</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Perceived legitimacy is the key internal link to preventing terrorism**
**Lunday & Rishikof 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Kevin E. Lunday is a Captain and judge advocate in the U.S. Coast Guard, Harvey Rishikof is a Professor of Law and former chair of the Department of National Security Strategy at the National War College, “Due Process is a Strategic Choice: Legitimacy and the Establishment of an Article III National Security Court” California Western International Law Journal, Vol. 39, 12/19/2008, http://www.cwsl.edu/content/journals/Rishikof.pdf</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Legitimacy of action is a…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">in the war against terrorism.</span>

**Status quo policies are destroying international and domestic support for the war on terror---this is the critical internal link to preventing attacks**
**Fogarty 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Brigadier Gerard P. Fogarty is the Director General of Workforce Planning and Retention in the Australian Defence Force, a 2005 graduate of the US Army War College, a graduate of the University of South Australia and holds a master’s degree in business administration from the University of New England and a Master of Strategic Studies degree from the US Army War College, “Is Guantanamo Bay Undermining the Global War on Terror?” Parameters, Autumn 2005, [[http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/parameters/Articles/05autumn/fogarty.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In March 2004, the Pew Research…writing remains to be seen. </span>

**Lack of international support kills counter terrorism**
**Byman 6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Daniel Byman is Director of the Center for Peace and Security Studies and of the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University's School of Foreign Service and a nonresident Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution's Saban Center for Middle East Policy, “Do Targeted Killings Work?” Foreign Affairs, Vol. 85, No. 2, March - April 2006, p. 95-111 [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/20031914]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is true that the…the United States has to.</span>

**Denial of due process causes local radicalization---increases terrorism and destroys intelligence**
**Waxman 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Matthew C. Waxman is an Associate Professor at Columbia Law School, an Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and a Member of the Hoover Institution Task Force on National Security and Law, “Administrative Detention of Terrorists: Why Detain, and Detain Whom?” Journal of National Security Law & Policy, Vol. 3:1, 2009</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Historically, </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">detention practices</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – especially those…detention systems in battling insurgencies. 122 </span>

**Status quo practices exacerbate the threat---recruitment and international cooperation**
**Mora 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Alberto J. Mora, Hearing on the Treatment of Detainees in U.S. Custody, Senate Committee on Armed Services, June 17, 2008, http://www.armed-services.senate.gov/statemnt/2008/June/Mora%2006-17-08.pdf</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">These adverse foreign policy consequences…become complicit in detainee abuse</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Civilian courts are empirically more effective at getting intelligence from terrorists---detentions without due process eliminates the incentive to cooperate**
**Gude 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Ken Gude is the Chief of Staff and Vice President at the Center for American Progress, where he works closely with CAP President Neera Tanden to communicate strategic decisions and coordinate policy development and also leads several of the organization’s policy initiatives and projects, “Criminal Courts Are Tougher on Terrorists than Military Detention” Center for American Progress, January 20, 2010, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/security/news/2010/01/20/7207/criminal-courts-are-tougher-on-terrorists-than-military-detention/</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Access to lawyers doesn’t restrict…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">their chances of being released</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Equality between citizens and non-citizens is key**
**Lunday & Rishikof 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Kevin E. Lunday is a Captain and judge advocate in the U.S. Coast Guard, Harvey Rishikof is a Professor of Law and former chair of the Department of National Security Strategy at the National War College, “Due Process is a Strategic Choice: Legitimacy and the Establishment of an Article III National Security Court” California Western International Law Journal, Vol. 39, 12/19/2008, http://www.cwsl.edu/content/journals/Rishikof.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Concern over applying the same…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">both U.S. citizens and aliens</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===1AC---Hegemony (St. Marks)=== 
**In order to value something, you must also value what makes that valuation possible**
**Uyl & Rasmussen 81**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Douglas Den Uyl is a Professor of Philosophy at Bellarmine College Douglas Rasmussen is a Professor of Philosophy at St. John’s University, “Reading Nozick” p. 245</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In so far as one…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">that which makes valuation possible</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span class="cite">Extinction prevents the possibility of valuing moral goodness and is always impermissible</span>**
**<span class="cite">Seeley 86</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Central Committee for Conscientious Objectors, “The Handbook of Non-Violence” p. 269-70</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In moral reasoning prediction of…under any</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> sane </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">moral code</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Thus the standard is mitigating existential risk**

**Prefer this standard for three reasons:**
**1.** **Normative uncertainty**
**a.** **Humanity has a minimal understanding of ethics---there is a __high likelihood__ that we can advance in our moral understanding**
**Parfit 86**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Derek Parfit, MA, FBA, is an Emeritus Fellow at All Souls College, Oxford University and a Visiting Professor of Philosophy at NYU, Harvard and Rutgers University, “Reasons and Persons” Oxford University Press, 1986, ISBN-13: 9780198249085</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">154. How Both Human History, and the History of Ethics, May Be Just Beginning</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Some people believe that there…irrational to have high hopes</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**b. This means extinction is a side constraint on __any ethical theory__**
**Bostrom 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Nick Bostrom is a Professory of Philosophy and Director of the Future of Humanity Institute and the Pogramme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, “The Concept of Existential Risk” Future of Humanity Institute, 2011, Draft http://www.existential-risk.org/concept.pdf</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Our present understanding of axiology…must prevent any existential catastrophe</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**2. Agent specificity**---**a governments only obligation is to protect its citizens from harm**
**Keenan 86**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> George F. Kennan, “Morality and Foreign Policy” Foreign Affairs, Winter 1985/1986, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/40521/george-f-kennan/morality-and-foreign-policy</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Second, let us recognize that…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">on the basis of them</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**3. No act-omission distinction---**
**a.** **Every action is also an inaction**
**Rachels 1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> James Rachels, Ph.D. in 1967 from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, is an American philosopher who specialized in ethics, “Killing and Letting Die” 2001</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">So what is the difference…moving my body very rapidly.</span></span>
**b. The distinction is paradoxical**
**Persson 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Ingmar Persson, “Two Act-Omission Paradoxes” Source: Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society, New Series, Vol. 104, 2004, p. 149-164 http://www.jstor.org/stable/4545410</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">There are two ways in…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">impermissible but letting be killed permissible </span>

**c. It’s not applicable to government action**
**Sunstein & Vermule 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Cass R. Sunstein and Adrian Vermeule, “Is Capital Punishment Morally Required? The Relevance of Life</span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif; font-size: 8pt;">‐</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Life Tradeoffs” John M. Olin Law & Economics Working Paper No. 239 The Law School, The University of Chicago, March 2005 http://www.law.uchicago.edu/files/files/239.crs-av.capital-punishment.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In our view, </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">both the…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">adequately or fully discourage it. </span>

**My advocacy is that the USFG should provide equal constitutional due process protections to both citizens and non-citizens accused of terrorism**

**Advantage one is leadership**

**Status quo US terrorism policies are currently eroding the legitimacy and international support for US policies**
**Lunday & Rishikof 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Kevin E. Lunday is a Captain and judge advocate in the U.S. Coast Guard, Harvey Rishikof is a Professor of Law and former chair of the Department of National Security Strategy at the National War College, “Due Process is a Strategic Choice: Legitimacy and the Establishment of an Article III National Security Court” California Western International Law Journal, Vol. 39, 12/19/2008, http://www.cwsl.edu/content/journals/Rishikof.pdf</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Legitimacy remains a vital strategic…for the rule of law</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**US moral leadership is declining now because of detainment practices**
**Laçiner 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Prof. Doc. Sedat Laçiner, Canakkale Onsekiz Mart University Lecturer, “Moral Collapse of The United States Hegemony” Translated by Hasan Deniz, Yalova University, Department of International Relations, IRST Anatolia Daily, International Relations Studies Platform for Turkey, March 25, 2012, http://www.anatoliadaily.com/irst/index.php/authors/3-all-articles-of-sedat-laciners-/984-moral-collapse-of-the-united-states-hegemony</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Economic losses and political-military…as they stay in Afghanistan. </span>

**Absence of equal due process undermines US credibility and international support for the military**
**Radack 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Jesselyn A. Radack, J.D. from Yale Law School, is Executive Director of the Coalition for Civil Rights and Democratic Liberties, “You Say Defendant, I say Combatant: Opportunistic Treatment of Terrorism Suspects Held in the United States and the Need for Due Process” Review of Law and Social Change, Vol. 29:525, 2005</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The revolving door between…danger of similar treatment later</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”135 </span>

**Perception is key---denial of due process is destroying our perceived legitimacy and causing others to resist US primacy**
**Walt, Prof. of IR @ Harvard, 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Stephen M. Walt is Academic Dean and Robert and Renee Belfer Professor of International Affairs at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government, “Taming American Power” Foreign Affairs, Vol. 84, No. 5, September-October, 2005, p. 105-120, [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/20031709]]</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Attacking U.S. legitimacy is</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the U</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">S</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">even more</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**International support is critical to maintaining military supremacy**
**Nash, Sr. Fellow @ CFR, 2k**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> William L. Nash is the General John W. Vessey Senior Fellow for Conflict Prevention and Director of the Center for Preventive Action at the Council on Foreign Relations and was a fellow and visiting lecturer at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, an adjunct professor at Georgetown University, and a military consultant to ABC News, “The ICC and the Deployment of U.S. Armed Forces” in “The United States and the International Criminal Court” Ed. Sarah Sewall and Carl Kaysen, Published by Rowman & Littlefield, 2000 http://www.amacad.org/publications/icc9.aspx</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Judging from recent experiences, the…U.S. position toward the ICC.</span>

**US decline causes extinction**
**Kagan, Sr. Fellow @ Brookings Institute, 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Robert Kagan is a senior fellow in foreign policy at the Brookings Institution, “Why the World Needs America” The Wall Street Journal, February 11, 2012 http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970203646004577213262856669448.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Most commentators who welcome this…American order came into being. </span>

**Decline causes the US to lash out prior to multipolarity---causes hegemonic wars**
**Goldstein 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Professor of Global Politics and International Relations @ University of Pennsylvania “Power transitions, institutions, and China's rise in East Asia: Theoretical expectations and evidence,” Journal of Strategic Studies, Volume 30, Issue 4 & 5 August 2007, pages 639 – 682</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Two closely related, though distinct…prior to the possible crossover.19</span>

**No offense---pursuit of hegemony is inevitable---only a question of effectiveness**
**Calleo 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> David P. Calleo is Director of the European Studies Program and Professor @ SAIS, “American Decline Revisited,” Survival, 52:4, p. 215 – 227</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The history of </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the past…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">threatens the world with inflation.</span>

**Advantage two is terrorism**

**Terrorism is the greatest threat to national security---multiple groups have the ability and motive to attack with nuclear weapons**
**Brill & Luongo 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Kenneth C. Brill is a former U.S. ambassador to the I.A.E.A. and Kenneth N. Luongo is president of the Partnership for Global Security, both are members of the Fissile Material Working Group, a nonpartisan nongovernmental organization, “Nuclear Terrorism: A Clear Danger” The New York Times, March 15, 2012, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/03/16/opinion/nuclear-terrorism-a-clear-danger.html?_r=0</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Terrorists exploit gaps in security…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">place before this decade ends.</span>

**That causes Extinction**
**Ayson 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Robert Ayson is Professor of Strategic Studies, Director of Strategic Studies: New Zealand and Senior Research Associate with Oxford’s Centre for International Studies, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects” Studies in Conflict and Terrorism, Vol. 33, No. 7, July 2010, p. 571-593</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Washington's early response to a…unable or unwilling to provide</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Even if they can’t get a nuke, they can attack power plants---has the same effect**
**Hunter 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Thomas Byron Hunter served as an intelligence officer with the Defense intelligence Agency, specializing in the analysis of terrorist tactics, techniques, and procedures. Mr. Hunter has written for many leading intelligence and security-related publications, including Janes Intelligence Review, the United States Naval Institute's Proceedings and The Journal of Counterterrorism and Homeland Security International. He has also served as the managing editor of the Journal of Strategic Security and Special Operations Journal. Mr. Hunter holds a Master's Degree in Unconventional Warfare from the American Military University and a Master's Degree in international Security Studies from the University of St. Andrews, Scotland, “Targeted Killing: Self-Defense, Preemption, and the War on Terrorism” Journal of Strategic Security, 2009 http://scholarcommons.usf.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1048&context=jss&sei-redir=1#search=%22Targeted%20Killing%3A%20Self-Defense%2C%20Preemption%2C%20War%20Terrorism%22</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">According to Walter Laquer</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, in…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">to the use of WMD</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Denial of due process is destroying international and domestic support for the war on terror---this is critical to preventing attacks**
**Fogarty 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Brigadier Gerard P. Fogarty is the Director General of Workforce Planning and Retention in the Australian Defence Force, a 2005 graduate of the US Army War College, a graduate of the University of South Australia and holds a master’s degree in business administration from the University of New England and a Master of Strategic Studies degree from the US Army War College, “Is Guantanamo Bay Undermining the Global War on Terror?” Parameters, Autumn 2005, [[http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/parameters/Articles/05autumn/fogarty.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In March 2004, the Pew…writing remains to be seen. </span>

**Lack of international support kills counter terrorism**
**Byman 6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Daniel Byman is Director of the Center for Peace and Security Studies and of the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University's School of Foreign Service and a nonresident Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution's Saban Center for Middle East Policy, “Do Targeted Killings Work?” Foreign Affairs, Vol. 85, No. 2, March - April 2006, p. 95-111 [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/20031914]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is true that the…the United States has to.</span>

**Perceived legitimacy is the key internal link to preventing terrorism**
**Lunday & Rishikof 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Kevin E. Lunday is a Captain and judge advocate in the U.S. Coast Guard, Harvey Rishikof is a Professor of Law and former chair of the Department of National Security Strategy at the National War College, “Due Process is a Strategic Choice: Legitimacy and the Establishment of an Article III National Security Court” California Western International Law Journal, Vol. 39, 12/19/2008, http://www.cwsl.edu/content/journals/Rishikof.pdf</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Legitimacy of action is a…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">in the war against terrorism.</span>

**Denial of due process causes local radicalization---increases terrorism and destroys intelligence**
**Waxman 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Matthew C. Waxman is an Associate Professor at Columbia Law School, an Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and a Member of the Hoover Institution Task Force on National Security and Law, “Administrative Detention of Terrorists: Why Detain, and Detain Whom?” Journal of National Security Law & Policy, Vol. 3:1, 2009</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Historically, </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">detention practices</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – especially those…detention systems in battling insurgencies. 122 </span>

**Civilian courts are empirically more effective at getting intelligence from terrorists---detentions without due process eliminates the incentive to cooperate**
**Gude 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Ken Gude is the Chief of Staff and Vice President at the Center for American Progress, where he works closely with CAP President Neera Tanden to communicate strategic decisions and coordinate policy development and also leads several of the organization’s policy initiatives and projects, “Criminal Courts Are Tougher on Terrorists than Military Detention” Center for American Progress, January 20, 2010, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/security/news/2010/01/20/7207/criminal-courts-are-tougher-on-terrorists-than-military-detention/</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Access to lawyers doesn’t restrict intelligence gathering</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The evidence from recent terrorism…their chances of being released</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Equality between citizens and non-citizens is key**
**Lunday & Rishikof 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Kevin E. Lunday is a Captain and judge advocate in the U.S. Coast Guard, Harvey Rishikof is a Professor of Law and former chair of the Department of National Security Strategy at the National War College, “Due Process is a Strategic Choice: Legitimacy and the Establishment of an Article III National Security Court” California Western International Law Journal, Vol. 39, 12/19/2008, http://www.cwsl.edu/content/journals/Rishikof.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Concern over applying the same…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">both U.S. citizens and aliens</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

====1AR AT Presidential Power DA==== 
**Presidential power is low now**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">O'Reilly</span> 6/21**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Bill O'Reilly, 6/21/12, Fox News, "President Obama's power eroding at a fast rate," [[http://www.foxnews.com/on-air/oreilly/2012/06/22/bill-oreilly-president-obamas-power-eroding-fast-rate]]</span>
Here is how this country…<span class="UnderlineChar">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">seem to be getting worse</span>__</span>.

====1AR AT Elections DA==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bipartisan public support for the aff</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**WPO 6** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">“Americans Support Full Due-Process Rights for Terrorism Suspects” World Public Opinion, July 17, 2006, http://www.worldpublicopinion.org/pipa/articles/home_page/228.php?nid=&id=&pnt=228&lb=hmpg1</span></span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Americans, whether Republican or Democrat,…__for American and foreign detainees.</span></span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Obama will lose: unemployment</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**The Philadelphia Inquirer September 9** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Thomas Fitzgerald, Inquirer Politics Writer, “Camps see fight to the finish; The conventions may have sharpened differences, but most voters seem set, with a handful of states in play” 2012</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Whatever elation Democrats got from…__the outcome of the election__."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Romney winning now: Florida</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**The Times September 10** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Alexandra Frean, “Will Florida be the key to White House?” The Times (London), 2012</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__Florida is the ultimate swing…__repossession rates in the country.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Can’t predict election: voting court cases</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**The New York Times September 10** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Ethan Bronner, Lizette Alvarez contributed reporting, “A Tight Election May Be Tangled In Legal Battles” 2012</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__The November presidential election, widely…__the day after the election.''</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Too early to call: debates key</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**The New York Times September 9** </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 80%;">Jeff Zeleny and Jim Rutenberg, Helene Cooper contributed reporting from Seminole, Fla.,“Five Crucial Factors to Watch, Just 58 Days From the Election” 2012</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">__In a race that has…__the totals for the conventions.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AR AT Elections DA (St. Marks)</span>==== 
**Romney winning now: Gallup polls**
**The Australian October 18**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 2012 (Obama gets tough with Romney DEMOCRATS HOPE A MORE AGGRES-SIVE APPROACH WILL STOP A DROP IN OPINION POLLS BYLINE: BRAD NORINGTON)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“The suggestion that anybody…few points or </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">break-even</span>__.

**Romney winning: switch to the center and momentum**
**The Courier Mail**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Australia) </span>**October 17**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 2012 (Moderate Mitt's found his Big Mo BYLINE: Dennis Atkins)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It was classic Clinton and…momentum and could become unstoppable.</span>

**Romney will win: last minute spending**
**The New York Times October 16**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 2012 (Romney Campaign Makes Push to Mount Last-Minute Barrage of Ads BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER and NICHOLAS CONFESSORE; Peter Lattman contributed reporting.)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mitt </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Romney and the Republican…effort to sway undecided voters</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Election too close to call**
**Financial Times**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (London, England) </span>**October 16**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 2012 (Obama travel plans show map is wide open BYLINE: Richard McGregor in Washington)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The morning after today's second…Denver nearly two weeks ago.</span>

**No risk of a link: economy determines the election, not small policy shifts**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Andrew </span>**Gelman September 28**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 2012 (prof of political science, Columbia University, themonkeycage.org A Non-random Walk Down Campaign Street)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Political campaigns are commonly understood…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">stories about campaigns and elections.</span>

**No link: no perception in new ideologies or policies**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">John </span>**Sides October 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 2012 (professor of political science, George Washington, Romney’s Pivot to the Center Hasn’t Worked. (But It Didn’t Need To.) themonkeycage.org)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Perhaps you’ve heard about Romney’s…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">latter connects to the former.</span>

**Obama will strike Iran inevitably---october surprise**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Jacob </span>**Heilbrunn 8/2** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">is a senior editor at The National Interest“Obama's October Surprise: Bombing Iran” http://nationalinterest.org/blog/jacob-heilbrunn/obamas-october-surprise-bombing-iran-7285</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President </span>**__Obama could bomb Iran…__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">little ahead of the program.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1AC---Asset Freezing</span>=== 
**Morality is derived from evolutionary principles designed to facilitate human survival in a competitive world**
**Ruse 86** Michael Ruse, “Evolutionary Ethics: A Phoenix Arisen” Zygon, Vol. 21, No. 1, March 1986, p. 95-112 ISSN 0044-5614 http://www.philoscience.unibe.ch/documents/educational_materials/Ruse1986/Ruse1986.pdf
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We must begin with the…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">are led to obey it</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.2 </span>

**Neurological studies prove morality is not imposed externally, but hard-wired into the brain through evolution**
**Hotz 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Robert Lee Hotz is a science writer at The Wall Street Journal where he has covered science and technology for 30 years, president of the Alicia Patterson Foundation, an elected Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and a past president of the National Association of Science Writers, “Scientists Draw Link Between Morality And Brain's Wiring” The Wall Street Journal, May 11, 2007, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB117884235401499300-search.html</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Most of us feel a…may be responsible</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, he concluded.</span>

**Thus the standard is mitigating existential threats to human survival**

**Prefer this standard for four reasons**

**1. Prerequisite---**
**a.** **In order to value something, you must also value what makes that valuation possible**
**Uyl & Rasmussen 81**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Douglas Den Uyl is a Professor of Philosophy at Bellarmine College Douglas Rasmussen is a Professor of Philosophy at St. John’s University, “Reading Nozick” p. 245</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In so far as one…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">that which makes valuation possible</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**b. Extinction prevents the possibility of valuing moral goodness and is always impermissible**
**<span class="cite">Seeley 86</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Central Committee for Conscientious Objectors, “The Handbook of Non-Violence” p. 269-70</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In moral reasoning prediction of…**under any**</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> sane </span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">moral code</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**2. Normative uncertainty---**
**a.** **Humanity has a minimal understanding of ethics—there is a __high likelihood__ that we can advance in our moral understanding**
**Parfit 86**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Derek Parfit, MA, FBA, is an Emeritus Fellow at All Souls College, Oxford University and a Visiting Professor of Philosophy at NYU, Harvard and Rutgers University, “Reasons and Persons” Oxford University Press, 1986, ISBN-13: 9780198249085</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">154. How Both Human History, and…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">irrational to have high hopes</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**b. This means extinction is a side constraint on __any ethical theory__**
**Bostrom 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Nick Bostrom is a Professory of Philosophy and Director of the Future of Humanity Institute and the Pogramme on the Impacts of Future Technology at the University of Oxford, “The Concept of Existential Risk” Future of Humanity Institute, 2011, Draft http://www.existential-risk.org/concept.pdf</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Our present understanding of axiology…must prevent any existential catastrophe</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**3. Agent specificity---a governments only obligation is to protect its citizens from harm**
**Keenan 86**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> George F. Kennan, “Morality and Foreign Policy” Foreign Affairs, Winter 1985/1986, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/40521/george-f-kennan/morality-and-foreign-policy</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Second, let us recognize that…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">on the basis of them</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**4. No act-omission distinction---**
**a. Every action is also an inaction**
**Rachels 1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> James Rachels, Ph.D. in 1967 from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, is an American philosopher who specialized in ethics, “Killing and Letting Die” 2001</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">So what is the difference…moving my body very rapidly.</span></span>
**b. The distinction is paradoxical**
**Persson 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Ingmar Persson, “Two Act-Omission Paradoxes” Source: Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society, New Series, Vol. 104, 2004, p. 149-164 http://www.jstor.org/stable/4545410</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">There are two ways in…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">but letting be killed permissible </span>

**c. It’s not applicable to government action**
**Sunstein & Vermule 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Cass R. Sunstein and Adrian Vermeule, “Is Capital Punishment Morally Required? The Relevance of Life</span><span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif; font-size: 8pt;">‐</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Life Tradeoffs” John M. Olin Law & Economics Working Paper No. 239 The Law School, The University of Chicago, March 2005 http://www.law.uchicago.edu/files/files/239.crs-av.capital-punishment.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In our view, </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">both the…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">adequately or fully discourage it. </span>

**Text: the United States federal government should extend equal due process protections to individuals and members of organizations designated Foreign Terrorist Organizations by the United States before participating in asset freezing under UN Security Council resolutions.**

**International asset freezing is declining now**
**Gurule 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Jimmy Gurule, JD from the University of Utah, is a Professor of Law at Notre Dame Law School, “The Demise of the U.N. Economic Sanctions Regime to Deprive Terrorists of Funding” Case Western Reserve Journal of International Law, Vol. 41, No. 1, Winter 2009, Questia</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The U.N. Security Council has…to U.N. counter-terrorism experts:</span>

**International cooperation is key to effective asset freezing---solves terrorism**
**Hossain 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Sameer Hossain, J.D. Candidate at Howard University School of Law, is a member of the Howard Law Journal, “Freezing Terrorism Assets: Increasing International Cooperation by Observing Procedural Due Process” Howard Law Journal, 54:437, Winter, 2011, LexisNexis</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In his inaugural address, President…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the funds for terrorism activities</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Lack of due process kills European cooperation---that’s key**
**Hossain 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Sameer Hossain, J.D. Candidate at Howard University School of Law, is a member of the Howard Law Journal, “Freezing Terrorism Assets: Increasing International Cooperation by Observing Procedural Due Process” Howard Law Journal, 54:437, Winter, 2011, LexisNexis</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Kadi case is indicative…to enforce the Consolidated List</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. n107</span>

**Plan solves international cooperation and causes a spillover effect to other countries**
**Hossain 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Sameer Hossain, J.D. Candidate at Howard University School of Law, is a member of the Howard Law Journal, “Freezing Terrorism Assets: Increasing International Cooperation by Observing Procedural Due Process” Howard Law Journal, 54:437, Winter, 2011, LexisNexis</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Given that the international community…</span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">tactical success against terrorists worldwide</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**This is key to preventing terrorism**
**Gurule 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Jimmy Gurule, JD from the University of Utah, is a Professor of Law at Notre Dame Law School, “The Demise of the U.N. Economic Sanctions Regime to Deprive Terrorists of Funding” Case Western Reserve Journal of International Law, Vol. 41, No. 1, Winter 2009, Questia</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The successful implementation of an…the families of homicide bombers</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. (19)</span>

**Effective asset freezing solves terrorism---six reasons**
**IBP 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> International Best Practices “Freezing of Terrorist Assets” FATF Guidance Document, October 3, 2003, Revised June 23, 2009, http://www.fatf-gafi.org/media/fatf/documents/recommendations/International%20BPP%20Freezing%20of%20Terrorist%20Assets%20SR%20III%20Cover%202012.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Importance of an Effective Freezing…under UNSCR 1267 and UNSCR 1373. </span>

**Terrorism is the greatest threat to national security---multiple groups have the ability and motive to attack with nuclear weapons**
**Brill & Luongo 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Kenneth C. Brill is a former U.S. ambassador to the I.A.E.A. and Kenneth N. Luongo is president of the Partnership for Global Security, both are members of the Fissile Material Working Group, a nonpartisan nongovernmental organization, “Nuclear Terrorism: A Clear Danger” The New York Times, March 15, 2012, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/03/16/opinion/nuclear-terrorism-a-clear-danger.html?_r=0</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Terrorists exploit gaps in security…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> place before this decade ends.</span>

**That causes Extinction**
**Ayson 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Robert Ayson is Professor of Strategic Studies, Director of Strategic Studies: New Zealand and Senior Research Associate with Oxford’s Centre for International Studies, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects” Studies in Conflict and Terrorism, Vol. 33, No. 7, July 2010, p. 571-593</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Washington's early response to a…unable or unwilling to provide</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Even if they can’t get a nuke, they can attack power plants---has the same effect**
**Hunter 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Thomas Byron Hunter served as an intelligence officer with the Defense intelligence Agency, specializing in the analysis of terrorist tactics, techniques, and procedures. Mr. Hunter has written for many leading intelligence and security-related publications, including Janes Intelligence Review, the United States Naval Institute's Proceedings and The Journal of Counterterrorism and Homeland Security International. He has also served as the managing editor of the Journal of Strategic Security and Special Operations Journal. Mr. Hunter holds a Master's Degree in Unconventional Warfare from the American Military University and a Master's Degree in international Security Studies from the University of St. Andrews, Scotland, “Targeted Killing: Self-Defense, Preemption, and the War on Terrorism” Journal of Strategic Security, 2009 http://scholarcommons.usf.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1048&context=jss&sei-redir=1#search=%22Targeted%20Killing%3A%20Self-Defense%2C%20Preemption%2C%20War%20Terrorism%22</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">According to Walter Laquer</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, in…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">to the use of WMD</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Terrorism outweighs nuclear war---deterrence makes asymmetrical attacks the only likely impact scenario**
**Nagal 6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Lt. Col. John Nagl, 2006., military assistant to the deputy secretary of defense, Armed Forces Journal, New Forces for New Enemies, http://www.armedforcesjournal.com/2006/10/2088425</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Events over the last two…**among nuclear powers is implausible**</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

====1AR AT Cybersecurity DA==== 
**Status quo solves---DoD cyber-defense spending**
**Kelley 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Meghan Kelly “DOD spending $500B on 6 preparations for cyber war” VB News, February 28, 2012 http://venturebeat.com/2012/02/28/dod-cyber-war/</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The DOD is</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> charged with…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">report intrusions to the government</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Their threats are exaggerated---a cyber-attack won’t happen**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Jackson 12** William Jackson “Fuss over cyber war distracts from real threats, security pioneer says” GCN, February 28, 2012 http://gcn.com/Articles/2012/02/28/RSA-3-cyberwar-distracts-real-threats.aspx?Page=1</span><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The threat of cyber war…doesn’t want to</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> do this.”</span></span>
==Negative== 
===Disadvantages=== 
====1NC---Terrorism DA==== 
**We are currently winning the war on terror but there are still threats**
**Zuckerman 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Jessica Zuckerman is a research associate in The Heritage Foundation’s Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies where she studies homeland security, “Most Americans Agree: War on Terrorism Not Yet Won” Heritage Foundation, April 30, 2012, http://blog.heritage.org/2012/04/30/most-americans-agree-war-on-terrorism-not-yet-won/</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It’s good to see that…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">nation continue to remain vigilant</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Equal due process protections cause terrorism---multiple reasons**
**Howes, Prof. of Pol Sci @ LSU, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Dustin Ells Howes, “Conservative Democratic Thought and the War on Terror” Human Rights Review, 2010, 11:135–149, DOI 10.1007/s12142-009-0136-0 </span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The position that military necessity…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">including the USA, as members. </span>

**Aff vastly increases the risk of releasing terrorists**
**Nickel, Prof. of Law @ Miami, 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> James W. Nickel, PhD from the University of Kansas, is a Prof. of Philosophy and Law @ University of Miami, “Due Process Rights and Terrorist Emergencies” European Journal of Legal Studies: Issue 1, 2007 http://www.ejls.eu/1/12UK.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Premise three is that the…government by exposing that fact. </span>

**The aff destroys international cooperation on intelligence gathering**
**Inderfurth & Massey 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Report prepared by Ashley Inderfurth and Wayne Massey on the workshop discussion of the American Bar Association Standing Committee on Law and National Security hosted by the National Strategy Forum, a non-profit, non-partisan think tank in Chicago that focuses on the issues and trends affecting US national security strategy, “Trying Terrorists in Article III Courts Challenges and Lessons Learned” A Post-Workshop Report, July 2009, http://www.americanbar.org/content/dam/aba/migrated/natsecurity/trying_terrorists_artIII_report_final.authcheckdam.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First, the disclosure of evidence…affairs challenges facing the government. </span>

**Lack of international support kills counter terrorism**
**Byman, Sr. Fellow @ Brookings Institute, 6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Daniel Byman is Director of the Center for Peace and Security Studies and of the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University's School of Foreign Service and a nonresident Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution's Saban Center for Middle East Policy, “Do Targeted Killings Work?” Foreign Affairs, Vol. 85, No. 2 (March - April 2006) p. 95-111 [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/20031914]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is true that the…the United States has to.</span>

**Nuclear terrorism is a threat---recent uranium smuggling proves**
**GSN 8/1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Chris Schneidmiller is Editor of Global Security Newswire, “Nuclear Smuggling Shows Terrorist WMD Threat Persists: State Department” Global Security Newswire, August 1, 2012, http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/state-report/</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">State Department</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on…killed several Iranian nuclear scientists.</span>

**Nuclear terrorism causes Extinction**
**Ayson 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Robert Ayson is Professor of Strategic Studies, Director of Strategic Studies: New Zealand and Senior Research Associate with Oxford’s Centre for International Studies, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects” Studies in Conflict and Terrorism, Vol. 33, No. 7, July 2010, p. 571-593</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Washington's early response to…unable or unwilling to provide</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**A terrorism attack rolls back civil liberties---turns the aff**
**Ignatieff, Prof. of Government @ Harvard, 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Michael Ignatieff is director of the Carr Center at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, “Could We Lose the War on Terror? Lesser Evils” The New York Times Magazine, May 2, 2004, http://www.hks.harvard.edu/cchrp/pdf/MI.Lesser%20Evils.5.2.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Consider the consequences of </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">a…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">our former neighbors, our onetime friends.</span>

====1NC---Terrorism DA (v.2)==== 
**Winning the war on terror but there are still threats**
**Zuckerman 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Jessica Zuckerman is a research associate in The Heritage Foundation’s Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies where she studies homeland security, “Most Americans Agree: War on Terrorism Not Yet Won” Heritage Foundation, April 30, 2012, http://blog.heritage.org/2012/04/30/most-americans-agree-war-on-terrorism-not-yet-won/</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It’s good to see that…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">nation continue to remain vigilant</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Aff causes terrorism---three reasons**

# **Incentivizes terrorist attacks**
**McCarthy & Velshi 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Andrew C. McCarthy is Director of the Center for Law & Counterterrorism at the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies and was a federal prosecutor at the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York and the lead prosecutor in the seditious conspiracy trial against Sheikh Omar Abdel Rahman and eleven others and Alykhan Velshi is a staff attorney at the Center for Law & Counterterrorism, where he focuses on the international law of armed conflict and the use of force, “We Need a National Security Court” American Enterprise Institute Working Paper, </span><span style="color: #111111; font-family: HelveticaNeueW01-45Ligh,serif; font-size: 8pt;">August 20, 2009,http://wsprod1.webrecruiter.com/fdd2/images/stories/national%20security%20court.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">3. </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Terrorism prosecutions **create the conditions…**be attacked with relative impunity</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

# **Releases intelligence---makes attacks more effective**
**McCarthy & Velshi 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Andrew C. McCarthy is Director of the Center for Law & Counterterrorism at the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies and was a federal prosecutor at the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York and the lead prosecutor in the seditious conspiracy trial against Sheikh Omar Abdel Rahman and eleven others and Alykhan Velshi is a staff attorney at the Center for Law & Counterterrorism, where he focuses on the international law of armed conflict and the use of force, “We Need a National Security Court” American Enterprise Institute Working Paper, </span><span style="color: #111111; font-family: HelveticaNeueW01-45Ligh,serif; font-size: 8pt;">August 20, 2009,http://wsprod1.webrecruiter.com/fdd2/images/stories/national%20security%20court.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">4. </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Prosecutions in the criminal…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">risk of edifying our enemies. 17</span>

# **Kills international cooperation---that’s key**
**McCarthy & Velshi 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Andrew C. McCarthy is Director of the Center for Law & Counterterrorism at the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies and was a federal prosecutor at the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York and the lead prosecutor in the seditious conspiracy trial against Sheikh Omar Abdel Rahman and eleven others and Alykhan Velshi is a staff attorney at the Center for Law & Counterterrorism, where he focuses on the international law of armed conflict and the use of force, “We Need a National Security Court” American Enterprise Institute Working Paper, </span><span style="color: #111111; font-family: HelveticaNeueW01-45Ligh,serif; font-size: 8pt;">August 20, 2009,http://wsprod1.webrecruiter.com/fdd2/images/stories/national%20security%20court.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">5. </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The discovery requirements **endanger national…**apply in U.S. criminal proceedings</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Nuclear terrorism is a threat---recent uranium smuggling proves**
**GSN 8/1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Chris Schneidmiller is Editor of Global Security Newswire, “Nuclear Smuggling Shows Terrorist WMD Threat Persists: State Department” Global Security Newswire, August 1, 2012, http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/state-report/</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">State Department</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on…killed several Iranian nuclear scientists.</span>

**Nuclear terrorism causes Extinction**
**Ayson 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Robert Ayson is Professor of Strategic Studies, Director of Strategic Studies: New Zealand and Senior Research Associate with Oxford’s Centre for International Studies, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects” Studies in Conflict and Terrorism, Vol. 33, No. 7, July 2010, p. 571-593</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Washington's early response to a…unable or unwilling to provide</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

=====<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2NR AT CIPA</span>===== 
**CIPA fails**
**McCarthy & Velshi 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Andrew C. McCarthy is Director of the Center for Law & Counterterrorism at the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies and was a federal prosecutor at the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York and the lead prosecutor in the seditious conspiracy trial against Sheikh Omar Abdel Rahman and eleven others and Alykhan Velshi is a staff attorney at the Center for Law & Counterterrorism, where he focuses on the international law of armed conflict and the use of force, “We Need a National Security Court” American Enterprise Institute Working Paper, </span><span style="color: #111111; font-size: 8pt;">August 20, 2009,http://wsprod1.webrecruiter.com/fdd2/images/stories/national%20security%20court.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is freely conceded that…</span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">know that they do so</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 19 </span>

====1NC---Terrorism DA---Pakistan==== 
**We are winning the war on terror in Pakistan---more drone strikes are needed**
**Miller 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Greg Miller, “Officials: Al-Qaeda close to collapse” The Washington Post. Met 2 Edition, July 27, 2011, p. A01 LexisNexis</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">U.S. counterterrorism officials are increasingly…</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">smaller, more regionally focused nodes</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Newest studies prove targeted killing decreases both the quality and quantity of terrorism in Pakistan**
**Lango 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hans-Inge Langø, “New study: Drone strikes linked to reduction in Pakistan terrorism” Hegemonic Obsessions, January 27, 2011 http://hegemonicobsessions.com/?p=55</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> new study</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by Patrick…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Pakistan and</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> its neighbors’ territories</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Pakistani terrorists have the ability and motive to attack the US**
**Tankel 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Stephen Tankel, PhD from Kings College, is an assistant professor at American University and a nonresident scholar at the Carnegie Endowment in the South Asia program, “A Pakistan-Based Terrorist Attack On The U.S. Homeland” Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, August 31, 2011 http://carnegieendowment.org/2011/08/31/pakistan-based-terrorist-attack-on-us-homeland/50uh#</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Several</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Pakistan-based groups…threat of a collaborative strike</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Nuclear terrorism is a threat---recent uranium smuggling proves**
**GSN 8/1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Chris Schneidmiller is Editor of Global Security Newswire, “Nuclear Smuggling Shows Terrorist WMD Threat Persists: State Department” Global Security Newswire, August 1, 2012, http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/state-report/</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">State Department</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">… did not provide additional detail.</span>

**Nuclear terrorism causes Extinction**
**Ayson 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Robert Ayson is Professor of Strategic Studies, Director of Strategic Studies: New Zealand and Senior Research Associate with Oxford’s Centre for International Studies, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects” Studies in Conflict and Terrorism, Vol. 33, No. 7, July 2010, p. 571-593</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Washington's</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> early response to a…unable or unwilling to provide</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**A terrorism attack rolls back civil liberties---turns the aff**
**Ignatieff, Prof. of Government @ Harvard, 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Michael Ignatieff is director of the Carr Center at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, “Could We Lose the War on Terror? Lesser Evils” The New York Times Magazine, May 2, 2004, http://www.hks.harvard.edu/cchrp/pdf/MI.Lesser%20Evils.5.2.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Consider the consequences of </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">a</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">former neighbors, our onetime friends.</span>

====1NC---Elections DA---Iran Strikes==== 
**Florida and Pennsylvania key and Obama winning in both**
**Silver, September 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Nate Silver, September 12, 2012 “Florida a True Must-Win for Romney” The New York Times, http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/12/sept-11-florida-a-true-must-win-for-romney/</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Florida has a well-established reputation…</span><span class="UnderlineChar">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">math will become more important.</span>__</span>

**The aff causes a Romney win**
**Goldsmith, Prof. of Law @ Harvard, 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Jack Goldsmith, a former assistant attorney general in the Bush administration, is a Professor at Harvard Law School and a member of the Hoover Institution task force on national security and law, “Obama’s weak spots on counterterrorism are open to Romney” The Washington Post, April 26, 2012, http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/obamas-weak-spots-on-counterterrorism-are-open-to-romney/2012/04/26/gIQAJ42zjT_story.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As the general-election campaign comes…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">too solicitous</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> toward Guantanamo detainees</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Terrorism issues are key**
**Pace 9/10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Julie Pace is a writer for Associated Press, “For once, 9/11 attacks play small role in election” U.S. News, September 10, 2012, http://www.usnews.com/news/politics/articles/2012/09/10/for-once-911-attacks-play-small-role-in-election?vwo=501cd</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Despite the strong economic focus…security-focused events there, too.</span>

**Iran strikes**
**Dilek 11** <span style="font-size: 11px;">9/20/11 Emine, addicting info, “All Republican Candidates Favor War with Iran” <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.addictinginfo.org/2011/09/20/all-republican-candidates-favor-war-with-iran]]</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">__All Republican Candidates Favor War...up with the unending wars__.</span>

**Extinction**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hirsch 5</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Jorge Hirsch is a Professor @ UC San Diego “Can a nuclear strike on Iran be averted,” November 21, 2005</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">The Bush administration has put…</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">E</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">__arth's population many times over__.</span>

===Counterplans=== 
====<span style="font-size: 11pt;">1NC---NSC CP</span>==== 
**Text: the USFG should create a specialized Article III National Security Court to provide for a means of detention and trial of suspected non-citizen terrorists**

**Normal courts are insufficient for terrorism trials**
**Powers, Prof. of Constitutional Law @ Minnesota, 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Thomas F. Powers is a Prof. of Constitutional Law @ University of Minnesota Duluth, “Due Process For Terrorists?” CBS News, September 22, 2009, http://www.cbsnews.com/2100-215_162-592130.html</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ordinary criminal courts are not…are clearly out of place</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**It’s competitive and provides a sufficient standard of protection for terrorism suspects**
**Lunday & Rishikof 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Kevin E. Lunday is a Captain and judge advocate in the U.S. Coast Guard, Harvey Rishikof is a Professor of Law and former chair of the Department of National Security Strategy at the National War College, “Due Process is a Strategic Choice: Legitimacy and the Establishment of an Article III National Security Court” California Western International Law Journal, Vol. 39, 12/19/2008, http://www.cwsl.edu/content/journals/Rishikof.pdf</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The NSC statute would provide…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Military Commission Rule of Evidence 901. 134</span>

**The CP avoids the terrorism DA**
**Lunday & Rishikof 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Kevin E. Lunday is a Captain and judge advocate in the U.S. Coast Guard, Harvey Rishikof is a Professor of Law and former chair of the Department of National Security Strategy at the National War College, “Due Process is a Strategic Choice: Legitimacy and the Establishment of an Article III National Security Court” California Western International Law Journal, Vol. 39, 12/19/2008, http://www.cwsl.edu/content/journals/Rishikof.pdf</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The NSC would employ current…unclassified information from unauthorized disclosure</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**CP avoids politics**
**Lunday & Rishikof 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Kevin E. Lunday is a Captain and judge advocate in the U.S. Coast Guard, Harvey Rishikof is a Professor of Law and former chair of the Department of National Security Strategy at the National War College, “Due Process is a Strategic Choice: Legitimacy and the Establishment of an Article III National Security Court” California Western International Law Journal, Vol. 39, 12/19/2008, http://www.cwsl.edu/content/journals/Rishikof.pdf</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The concept of an</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Article...</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(now Attorney General) Mukasey stated: </span>

====1NC---NSC CP---Solvency---Due Process==== 
**The CP provides a sufficient minimal standard of protection**
**Lunday & Rishikof 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Kevin E. Lunday is a Captain and judge advocate in the U.S. Coast Guard, Harvey Rishikof is a Professor of Law and former chair of the Department of National Security Strategy at the National War College, “Due Process is a Strategic Choice: Legitimacy and the Establishment of an Article III National Security Court” California Western International Law Journal, Vol. 39, 12/19/2008, http://www.cwsl.edu/content/journals/Rishikof.pdf</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The U</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">S</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">should create…security of information and personnel</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Solves due process**
**McCarthy & Velshi 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Andrew C. McCarthy is Director of the Center for Law & Counterterrorism at the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies and was a federal prosecutor at the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York and the lead prosecutor in the seditious conspiracy trial against Sheikh Omar Abdel Rahman and eleven others and Alykhan Velshi is a staff attorney at the Center for Law & Counterterrorism, where he focuses on the international law of armed conflict and the use of force, “We Need a National Security Court” American Enterprise Institute Working Paper, </span><span style="color: #111111; font-size: 8pt;">August 20, 2009,http://wsprod1.webrecruiter.com/fdd2/images/stories/national%20security%20court.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This does not mean that…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">be spelled out with rigor</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

====1NC---NSC CP---Court Clog NB==== 
**The counterplan solves court clog---turns case**
**Guiora, Prof. of Law @ Utah, 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Amos N. Guiora is a Professor of Law at the S.J. Quinney College of Law at the University of Utah and served in the Judge Advocate General's Corps of the Israel Defense Forces where he held senior command positions related to the legal and policy aspects of operational counterterrorism, “Creating a Domestic Terror Court” Washburn Law Journal, Vol. 48, Fall 2008, p. 617, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1401982</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At present, </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">there are</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> approximately…regarding the price of logistics.30</span>