[[toc]]
=Note= 

=Affirmative= 
==1AC== 

====OBSERVATION ONE: THE STATUS QUO==== 


====THE RECENT TRANSPORTATION BILL GUTTED FUNDING FOR ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION==== 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jeff </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Levi,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> June 28, ‘</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">12</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Executive Director of TFAH, who also serves as Chair of the Advisory Group on Prevention, Health Promotion, and Integrative and Public Health, </span>[[http://www.marketwatch.com/story/trust-for-americas-health-statement-on-the-surface-transportation-bill-misses-the-opportunity-to-promote-active-transportation-and-improve-health-2012-06-28]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Trust for America's Health Statement on the Surface Transportation Bill: Misses the Opportunity to Promote Active Transportation and Improve Health,” PR Newswire, ACC. 7-7-12, JT</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">"The agreement announced today on the surface transportation reauthorization bill will take our nation's transportation policy several steps backwards</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In addition</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, the bill does not adequately fund active transportation programs, falling short of promoting activities known to keep people happy, healthy and productive.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">By weakening review protections for new highway projects aimed at promoting transparency and public oversight of taxpayer dollars, this agreement makes it more difficult for local officials to have their voices heard in favor of protecting public safety and curbing harmful vehicular emissions.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In addition, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the approach taken by this bill in reducing funding available for safe bicycle and pedestrian projections, the Safe Routes to School program, and other community projects aimed at promoting active transportation choices represents a failure to take advantage of the opportunity to ensure transportation policy achieves it mission and improves public health.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">PLAN: The United State federal government will substantially increase investment in active transportation</span>


===ADV.____ECONOMY=== 

====THE U.S. ECONOMY IS HEADED FOR ECONOMIC COLLAPSE IN THE STATUS QUO==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Snyder, 06/25</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michael Snyder (Undergraduate degree in Commerce from the University of Virginia and I have a law degree from the University of Florida law school. LLM from the University of Florida law school.) The Economic Collapse: Too Much Debt: Our Biggest Economic Problem. </span>[[http://theeconomiccollapseblog.com/archives/too-much-debt-our-biggest-economic-problem]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 06/25/2012. DA- 06/26/2012</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Running up debt at a much faster rate than our GDP is rising is a recipe for national financial suicide. Our politicians continue to steal about 150 million dollars an hour from future generations and everybody just acts like this is perfectly normal. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">We are going down the same path that Greece, Portugal, Italy, Ireland and Spain have gone</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In fact, we already have more government debt per capita than all of those nations do. Both political parties have been doing this to us, and it just keeps getting worse and worse. Incredibly, the national debt has grown more under Obama in less than 4 years than it did under George W. Bush during his entire 8 year term. Since Barack Obama entered the White House, we have accumulated more than five trillion dollars of additional debt. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">We are on the road to national financial oblivion</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and most Americans don't seem to care. Debt From Sea To Shining Sea Now let's add up all the debt in the country. When you total up all household debt, business debt and government debt, it comes to more than 300% of our GDP.... In fact, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">if current trends continue we will hit 400% of GDP before too long</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. As you can see from the chart, there was a little "hiccup" during the last recession, but now the debt bubble is growing again. So how high can it go before the entire system collapses? Total credit market debt owed is roughly 10 times larger than it was about 30 years ago. How in the world did we accumulate 10 times more debt in just 30 years</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">? If we do that again in the next 30 years, our total debt will be more than 500 trillion dollars in the 2040s</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Unfortunately, that is the way that debt spirals work. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">They</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> either have to keep expanding or they </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">collapse.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> So will the U.S. debt spiral continue to expand? Or will we soon see a collapse? Sadly, this exact same thing is happening all over the world. The government debt to GDP ratio in Japan (the third largest economy in the world) blew past the 200% mark quite a while ago, and almost every country in the EU is absolutely drowning in debt. The world has never faced anything quite like this. There is way, way too much debt in the world, but the only way we can continue to enjoy this level of prosperity under the current system is to pile up a lot more debt. The western world is like a debt addict in a deep state of denial. Some debt addicts end up with dozens of credit card accounts. They will keep opening more accounts as long as someone will let them. Most debt addicts actually believe that they will be able to get out of the hole at some point, but most never do. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Most Americans still believe that we are experiencing "temporary" economic problems that will eventually go away. Most Americans still believe that even greater prosperity is still ahead.Sadly, what </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the mainstream media and the two major political parties are telling them </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">is a bunch of lies</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. We have enjoyed the greatest prosperity that we will ever see in the United States, and </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">when the debt bubble bursts there is going to be an immense amount of pain</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. That is a very painful truth, but it is better to come to grips with it now than be blindsided by it later.</span>

====THE U.S. IS KEY TO THE GLOBAL ECONOMY==== 
Ian C. <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Sayson and</span> Jason <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Webb,</span> June 22, 20<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">12</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[[http://mobile.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-22/emerging-stocks-fall-to-one-week-low-on-u-s-slowdown?category=]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">, Bloomberg, Emerging Stocks Fall to One-Week Low on U.S. Slowdown, ACC. 6-26-12, JT</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">“A U.S slowdown hits </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">[[http://mobile.bloomberg.com/topics/emerging-markets/|emerging markets]]</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> much harder,” </span>Kit Juckes, head of currency research at Societe Generale SA in London, said in an e-mail. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">“The U.S. is the engine of global growth and therefore of commodities, raw materials and emerging- market assets. A lot of money may be taken off the table in emerging markets in a hurry.”</span>

====ADV.____ECONOMY==== 

====THE PLAN IS AN IMMEDIATE AND LONG-TERM STIMULUS FOR THE ECONOMY==== 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thomas </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Gotschi</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Ph.D. </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">and</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kevin </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Mills,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> J.D., </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">‘8</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">“Active Transportation for America: The Case for Increased Federal Investment in Bicycling and Walking,” </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.railstotrails.org/resources/documents/whatwedo/atfa/ATFA_20081020.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">, ACC. 7-5-12, JT</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In times of economic hardship and fiscal constraint, investing in infrastructure for active transportation offers a highly affordable opportunity to create an </span>//immediate and long-lasting stimulus for our economy//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. Savings at the gas pump and reduced oil dependence, higher productivity of healthier workers and lower health care expenses, flourishing businesses and more valuable real estate, shorter commutes and reduced needs for road expansions are among the many economic benefits </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">for us individually and as a nation.</span>
====SAVINGS FROM THE PLAN COULD FUND THE ENTIRE TRANSPORTATION BUDGET==== 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thomas </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Gotschi</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Ph.D. </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">and</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kevin </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Mills,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> J.D., </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">‘8</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">“Active Transportation for America: The Case for Increased Federal Investment in Bicycling and Walking,” </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.railstotrails.org/resources/documents/whatwedo/atfa/ATFA_20081020.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">, ACC. 7-5-12, JT</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Assuming </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">substantially increased growth of bicycling and walking</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, similar to conditions already present in cities like Minneapolis, New York, or Portland, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">nationwide benefits from fuel savings, congestion relief, health cost reductions, and reduced CO2 emissions would skyrocket to a magnitude approaching that of total federal surface transportation spending. Add to that the economic benefits in the form of increased real estate values and commercial activity, and it becomes apparent that federal investments in bicycle and pedestrian infrastructure and programs are one of the most cost-effective transportation policy interventions available.</span>
====Active transportation billions in savings and generates $1 million a day==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Cohen 12</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Larry, Founder and Executive Director of Prevention Institute, a non-profit national center dedicated to improving community health and equity, Prevention Institute, “Creeps and Weirdos: the auto industry agenda for keeping you on four wheels,” 2 February 2012, </span>[[http://www.nationofchange.org/creeps-and-weirdos-auto-industry-agenda-keeping-you-four-wheels-1328193397]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, accessed 7/8/12, CD</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">And, despite what these ads would have you believe</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, biking and active transportation are a solid investment in health, communities and prevention. Bikes could save our nation </span>//as much as $3.8 billion a year//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> by promoting physical activity, decreasing chronic disease and reducing healthcare costs</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. An increase to 15% active transportation in the Bay Area would result in 2,236 fewer deaths, and a gain 22,807 total years of life. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Bike commuting costs as little as five cents per mile, reduces water and noise pollution, road wear and traffic congestion</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In Portland OR—known for its biking culture—researchers found that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">bike-related industry contribute significantly to the local economy—providing somewhere between 850 to 1150 jobs and generating about $90 million a year. A new report shows that bikes saved Iowa $70 million in healthcare costs, and generate $1 million each day.</span>

====ADV.____ECONOMY==== 

====Extinction==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Kerpen 8</span>
Phil, National Review Online, October 29, , Don't Turn Panic Into Depression, http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2008/10/29/opinion/main4555821.shtml
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">It’s important that we avoid all these policy errors - not just for the sake of our prosperity, but for our survival</span>. The Great Depression, after all, didn’t end until the advent of World War II, the most destructive war in the history of the planet. <span class="underline">In a world of nuclear and biological weapons and non-state terrorist organizations that breed on poverty</span> and despair, <span class="underline">another global economic breakdown</span> of such extended duration <span class="underline">would risk armed conflicts on an even greater scale</span>. To be sure, Washington already has stoked the flames of the financial panic. The president and the Treasury secretary did the policy equivalent of yelling fire in a crowded theater when they insisted that Congress immediately pass a bad bailout bill or face financial Armageddon. Members of Congress splintered and voted against the bill before voting for it several days later, showing a lack of conviction that did nothing to reassure markets. Even Alan Greenspan is questioning free markets today, placing our policy fundamentals in even greater jeopardy. But <span class="underline">after the elections, all eyes will turn to the new president and Congress in search of reassurance that the fundamentals of our free economy will be supported. That will require the shelving of any</span> talk of trade <span class="underline">protectionism</span>, higher taxes, and more restrictive labor markets. <span class="underline">The stakes couldn’t be any higher.</span>


===ADV.____WARMING=== 

====A vast scientific consensus warming exists, and is human induced==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Monbiot 7 – Professor @ Oxford</span>
George, Professor @ Oxford Brookes University, Heat: How to Stop the Planet from Burning, pg. 5
But <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the link has also been established directly. A study of ocean warming</span> over the past forty years, for example, published in the journal Science in 2005, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">records a precise match between the distribution of heat and the intensity of manmade carbon dioxide emissions</span>. Its lead author described his findings thus: <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The evidence is so strong that it should put an end to any debate about whether humanity is causing global warming</span>." This sounds like a strong statement, but he is not alone. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In 2004, an</span>other <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">article in Science reported the results of a survey of scientific papers containing the words 'global climate change." The author found 928 of them on the database she searched, 'None of the papers, </span>she discovered,<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> disagreed with the consensus position…Politicians, economists, journalists and others may have the impression of confusion, disagreement, or discord among climate scientists, but that impression is incorrect</span>. In 2001 the Royal Society, the United Kingdom's pre-eminent scientific institution, published the following statement: Despite increasing consensus on the science underpinning predictions of global climate change, doubts have been expressed recently about the need to mitigate the risks posed by global climate change. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">We do not consider</span> such <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">doubts justified</span>. It was also signed by the equivalent organisations in fifteen other countries."' <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Similar statements have been published by the US National Academy of Sciences, the American Meteorological Society, the American Geophysical Union" and the American Association for the Advancement of Science</span>."

====Now is the key time-slowing warming is key to avoid positive feedbacks==== 
James E. <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hanson,</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Head, NASA Goddard Institute, Testimony before House Select Committee on Energy Independnece and Global Warming, 6—23—</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">08,</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">www.columbia.edu/~jeh1/2008/TwentyYearsLater_20080623.pdf</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Fast feedbacks</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">—</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">changes that occur quickly in response to temperature change—</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">amplify the initial temperature change, begetting additional warming. As the planet warms, fast feedbacks include more water vapor,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">which traps additional heat,</span>__<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and less snow and sea</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">ice, which exposes dark surfaces that absorb more sunlight.</span>__<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Slower feedbacks also exist</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Due to warming, forests and shrubs are moving poleward into tundra regions.</span>__<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Expanding vegetation</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">darker than tundra,</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">absorbs sunlight and warms the environment</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Another slow feedback is increasing wetne</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">ss</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(i.e., darkness) of the Greenland and West Antarctica ice sheets in the warm season. Finally</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">as tundra melts, methane, a powerful greenhouse gas, is bubbling out. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Paleoclimatic records confirm that the long-lived greenhouse gases— methane, carbon dioxide, and nitrous oxide—all increase with the warming of oceans and land. These positive feedbacks amplify climate change over decades, centuries, and longer. The predominance of positive feedbacks explains why Earth’s climate has historically undergone large swings: </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">feedbacks work in both directions</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">,</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">amplifying cooling, as well as warming, forcings. In the past, feedbacks have caused Earth to be whipsawed between colder and warmer climates, even in response to weak forcings, such as slight changes in the tilt of Earth’s axis.2 The second fundamental property of Earth’s climate system, partnering with feedbacks, is the great inertia of oceans and ice sheets. Given the oceans’ capacity to absorb heat, when a climate forcing (such as increased greenhouse gases) impacts global temperature, even after two or three decades, only about half of the eventual surface warming has occurred. Ice sheets also change slowly, although accumulating evidence shows that they can disintegrate within centuries or perhaps even decades.The upshot of the combination of inertia and feedbacks is that additional climate change is already “in the pipeline”: even if we stop increasing greenhouse gases today, more warming will occur. This is sobering when one considers the present status of Earth’s climate. Human civilization developed during the Holocene (the past 12,000 years). It has been warm enough to keep ice sheets off North America and Europe, but cool enough for ice sheets to remain on Greenland and Antarctica. With rapid warming of 0.6°C in the past 30 years, global temperature is at its warmest level in the Holocene.3 The warming that has already occurred, the positive feedbacks that have been set in motion, and the additional warming in the pipeline together have brought us to the precipice of a planetary tipping point.</span>__<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">We are at the tipping point because the climate state includes large</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, ready</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">positive feedbacks</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">provided by the Arctic sea ice, the West Antarctic ice sheet, and much of Greenland’s ice. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Little additional forcing is needed to trigger these feedback</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">s</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">and magnify global warming</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">If we go over the edge, we will transition to an environment far outside the range that has been experienced by humanity, and there will be no return </span>within any foreseeable future generation. Casualties would include more than the loss of indigenous ways of life in the Arctic and swamping of coastal cities. An intensified hydrologic cycle will produce both greater floods and greater droughts. In the US, the semiarid states from central Texas through Oklahoma and both Dakotas would become more drought-prone and ill suited for agriculture, people, and current wildlife. Africa would see a great expansion of dry areas, particularly southern Africa. Large populations in Asia and South America would lose their primary dry season freshwater source as glaciers disappear. A major casualty in all this will be wildlife.


====ADV.____WARMING==== 

====These positive feedback loops ensure that climate change will be abrupt and rapid—like flipping a switch—and makes ice and wars inevitable==== 
John <span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Carey</span>, <span style="font-size: 9pt;">8—30—</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">04</span>, journalist, “Global Warming,” BUSINESS WEEK, p. 48.
More worrisome, scientists have learned from the past that <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">seemingly small perturbations can cause the climate to swing rapidly and dramatically. Data from ice cores taken from Greenland and elsewhere reveal that parts of the planet cooled by 10 degrees Celsius in just a few decades about 12,700 years ago. Five thousand years ago, the Sahara region of Africa was transformed from a verdant lake-studded landscape like Minnesota's to barren desert in just a few hundred years.</span> The initial push -- a change in the earth's orbit -- was small and very gradual, says geochemist Peter B. deMenocal of Columbia University's Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. ``But <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the climate response was very abrupt -- like flipping a switch.'' The earth's history is full of such abrupt climate changes. Now many scientists fear that the current buildup of greenhouse gases could also flip a global switch. ``To take a chance and say these abrupt changes won't occur in the future is sheer madne</span>ss,'' says Wallace S. Broecker, earth scientist at Lamont-Doherty. ``That's why it is absolutely foolhardy to let CO2 go up to 600 or 800 ppm.'' Indeed, Broecker has helped pinpoint one switch involving ocean currents that circulate heat and cold (table, page 68). <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">If this so-called conveyor shuts down, the Gulf Stream stops bringing heat to Europe and the U.S. Northeast. This is not speculation. It has happened in the past, most recently 8,200 years ago.</span>Can it happen again? Maybe. A recent Pentagon report tells of a ``plausible...though not the most likely'' scenario, in which the conveyor shuts off. ``<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Such abrupt climate change...could potentially destabilize the geopolitical environment, leading to skirmishes, battles, and even war</span>,'' it warns.

====THE BEST WAY TO OFFSET CLIMATE CHANGE IS IMPROVING EFFICIENCY LIKE THE PLAN==== 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thomas </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Gotschi</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Ph.D. </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">and</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kevin </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Mills,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> J.D., </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">‘8</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">“Active Transportation for America: The Case for Increased Federal Investment in Bicycling and Walking,” </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.railstotrails.org/resources/documents/whatwedo/atfa/ATFA_20081020.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">, ACC. 7-5-12, JT</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Climate change and oil dependence are among the biggest challenges we face</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Some measures to overcome these problems could pose a serious burden on our economy and society as a whole. Others will offer great opportunities to improve our economic competitiveness and our overall quality of life. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Bicycling and walking can significantly contribute to reducing oil consumption and CO2 emissions within the transportation sector. To minimize the economic costs of mitigating the impacts of climate change, it will be crucial to aggressively pursue the most cost-effective measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Increased bicycling and walking are capable of achieving greenhouse gas reductions at no extra costs to the economy, because fuel savings alone will offset the investment costs, and additional benefits make it a “no regrets” strategy</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Americans will demand a fiscally responsible approach to addressing climate change that achieves maximum results at minimal costs, which is why increasing bicycle and pedestrian use through investments in safe and convenient infrastructure should rank high on any list of measures we consider to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and our dependence on oil.</span>

====Bicycling and other forms of non-motorized transportation are vital to reducing emissions==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">McGrath 8 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Patrick, Cascade Bicycle Club, 1/14/2008, Benefits of Bicycling Climate Change and Beyond, </span>[[http://www.adventurecycling.org/resources/benefitsofbicycling.pdf]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> TL</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Unfortunately,</span>we cannot rely completely on biofuels or plug-in hybrids to eliminate our transportation sector greenhouse gas emissions<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. That is because, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">in addition to vehicle efficiency and fuel type,</span>emissions from America’s vehicle fleet are influenced by a third factor: the total amount of driving<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (also known as vehicle miles traveled </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">or VMT</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">). Together,</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> these three factors are sometimes referred to as the “three-legged stool” of transportation carbon emissions. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Clean cars shore up the first two legs (efficiency and, potentially, fuel type), but our stool collapses for weakness in the third; until every car on the road is 100% non-polluting, our collective rate of driving will influence the amount of carbon we emit. And Americans are driving more each year.</span>Even if the U<span style="font-size: 6pt;">nited</span>S<span style="font-size: 7pt;">tates </span>immediately mandates aggressive fuel efficiency standards for the automobile industry, projected increases in VMT will likely overwhelm any resulting emissions reductions.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> This is the finding of Growing Cooler (3), an Urban Land Institute published review of recent transportation, development, and energy </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">trends. The authors of Growing Cooler note that</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">with decisive Congressional action the efficiency of the United States’ vehicle fleet could rise 12% by 2030, but that vehicle miles traveled are predicted to increase by 59% over the same period. </span>If nothing is done to curb driving rates, CO2 from transportation sources will jump dramatically by 2030<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> – even with a cleaner vehicle fleet</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (see Figure 1). An effective solution must address all three legs of the stool.</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">We need to embrace new technology but also look past it to plan for a reduction in the number of miles we drive. To do that, we will have to explore new approaches for how we plan for population growth and manage our transportation infrastructure.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> A successful response to global warming will involve the cultivation of compact neighborhoods and an empowerment of residents to choose transportation modes beyond the private automobile. </span>Fortunately, there is a readily-available transportation mode<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that is well suited to the compact neighborhoods of the future. It is affordable and takes up little space</span>. It addresses all three “legs” of the “stool,” emitting no pollution whatsoever and cutting driving rates. Parking is a breeze. It is the bicycle.

====<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Even Small reductions in emissions can slow global warming.</span>==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hansen 4</span>
James Hansen Scientific American March 04 [[http://planetforlife.com/gwarm/globpolitics.html%20accessed%20on%207/8/12|http://planetforlife.com/gwarm/globpolitics.html accessed on 7/8/12]] SA
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Politically, that’s the rub. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">As time slips by, our leverage over the problem melts away. Even small reductions in gas and aerosol emissions today forestall considerable warming and damage in the long run. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">In our view, the international community needs a leader, but the obvious nation for the job still has its head in the sand.</span>

====Acting now is key to avoiding tipping points==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Strom 7 – Professor of Planetary Science @ U of Arizona</span>
Robert Strom, studied climate change for 15 years, the former Director of the Space Imagery Center, Professor of planetary sciences @ U of Arizona, "Hot House", SpringerLink, p. 123
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">We do not have time to spare. We must act now</span>__.__ Delaying action will require a much greater effort later to achieve the same temperature target. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Even a 5-year delay is significant, given the current increase in C02 emissions. If action is delayed 20 years, rates of emission reduction will need to be 3 to 7 times greater to meet the same temperature target</span> (Schellnhuber et al., 2006). <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In the absence of urgent and strenuous reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, the world will be committed to at least a 0.5 to 2 °C rise by 2050, and it could be considerably more because of the factors mentioned earlier. None of the greenhouse gas or temperature projections take into account the possibility of crossing a threshold that leads to an abrupt climate warming by the catastrophic release of natural greenhouse gases or some other cause</span>. Although this is considered unlikely, we do not know in detail how these abrupt changes are triggered. Could the rise of atmospheric greenhouse gases and the complex interactions of other warming conditions set one of these events into motion? We do not know, but <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">if it happened we would be in the worst trouble imaginable</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">.</span>

====Warming causes extinction==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Tickell 2008</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Oliver Tickell, Climate Researcher, The Gaurdian, August 11, 2008, “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction”, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange)</span>
We need to get prepared for four degrees of global warming, Bob Watson told the Guardian last week. At first sight this looks like wise counsel from the climate science adviser to Defra. But <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the idea that we could adapt to a 4C rise is absurd</span> //and dangerous.// //Global// <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">warming on this scale would</span> //be a catastrophe that would// <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">mean</span>, in the immortal words that Chief Seattle probably never spoke//, "the end of living and the beginning of survival" for humankind. Or// perhaps the beginning of our <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">extinction.</span> The collapse of the polar ice caps would become inevitable, bringing long-term sea level rises of 70-80 metres. All the world's coastal plains would be lost, complete with ports, cities, transport and industrial infrastructure, and much of the world's most productive farmland. The world's geography would be transformed much as it was at the end of the last ice age, when sea levels rose by about 120 metres to create the Channel, the North Sea and Cardigan Bay out of dry land. //Weather would become extreme and unpredictable, with more frequent and severe droughts, floods and hurricanes.//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> The Earth's carrying capacity would be hugely reduced. Billions would </span>//undoubtedly//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> die. </span>


===OBSERVATION TWO: SOLVENCY=== 
====THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD USE SUBSTANTIALLY MORE TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE FUNDS TO BOOST ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION. THIS MAXIMIZES THE BENEFITS OF ALL STATUS QUO MODES, WHILE SAVING MONEY ON HEALTH CARE AND REDUCING OIL DEPENDENCE AND CO2==== 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thomas </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Gotschi</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Ph.D. </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">and</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kevin </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Mills,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> J.D., </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">‘8 </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">“Active Transportation for America: The Case for Increased Federal Investment in Bicycling and Walking,” </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.railstotrails.org/resources/documents/whatwedo/atfa/ATFA_20081020.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">, ACC. 7-5-12, JT</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Federal transportation spending did not support bicycle and pedestrian projects until the early 1990s, totaling only $4.5 billion by 2007.(74) Not until the year 2000 did federal spending for bicycling and walking grow to more than $1 per resident per year. For highways, in contrast, average federal spending was over $100, and total spending nationwide over $400 per resident every year for over 50 years, or a total of $5 trillion (federal, state and local, in 2006 dollars).(63) </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The $4.5 billion dollars in federal funding to date for bicycling and walking, approximately one thousand times less than total nationwide highway funding over time, is far from sufficient to make up for the historic neglect of bicycling and walking. Just like the building of the interstate highway system, offering Americans the choice not to drive will require significant, sustained and focused investment in bicycle and pedestrian infrastructure.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is in our national interest to fund our mobility needs in a manner that provides the greatest benefits to Americans for each tax dollar. Consequently, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">active transportation should be a higher federal priority for two reasons:</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">1. An increased share of federal transportation dollars devoted to bicycling and walking would achieve greater transportation benefits than spending the same dollars on highway infrastructure, and would maximize the return from our investment in public transportation by facilitating convenient access to trains and buses.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">2. Federal dollars spent on active transportation will yield additional social benefits beyond mobility that will save taxpayers millions of dollars and improve quality of life</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> across the United States. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Increased use of active transportation will result in substantial savings in health care expenditures, lessen our oil dependence and reduce climate emissions. Continued overreliance on automobiles, on the other hand, would exacerbate these same problems.</span>









====FEDERAL INVESTMENT IN ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION IS A RESPONSIBLE TRANSPORTATION POLICY THAT MAXIMIZE RETURNS AND IMPROVES THE QUALITY OF LIFE==== 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thomas </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Gotschi</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Ph.D. </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">and</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kevin </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Mills,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> J.D., </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">‘8</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">“Active Transportation for America: The Case for Increased Federal Investment in Bicycling and Walking,” </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.railstotrails.org/resources/documents/whatwedo/atfa/ATFA_20081020.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">, ACC. 7-5-12, JT</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The enormous benefits from bicycling and walking justify federal expenditures at least several times greater than the status quo. Investment in bicycle and pedestrian infrastructure is a highly cost-effective means for meeting a sizable portion of our transportation needs, while positively contributing to the solution of important problems—such as oil dependence, climate change</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and the obesity epidemic—</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">that have been exacerbated by past transportation policies.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Given the great return on investment from active transportation, fiscally responsible federal transportation policy must strive to maximize the amount that Americans bicycle and walk. Given all the measurable and immeasurable benefits of bicycling and walking for the nation as a whole, as well as the improvement of individual quality of life, it becomes indisputable that Americans deserve the option of active transportation. It is time to give each American the choice to bicycle or walk by providing safe and convenient infrastructure that connects the places where we live, work, shop, learn and play.</span>

====ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION WILL GET PEOPLE TO SWITCH—IT’S THE BEST ALL-IN-ONE PACKAGE==== 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thomas </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Gotschi</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Ph.D. </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">and</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kevin </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Mills,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> J.D., </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">‘8</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">“Active Transportation for America: The Case for Increased Federal Investment in Bicycling and Walking,” </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.railstotrails.org/resources/documents/whatwedo/atfa/ATFA_20081020.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">, ACC. 7-5-12, JT</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Half of the trips in America can be completed within a 20-minute bike ride, and a quarter of trips are within a 20-minute walk. Yet, the vast majority of these short trips are taken by automobile. Bicycling and walking can also improve public transportation by providing fast and well-planned access to it.Given the availability of safe and convenient infrastructure, </span>more people will choose<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> bicycling or walking for short trips and in combination with public transportation for longer trips</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Further, communities conducive to bicycling and walking promote a richer and denser mix of residences and businesses, leading to shorter trip distances, even for those who drive.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But the advantages of bicycling and walking reach beyond transportation alone. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Savings in fuel costs, a smaller carbon foot print, and a practical way to achieve recommended levels of physical activity are among the benefits that make active transportation an irresistible all-in-one package.</span>

=Negative= 
==Negative Strategies== 
Cap
States
Politics
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]