[[toc]]
=QUICK NOTE= 
This is our main 1AC. We will be running other Affs as well which we will post before Nationals.

Hit me up for cites or other info at <span style="line-height: 1.5;">rousha@nclack.org . </span>
=Nationals Affirmatives= 
==Complete Streets 1AC== 
==1AC== 
===OBSERVATION 1. INHERENCY=== 
====**CONGRESS STRUCK THE COMPLETE STREETS PROVISION FROM THE 2012 TRANSPORTATION BILL, AND NOTHING IS BEING PROPOSED FOR 2013**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">McCann ‘12</span>
[Barbara; Complete Streets Chopped from Conference Bill; 28 Jun 2012; http://www.completestreets.org/policy/federal/complete-streets-chopped-from-conference-bill/; retrieved 28 Jun 2012]

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The...Policies </span>


===AND=== 

====**STREET DESIGN SHOULD TAKE INTO ACCOUNT THE NEEDS OF ALL PEOPLE WHO USE THE SYSTEM, BUT IT DOESN'T IN THE STATUS QUO**==== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">McCann ‘11</span>

[Barbara; Executive Director, National Complete Streets Coalition; Perspectives from the Field: Complete Streets and Sustainability; Environmental Practice; Volume 13; 2011; pgs. 63-64]


<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">What... Business</span>


===PLAN: The USFG should pass and fund A Safe and Complete Streets Act. (We might change the wording a bit. I should update as we do)=== 

===ADVANTAGE 1: SOLVES FOR PEDESTRIAN DEATHS=== 
====**HARM - THERE HAVE BEEN PREVENTABLE PEDESTRIAN DEATHS IN THE PAST DECADE, MOST ON FEDERAL ROADWAYS**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Szczepanski ‘12</span>
[Carolyn; Communications Director, League of American Bicyclists; Will Congress Turn a Blind Eye to 50,000 Preventable Deaths?; June 2012; http://blog.bikeleague.org/blog/2012/06/will-congress-turn-a-blind-eye-to-50000-preventable-pedestrian-deaths/; retrieved 25 Jun 2012]
To... Lives

====**LINK - THE PRIMARY CAUSE IS A LACK OF EQUITABLE INFRASTRUCTURE**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">McCann ‘11</span>
[Barbara; Executive Director, National Complete Streets Coalition; Perspectives from the Field: Complete Streets and Sustainability; Environmental Practice; Volume 13; 2011; pgs. 63-64]

When...Addressed


====**CURRENT TRANSPORTATION PRACTICES WILL NOT SOLVE, THEY ARE THE ROOT CAUSE OF ALL OF THE HARMS**==== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Transportation for America ‘11</span>

[Solving the Epidemic of Preventable Pedestrian Deaths; 2011; http://t4america.org/resources/dangerousbydesign2011/; retrieved 25 Jun 2012]

The...Bicycles



====**SOLVENCY - COMPLETE STREETS LEGISLATION WILL MAKE COMMUNITIES SAFER AND LIVABLE FOR PEOPLE OF ALL AGES**==== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Markwood ‘11</span>

[Sally, CEO, National Association of Area Agencies on Aging; What leaders are saying about the Safe and Complete Streets Act of 2011; http://www.completestreets.org/webdocs/federal/cs-2011quotes.pdf; retrieved 26 Jun 2012]

Is...Decisions

==ADVANTAGE 2: INCREASE IN PUBLIC HEALTH== 
===SUBPOINT A: OBESITY=== 
====**HARM - UNWALKABLE, CAR-DEPENDENT NEIGHBORHOODS ARE A MAJOR CAUSE OF THE OBESITY EPIDEMIC**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mehaffey and Jackson ‘12</span>
[Michael, strategic planning consultant and Richard, Chair of Environmental Health Sciences at UCLA; The Grave Health Risks of Unwalkable Communities; Atlantic; http://www.theatlanticcities.com/design/2012/06/grave-health-risks-unwalkable-communities/2362/; 25 Jun 2012; retrieved 25 Jun 2012]

America... Young

====**LINK - STATUS QUO ROAD DESIGN HAS MADE THE PUBLIC HEALTH GOAL OF INCREASED MOBILITY IMPOSSIBLE TO ACHIEVE**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Transportation for America ‘11</span>
[Solving the Epidemic of Preventable Pedestrian Deaths; 2011; http://t4america.org/resources/dangerousbydesign2011/; retrieved 25 Jun 2012]

There...Years

====**SOLVENCY – COMPLETE STREETS WILL INCREASE PHYSICAL ACTIVITY**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">McCann ‘11</span>
[Barbara; Executive Director, National Complete Streets Coalition; Perspectives from the Field: Complete Streets and Sustainability; Environmental Practice; Volume 13; 2011; pgs. 63-64]

When...Addressed


====**SOLVENCY - INCREASED PHYSICAL ACTIVITY IS UNIQUELY REQUIRED TO SOLVE THE OBESITY EPIDEMIC.**==== 
==== ==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Transportation for America ‘11</span>
[Solving the Epidemic of Preventable Pedestrian Deaths; 2011; http://t4america.org/resources/dangerousbydesign2011/; retrieved 25 Jun 2012]

There...Years
== == 
===**SUBPOINT B: POLLUTION RELATED HEALTH IMPACTS**=== 
(Working on this Advantage, expect more cards in here)

====**HARM - AIR POLLUTION IS ASSOCIATED WITH VARIOUS HEALTH ISSUES**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Burden and Litman ‘11</span>
[Dan, co-founder and executive director of The Walkable and Livable Communities Institute and Todd, executive director of the Victoria Transport Policy Institute; America Needs Complete Streets; ITE Journal; April 2011; pgs. 36-43]

Air ... curbed.

====**LINK - CARS ARE THE LARGEST SOURCE OF AIR POLLUTION**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">WCN 6</span> (“CAR CULTURE AND THE LANDSCAPE OF SUBTRACTION” http://www.worldcarfree.net/resources/freesources/CarCult.htm)

The ... Egypt.

====**SOLVENCY – COMPLETE STREETS WILL LOWER POLLUTION**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gwilliam, Kojima, and Johnson; ‘04</span>
[Ken Gwilliam, Masami Kojima, and Todd Johnson; June, 2004]
[Reducing Air Pollution from Urban Transport; The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development/THE WORLD BANK]

The ... transport.


==ADVANTAGE 3: REDUCES CONGESTION== 
====**HARM - CONGESTION AND TRAFFIC COSTS THE ECONOMY $115 BILLION ANNUALLY**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Grescoe ‘12</span>
[Taras; travel writer; Straphanger: Saving Our Cities and Ourselves from the Automobile; 2012; KIndle Edition]

Economists ... divorce.

====**LINK - THE VAST MAJORITY OF SHORT TRIPS ARE BY CAR**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Burden and Litman ‘11</span>
[Dan, co-founder and executive director of The Walkable and Livable Communities Institute and Todd, executive director of the Victoria Transport Policy Institute; America Needs Complete Streets; ITE Journal; April 2011; pgs. 36-43]

A ... day.
====**SOLVENCY - COMPLETE STREETS REDUCES CONGESTION**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Governors’ Institute ‘12</span>
[Adopt a "Complete Streets" policy; Policies that Work; Governors’ Institute; 2012; http://www.govinstitute.org/policyguide/Transportation/05.html; retrieved 15 August 2012]

States ... reductions.

====**SOLVENCY LINK – EVEN A TINY DECREASE IN CARS ON THE ROAD WILL LEAD TO A MASSIVE REDUCTION OF CONGESTION - IF WE WIN EVEN A TINY AMOUNT OF SOLVENCY THEN WE STILL __SIGNIFICANTLY__ REDUCE CONGESTION**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Flusche ‘12</span>
[Darren; Policy Analyst, League of American Bicylists; Small Decrease in Driving = Huge Decrease in Congestion; June 2012; retrieved 25 Jun; 2012;blog.bikeleague.org/blog/2012/06/small-decrease-in-driving-huge-decrease-in-congestion/]

Has... <span style="line-height: 1.5;">30%.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 11pt;">ADVANTAGE 4 HELPS THE POOR </span>=== 

====**HARM: DESPITE HOW ESSENTIAL TRANSPORTATION IS, MILLIONS OF AMERICANS GO WITHOUT IT DUE TO AGE, DISABILITY, OR INCOME CONSTRAINTS**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Government Accountability Office ‘12</span>
[TRANSPORTATION DISADVANTAGED POPULATIONS; Federal Coordination Efforts Could Be Further Strengthened; GAO Report; June 2012; http://www.gao.gov/assets/600/591707.pdf; retrieved 15 August 2012]

Access ... constraints.

Link – CURRENT ROADS HURT THE TRANSPORTATION DISADVANTAGED (We will find the card later)

====**SOLVENCY: COMPLETE STREETS IS ABOUT CHANGING THE ENTIRE MODEL TO GET USERS INVOLVED IN THE PLANNING PROCESS - ALLOWING THE CURRENTLY TRANSPORTATION DISADVANTAGED TO BE INVOLVED IN THE PLANNING PROCESS AND INCREASING TRANSPORTATION EQUALITY**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">LaPlante & McCann ‘08</span>
[John, chief transportation planning engineer for T.Y. Lin International Inc, and Barbara, s coordinator of the National Complete Streets Coalition; Complete Streets:We Can Get There from Here; ITE Journal; May 2008; pgs. 24-28]
A ... change.
====**SOLVENCY: COMPLETE STREETS IS A REVOLUTIONARY MODEL TO ENSURE STREETS ARE EQUITIBLE FOR ALL**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">LaPlante & McCann ‘08</span>
[John, chief transportation planning engineer for T.Y. Lin International Inc, and Barbara, s coordinator of the National Complete Streets Coalition; Complete Streets:We Can Get There from Here; ITE Journal; May 2008; pgs. 24-28]

Complete ... <span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 1.5;">everyone</span>



=Negative= 

Neg arguments will be going up later. This is what we're working on right now 

Buy America DA and CP 
Coast Guard Tradeoff DA 
Equality Impact Statement CP 
Cost Control CP 
Oil DA's (Russia, Saudi Arabia, and Nigera) 
Spending 
States 
Tech K 
Feminism 1NC K and 2AC K Aff 
Fascism of the Babies Face K (Queer Theory K, Will include some performance) 
Gentrification DA
Blackout DA 
Eminent Domain DA 
Various Advantage CP's (Don't expect too many of these) 
Baudrillard Counter K 
Puppies DA (Yes this is real, possible performance) 

Will post specific neg strats against regional teams soon enough. 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]