[[toc]]
=Notes= 
**Questions? Cites? tphspolicydebate@gmail.com**
=Affirmative= 
==ASU== 
**Added these cards:**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Must act now – warming’s tipping point is 2020 – also means delay counterplans fail</span>**
Jennifer **Rankin 2009** [cites the McKinsey report, works with leading private and public sector institutions to manage the challenges and opportunities created by growing pressure on resource systems and increasing environmental risk, “Climate's tipping point is 2020: McKinsey”, [[http://www.europeanvoice.com/article/2009/01/climate-s-tipping-point-is-2020-mckinsey/63740.aspx]], RH]
Climate's tipping ... to help poor countries by 2020.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Plan solves by 2020 – tax incentives uniquely overcome commercial barriers and produces a significant market for CCS and meets emissions target</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Peter **Folger 2010** [Congressional Research Service, “Carbon Capture: A Technology Assessment”, [[http://digitalcommons.unl.edu/crsdocs/19/]], RH]</span>
In general, the focus ...<span style="line-height: 1.5;"> of CO2 capture.</span>

==Long Beach 1AC== 
===Plan Text=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The United States federal government should establish a tax credit for the construction of carbon dioxide pipelines in the United States.</span>**

===Warming=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Carbon rules are coming out that will demand reductions now.</span>**
**Gardner**, 3/27/**2012** (Timothy – staff writer for Reuters, Government proposes first carbon limits on power plants, p. http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/03/27/us-usa-carbon-idUSBRE82Q0W120120327)
The Obama administration proposed on Tuesday the first rules to cut carbon dioxide emissions from
AND
as it develops will become commercially available certainly within the next 10 years".

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">However, a lack of financial incentives prevents the implementation of CCS operations.</span>**
**Handwerk**, 5/22/**2012** (Brian, Amid Economic Concerns, Carbon Capture Faces a Hazy Future, National Geographic, p. http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/energy/2012/05/120522-carbon-capture-and-storage-economic-hurdles/)
Many companies have determined that expensive CCS operations simply aren't worth the investment without government
AND
plant because financial incentives were too weak to justify costly investment in CCS.

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">This means that __lowering the cost__ of CCS is key to commercialization.</span>**
**Venezia et. al**, **2008** (John – Associate at the World Resources Institute, Hiranya Fernando – senior research associate at World Resources Institute, Clay Rigdon – research analyst at the World Resources Institute, Preeti Verma, Capturing King Coal: Deploying Carbon Capture and Storage Systems in the U.S. at Scale, World Resources Institute, p. 16)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Far-sighted policy design and the prudent dedication of public resources</span>
AND
that will reduce a power plant’s expected carbon liability at the cheapest cost.

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Runaway warming is inevitable unless we take action --- err aff even if we cannot guarantee that warming is anthropogenic.</span>**
**Mills 2011** (Robin – Head of Consulting at Manaar Energy Consulting, Non-Resident Scholar at INEGMA, Capturing Carbon: The New Weapon in the War Against Climate Change, p. 9-11)
Even if carbon dioxide emissions were to stop today, the built-in inertia
AND
that it is inherently hard to say where the warming will stop.'55

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Warming causes extinction – studies prove</span>**
**Deibel 2007** (Terry – international relations at the Naval War College, Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic of American Statecraft, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today, p. 387-390)
Finally, there is one major existential threat to American security (as well as
AND
States, but potentially to the continued existence of life on this planet.

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Even a __one percent__ risk of warming means you vote aff.</span>**
**Strom 2007** (Robert – professor emeritus of planetary science at the University of Arizona, Hot House: Global Climate Change and the Human Condition, p. 246)
Keep in mind that the current consequences of global warming discussed in previous chapters are
AND
more clearly define what awaits us. The time for action is now.

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Renewables can’t solve alone --- CCS is necessary to prevent warming.</span>**
**Cohen et. al 2009** [Armond Cohen, Co-Founder and Executive Director of the Clean Air Task Force (CATF), a U.S. nonprofit organization founded in 1996 and dedicated to reducing the human impactontheEarth’satmosphereand the systems that depend on it. He is a member of the Keystone Energy Board and the Environmental Protection Agency’s Clean Air Act Advisory Committee, et al., Mike Fowler is Technology Coordinator for the Coal Transition Project at the CATF, Kurt Waltzer is Carbon Storage Development Coordinator for the CATF’s Coal Transition Project, 5-09, [“NowGen’’: Getting Real about Coal Carbon Capture and Sequestration,” May 2009, Vol. 22, Issue 4 1040-6190, ideas.repec.org/a/eee/jelect/v22y2009i4p25-42.html]
As we argued in Section II, however, it is simply not prudent to
AND
is needed to keep the lights on, dirty coal will be used.

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Reductions __alone__ won’t solve --- removal of CO2 from the air is __necessary__ to solve warming and ocean acidification.</span>**
**Mills 2011** (Robin – Head of Consulting at Manaar Energy Consulting, Non-Resident Scholar at INEGMA, Capturing Carbon: The New Weapon in the War Against Climate Change, p. 41)
We will quite possibly discover, in the next ten, twenty, or thirty
AND
that it’s too late by then for a realistic ‘Plan B.’

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Ocean acidification causes extinction --- CO2 is the driver.</span>**
**Parry**, 3/2/**2012** [Wynne – senior writer for LiveScience, Oceans Turning Acidic Faster than Past 300 Million Years, Live Science, p. http://www.livescience.com/18786-ocean-acidification-extinction.html]
The oceans are becoming more acidic faster than they have in the past 300 million
AND
unknown territory of marine ecosystem change," the researchers conclude in their paper.

**Independently, CO2 emissions will release methane from the Arctic tundra - that causes extinction**
**Atcheson 04** [<span style="font-size: 8pt;">John, former Department of Energy senior policy analyst and geologist “Ticking Time Bomb,” December 15, 2004]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The Arctic Council's recent report</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">We have to act now.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">**U.S. development of CCS is __necessary__ --- its role in the world __determines__ the rate of CO2 emissions.** </span>
**Stephens**, 6/28/**2012** (Jennie – Assistant Professor of the Environmental Science and Policy Program in the Department of International Development for Community and Environment at Clark University, An Uncertain Future Capture and Storage for Carbon, Public Interest Report, Federation of American Scientists, p. [[http://www.fas.org/blog/pir/2012/06/28/an-uncertain-future-capture-and-storage-for-carbon-css/]])
As the coal-reliant countries of the world have been increasingly forced to consider
AND
challenges of climate change to engage in the climate-energy political discourse.

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">U.S. is modeled --- demonstrating the economic feasibility of CCS gets other nations like China and India on-board.</span>**
**MIT News Release**, 3/14/**2007** (MIT Panel Provides Policy Blueprint for Future of Use of Coal as Policymakers Work to Reverse Global Warming, p. http://web.mit.edu/coal/)
Leading academics from an interdisciplinary Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) panel issued a
AND
does so and leads the way in the development of CCS technology.

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Climate change comes first and operates above all their impacts – it makes life impossible for future generations</span>**
Jason **Scorse** **2008** – [Professor of International Studies, Assistant Professor @ Monterey Institute of International Studies @ Middlebury College, What Environmentalists Need to Know About Economics, Online Book]
Even though the science now confirms that human
AND
should revert back to the basic arguments for choosing the proper discount rate.

===Solvency=== 

**The plan solves in five independent ways:**

**The first is return on investment --- developing pipelines changes economic calculus more than any other factor.**
Dermot J. **Roddy 2012** [Science City Professor of Energy, Newcastle University, 3-12, [“Development of a CO2network for industrial emissions,” Applied Energy Volume 91, Issue 1, March 2012, Pages 459–465, http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306261911006672]
The subject of Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) for power stations
AND
the Northern Netherlands, Germany and at various other locations in the USA.

**Second is access. Pipelines are necessary to make sequestration feasible nationwide. Capture is currently separate from storage.**
**Williams 2007** Eric Williams, Project Director, Climate Change Policy Partnership, Nicholas Institute for Environmental Policy Solutions, Duke University, et al., Nora Greenglass and Rebecca Ryals, 3-8-07, [“Carbon Capture, Pipeline and Storage: A Viable Option for North Carolina Utilities? ,” Nicholas Institute for Environmental Policy Solutions and The Center on Global Change, Duke University , www.nicholas.duke.edu/cgc/news/carboncapture.pdf]
Geologic sequestration is not
AND
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">CCS (CCS and pipeline beginning in 2039). </span>

**Third is stimulates investment. Tax credits for pipelines provide an economic incentive to participate in CCS technology.**
**Apt et. al 2007** [Jay – Professor of Technology at the Tepper School of Business and Engineering and Public Policy, Director of the Carnegie Mellon Electricity Industry Center, Lee Gresham, M. Granger Morgan – Lord Chair Professor in Engineering, Professor and Department Head of the Engineering and Public Policy, and Adam Newcomer – Exelon Power Team, Incentives for Near-Term Carbon Dioxide Geological Sequestration, A White Paper prepared for The Gasification Carbon Management Working Group, Carnegie Mellon Electricity Industry Center, p. 49]
A federal sequestration tax credit and
AND
conclusion date of the tax credit.

**Fourth is enhanced oil recovery. Pipelines are necessary for continued EOR --- they link CO2 sources with oil recovery.**
**MIT Energy Initiative 2010** (Role of Enhanced Oil Recovery in Accelerating the Deployment of Carbon Capture and Sequestration, p. 4-5)
Federal CCS programs have paid relatively little attention to the CO2 transportation infrastructure, but
AND
a way that would be needed for a future major scale-up.

**Financial incentives for CO2 pipelines can piggy back off of existing EOR infrastructure. Connecting the source to the sink will incentivize further development of CCS technology.**
**MIT Energy Initiative 2010** (Role of Enhanced Oil Recovery in Accelerating the Deployment of Carbon Capture and Sequestration, p. 40-41)
Continental-Scale CO2 Pipeline Network Requirements The analyses of the scale of the CO2
AND
capacity could facilitate the breakthrough of the “chicken and egg” problem.

**Plan solves barriers to a transition to CCS technology – CCS-EOR Infrastructure**
**Kemp 7/30/**2012 (John – Reuters market analyst, U.S. bets on producing oil with captured CO2, Reuters, p. http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/07/30/column-kemp-oil-co-idUSL6E8IUGHM20120730)
For policymakers, the real significance of CO2-EOR is its potential to act
AND
the network to store additional volumes in other non-oil bearing formations.

**Fifth, certainty and predictability. Federal action is necessary to maintain low costs of pipeline construction.**
**Mack 2009** [Joel Mack is a partner in the envi- ronment, land, and resources depart- ment at Latham & Watkins LLP in San. Diego and Buck Endemann, Litigation Attorney in San Diego, CA , 10-28-09, [“Making carbon dioxide sequestration feasible: Toward federal regulation of CO2sequestration pipelines,” lw.com/upload/pubContent/_pdf/pub3385_1.pdf]
The United States is embarking for the first time on examining and reducing CO2emissions in
AND
predictability and confidence to invest in this very important part of our infrastructure.

**A piece-meal approach fails --- it’s too inconsistent and results in a race to the bottom. Federal action is key.**
**Horne 2010** (Jennifer, J.D. at S.J. Quinney College of Law at the University of Utah, Getting from here to there: Devising an Optimal Regulatory Model for CO<2> Transport in a New Carbon Capture and Sequestration Industry, Journal of Land, Resources & Environmental Law, p. Lexis)
The Case for a Comprehensive Federal Approach The challenge of transitioning to a
AND
a uniform set of requirements for access will be far more workable.

**Plan solves liability issues – piggybacks off EOR**
**Marston and Moore 2008** (Philip – energy regulatory attorney, and Patricia – oil and gas attorney, From EOR to CCS: The Evolving Legal and Regulatory Framework for Carbon Capture and Storage, Energy Law Journal, p. Lexis-Nexis)
The key conclusion of this review is that existing federal and state legal regimes developed
AND
a progressive transition from incidental injection for EOR to incremental injection for CCS.

**Plan results in a faster adoption CCS.**
**Bohm 2010** (Mark – Climate Change Engineering Specialist with Suncor Energy, The Economics of Transportation of CO2 in Common Carrier Network Pipeline Systems, Carbon Capture Journal, p. http://www.carboncapturejournal.com/displaynews.php?NewsID=523)
Establishing a widespread CO2 transportation infrastructure requires a strategic approach that takes into account the
AND
when capacity is ramping up, will be essential for eventual commercial viability.

**No risk of earthquakes or leaks --- assumes their studies**
**Peridas** **6/26**/2012 (George – scientist at the Natural Resources Defense Council Climate Center, CCS and Earthquakes – Anything to Worry About?, p. http://www.globalccsinstitute.com/community/blogs/authors/gperidas/2012/06/26/ccs-and-earthquakes-anything-worry-about-0)
Zoback and Gorelick however appear to have been causing undue alarm in the media.
AND
and must be done. Regulators and prospective injectors, do your homework.

**EOR does not increase emissions.**
**Biello 2009** (David – Associate Editor of Environment and Energy at Scientific American, Enhanced Oil Recovery: How to Make Money from Carbon Capture and Storage Today, Scientific American, p. http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=enhanced-oil-recovery)
In all of these projects, the CO2 basically scours more hydrocarbons out of the
AND
S. could reduce CO2 emissions by 4 percent, if done correctly.

**Even if they win their environment turns CCS is net beneficial to the environment**
**Singh et. al 12** [Bhawna Singh recently completed a Ph.D. in industrial ecology at the Department of Energy and Process Engineering at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology. Anders H. Strømman is an associate professor in and manager of the Life Cycle Assessment lab and Edgar G. Hertwich is a professor in and director of the Industrial Ecology Programme at NTNU (Bhawna, Anders H. Strømman, Edgar G. Hertwich, “Environmental Damage Assessment of Carbon Capture and Storage Application of End-Point Indicators”, Journal of Industrial Ecology, Volume 16, Number 3, pdf]

===Impact Framing=== 

**1- no great power war**

**a- Nuclear deterrence checks.**
G. John **Ikenberry 2011** [Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University, “A World of Our Making”, Issue #21, Summer 2011, http://www.democracyjournal.org/21/a-world-of-our-making-1.php?page=all]
There are four reasons to think that some type of updated and reorganized liberal international
AND
order is removed, a bias for continuity is introduced into the system.

**b- shared interests and cooperation check**
Doug **Robb 2012** [Lieutenant, US Navy, “Now Hear This – Why the Age of Great-Power War Is Over”, US Naval Institute, http://www.usni.org/magazines/proceedings/2012-05/now-hear-why-age-great-power-war-over, RH]
In addition to geopolitical and diplomacy issues, globalization continues to transform the world.
AND
a war is equal parts costly, counterproductive, archaic, and improbable.

**2- no nuclear war**

**a- Any leader trying to launch a nuclear weapon will be assassinated**
Edward **Walsh 85 [**Lieutenant Colonel in the United States Air Force, “Nuclear War Opposing Viewpoints", p. 51]
No president or dictator, madman... subjected to a retaliatory measures

**b- Nuclear war won’t escalate – first use will end in conflict resolution**
**Quinlan 1997** (Michael – under-secretary of state for defense, Thinking About Nuclear Weapons, p. 31)
There are good reasons for fearing escalation: the confusion of war; its stresses
AND
or culture-specific rationality; the rationality required is plain and basic.

**c- no extinction- bad physics**
**Seitz 2006**, [Harvard University Center for International Affairs visiting scholar, "The' Nuclear Winter ' Meltdown; Photoshopping the Apocalypse," adamant.typepad.com/seitz/2006/12/preherein_honor.html, accessed 9-25-11]
The recent winter solstice witnessed a 'Carl Sagan Blog-a-thon' . So
AND
is computer gamesmanship carried over to a new generation of X-Box.
==2ACs== 
===AT: Leaks/Earthquakes - Desert Vista Cite Request=== 
**There are no safety issues**
**Fish and Martin 10** – *Chair of the Business Department with Stoel Rives LLP AND attorney with Stoel Rives LLP (Jerry R. and Eric L., 8/10/10, “Carbon Dioxide Pipelines,” California Carbon Capture and Storage Review Panel, http://www.climatechange.ca.gov/carbon_capture_review_panel/meetings/2010-08-18/white_papers/Carbon_Dioxide_Pipelines.pdf)
Carbon capture and sequestration are unlikely to occur on the same site. Pipelines will be needed to transport captured carbon dioxide (CO2) from the capture site to the injection site. This issue paper briefly describes the current regulation of CO2 pipelines in terms of both safety and siting authority. It also discusses tools to acquire or use rights-of-way for CO2 pipeline.¶ Pipeline Safety¶ CO2 pipelines have been operating in the United States for almost 40 years, and there are approximately 3,600 miles of CO2 pipelines in operation today.1 The Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (“PHMSA”), which is part of the Department of Transportation, regulates the safety of interstate CO2 pipelines under the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety Act of 1979.2 CO2 is defined under PHMSA’s regulations as “a fluid consisting of more than 90 percent CO2 molecules compressed to a supercritical state.”3 Although CO2 is not considered a hazardous liquid under PHMSA’s regulations, it is effectively treated as if it were a hazardous liquid (i.e., subject to the same regulatory framework).4 These regulations address design, construction, operation and maintenance, corrosion control, and reporting requirements.5

**Monitoring checks leakage**
Robin **Mills 2011**** [MSc in Geological Sciences @ Cambridge, “Capturing Carbon: The New Weapon in the War Against Climate Change,”]
Long experience of transport, injection and production of carbon dioxide and natural gas shows a very good safety record. Leakage from pipelines and facilities is likely to be minimal, and it is improbable that carbon dioxide in air would reach dangerous levels. These installations, anyway, are carefully monitored. Leaks are quickly detected from direct measurements or from drops in pressure, and automatic shutdown occurs. Any escaping carbon dioxide will diffuse harmlessly into the atmosphere within minutes, as long as the area is well-ventilated.'


=Negative= 
==Disadvantages== 
===Elections=== 
**[Insert Uniqueness]**

**Infrastructure investment NOW is unpopular—Americans unwilling to pay**
**Alden 6/14**— Bernard L. Schwartz Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, (Edward, “The First Renewing America Progress Report and Scorecard: The Road to Nowhere” 6/14/12, CFR, http://blogs.cfr.org/renewing-america/2012/06/14/the-first-renewing-america-progress-report-and-scorecard-the-road-to-nowhere/]
Americans understood this once upon a time, building the most impressive network of roads
AND
taxpayer) money into new projects have been unable to get through Congress.

**Independents will backlash to new spending – swings the election**
**Schoen, 2/8**/2012 (Douglas – pollster for President Clinton, The Forgotten Swing Voter, Politico, p. http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=7ED8592F-2122-4A55-AA3B-C5460134BE4A)
Neither party focuses on issues that matter most to people: reviving the economy,
AND
their concerns will almost certainly promise four more years of the same gridlock.

**Obama reelection maintains the US/Russian reset --- Romney will collapse relations**
**Weir, 3/27**/2012 (Fred, Obama asks Russia to cut him slack until reelection, Minnesota Post, p. [[http://www.minnpost.com/christian-science-monitor/2012/03/obama-asks-russia-cut-him-slack-until-reelection]])
Russian experts say there's little doubt the Kremlin would like to see Obama re-
AND
If Obama wins the election, it seems likely the reset will continue."

**US/Russian relations prevent nuclear war**
**Elliott** **1995** (Michael, Why Russia Still Matters to America, Newsweek, p. lexis)
"Russia," says Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott, "is a big
AND
European Union about everything else-trade, economic development and the rest.

===Fiscal Cliff=== 
====1NC==== 
**Compromise now but PC is key**
Kimberly **Atkins 11/8/**12, [Boston Herald columnist, “Prez returns to D.C. with more clout,”, http://bostonherald.com/news/columnists/view/20221108prez_returns_to_dc_with_more_clout]
When President Obama returned yesterday … have more power to push back.

**Transportation infrastructure costs political capital**
**Ong, July 18th** [Carah, Miller Center: University of Virginia, 2012, “Solving the Rancor of Executive Privilege Disputes” http://millercenter.org/ridingthetiger/category/narrative-2012]
Although President Eisenhower signed the … investments given the current budget situation.

**Economic collapse causes extinction**
**Auslin 9** (Michael, Resident Scholar – American Enterprise Institute, and Desmond Lachman – Resident Fellow – American Enterprise Institute, “The Global Economy Unravels”, Forbes, 3-6, http://www.aei.org/article/100187)
What do these trends mean in the … that coalesce into a big bang.

====2NC Turns Case==== 
**Turns case - investor uncertainty**
**Malone 9/26** Scott is a Reuters writer. “Analysis: Corporate America sweats as U.S. nears fiscal cliff,” 2012, http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/09/27/us-usa-economy-fiscalcliff-idUSBRE88P1PX20120927
Top U.S. executives have less confidence … shockwaves across the economy.

====2NC UQ==== 
**Compromise coming now**
Brian **Montopoli 11/30**/12 [CBS News, “The unserious posturing over the "fiscal cliff"”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-250_162-57556522/the-unserious-posturing-over-the-fiscal-cliff/]]</span>, ruochen]
There are signs of hope: Boehner amended ... a way to make it stick."

====2NC PC Key==== 
**Political Capital is absolutely necessary – Obama pushing is key – takes into account the gridlock**
**San Francisco Gate 11/29/**12 [“'Fiscal cliff' - time for Obama to lead ON THE LOOMING 'FISCAL CLIFF'”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.sfgate.com/opinion/editorials/article/Fiscal-cliff-time-for-Obama-to-lead-4078904.php]]</span>, ruochen]
With the nation's economy just a month … Republicans to close the deal.

===Hagel=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">1NC</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">**Hagel will be confirmed but it’s a huge fight---requires __all__ of Obama’s political capital** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Scott </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">**Wong** **and**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> Manu </span>**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Raju</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">**1/6**/</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">13, [“Hagel takes fire from Hill,” http://www.nj.com/us-politics/index.ssf/2013/01/hagel_takes_fire_from_hill.html]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">In fact, Obama's decision ... said in mid-December.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Plan is unpopular – even once popular legislation is on the chopping block</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">**Freemark ‘12** (Yonah – Master of Science in Transportation from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Bachelor of Arts in Architecture, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Yale University with Distinction. Also a freelance journalist who has been published in Planning Magazine; Next American City Magazine; Dissent; The Atlantic Cities; Next American City Online; and The Infrastructurist – He created and continues to write for the website The Transport Politic – The Transport Politic – “On Infrastructure, Hopes for Progress This Year Look Glum” – January 25th, 2012 – http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2012/01/25/on-infrastructure-hopes-for-progress-this-year-look-glum/)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">President Obama barely ... few bureaucratic reforms.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Hagel nomination prevents global conflict</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Jessie </span>**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Daniels 1/7/13</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> [Truman National Security Project Fellow, “Chuck Hagel Nomination: A Look At the Security Threats He Will Face” http://www.policymic.com/articles/21946/chuck-hagel-would-be-a-defense-secretary-for-the-21st-century]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">As </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">the</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> Chairman ... </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">challenges upon arrival.</span>

====<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">US-Iran Module</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Hagel is key to US-Iran Relations</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">CBS 1/8/13 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[CBS News, “Iran Hopes Hagel Nomination Will Improve Relations Between US, Tehran”, [[http://washington.cbslocal.com/2013/01/08/iran-hopes-hagel-nomination-will-improve-relations-between-us-tehran/]], ruochen]</span>
WASHINGTON (CBSDC/AP) — Iran’s Foreign Ministry appears ... future peace in Afghanistan.

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">US Iran relations solve miscalculation</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">John **__Tirman__**, executive director - MIT's Center for International Studies, 8/14/**__2007__**, A New Cold War With Iran?, The Boston Globe, p. http://www.boston.com/news/globe/editorial_opinion/oped/articles/2007/08/14/a_new_cold_war_with_iran/</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">No</span><span class="MinimizedTextChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">such</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">system of institutions</span><span class="UnderlinedChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> ...</span><span class="MinimizedTextChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> next big error of arrogance.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">US-Iran war causes global nuclear war</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Gregory R. **Copley**, President of the International Strategic Studies Association, geopolitical analyst for over thirty years, January **2006**, Defense & Foreign Affairs' Strategic Policy, “Iran's Delicate Year of Living Dangerously,” p. 2</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">IRAN IS THE DYNAMIC ... 21st Century.</span>


==Kritiks== 
===Bataille=== 
**Transportation infrastructure mirrors the attempt to supersede death and become immortal – this strategy is ultimately responsible for our repression of our transgressive use of excess**
**Merle 09** (Julien Merle, Faculty of Architecture, Delft University of Technology, “Bataille’s Writings: (Un-)framing the transgression of architecture’s limits,” 2009, Edinburgh Architecture Research, http://ace.caad.ed.ac.uk/ear2009/upload/pdfs/015-Merlex.pdf)

For Bataille, architecture is not only there presentation of the ideal social norm but
AND
, as an entropic failure, as disharmonious, as an economic loss.

**The opposition to our transgressive use of excess culminates in devastating forms of accumulation and denies life meaning**
**Stoekl 07** (Alan, professor of French and comparative literature at Penn State University, “Bataille’s Peak: Energy, Religion and Postsustainability,” 2007, p.44-46)

Bataille does, then, implicitly face the question of carrying capacity. Perhaps the
AND
and hence, perhaps, the world’s (but not modernity’s) survival.


**Vote neg to produce and destroy the aff in a glorious sacrifice. It is only by destroying objects for no reason at all that they are returned to the sacred order. To sacrifice is to turn your back on the world of cause and effect, the world where apocalypse threatens and may be rationally evaded. Only the deliberate embrace of impossibility against all cost enables a true return to immanence.**
Georges **Bataille 1992**, [Theory of Religion, p. 41-46]
The Worker and the Tool. Generally speaking, the world of things is perceived
AND
the positing of the body as a thing insofar as it is mortal.


===Capitalism=== 
**Public transportation will be implemented to serve interests of neoliberal capitalism and widen inequality**
Stephanie **Farmer 2011** [Sociology Dep’t Roosevelt University 2011, Uneven public transportation development in neoliberalizing Chicago, USA Environment and Planning http://envplan.com/epa/fulltext/a43/a43409.pdf]
Public transportation policy is one dimension of spatial restructuring deployed by entrepreneurial governments to create
AND
global city growth machine's revanchist claims to the city (Smith, 1996).

**Capitalism is the root of every conflict – resource wars, overconsumption, environmental catastrophe and extinction move closer the longer we wait – life becomes currency, a Ponzi scheme of exploitation – you have an ethical obligation to reject capitalism**
Dr. Glen **Barry 2009**, [March 21 [[http://www.newearthrising.org/2009/03/continued-industrial-capitalism-is-assured-death.asp]], “New Green Deal or Not: Industrial Capitalism Is Assured Death”. PhD in land resources from Wisconson-Madison, Masters in "Conservation Biology and Sustainable Development", and a BA in "Political Science" from Marquette University, President and Founder of Ecological Internet (EI)]
Besides being entirely inadequate in scale and ambition, what is most disconcerting about these
AND
the power and time to stop the ecological bubble, but just barely.

**Alternative: Reject the affirmative as an abandonment of belief in capitalism**
**– this refrain from action breaks the system and is essential to destroy the fetish that allows capital to survive**
Adrian **Johnston 2004**, [interdisciplinary research fellow in psychoanalysis at Emory University, Psychoanalysis, Culture & Society, December v9 i3]
Perhaps the absence of a detailed political roadmap in Zizek's recent writings isn't a major
AND
comforting fiction ("Capitalist commodity fetishism or the truth? I choose fetishism").

====Identity Politics Link==== 
**Identity politics fracture movements and ignores the commonality of oppression**
**Smith ’95** (Sharon, columnist for Socialist Worker and author of Women’s Liberation and Socialism, Mistaken Identity: or Can Identity Politics Liberate the Oppressed//,// __<span style="color: blue;">http://pubs.socialistreviewindex.org.uk/isj62/smith.htm)</span>__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Among many people ... </span>to their aims.1

===Security=== 
**Framing governmental support for infrastructure in terms of security authorizes violent mechanisms of disciplinary control, framing humanity in terms of logistical life while destroying the quality of life and instantiating the wholesale destruction of entire populations.**
Julian **Reid 2008** (lecturer in International Relations at King’s College, visiting professor in International Relations at the University of Lapland, “Conclusion: The Biopolitics of Critical Infrastructure Protection,” Securing ‘the Homeland:’ Critical Infrastructure, Risk and (In)Security, Ed. Myriam Dunn Cavelty and Kristian Soby Kristensen, p. 178-179)
Therefore, the contemporary reification of critical infrastructure as an object for protection owes a
AND
creates important openings for the further exploration of such a line of questioning.

**The dream of security produces apocalypse– //constructions// of existential risk produce the annihilation they are meant to escape**
Pever **<span style="font-size: 13px;">Coviello 2K</span>**, Prof. of English @ Bowdoin, [//Queer Frontiers//, p. 39-40]
Perhaps. But to claim that American culture is at present decisively postnuclear is not
AND
or otherwise, seems a civic initiative that can scarcely be done without.

**Reject the affirmative’s security logic – only resistance to the discourse of security can generate genuine political thought.**
Mark **Neocleous** **2008**, Prof. of Government @ Brunel [Critique of Security, 185-6]
The only way out of such a dilemma, to escape the fetish, is
AND
; it requires us to be brave enough to return the gift."'

==Counterplans== 
===Natives Earmark CP=== 
**Text: The United States federal government should provide substantial funding to governing bodies of Indian Country.**

**The CP competes – it’s textually competitive and functionally distinct because it removes earmarking of the money for transportation infrastructure.**

**“Its” denotes possession**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Glossary of English, 5</span>** (http://www.usingenglish.com/glossary/possessive-pronoun.html)
Mine, yours, his, hers, its, ours, theirs are the //<span style="font-size: 10pt;">possessive pronouns</span>//<span class="Underline">used to</span> substitute a noun and to show<span class="Underline"> possession or </span>ownership. EG. This is your disk and that's mine. (Mine substitutes the word disk and shows that it belongs to me.)

**Possession means control over**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Oxford Dictionaries, 11</span>** (http://oxforddictionaries.com/definition/possession)
//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Possession</span>// Pronunciation:/pəˈzɛʃ(ə)n/ noun 1 [mass noun] the state of<span class="Underline"> having , owning, or </span>//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">controlling</span>// something: she had taken possession of the sofa the book came into my possession he remains in full possession of his sanity

**Earmarking funds for American Indians undermines their self-governance. This form of colonialism results in the destruction of culture and prevents __any__ policy from being effective. Their dominance is modeled world-wide.**
**Marr**, 1/1/**2004** (Charles – Department of Anthropology at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Native American Survival in a Colonial United States, p. [[http://digitalcommons.unl.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1065&context=nebanthro]])
Principally, the root of<span class="Underline"> the ...</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> for the entire world</span>.

**The colonial oppression of Native Americans results in extinction.**
**Friedberg**, Summer **2000** (Lilian – Executive Director at the Sojourner Truth Center for Ethnic Diversity, American Indian Quarterly)
Attemptson<span class="Underline"> the part ... </span>the new salvation."[60]

===Carbon Tax CP=== 
**Text: The United States Federal Government should implement a revenue-neutral carbon tax.**

**CP solves - reduces CO2 emissions and the budget deficit**
**Stone ’12** [Chad Stone, chief economist at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, March 29, “A Carbon Tax Is Smart Energy and Budget Policy”, US News, http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/economic-intelligence/2012/03/29/carbon-tax-smart-energy-and-budget-policy]
Policymakers who are serious about addressing the nation’s long-term fiscal problems should
AND
includes a carbon fee it should provide equivalent protection for low income households.

===EIS CP=== 
**Text: The United states Federal Government should initiate an environmental impact assessment regarding the consequences of [plan] and adopt such a measure if, and only if, it meets compliance requirements under the National Environmental Policy Act.**

**The CP competes – binding EIS includes the option to not do the plan.**
**Reddy 2008** (Bina – J.D. from the University Texas School of Law, Student Note Editors for the Texas Environmental Law Journal, associate at Beveridge & Diamond, P.C., The Hard Road: NEPA Review of the Trans-Texas Corridor After Sep-15 and SAFETEA-LU § 6005, p. Lexis-Nexis)
However, along with such lofty ambitions came very little substantive law with which agencies
AND
with awarding a contract, and a private developer can begin construction. n53

**EIS review of transportation projects is necessary to prevent severe environmental damage. The CP is modeled internationally and avoids politics.**
**Lovaas, 6/14**/2012 (Deron – Federal Transportation Policy Director for the Natural Resources Defense Council, Earth to Congress: We Need Environmental Stewardship not Streamlining, p. http://switchboard.nrdc.org/blogs/dlovaas/stewardship_not_streamlining.html)
I started by pointing out that these provisions being debated by Congress, especially in
AND
a balanced approach to investments, and environmental advocates support more infrastructure investment.

**Biodiversity loss risks extinction**
**Walsh 10** [Bryan, covers environment, energy and — when the need arises — particularly alarming diseases for TIME magazine, Wildlife: A Global Convention on Biodiversity Opens in Japan, But Can It Make a Difference? October 18, 2010 http://ecocentric.blogs.time.com/2010/10/18/wildlife-a-global-convention-on-biodiversity-opens-in-japan-but-can-it-make-a-difference/#ixzz131wU6CSp]
The story of non-human life on the planet Earth over the past few
AND
forgive us. We're losing nature. And that loss really is forever.


===QUEST CP=== 
**Text: The United States federal government should institute and fund a Quadrennial Ecosystems Services Trends Assessment.**

**Solves biodiversity**
**PCAST ’11** ( President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology, REPORT TO THE PRESIDENT SUSTAINING ENVIRONMENTAL CA PITA L : PROTECTING SOC IETY AND THE ECONOMY , White House, July 2011, http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ostp/pcast_sustaining_environmental_capital_report.pdf)
In the report we transmit here, PCAST’s Working Group on Biodiversity Preservation and Ecosystem
AND
quadrennial National Climate Assessment mandated by the Global Change Research Act of 1990.





==Strats== 
===Long Beach=== 
**vs. Northwood WW [Bering Strait]**
**2NR: Process CP + Obama Good DA**

**vs. Northwood HS [Mayport]**
**2NR: EIS CP**

**vs. Downtown Magnet CL [Bus Fuel Cells]**
**2NR: Cap K + Dedev**

===Fullerton=== 
**vs. Loyola DW [Port Dredging]**
**2NR: Bataille K**

**vs. SDA JK [NextGen]**
**2NR: Security K**

===**LCC**=== 
**vs. Meadows BS [Save the Salmon]**
**2NR: Process CP + Fiscal Cliff DA**

**vs. Bakersfield CL [CCS]**
**2NR: Process CP + Fiscal Cliff DA**

**vs. Nevada Union GW [Ruralism]**
**2NR: Cap K + Gotta Have a Plan**

===**ASU**=== 
**vs. Los Alamos DN [VacTrains]**
**2NR: Process CP + Politics DA**

**vs. St. Francis AG [Natives]**
**2NR: Cap K + Inherency**

**vs. Nevada Union BH [Ruralism]**
**2NR: Framework + Gotta Have a Plan**


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]