[[toc]]
=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Info</span>= 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Aff: email ali.jamal33@gmail.com</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Neg: email ben.mitchell@kinkaid.org</span>
=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Aff</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">JARC Aff</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1AC Grapevine & Greenhill</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">CONTENTION 1 IS APARTHEID</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">THE FIRST INTERNAL LINK IS FEDERAL DISINVESTMENT---</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Federal posture causes economic inequality</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Farmer 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Stephanie Farmer, professor of Sociology, Roosevelt University, 2011 (“Uneven public transportation development in neoliberalizing Chicago, USA” Environment and Planning A 2011, volume 43, pages 1154 – 1172)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Public transportation, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">as one crucial component …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> create and reproduce spatialized racial inequalities.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Plan is a necessary response for ending the current form of inequality</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Grengs 5 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Joe Grengs professor of Urban and Regional Planning, University of Michigan 2005 (The abandoned social goals of public transit in the neoliberal city of the USA City: analysis of urban trends, culture, theory, policy, action Volume 9, Issue 1, 2005 pages 51-66)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Imagine a bus stop in a typical working</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">…</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> harm those who depend most on good transit</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Current form of inequality causes militarized violence and degrading quality of life</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Harvey 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">David Harvey, Professor of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anthropology|Anthropology]] at the Graduate Center of the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/City_University_of_New_York|City University of New York]], 2010 (The Enigma of Capital, and the crises of capitalism 224-228)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">At times of crisis, the irrationality …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> is now actually seen to rule. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">THE SECOND INTERNAL LINK IS EXCLUSION---</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Low-income minorities are excluded---lack of access to transportation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Fan 12 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Yingling Fan is an assistant professor at Humphrey School of Public Affairs in the regional planning and policy area who works interdisciplinarily in the fields of land use, transportation, social equity, and public health. She holds a Ph.D. in City and Regional Planning from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and a bachelor’s degree in Transportation Engineering from Southeast University, Nanjing, China, 2/8, “The Planners' War against Spatial Mismatch: Lessons Learned and Ways Forward,” Journal of Planning Literature, pdf, AJ</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Planners, policy makers, and the public in the U</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">S</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">…. **transit can serve as a viable substitute for the automobile**</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> (Rosenbloom and Fielding 1998). </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Current approach is ineffective and damages the environment</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Hoang 5 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">April 2005, Huong Hoang: Urban and Environmental Policy Occidental College Senior Comprehensive Project, “The Route to Transportation Equity: A Critical Evaluation of the Job Access and Reverse Commute Program and Strategies to Implement First-Class Public Transportation Systems,” pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Soon enough, I began to understand ….</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> of federal, state, local, and tribal programs and policies</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.”28 </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Plan is an essential step for coalition building</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Bullard 7 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Robert D. Bullard is Dean of the Barbara Jordan-Mickey Leland School of Public Affairs at Texas Southern University in Houston and Ware Professor of Sociology and Director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University, “Growing Smarter: Achieving Livable Communities, Environmental Justice, and Regional Equity,” pdf, AJ</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Suburban sprawl impacts the daily lives of everyone…. from expanding suburban job centers. </span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Transportation-based coalitions are critical for a social transformation---solves exclusion</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Chen 7 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Don Chen is Executive Director of Smart Growth America and Leads Coalition-Building, “Linking Transportation Equity and Environmental Justice with Smart Growth,” pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">For generations, coming to the United States … Commuting to Shanghai will certainly be tough on the slow bus.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">That’s necessary for environmental justice---the alternative is collapse of civilization</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Collin & Collin 5 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Robert W. Collin and Robin Morris Collin 2005 (Environmental Reparations in THE QUEST FOR ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE: HUMAN RIGHTS AND THE POLITICS OF POLLUTION, Robert D. Bullard, ed., Sierra Club Books, 2005)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Antiurban attitudes, covert and institutionalized or normalized racism…exclusionary environmental decision making.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">We have an obligation to end this exclusion---it causes the worst forms of state-based violence </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Duarte 5 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">– Professor of Philosophy @ Universidade Federal do Paraná, Curitiba, Brazil. 2005 [André Duarte, “Biopolitics and the dissemination of violence: the Arendtian critique of the present,” Final version - 27 April 2005, pg. [[http://hannaharendt.net/research/biopolitics.html]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Moreover, to consider totalitarianism as a disruptive event …</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> vital interests of animal laborans.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its necessary transportation infrastructure investment for the Job Access and Reverse Commute program in the United States.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">CONTENTION 2 IS SOLVENCY</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Funding has been slashed for JARC and the program is stalled</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Wogan 12 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">JB Wogan writes for the Tampa Bay Times and was named News Writer of the Year by the Washington Newspaper Publishers Association, “Program is eliminated, but projects' future less clear,” 7/23, http://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/promises/obameter/promise/482/double-federal-program-to-help-reverse-commuters/, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">As a candidate, Barack </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Obama … We rate this a Promise Broken. </span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Transportation bill stunts JARC investment</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">APTA 12 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">American Public Transportation Association, 6/29, http://www.apta.com/gap/legupdatealert/2012/Documents/2012June29.pdf, “House and Senate Vote to Pass Surface Transportation Conference Report,” AJ</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The final conference agreement … Sec. 5307 formula program. </span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">No disads---funding now, but just not enough</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Blumenberg & Schweitzer 6 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">March 2006, Evelyn Blumenberg: Prof of Urban Planning, PhD in Urban Planning, UCLA AND Lisa Schweitzer: Associate Prof of Public Policy at USC, PhD in Urban Planning, UCLA, “Devolution and Transport Policy for the Working Poor: The Case of the US Job Access and Reverse Commute Program,” Planning Theory & Practice, Vol. 7, No. 1, 7–25, pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Transportation is one of these policy areas….</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> local transportation services for the working poor</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Air pollution kills 70,000 annually </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Bullard 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Robert D. Bullard is Dean of the Barbara Jordan-Mickey Leland School of Public Affairs at Texas Southern University in Houston and Ware Professor of Sociology and Director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University, 12/8, “Moving Beyond Energy and Transportation Apartheid Through Climate Justice,” http://www.opednews.com/articles/Moving-Beyond-Energy-and-T-by-Robert-Bullard-111205-502.html, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Many of the members in our 12-person … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">vs. 10.6 admissions per 10,000 population). </span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Increased investment in JARC is critical---allows for equal economic opportunities and overcomes current environmental concerns</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Hoang 5 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">April 2005, Huong Hoang: Urban and Environmental Policy Occidental College Senior Comprehensive Project, “The Route to Transportation Equity: A Critical Evaluation of the Job Access and Reverse Commute Program and Strategies to Implement First-Class Public Transportation Systems,” pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">This report is an evaluation of the Job Access and Reverse Commute … increase of more than $255 million.131 </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Current predictions are narcissist – only by engaging in the politics of social exclusion and emancipatory transportation planning can we rectify the planning process</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Talvitie 12** Antti Talvitie, is a Professor emeritus and Chief Researcher at Aalto University School of Engineering. He has private practice as consultant and as psychoanalyst in the Washington DC area. Previously, Mr. Talvitie worked in the World Bank; was GM of Viatek Consulting Engineers in Espoo Finland; served as Director of Highway Construction and Maintenance in the Finnish Road Administration; and was Professor in the US, including Chairmanship of the Department Civil Engineering at the University of Buffalo. Mr. Talvitie holds Ph.D. in Civil Engineering from Northwestern University, Evanston, IL, and Certificate in Psychoanalysis from the Boston Graduate School of Psychoanalysis. “The problem of trust in planning,” published in Planning Theory 2012 11: 257 originally published online 8 December 2011. [[http://plt.sagepub.com/content/11/3/257]] BJM</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Prediction is central to planning. …</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> __unreal and both are being challenged.__</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Federal government key---multiple jurisdictions and uniformity</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Klesh 1 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Kevin J.––J.D., George Washington University Law School, 2001, Chair of American Bar Association Environmental Disclosure Committee, Member, Environmental Law Committee, NYC Bar, “URBAN SPRAWL: CAN THE "TRANSPORTATION EQUITY" MOVEMENT AND FEDERAL TRANSPORTATION POLICY HELP BREAK DOWN BARRIERS TO REGIONAL SOLUTIONS?”, 7 Envtl. Law 649 (2000-2001), HeinOnline, DOA 8/29/12, RI</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Overcoming</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> the parochial self-interests … national goal of attaining a "Sustainable America</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">."</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1AC New Trier</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">CONTENTION 1 IS INHERENCY</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Funding has been slashed for JARC and the program is stalled</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Wogan 12 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">JB Wogan writes for the Tampa Bay Times and was named News Writer of the Year by the Washington Newspaper Publishers Association, “Program is eliminated, but projects' future less clear,” 7/23, http://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/promises/obameter/promise/482/double-federal-program-to-help-reverse-commuters/, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">As a candidate, Barack </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Obama … We rate this a Promise Broken.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Transportation bill stunts JARC investment</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">APTA 12 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">American Public Transportation Association, 6/29, http://www.apta.com/gap/legupdatealert/2012/Documents/2012June29.pdf, “House and Senate Vote to Pass Surface Transportation Conference Report,” AJ</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The final conference agreement … Sec. 5307 formula program.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">No disads---funding now, but just not enough</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Blumenberg & Schweitzer 6 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">March 2006, Evelyn Blumenberg: Prof of Urban Planning, PhD in Urban Planning, UCLA AND Lisa Schweitzer: Associate Prof of Public Policy at USC, PhD in Urban Planning, UCLA, “Devolution and Transport Policy for the Working Poor: The Case of the US Job Access and Reverse Commute Program,” Planning Theory & Practice, Vol. 7, No. 1, 7–25, pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Transportation is one of these policy areas….</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> local transportation services for the working poor</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Lack of funding dooms 70,000 annually</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Bullard 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Robert D. Bullard is Dean of the Barbara Jordan-Mickey Leland School of Public Affairs at Texas Southern University in Houston and Ware Professor of Sociology and Director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University, 12/8, “Moving Beyond Energy and Transportation Apartheid Through Climate Justice,” http://www.opednews.com/articles/Moving-Beyond-Energy-and-T-by-Robert-Bullard-111205-502.html, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Many of the members in our 12-person … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">vs. 10.6 admissions per 10,000 population).</span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">CONTENTION 2 IS APARTHEID</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">THE FIRST INTERNAL LINK IS FEDERAL DISINVESTMENT---</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Federal posture causes economic inequality</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Farmer 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Stephanie Farmer, professor of Sociology, Roosevelt University, 2011 (“Uneven public transportation development in neoliberalizing Chicago, USA” Environment and Planning A 2011, volume 43, pages 1154 – 1172)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Public transportation, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">as one crucial component …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> create and reproduce spatialized racial inequalities.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Plan is a necessary response for ending the current form of inequality</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Grengs 5 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Joe Grengs professor of Urban and Regional Planning, University of Michigan 2005 (The abandoned social goals of public transit in the neoliberal city of the USA City: analysis of urban trends, culture, theory, policy, action Volume 9, Issue 1, 2005 pages 51-66)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Imagine a bus stop in a typical working</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">…</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> harm those who depend most on good transit</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The impact is militarism and degraded quality of life</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Harvey 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">David Harvey, Professor of <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anthropology|Anthropology]]</span> at the Graduate Center of the <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/City_University_of_New_York|City University of New York]]</span>, 2010 (The Enigma of Capital, and the crises of capitalism 224-228)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">At times of crisis, the irrationality …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> is now actually seen to rule.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">THE SECOND INTERNAL LINK IS EXCLUSION---</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Low-income minorities are excluded---lack of access to transportation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Fan 12 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Yingling Fan is an assistant professor at Humphrey School of Public Affairs in the regional planning and policy area who works interdisciplinarily in the fields of land use, transportation, social equity, and public health. She holds a Ph.D. in City and Regional Planning from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and a bachelor’s degree in Transportation Engineering from Southeast University, Nanjing, China, 2/8, “The Planners' War against Spatial Mismatch: Lessons Learned and Ways Forward,” Journal of Planning Literature, pdf, AJ</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Planners, policy makers, and the public in the U</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">S</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">…. **transit can serve as a viable substitute for the automobile**</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> (Rosenbloom and Fielding 1998).</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Current approach is ineffective and damages the environment</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Hoang 5 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">April 2005, Huong Hoang: Urban and Environmental Policy Occidental College Senior Comprehensive Project, “The Route to Transportation Equity: A Critical Evaluation of the Job Access and Reverse Commute Program and Strategies to Implement First-Class Public Transportation Systems,” pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Soon enough, I began to understand ….</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> of federal, state, local, and tribal programs and policies</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.”28</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Plan is an essential step for coalition building</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Bullard 7 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Robert D. Bullard is Dean of the Barbara Jordan-Mickey Leland School of Public Affairs at Texas Southern University in Houston and Ware Professor of Sociology and Director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University, “Growing Smarter: Achieving Livable Communities, Environmental Justice, and Regional Equity,” pdf, AJ</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Suburban sprawl impacts the daily lives of everyone…. from expanding suburban job centers.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Transportation-based coalitions are critical for a social transformation---solves exclusion</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Chen 7 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Don Chen is Executive Director of Smart Growth America and Leads Coalition-Building, “Linking Transportation Equity and Environmental Justice with Smart Growth,” pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">For generations, coming to the United States … Commuting to Shanghai will certainly be tough on the slow bus.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">That’s necessary for environmental justice---the alternative is collapse of civilization</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Collin & Collin 5 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Robert W. Collin and Robin Morris Collin 2005 (Environmental Reparations in THE QUEST FOR ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE: HUMAN RIGHTS AND THE POLITICS OF POLLUTION, Robert D. Bullard, ed., Sierra Club Books, 2005)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Antiurban attitudes, covert and institutionalized or normalized racism…exclusionary environmental decision making.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">We have an obligation to end this exclusion---it causes the worst forms of state-based violence</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Duarte 5 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">– Professor of Philosophy @ Universidade Federal do Paraná, Curitiba, Brazil. 2005 [André Duarte, “Biopolitics and the dissemination of violence: the Arendtian critique of the present,” Final version - 27 April 2005, pg. <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://hannaharendt.net/research/biopolitics.html]]</span>]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Moreover, to consider totalitarianism as a disruptive event …</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> vital interests of animal laborans.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its necessary transportation infrastructure investment for the Job Access and Reverse Commute program in the United States.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">CONTENTION 3 IS SOLVENCY</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Increased investment in JARC is critical---allows for equal economic opportunities and overcomes current environmental concerns</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Hoang 5 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">April 2005, Huong Hoang: Urban and Environmental Policy Occidental College Senior Comprehensive Project, “The Route to Transportation Equity: A Critical Evaluation of the Job Access and Reverse Commute Program and Strategies to Implement First-Class Public Transportation Systems,” pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">This report is an evaluation of the Job Access and Reverse Commute … increase of more than $255 million.131</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Current predictions are narcissist – only by engaging in the politics of social exclusion and emancipatory transportation planning can we rectify the planning process</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Talvitie 12** Antti Talvitie, is a Professor emeritus and Chief Researcher at Aalto University School of Engineering. He has private practice as consultant and as psychoanalyst in the Washington DC area. Previously, Mr. Talvitie worked in the World Bank; was GM of Viatek Consulting Engineers in Espoo Finland; served as Director of Highway Construction and Maintenance in the Finnish Road Administration; and was Professor in the US, including Chairmanship of the Department Civil Engineering at the University of Buffalo. Mr. Talvitie holds Ph.D. in Civil Engineering from Northwestern University, Evanston, IL, and Certificate in Psychoanalysis from the Boston Graduate School of Psychoanalysis. “The problem of trust in planning,” published in Planning Theory 2012 11: 257 originally published online 8 December 2011. <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://plt.sagepub.com/content/11/3/257]]</span> BJM</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Prediction is central to planning. …</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> __unreal and both are being challenged.__</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Federal government key---multiple jurisdictions and uniformity</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Klesh 1 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Kevin J.––J.D., George Washington University Law School, 2001, Chair of American Bar Association Environmental Disclosure Committee, Member, Environmental Law Committee, NYC Bar, “URBAN SPRAWL: CAN THE "TRANSPORTATION EQUITY" MOVEMENT AND FEDERAL TRANSPORTATION POLICY HELP BREAK DOWN BARRIERS TO REGIONAL SOLUTIONS?”, 7 Envtl. Law 649 (2000-2001), HeinOnline, DOA 8/29/12, RI</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Overcoming</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> the parochial self-interests … national goal of attaining a "Sustainable America</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">."</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Current modes of transportation disadvantage low-income minorities---plan is critical to reversing this trend and creating equality</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Wellman 12 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Gerard C. Wellman has a PhD from the University of Nebraska and works for the Department of Politics & Public Administration at California State University Stanislaus, “Community empowerment and public transportation agencies: a case study analysis of transit agencies' community development initiatives,” 8/13, Routledge, pdf, AJ</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Access to transportation is **determinative** **…**</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> each will be discussed individually. </span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1AC St. Marks</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">CONTENTION 1 IS INHERENCY</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Funding has been slashed for JARC and the program is stalled</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Wogan 12 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">JB Wogan writes for the Tampa Bay Times and was named News Writer of the Year by the Washington Newspaper Publishers Association, “Program is eliminated, but projects' future less clear,” 7/23, http://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/promises/obameter/promise/482/double-federal-program-to-help-reverse-commuters/, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">As a candidate, Barack </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Obama … We rate this a Promise Broken.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">No disads---funding now, but just not enough</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Blumenberg & Schweitzer 6 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">March 2006, Evelyn Blumenberg: Prof of Urban Planning, PhD in Urban Planning, UCLA AND Lisa Schweitzer: Associate Prof of Public Policy at USC, PhD in Urban Planning, UCLA, “Devolution and Transport Policy for the Working Poor: The Case of the US Job Access and Reverse Commute Program,” Planning Theory & Practice, Vol. 7, No. 1, 7–25, pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Transportation is one of these policy areas….</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> local transportation services for the working poor</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Lack of funding dooms 70,000 annually</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Bullard 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Robert D. Bullard is Dean of the Barbara Jordan-Mickey Leland School of Public Affairs at Texas Southern University in Houston and Ware Professor of Sociology and Director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University, 12/8, “Moving Beyond Energy and Transportation Apartheid Through Climate Justice,” http://www.opednews.com/articles/Moving-Beyond-Energy-and-T-by-Robert-Bullard-111205-502.html, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Many of the members in our 12-person … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">vs. 10.6 admissions per 10,000 population).</span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">CONTENTION 2 IS APARTHEID</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">THE FIRST INTERNAL LINK IS FEDERAL DISINVESTMENT---</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Federal posture causes economic inequality</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Farmer 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Stephanie Farmer, professor of Sociology, Roosevelt University, 2011 (“Uneven public transportation development in neoliberalizing Chicago, USA” Environment and Planning A 2011, volume 43, pages 1154 – 1172)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Public transportation, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">as one crucial component …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> create and reproduce spatialized racial inequalities.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Plan is a necessary response for ending the current form of inequality</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Grengs 5 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Joe Grengs professor of Urban and Regional Planning, University of Michigan 2005 (The abandoned social goals of public transit in the neoliberal city of the USA City: analysis of urban trends, culture, theory, policy, action Volume 9, Issue 1, 2005 pages 51-66)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Imagine a bus stop in a typical working</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">…</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> harm those who depend most on good transit</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The impact is militarism and degraded quality of life</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Harvey 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">David Harvey, Professor of </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anthropology|Anthropology]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> at the Graduate Center of the </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/City_University_of_New_York|City University of New York]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">, 2010 (The Enigma of Capital, and the crises of capitalism 224-228)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">At times of crisis, the irrationality …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> is now actually seen to rule.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">THE SECOND INTERNAL LINK IS EXCLUSION---</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Low-income minorities are excluded---lack of access to transportation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Fan 12 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Yingling Fan is an assistant professor at Humphrey School of Public Affairs in the regional planning and policy area who works interdisciplinarily in the fields of land use, transportation, social equity, and public health. She holds a Ph.D. in City and Regional Planning from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and a bachelor’s degree in Transportation Engineering from Southeast University, Nanjing, China, 2/8, “The Planners' War against Spatial Mismatch: Lessons Learned and Ways Forward,” Journal of Planning Literature, pdf, AJ</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Planners, policy makers, and the public in the U</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">S</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">…. **transit can serve as a viable substitute for the automobile**</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> (Rosenbloom and Fielding 1998).</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Current approach is ineffective and damages the environment</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Hoang 5 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">April 2005, Huong Hoang: Urban and Environmental Policy Occidental College Senior Comprehensive Project, “The Route to Transportation Equity: A Critical Evaluation of the Job Access and Reverse Commute Program and Strategies to Implement First-Class Public Transportation Systems,” pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Soon enough, I began to understand ….</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> of federal, state, local, and tribal programs and policies</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.”28</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Plan is an essential step for coalition building</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Bullard 7 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Robert D. Bullard is Dean of the Barbara Jordan-Mickey Leland School of Public Affairs at Texas Southern University in Houston and Ware Professor of Sociology and Director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University, “Growing Smarter: Achieving Livable Communities, Environmental Justice, and Regional Equity,” pdf, AJ</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Suburban sprawl impacts the daily lives of everyone…. from expanding suburban job centers.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Transportation-based coalitions are critical for a social transformation---solves exclusion</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Chen 7 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Don Chen is Executive Director of Smart Growth America and Leads Coalition-Building, “Linking Transportation Equity and Environmental Justice with Smart Growth,” pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">For generations, coming to the United States … Commuting to Shanghai will certainly be tough on the slow bus.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">That’s necessary for environmental justice---the alternative is collapse of civilization</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Collin & Collin 5 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Robert W. Collin and Robin Morris Collin 2005 (Environmental Reparations in THE QUEST FOR ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE: HUMAN RIGHTS AND THE POLITICS OF POLLUTION, Robert D. Bullard, ed., Sierra Club Books, 2005)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Antiurban attitudes, covert and institutionalized or normalized racism…exclusionary environmental decision making.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">We have an obligation to end this exclusion---it causes the worst forms of state-based violence</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Duarte 5 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">– Professor of Philosophy @ Universidade Federal do Paraná, Curitiba, Brazil. 2005 [André Duarte, “Biopolitics and the dissemination of violence: the Arendtian critique of the present,” Final version - 27 April 2005, pg. </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://hannaharendt.net/research/biopolitics.html]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Moreover, to consider totalitarianism as a disruptive event …</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> vital interests of animal laborans.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its necessary transportation infrastructure investment for the Job Access and Reverse Commute program in the United States.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">CONTENTION 3 IS SOLVENCY</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Increased investment in JARC is critical---allows for equal economic opportunities and overcomes current environmental concerns</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Hoang 5 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">April 2005, Huong Hoang: Urban and Environmental Policy Occidental College Senior Comprehensive Project, “The Route to Transportation Equity: A Critical Evaluation of the Job Access and Reverse Commute Program and Strategies to Implement First-Class Public Transportation Systems,” pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">This report is an evaluation of the Job Access and Reverse Commute … increase of more than $255 million.131</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Current predictions are narcissist – only by engaging in the politics of social exclusion and emancipatory transportation planning can we rectify the planning process</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Talvitie 12** Antti Talvitie, is a Professor emeritus and Chief Researcher at Aalto University School of Engineering. He has private practice as consultant and as psychoanalyst in the Washington DC area. Previously, Mr. Talvitie worked in the World Bank; was GM of Viatek Consulting Engineers in Espoo Finland; served as Director of Highway Construction and Maintenance in the Finnish Road Administration; and was Professor in the US, including Chairmanship of the Department Civil Engineering at the University of Buffalo. Mr. Talvitie holds Ph.D. in Civil Engineering from Northwestern University, Evanston, IL, and Certificate in Psychoanalysis from the Boston Graduate School of Psychoanalysis. “The problem of trust in planning,” published in Planning Theory 2012 11: 257 originally published online 8 December 2011. </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[http://plt.sagepub.com/content/11/3/257]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> BJM</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Prediction is central to planning. …</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> __unreal and both are being challenged.__</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Federal government key---multiple jurisdictions and uniformity</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Klesh 1 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Kevin J.––J.D., George Washington University Law School, 2001, Chair of American Bar Association Environmental Disclosure Committee, Member, Environmental Law Committee, NYC Bar, “URBAN SPRAWL: CAN THE "TRANSPORTATION EQUITY" MOVEMENT AND FEDERAL TRANSPORTATION POLICY HELP BREAK DOWN BARRIERS TO REGIONAL SOLUTIONS?”, 7 Envtl. Law 649 (2000-2001), HeinOnline, DOA 8/29/12, RI</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Overcoming</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> the parochial self-interests … national goal of attaining a "Sustainable America</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">."</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Purely conjoining together link claims only makes predictions less likely and misdirects resources – policy analysis suffers from conjunctive fallacy that relies on a flawed methodology</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Berube 2k</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> (David M Berube, PhD, and Associate Professor of Speech Communication and Director of Debate at the Univ of South Carolina. “Debunking Mini-Max Reasoning: The Limits of Extended Causal Chains in Contest Debating” Contemporary Argumentation and Debate. 21(2000). Online PDF.) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">What was a knotty piece of evidence … </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">literally begs the question of equivocation</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1AC Gbx/UT/Lex</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The United States federal government should substantially increase its necessary transportation infrastructure investment for the Job Access and Reverse Commute program in the United States.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">CONTENTION 1 IS APARTHEID---</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Federal posture causes economic inequality---plan is necessary to overcome it</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Farmer 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Stephanie Farmer, professor of Sociology, Roosevelt University, 2011 (“Uneven public transportation development in neoliberalizing Chicago, USA” Environment and Planning A 2011, volume 43, pages 1154 – 1172)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Public transportation, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">as one crucial component …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> create and reproduce spatialized racial inequalities.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">That causes militarism and destroys quality of life</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Harvey 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">David Harvey, Professor of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anthropology|Anthropology]] at the Graduate Center of the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/City_University_of_New_York|City University of New York]], 2010 (The Enigma of Capital, and the crises of capitalism 224-228)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">At times of crisis, the irrationality …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> is now actually seen to rule. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Low-income minorities are excluded---lack of access to transportation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Fan 12 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Yingling Fan is an assistant professor at Humphrey School of Public Affairs in the regional planning and policy area who works interdisciplinarily in the fields of land use, transportation, social equity, and public health. She holds a Ph.D. in City and Regional Planning from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and a bachelor’s degree in Transportation Engineering from Southeast University, Nanjing, China, 2/8, “The Planners' War against Spatial Mismatch: Lessons Learned and Ways Forward,” Journal of Planning Literature, pdf, AJ</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Planners, policy makers, and the public in the U</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">S</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">…. **transit can serve as a viable substitute for the automobile**</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> (Rosenbloom and Fielding 1998). </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Current approach is ineffective and damages the environment</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Hoang 5 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">April 2005, Huong Hoang: Urban and Environmental Policy Occidental College Senior Comprehensive Project, “The Route to Transportation Equity: A Critical Evaluation of the Job Access and Reverse Commute Program and Strategies to Implement First-Class Public Transportation Systems,” pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Soon enough, I began to understand ….</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> of federal, state, local, and tribal programs and policies</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.”28 </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Air pollution kills 70,000 annually </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Bullard 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Robert D. Bullard is Dean of the Barbara Jordan-Mickey Leland School of Public Affairs at Texas Southern University in Houston and Ware Professor of Sociology and Director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University, 12/8, “Moving Beyond Energy and Transportation Apartheid Through Climate Justice,” http://www.opednews.com/articles/Moving-Beyond-Energy-and-T-by-Robert-Bullard-111205-502.html, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Many of the members in our 12-person African American …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">policies right is a life and death matter.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Plan is an essential step for coalition building</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Bullard 7 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Robert D. Bullard is Dean of the Barbara Jordan-Mickey Leland School of Public Affairs at Texas Southern University in Houston and Ware Professor of Sociology and Director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University, “Growing Smarter: Achieving Livable Communities, Environmental Justice, and Regional Equity,” pdf, AJ</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Suburban sprawl impacts the daily lives of everyone…. from expanding suburban job centers. </span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Transportation-based coalitions are critical for a social transformation---solves exclusion</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Chen 7 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Don Chen is Executive Director of Smart Growth America and Leads Coalition-Building, “Linking Transportation Equity and Environmental Justice with Smart Growth,” pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">For generations, coming to the United States … Commuting to Shanghai will certainly be tough on the slow bus.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">That’s necessary for environmental justice---the alternative is collapse of civilization</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Collin & Collin 5 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Robert W. Collin and Robin Morris Collin 2005 (Environmental Reparations in THE QUEST FOR ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE: HUMAN RIGHTS AND THE POLITICS OF POLLUTION, Robert D. Bullard, ed., Sierra Club Books, 2005)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Antiurban attitudes, covert and institutionalized or normalized racism…exclusionary environmental decision making.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Only placing a commitment to transportation equality at the center of our decision-making calculus can break-down inequality </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">JCPES 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">– The Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, an NGO with the goal of improving the socioeconomic status of African Americans and other people of color, expanding their effective participation in the political and public policy arenas, and promoting communications and relationships across racial and ethnic lines, April 13, 2011, “Structural Racism, Privilege, and Policy: A Systems Perspective,” online: [[http://www.jointcenter.org/hpi/sites/all/files/DL14%20Concept%20Paper%2004%2001%2011.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Given the nation’s ongoing economic crises, </span>…will //<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">facilitate real</span>////<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> and lasting equity</span>//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">We have an obligation to end this exclusion---it causes the worst forms of state-based violence </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Duarte 5 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">– Professor of Philosophy @ Universidade Federal do Paraná, Curitiba, Brazil. 2005 [André Duarte, “Biopolitics and the dissemination of violence: the Arendtian critique of the present,” Final version - 27 April 2005, pg. [[http://hannaharendt.net/research/biopolitics.html]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Moreover, to consider totalitarianism as a disruptive event …</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> vital interests of animal laborans.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Funding has been slashed for JARC and the program is stalled</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Wogan 12 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">JB Wogan writes for the Tampa Bay Times and was named News Writer of the Year by the Washington Newspaper Publishers Association, “Program is eliminated, but projects' future less clear,” 7/23, http://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/promises/obameter/promise/482/double-federal-program-to-help-reverse-commuters/, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">As a candidate, Barack </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Obama … We rate this a Promise Broken. </span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Funding now, but it’s insufficient</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Blumenberg & Schweitzer 6 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">March 2006, Evelyn Blumenberg: Prof of Urban Planning, PhD in Urban Planning, UCLA AND Lisa Schweitzer: Associate Prof of Public Policy at USC, PhD in Urban Planning, UCLA, “Devolution and Transport Policy for the Working Poor: The Case of the US Job Access and Reverse Commute Program,” Planning Theory & Practice, Vol. 7, No. 1, 7–25, pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Transportation is one of these policy areas….</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> local transportation services for the working poor</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Increased investment in JARC is critical---allows for equal economic opportunities and overcomes current environmental concerns</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Hoang 5 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">April 2005, Huong Hoang: Urban and Environmental Policy Occidental College Senior Comprehensive Project, “The Route to Transportation Equity: A Critical Evaluation of the Job Access and Reverse Commute Program and Strategies to Implement First-Class Public Transportation Systems,” pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">This report is an evaluation of the Job Access and Reverse Commute … increase of more than $255 million.131 </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Federal government key---multiple jurisdictions and uniformity</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Klesh 1 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Kevin J.––J.D., George Washington University Law School, 2001, Chair of American Bar Association Environmental Disclosure Committee, Member, Environmental Law Committee, NYC Bar, “URBAN SPRAWL: CAN THE "TRANSPORTATION EQUITY" MOVEMENT AND FEDERAL TRANSPORTATION POLICY HELP BREAK DOWN BARRIERS TO REGIONAL SOLUTIONS?”, 7 Envtl. Law 649 (2000-2001), HeinOnline, DOA 8/29/12, RI</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Overcoming</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> the parochial self-interests … national goal of attaining a "Sustainable America</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">."</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">CONTENTION 2 IS IMPACT FRAMING---</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Structural violence outweighs</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Hintjens 7 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Helen Hintjens is Lecturer in the Centre for Development Studies, University of Wales, “MDF Understanding Development Better,” http://udb.global-connections.nl/sites/udb.global-connections.nl/files/file/2923317.051%20-%20Position%20Paper%20Helen%20Hintjens.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">From Johan Galtung, famous Norwegian … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">neither natural nor inevitable</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">”, p. 301 (Prontzos). </span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; text-decoration: none;">Current predictions are narcissist – only by engaging in the politics of social exclusion and emancipatory transportation planning can we rectify the planning process</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; text-decoration: none;">Talvitie 12 </span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Antti Talvitie, is a Professor emeritus and Chief Researcher at Aalto University School of Engineering. He has private practice as consultant and as psychoanalyst in the Washington DC area. Previously, Mr. Talvitie worked in the World Bank; was GM of Viatek Consulting Engineers in Espoo Finland; served as Director of Highway Construction and Maintenance in the Finnish Road Administration; and was Professor in the US, including Chairmanship of the Department Civil Engineering at the University of Buffalo. Mr. Talvitie holds Ph.D. in Civil Engineering from Northwestern University, Evanston, IL, and Certificate in Psychoanalysis from the Boston Graduate School of Psychoanalysis. “The problem of trust in planning,” published in Planning Theory 2012 11: 257 originally published online 8 December 2011. [[http://plt.sagepub.com/content/11/3/257]] BJM</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Prediction is central to planning. …</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> unreal and both are being challenged. </span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1AC State</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The United States federal government should substantially increase its necessary transportation infrastructure investment for the Job Access and Reverse Commute program in the United States.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">CONTENTION 1 IS APARTHEID---</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Federal posture causes neoliberal racism---plan is necessary to overcome it</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Farmer 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Stephanie Farmer, professor of Sociology, Roosevelt University, 2011 (“Uneven public transportation development in neoliberalizing Chicago, USA” Environment and Planning A 2011, volume 43, pages 1154 – 1172)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Public transportation, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">as one crucial component …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> create and reproduce spatialized racial inequalities.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">That causes militarism and destroys quality of life</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Harvey 10 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">David Harvey, Professor of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anthropology|Anthropology]] at the Graduate Center of the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/City_University_of_New_York|City University of New York]], 2010 (The Enigma of Capital, and the crises of capitalism 224-228)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">At times of crisis, the irrationality …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> is now actually seen to rule. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The status quo disadvantages minorities---plan is critical to end racial apartheid by enhancing equal economic opportunities</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Bullard 13 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Robert D. Bullard is Dean of the Barbara Jordan-Mickey Leland School of Public Affairs at Texas Southern University in Houston and Ware Professor of Sociology and Director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University, “MLK Day 2013: Why Transportation is Still a Civil Rights Issue” Jan 20, http://www.opednews.com/articles/MLK-Day-2013-Why-Transpor-by-Robert-Bullard-130119-639.html, AJ</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Transportation</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> provides access to opportunity …</span>__**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> communities and regions and can promote equal opportunity for all. </span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Empirical evidence confirms the spatial mismatch theory---the plan’s form of economic development is key---cars don’t solve</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Fan 12 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Yingling Fan is an assistant professor at Humphrey School of Public Affairs in the regional planning and policy area who works interdisciplinarily in the fields of land use, transportation, social equity, and public health. She holds a Ph.D. in City and Regional Planning from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and a bachelor’s degree in Transportation Engineering from Southeast University, Nanjing, China, 2/8, “The Planners' War against Spatial Mismatch: Lessons Learned and Ways Forward,” Journal of Planning Literature, pdf, AJ</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Planners, policy makers, and the public … **viable substitute for the automobile**</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> (Rosenbloom and Fielding 1998). </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Plan is an essential step for coalition building---transportation-based coalitions are critical for a social transformation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Chen 7 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Don Chen is Executive Director of Smart Growth America and Leads Coalition-Building, “Linking Transportation Equity and Environmental Justice with Smart Growth,” pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">For generations, coming to the United States … Commuting to Shanghai will certainly be tough on the slow bus.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Only placing a commitment to transportation equality at the center of our decision-making calculus can break-down inequality</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">JCPES 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">– The Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, an NGO with the goal of improving the socioeconomic status of African Americans and other people of color, expanding their effective participation in the political and public policy arenas, and promoting communications and relationships across racial and ethnic lines, April 13, 2011, “Structural Racism, Privilege, and Policy: A Systems Perspective,” online: <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.jointcenter.org/hpi/sites/all/files/DL14%20Concept%20Paper%2004%2001%2011.pdf]]</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Given the nation’s ongoing economic crises, </span>…will //<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">facilitate real</span>////<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> and lasting equity</span>//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">We have an obligation to end this exclusion---it causes the worst forms of state-based violence </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Duarte 5 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">– Professor of Philosophy @ Universidade Federal do Paraná, Curitiba, Brazil. 2005 [André Duarte, “Biopolitics and the dissemination of violence: the Arendtian critique of the present,” Final version - 27 April 2005, pg. [[http://hannaharendt.net/research/biopolitics.html]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Moreover, to consider totalitarianism as a disruptive event …</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> vital interests of animal laborans.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Current policies and funding disparities are the root cause of racial and environmental inequality</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Hoang 5 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">April 2005, Huong Hoang: Urban and Environmental Policy Occidental College Senior Comprehensive Project, “The Route to Transportation Equity: A Critical Evaluation of the Job Access and Reverse Commute Program and Strategies to Implement First-Class Public Transportation Systems,” pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Soon enough, I began to understand ….</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> of federal, state, local, and tribal programs and policies</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.”28 </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The environment disproportionally affects minorities---plan is key to reversing this trend by promoting climate justice---the impact is 70,000 deaths annually </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Bullard 13 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Robert D. Bullard is Dean of the Barbara Jordan-Mickey Leland School of Public Affairs at Texas Southern University in Houston and Ware Professor of Sociology and Director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University, “MLK Day 2013: Why Transportation is Still a Civil Rights Issue” Jan 20, http://www.opednews.com/articles/MLK-Day-2013-Why-Transpor-by-Robert-Bullard-130119-639.html, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Build Transportation to Support Healthy People and Healthy Communities. The 2010 American …</span> __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">increase in total</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. greenhouse gas </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">emissions.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The alternative to environmental justice is collapse of civilization</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Collin & Collin 5 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Robert W. Collin and Robin Morris Collin 2005 (Environmental Reparations in THE QUEST FOR ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE: HUMAN RIGHTS AND THE POLITICS OF POLLUTION, Robert D. Bullard, ed., Sierra Club Books, 2005)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Antiurban attitudes, covert and institutionalized … exclusionary environmental decision making.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Funding has been slashed for JARC and the program is stalled</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Wogan 12 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">JB Wogan writes for the Tampa Bay Times and was named News Writer of the Year by the Washington Newspaper Publishers Association, “Program is eliminated, but projects' future less clear,” 7/23, http://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/promises/obameter/promise/482/double-federal-program-to-help-reverse-commuters/, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">As a candidate, Barack </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Obama … We rate this a Promise Broken. </span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Increased investment in JARC is critical---allows for equal economic opportunities and overcomes current environmental concerns</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Hoang 5 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">April 2005, Huong Hoang: Urban and Environmental Policy Occidental College Senior Comprehensive Project, “The Route to Transportation Equity: A Critical Evaluation of the Job Access and Reverse Commute Program and Strategies to Implement First-Class Public Transportation Systems,” pdf, AJ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">This report is an evaluation of the Job Access and Reverse Commute … increase of more than $255 million.131 </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Federal government key---multiple jurisdictions and uniformity</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Klesh 1 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Kevin J.––J.D., George Washington University Law School, 2001, Chair of American Bar Association Environmental Disclosure Committee, Member, Environmental Law Committee, NYC Bar, “URBAN SPRAWL: CAN THE "TRANSPORTATION EQUITY" MOVEMENT AND FEDERAL TRANSPORTATION POLICY HELP BREAK DOWN BARRIERS TO REGIONAL SOLUTIONS?”, 7 Envtl. Law 649 (2000-2001), HeinOnline, DOA 8/29/12, RI</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Overcoming</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> the parochial self-interests … national goal of attaining a "Sustainable America</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">."</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">CONTENTION 2 IS IMPACT FRAMING---</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Structural violence outweighs</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Hintjens 7 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Helen Hintjens is Lecturer in the Centre for Development Studies, University of Wales, “MDF Understanding Development Better,” http://udb.global-connections.nl/sites/udb.global-connections.nl/files/file/2923317.051%20-%20Position%20Paper%20Helen%20Hintjens.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">From Johan Galtung, famous Norwegian … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">neither natural nor inevitable</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">”, p. 301 (Prontzos).</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Deterrence makes great power war obsolete</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Tepperman 9</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> Jonathan Tepperman, Deputy Editor of Newsweek, Member of the Council on Foreign Relations, now Managing Editor of Foreign Affairs, holds a B.A. in English Literature from Yale University, an M.A. in Jurisprudence from Oxford University, and an LL.M. in International Law from New York University, 2009 (“Why Obama Should Learn to Love the Bomb,” The Daily Beast, August 28th, Available Online at http://www.thedailybeast.com/newsweek/2009/08/28/why-obama-should-learn-to-love-the-bomb.print.html, Accessed 01-27-2012)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">A growing and compelling body of research suggests …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">nothing in their behavior suggests they have a death wish.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Low probability should be no probability – their logic promotes serial policy failure</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Sunstein 2</span>** <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Cass, Karl N. Llewellyn Distinguished Service Professor, University of Chicago, Law School and Department of Political Science, Probability Neglect: Emotions, Worst Cases, and Law, http://www.yalelawjournal.org/pdf/112-1/SunsteinFINAL.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__If someone is predisposed to be worried, …__ </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">not matter when each risk is taken in isolation.</span>

=Neg= 

=1NC States= 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The United States federal government should end the pooling process for gas tax revenues and the 50 states and all relevant subnational governments should substantially increase investment in _</span>

__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">States solve best</span>**__
__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Edwards 11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Director of tax policy studies at the Cato Institute and the editor of [[http://www.downsizinggovernment.org/|www.downsizinggovernment.org]] Chris, October 21, 2011, “Infrastructure projects to fix the economy? Don’t bank on it,” [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/infrastructure-projects-to-fix-the-economy-dont-bank-on-it/2011/10/18/gIQAgtZi3L_story_1.html]]</span>__
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">When the federal </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> … </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">infrastructure to the public. They’re ready.</span>

__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">And, stopping the pooling process solves funding</span>**__
__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Horowitz 12</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Madison Project Daniel, 05/03, “Devolution of Transportation Authority is Solution to Earmark Problem,” http://madisonproject.com/2012/05/devolution-of-transportation-authority-is-solution-to-earmark-problem/</span>__
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">There is no doubt that many localities are in need of some infrastructure updates. But there is an obvious solution to this problem. </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Let’s stop pooling the</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> gas tax </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">revenue of all 50 states … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">that debate on a local level.</span>

=1NC Elections DA= 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Obama is leading, but it’s close.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Jonathan D. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Salant - Sep 19</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, 2012 (Obama Leads Among Voters in Colorado, Virginia, Wisconsin</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-19/obama-leads-among-likely-voters-in-colorado-virginia-wisconsin.html]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The CBS News</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">/New York Times/ … of error of plus or minus 2.5 percentage points. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">More deficit spending would swing the election to Romney</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Kraushaar 12</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Josh, National Journal writer, 5/14/12, [[http://decoded.nationaljournal.com/2012/05/romneys-targeted-deficit-messa.php]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">If unemployment was the only … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">still runs high.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Romney kills relations</span>**
Emmanuel **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Felton 12</span>**Emmanuel Felton is a Toni Stable Fellow at the Columbia School of Journalism. "Mitt Romney Russia Quotes Signal Big Problems For Future US-Russian Relations," March, http://www.policymic.com/articles/6202/mitt-romney-russia-quotes-signal-big-problems-for-future-us-russian-relations
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Obama was referring to a proposed U.S…. </span> **__by an increasingly hostile Kremlin.__**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Nuclear war and solves the case</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Graham </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Allison</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> **& Blackwill** **11**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Graham Allison, Director, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs; Douglas Dillon Professor of Government; Faculty Chair, Dubai Initiative, Harvard Kennedy School, Robert D. Blackwill, International Council Member, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs 10-30, "10 Reasons Why Russia Still Matters"http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/21469/10_reasons_why_russia_still_matters.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">That central point is that Russia … them to identify nations that matter more to U.S. success, or failure, in advancing our national interests.</span>

=1NC Steel= 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">China’s steel industry will recover now---but it’s shaky</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Rhiannon </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Hoyle & Clarke 8/20</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> writers for the Wall Street Journal “For Struggling Steel Industry, China Offers Hope” 2012 http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10000872396390443855804577601403262749264.html</span>
__Signs of a turnaround in the__ __…__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">are to be met," Macquarie said.</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The aff revives the US steel industry</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">AAM 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Alliance for American Manufacturing Feb 2010 “Buy America Works: Longstanding United States Policy Enhances the Job Creating Effect of Government Spending”, http://www.mcwanebuyamerican.com/pdfs/buyamericanworks.pdf</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The deterioration of our industrial base, … </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">compete now and in the years to come.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">That massively undercuts China’s market share---destroys Chinese economic growth</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">George</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> **Haley 9** </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">PhD, Professor & Director, Center for International Industry Competitiveness, College of Business, University of New Haven March 24 2009 “Testimony before the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission Hearing: China’s Industrial Policy and its Impact on U.S. Companies, Workers and the American Economy,” http://www.uscc.gov/hearings/2009hearings/written_testimonies/09_03_24_wrts/09_03_24_haley_statement.php</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What impact has China’s support of its … and employment overseas to remain price competitive. </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Chinese exports are uniquely key---collapse causes CCP instability, global economic collapse, and US-Sino war </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Lewis 7</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Research Director of the Economic Research Council (Dan, April 19, 2007, “The nightmare of a Chinese economic collapse,” World Finance, http://www.economicpolicycentre.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/10/The-nightmare-of-a-Chinese-economic-collapse.pdf</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">A reduction in</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> demand for </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">imported Chinese … is pledged to defend</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">. </span>__**

=1NC Disabilities K= 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14pt;">First, the affirmative’s appeal to the state to securitize people with disabilities is co-productive with the formation of menace idenities that mark empire’s enemies for disposal.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">McRuer, George Washington University, in '10 [Robert, “Disability Nationalism in Crip Times”, Journal of Literary & Cultural Disability Studies, Volume 4, Number 2]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">In this geopolitical context, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">disability … disability studies’ focus on both.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14pt;">And, this smooths and consolidates the operations of empire, enshuring global violence and unending murder of abberent others.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Agathangelou et al, Political Science and Women's Studies at York University, Toronto, in ‘8 [Anna M. & Daniel Bassichis, and Tamara L. Spira, “Intimate Investments: Homonormativity, Global Lockdown, and the Seductions of Empire“ Radical History Review Issue 100, Winter]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">To (re)consolidate itself, empire … merit mention or attention</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">.17</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">P</span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">oliticizing our personal relations to criticize world ordering allows us to recognize our position as global civilizers, which is the first step towards critical emancipation. Evaluating the violence here is a necessary precondition to dealing with violence out there. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Nayar 99</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, (Jayan, Law Student at the University of Warwick, Re-Framing International Law for the 21st Century: Orders of Inhumanity, 9 Transnational Law & Contemporary Problems 599, Fall 1999)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">So, back to the question: to what … </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">order, remain unscrutinized.</span>__**

=1NC Psychoanalysis= 


**The aff’s call for transportation investment is not objective or neutral and is no more than a fantasy of control over the world in an attempt to provide ontological security---but the Symbolic creation and Imaginary representation of planning policies always fail because of the Lack---it is impossible to recapture the security of our lost primordial maternal fullness**
**Gunder & Hillier 9**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Michael Gunder, Associate Professor, Associate Head Research & Postgraduate â€“ Planning at University of Auckland (New Zealand), and Jean Hillier, professor of Town and Country Planning at Newcastle University and Managing Editor of the international journal 'Planning Theory', __Planning in Ten Words or Less:__ … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">fot the attainment of success in the global economy (Gunder and Searle 2007; McGuirk 200-4, 2005, 2007).</span>

**And, the notion of security is a psychological construct---the aff’s scenarios for war and conflict are products of paranoia that project our violent impulses onto the other and result in their extermination**
**Mack 91**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> John E. Mack is a Doctor of Psychiatry and a professor at Harvard University, “The Enemy System” http://www.johnemackinstitute.org/eJournal/article.asp?id=23 *Gender modified</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The **threat of**</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> nuclear annihilation</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> has </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">powerfully to the process. </span>

**Our alternative is to adopt the __role of the analyst__---transportation planning isn’t __objective__ or __neutral__---it is motivated by underlying structures of __ideology__ and __fantasy__ that can only be unraveled by the alternative**
**Gunder 6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michael Gunder, a Senior planning lecturer in the School of Architecture and Planning at the University of Auckland, and is a past president of the New Zealand Planning Institute. He has a BA, MA and PhD in Planning. “Lacan, Planning and Urban Policy Formation.,” 22 Aug 2006 [[http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/0811114042000335287]]</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The analyst’s discourse</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for Lacan </span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">… </span>__**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">imposition of this hegemonic American motorway cure</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (ARC, 2003). </span>

=1NC Disabilities Adv= 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14pt;">Alt cause---Group homes</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">New York Times ’09 [october 20, “Justice for the Mentally Disabled” http://www.nytimes.com/2009/10/21/opinion/21wed3.html?_r=1]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">The initiative is having its coming- … community-based groups.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14pt;">Status-quo solves – accessibility for the disabled is already politicized </span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">CAS, 2010</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Center for an Accessible Society, “The American’s with Disabilities Act”, March, http://www.accessiblesociety.org/topics/ada/index.html)</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Ten years after the signing of the Americans … to make their campus and classrooms accessible.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14pt;">Addressing accessibility to transportation is insufficient – multiple other barriers </span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Rosenbloom, 2007</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Sandra, Professor of Planning at the University of Arizona, “Transportation Patterns and Problems of People with Disabilities”, The Future of Disability in America, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK11420/)</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Perhaps </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">the most intractable … transportation systems</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> alone.</span>__**


=1NC Util Good= 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Role of the ballot is to maximize the lives saved. We should never sacrifice individuals for abstract market values. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Cummisky 96</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(David, professor of philosophy at Bates College, Kantian Consequentialism, pg. 145)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">We must not obscure the issue by</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> characterizing … equal consideration suggests that one may have to sacrifice some to save many.</span>__
Consequences matter – the tunnel vision of moral absolutism generates evil and political irrelevance
Issac, 2002<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jeffery, Professor of Political Science at Indiana University, Dissent, Vol. 49 No. 2, Spring)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Politics, in large part, involves contests ,,, arrogance. </span>**__And it undermines political effectiveness.__**

Our ethic of consequences enables political responsibility and freedom – their framework cannot be projected onto the entire world without denying the reality of politics and human limitation
Williams, 2005<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael, Professor of International Politics at the University of Wales, The Realist Tradition and the Limits of International Relations, p. 174-176)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">A </span><span class="BodyTextChar">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">commitment to an </span>__****__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> … </span>__**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">of, and imperative toward, responsibility.</span>