[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**AIRSHIPS** </span>== 
<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**First inherency: The Usfg is not currently investing in commercial airship transport**</span>

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;"><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">George</span><span style="color: #000000;"> **Monbiot 08** </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">(http://www.monbiot.com/2008/05/06/travelling-light/)</span></span>

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;"><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">There are four small companies trying to get </span>**__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">airships</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;"> off the ground(6). Most of the new designs make use of aerodynamic lift as well as buoyancy (they are shaped like fat planes with stubby wings or tails) which means that they</span>**__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;"> are</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">heavier and more</span>**__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">stable</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">than the old dirigibles,</span>**__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">and can...</span>__** **__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">they are likely to cause</span>__****__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">a net increase in carbon pollution</span>__**<span style="color: #000000;">.</span></span>


<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**<span style="color: #000000;">THUS THE PLAN. THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD SUBSTANTIALLY INCREASE SUBSIDIZATION OF AIRSHIPS AND AIRPORT CONVERSION. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO CLARIFY.</span>**</span>

<span style="color: #000000; vertical-align: baseline;"> **Advantage one: Deforestation and Biofuels**</span>

<span style="color: #000000; vertical-align: baseline;"> **Airplane transportation spreads deforestation and hunger by using biofuels**</span>

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;"><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">George</span><span style="color: #000000;"> **Monbiot 08** </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">(http://www.monbiot.com/2008/05/06/travelling-light/)</span></span>

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;"><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">But because environmentalists tend to have a feeling for material constraints, we recognise that solutions cannot be conjured out of thin air. In some cases they just don’t appear to exist. There are two reasons why we make such a fuss about flying. The first is that, </span>**__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">even as governments promise to cut emissions, everywhere airports are expanding</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">....</span>**__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">airline companies prescribe two cures that are</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">even</span>**__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">worse than the disease.</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">Even before they are deployed commercially in jets</span><span style="color: #000000;">, </span>**__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">biofuels are spreading hunger and deforestation</span>__**<span style="color: #000000;">. </span></span>

**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Biofuels are bad for the environment and hurt the poorest people</span>**

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> **Biello 08**</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=biofuels-bad-for-people-and-climate)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">"</span>**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Any biofuel</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> that </span>**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">causes</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> land clearing is likely to increase </span>**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">global warming</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">," ..."</span>**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">We are converting their food into our fuel</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">," Tilman notes. "The typical driver of an SUV spends as much on fuel in a month as the poorer third of the world spend on food."</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Biofuels do not solve global warming, prevents the impoverished from accessing food, and would create a crisis as bad as financial crashes</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> Chen 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (http://colorlines.com/archives/2011/04/the_growing_global_food_crisis.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Princeton biofuels expert Tim Searchinger has argued that the government-subsidized expansion of </span>**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">biofuels</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, including corn-based ethanol in the U.S. and other plants like sugar cane elsewhere, </span>**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">cause displacement of food crops in the agricultural system</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. ... </span>**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">add</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">s </span>**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">up to a</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> recipe for a </span>**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">collapse of the entire food system that would rival any financial bubble.</span>__**

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**<span style="color: #000000;">Hunger is bad for everyone </span>**</span>

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**<span style="color: #000000;"> World Food Programme</span>**<span style="color: #000000;"> **12** </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">(http://www.wfp.org/hunger)</span></span>

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">Hunger and malnutrition</span>__****__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">are</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;"> in fact </span>**__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">the number one risk to</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;"> the </span>**__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">health worldwide</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;"> — </span>**__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">greater than AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis combined</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">. **__....__**</span>**__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">in lifetime earnings.</span>__**</span>
<span style="vertical-align: baseline;"> </span>
<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**Deforestation hurts the poor the most**</span>

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;"> **Black,**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Richard</span> **08**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/science/nature/7424535.stm)</span></span>

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Damage to forests</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, rivers, marine life </span>**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">and other aspects of nature</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> could </span>**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">halve living standards for the world's poor,</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> **__...__**</span>**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">what we define as the 'GDP of the poor'</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">," he told BBC News.</span></span>

**Airships are useful for isolated areas around natural treasures**
**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Rennie 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8px;">(http://blogs.plos.org/retort/2011/07/13/does-global-warming-help-the-case-for-airships/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">The example that I’ve almost always heard cited as an application—going back at least to the late ‘70s or early ‘80s, when I first heard it discussed—is using</span>**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> [use] airships to service </span>__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">isolated logging camps in </span>**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">the frozen north</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. </span>**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">...</span>__** **__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">be the</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> more </span>**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">environmentally friendly choice</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>


<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**Contention two: Climate Change**</span>

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;"> **Climate change drastically increases world hunger**</span>

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**<span style="color: #000000;">World Food Programme</span>**<span style="color: #000000;"> **12** </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">(http://www.wfp.org/climate-change)</span></span>

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Climate change is a hunger risk multiplier, threatening to undermine hard-won gains in eradicating hunger and poverty.</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Current projections indicate that</span>**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">unless</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">considerable</span>**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">efforts are made</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">to improve vulnerable people’s resilience</span>, **__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">20 percent more people will</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">be</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">at risk of</span>**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">hunger by 2050 due to the changing climate</span>__**. <span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Working with governments, international partners and local communities WFP is assisting the people who are most at risk, most food insecure and have the least capacity to respond or adapt to climate change.</span></span>

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**Climate change leads to a decimation in the world’s species**</span>

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;"> **Thean**, <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Tara</span>**11**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">(http://science.time.com/2011/07/12/how-climate-change-is-whittling-down-the-worlds-species/)</span></span>

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;"><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Their study shows that the loss of animal and plant species that have already happened match previous predictions in terms of the relative risk to different species around the world. And based on </span>**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">that </span>__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">information, the scientists have made a frightening forecast: </span>**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">one in 10 species will be extinct by 2100 if climate change continues affecting the world the way it is now</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">... </span>**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">climate change is a real threat to species.</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">”</span></span>


<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**And, loss of biodiversity is worse than economic collapse, nuclear war, and tyranny**</span>

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;"> **Chen 2K**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">[Jim, Professor of Law at the U of Minnesota, Minnesota Journal of Global Trade Winter 2000, pg. 211]</span></span>

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">The value of endangered species and the biodiversity they embody is literally</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> . . . </span>**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">incalculable.</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">...</span>**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">nuclear war, or conquest by a totalitarian government</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. Natural evolution may in due course renew the earth will a diversity of species approximating that of a world unspoiled by Homo sapiens in ten million years, perhaps a hundred million.</span></span>

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**And, loss of biodiversity causes extinction**</span>

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;"> **Diner, 94**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">[David, Ph.D., Planetary Science and Geology, "The Army and the Endangered Species Act: Who's Endangering Whom?," Military Law Review, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161]</span></span>

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;"><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">To accept that the snail darter, harelip sucker, or Dismal Swamp southeastern shrew could save [hu]mankind may be difficult for some. Many, if not most, species are useless to[hu]man[s] in a direct utilitarian sense. Nonetheless, they may be critical in an indirect role, because their extirpations could affect a directly useful species negatively. In a closely interconnected ecosystem, </span>**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">the loss of a species affects other species dependent on it. </span>__****__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Moreover, as the number of species decline, the effect of each new extinction on the remaining species increases dramatically</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. ...</span>**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">could cause total ecosystem collapse and human extinction. Each new extinction increases the risk</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> of disaster. Like a mechanic removing, one by one, the rivets from an aircraft's wings, [hu]mankind may be edging closer to the abyss.</span></span>


<span style="vertical-align: baseline;">**<span style="color: #000000;">Solvency: Airships can eliminate climate change from air transport</span>**</span>

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;"><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">George</span><span style="color: #000000;"> **Monbiot 08** </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">(http://www.monbiot.com/2008/05/06/travelling-light/)</span></span>

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;"><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">At first sight</span><span style="color: #000000;">, </span>**__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">hydrogen seems more promising</span>__**<span style="color: #000000;">...</span> **__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">travelling by airship would be</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">rather</span>**__<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 13.3333px;">like travelling by cruise ship, but at twice the speed and using a fraction of the fuel.</span>__**</span>


**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Airships will solve the future problems of air transportation</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Airships to the Arctic 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8px;">(http://www.airshipstothearctic.com/)</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Trans-oceanic shipments are </span>__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">... </span>**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">no technological barriers remain. </span>__**

**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Airships could effectively fill a market niche and therefore improve the markets</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Prentice et al. 04</span>**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Transport Institute, University of Manitoba</span> <span style="font-size: 8px;">([[http://umanitoba.ca/faculties/management/ti/media/docs/AA04_airship_large1.pdf]])</span>

**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Airships have the potential of improving</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> ...</span>**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">could split the difference.</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">While slower than conventional air, airships would be three to five times faster than marine transport</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> with freight rates somewhere between air cargo and intermodal ocean container shipment.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Airships are ideal for most areas</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Airships to the Arctic 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 8px;">(http://www.airshipstothearctic.com/)</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">How would </span>__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">the advent of large transport </span>**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">airships change the world?</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Ocean barriers would cease to isolate island nations and limit </span>__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">the </span>**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">trade</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> between continental markets. </span>**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Remote areas would become accessible, without destroying the delicate environment</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> that characterizes exotic locations. New </span>**__<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">trade opportunities will be created</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> and economic gateways will be re-ordered. </span>

==**BERING STRAIT**== 

**First, Inherency:**
**Russia supports a Bering Strait tunnel but the US hasn’t weighed in—lack of US support is the only obstacle**
**SINGULARITY HUB 9-15-2011**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> (“This Ain’t Your Ancestors’ Ice Bridge – Russia To Build Tunnel Across Bering Strait,” Sep 15, http://singularityhub.com/2011/09/15/this-aint-your-ancestors-ice-bridge-%E2%80%93-russia-to-build-tunnel-across-bering-strait/)</span>
At 64 miles (103 km), it would not only be the longest tunnel in the world, it would more than double the currently longest British Channel Tunnel. It would span the Bering Straight and connect Russia to Alaska. Details are sketchy, but consensus indicates __the tunnel would have a highway__...**__those Russians sure aren’t__** **__afraid to think big__**
THEREFORE WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING PLAN. THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD BUILD THE RAIL AND ASSOCIATED INFRASTRUCTURE FOR THE BERING TUNNEL CROSSING WITHIN ITS JURISDICTION. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO CLARIFY.

====<span style="color: #000000;">Advantage 1, Russia:</span>==== 
====<span style="color: #000000;">US-Russian relations are adrift – the plan is key to rebuilding them. </span>==== 
**Kirakofe, 6-24**
[Clifford, professor at the Virginia Military Institute, US, Russia need to see their ties grow, Global Times, 6-24-2012, <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.globaltimes.cn/content/716731.shtml|__http://www.globaltimes.cn/content/716731.shtml__]]</span>]
**__In the interest of world peace...__****__US__** **__elections in November.__**
**Cooperation is the linchpin of peaceful Arctic development – the alternative is aggressive postures making conflict inevitable.**
**Huebert 10**Rob [Fellow of the Canadian Defence & Foreign Affairs Institute and Professor of Political Science University of Calgary] “The Newly Emerging Arctic Security Environment” //Canadian Defence & Foreign Affairs Institute// March 2010 <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.cdfai.org/PDF/The%20Newly%20Emerging%20Arctic%20Security%20Environment.pdf|__http://www.cdfai.org/PDF/The%20Newly%20Emerging%20Arctic%20Security%20Environment.pdf__]]</span> DR accessed: 6/25/12
Council.26 In both instances it was hoped that these new organizations would allow the former Arctic enemies to cooperate on an international basis. One of Finland’s core objectives when it initiated the Rovaniemi Process was to encourage the newly formed Russian Government to join into a serious of new cooperative arrangements.27 Likewise, Canada’s intent when leading the initiative to create the Arctic Council was to develop a circumpolar body that would address all problems facing the circumpolar states, including those pertaining to issues of security. At the same time, the Arctic states began to reduce the forces that they had deployed in the region, reduced or eliminated Arctic based exercises, and stopped developing policies that were directed to operations in the Arctic.28 For example, Arctic states such as Canada not only cancelled their plans to buy nuclear-powered submarines with the end of the Cold War, but also ended, or substantially reduced, all of their forces’ northern operations.29**__It seemed that military__** ...**__will likewise respond__**;

**The internal link is reversible – cooperation can change Russia course.**
**Trent 11**Packard C. [Lieutenant, United States Navy B.S., United States Merchant Marine Academy, 2003] “AN EVALUATION OF THE ARCTIC—WILL IT BECOME AN AREA OF COOPERATION OR CONFLICT?” //Naval Postgraduate School// March 2011 <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://edocs.nps.edu/npspubs/scholarly/theses/2011/March/11Mar_Trent.pdf|__http://edocs.nps.edu/npspubs/scholarly/theses/2011/March/11Mar_Trent.pdf__]]</span> DR accessed: 6/25/12
As mentioned, Russia is implementing the measures necessary in order to reap the benefits the Arctic has to offer by being aggressive and unpredictable, and will do whatever it takes to be the powerhouse of the Arctic. In order to be competitive with Russia, the other Arctic nations are increasing their military capabilities and assets. D. CONCLUSION This chapter has examined counterarguments to the proposition that Arctic will become a zone of cooperation. It has revealed the means by which **__the Arctic might__** ...**__the potential for conflict will remain.__**
**Cooperation key to averting direct conflict, the environment and the world economy.**

**Collins and Rojansky 10** James [appointed the director of the Russia and Eurasia Program in January of 2007 He is an expert on the former Soviet Union, its successor states, and on the Middle East Ambassador Collins was the U.S. ambassador to the Russian Federation from 1997 to 2001. Prior to joining the Carnegie Endowment, he served as senior adviser at the public law and policy practice group Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld, LLP] and Matthew [deputy director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment. An expert on U.S. and Russian national security and nuclear weapons policies, his work focuses on relations among the United States, NATO, and the states of the former Soviet Union. Additionally, he is responsible for Carnegie’s Ukraine Program and analysis of politics and security in Eastern Europe, including Belarus and Moldova. From 2007–2010, Rojansky served as executive director of the Partnership for a Secure America (PSA). Founded by former Congressman Lee Hamilton (D-IN) and former Senator Warren Rudman (R-NH), with a group of two dozen former senior leaders from both political parties, PSA seeks to rebuild bipartisan dialogue and productive debate on U.S. national security and foreign policy challenges. While at PSA, Rojansky orchestrated high-level bipartisan initiatives aimed at repairing the U.S.–Russia relationship, strengthening the U.S. commitment to nuclear arms control and nonproliferation, and leveraging global science engagement for diplomacy] “Why Russia Matters” //The Carnegie Endowment// 8/18/10 accessed: 6/29/12 <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/2010/08/18/why-russia-matters/3si|__http://www.carnegieendowment.org/2010/08/18/why-russia-matters/3si__]]</span> DR
**__A year and a half after...__****__it__** **__will have no choice__**

**Advantage 2, integration:**
**The plan leads to global rail integration—solves war**
Craig **Burroughs** 2/11/**10** (Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of NICE, Inc. a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University “The Fast Track to a Better World”, <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf|__http://www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf__]]</span>, I.P.)
**__The benefits to international__**...**__perceived international injustices.__**

**World rail integration is key to global trade, fair economic growth, environmental protection, and international cooperation**
Craig **Burroughs** 2/11/**10** (Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of NICE, Inc. a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University “The Fast Track to a Better World”, <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf|__http://www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf__]]</span>, I.P.)
Railway development across the globe, however, has been anything but universal. Only North America and Europe have integrated rail systems connecting all the countries on their respective continents, and only the North American system is built to a single gauge, or width between the rails (4 feet 8.5 inches), commonly known as Standard Gauge. The gauges of rail lines in Russia and the former Soviet states of Eastern Europe, as well as Spain, Portugal and Ireland, are wider than the Standard Gauge railways serving most of Western Europe. In Asia, Africa and South America, **__no coherent interconnected__** ...**__the most important overland trade route in the world__**

**Bering Strait tunnel would link the US and Russian electricity grids**
**NEWSER 2011**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> (“Russia OKs Underwater Tunnel to Alaska,” Sep 1, [[http://www.newser.com/story/127481/russia-oks-underwater-bering-strait-tunnel-to-alaska.html]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">How do you get from the US to Asia without a boat or a plane? If Russia has its way, you may soon be able to take the train. </span>__Moscow has approved an underwater tunnel through the Bering Strait__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">, linking Alaska and Russia via underground train, AOL Autos reports. The 65-mile route would be the world’s longest underwater tunnel at about twice the length of the Chunnel between England and France. But at roughly $1 billion per mile, it wouldn’t be cheap. Where that money would come from hasn’t yet been decided, World Architecture News notes. But </span>__the tunnel could bring in some $11 billion yearly__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">, experts say. It appears that it wouldn’t welcome passengers; instead, it would carry some 100 million tons of freight yearly. </span>__Russia hopes the project would help it gain access to Arctic mineral and fossil fuels it has claimed. The tunnel__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">, which could take up to 15 years to build, </span>__might also deliver electricity from Russia to Alaska and Canada__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">.</span>

**Plan leads to global energy connectivity unifying the globe and stabilizing population and preventing environmental catastrophe.**
Buckminster **Fuller**, Buckminster Fuller started the idea of the strait and created a project manifesto which is updated constantly, June 6, 20**12**, <span style="color: #000000;">[[http://www.geni.org/globalenergy/library/buckminster_fuller/criticalpath.shtml|__http://www.geni.org/globalenergy/library/buckminster_fuller/criticalpath.shtml__]]</span>, LSV
**__The world energy network grid__** ...**__elimination of the 150 sovereign-nation systems__**

**Finally solvency:**
**The tunnel will be completed by 2019**
**BURROUGHS 2009**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> (Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of Northern Inter-Continental Enterprises, Inc., (NICE, Inc.) an Alaska Corporation chartered for the purpose of building the Bering Strait railway tunnels and connecting trackage between the North American and Asian rail systems. He has been CEO of several short-line and regional railroads, and is an officer and a Founding Director of the Interhemispheric Bering Strait Tunnel & Railroad Group, an Alaska not-for-profit educational corporation which has been studying and promoting the trans-Bering Strait rail link for the past 17 years. Mr. Burroughs holds a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University('65) and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University's Kellogg School('70), “THE FAST TRACK TO A BETTER WORLD,” June, [[http://www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf|www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf]])</span>
__Given sufficient funding__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> over the next three years, it is conceivable that </span>__another "Golden Spike" ceremony__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">, this time using modern gold-plated rail fasteners, </span>__commemorating the joining of Asia and America might occur as early as 2019__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">, somewhere </span>__in the middle of the Bering Strait__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> about 250 feet below the surface. The original Golden Spike and the transcontinental rail line it completed represented one nation becoming united at a deeper level. Similarly, the act of installing the final fastener in the intercontinental, trans-Bering Strait rail line would make a powerful statement about hopes for increasing real wealth, harmony and eco-friendly economic development throughout the world. </span>__The day the first train crosses the International Date Line between Asia and North America will certainly become one of the most memorable dates in world history__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">.</span>

**Shipping will rapidly pay for itself**
**BURROUGHS 2009**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> (Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of Northern Inter-Continental Enterprises, Inc., (NICE, Inc.) an Alaska Corporation chartered for the purpose of building the Bering Strait railway tunnels and connecting trackage between the North American and Asian rail systems. He has been CEO of several short-line and regional railroads, and is an officer and a Founding Director of the Interhemispheric Bering Strait Tunnel & Railroad Group, an Alaska not-for-profit educational corporation which has been studying and promoting the trans-Bering Strait rail link for the past 17 years. Mr. Burroughs holds a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University('65) and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University's Kellogg School('70), “THE FAST TRACK TO A BETTER WORLD,” June, [[http://www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf|www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf]])</span>
__Once an intercontinental rail link connects the vast and rapidly growing Chinese economy directly with those of North America, the enormous economic benefits on both sides of the Bering Strait should rapidly increase traffic volumes well past the break-even point for a commercial venture__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. The new railway will be capable of handling 48,000 container TEU's (twenty-foot equivalent units) per day in each direction at normal capacity. If average revenue per TEU is a conservative $2,000 and 80% of total TEU's are revenue loads (100% eastward, 60% westward), container traffic alone can generate $153,600,000 per day, resulting in roughly $53.8B per annum. At a normal operating ratio of 75%, </span>__container traffic alone could generate over $13.5B for interest and debt payments__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">, easily sufficient to justify an overall investment of more than $100 billions. </span>__Over the ensuing years, many other traffic sources will develop along the new rail route, and many connecting lines will be built to tap new resources__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> to create real wealth for the sustenance of a growing world population and substantial additional traffic for the railway. </span>__The commercial value of building the Bering Strait Tunnel connection as the keystone link in an integrated worldwide railway network should prove itself very rapidly after its opening__

**Power links will be laid before the railroad is even completed—this alone pays for the project**
**BURROUGHS 2009**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> (Craig Burroughs is Chairman and CEO of Northern Inter-Continental Enterprises, Inc., (NICE, Inc.) an Alaska Corporation chartered for the purpose of building the Bering Strait railway tunnels and connecting trackage between the North American and Asian rail systems. He has been CEO of several short-line and regional railroads, and is an officer and a Founding Director of the Interhemispheric Bering Strait Tunnel & Railroad Group, an Alaska not-for-profit educational corporation which has been studying and promoting the trans-Bering Strait rail link for the past 17 years. Mr. Burroughs holds a B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University('65) and an MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University's Kellogg School('70), “THE FAST TRACK TO A BETTER WORLD,” June, [[http://www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf|www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.pdf]])</span>
__The rail right-of-way can also be utilized to generate other income before the rail route is completed. Oil, gas and water pipelines and communication and power transmission cables can be laid alongside the railroad track structure. These ancillary facilities could generate substantial income for furthering the railway construction.__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> The right-of-way could also host microwave, mobile communications and broadcast transmission towers as a source of rental income. </span>__All told, these sources could provide a substantial flow of cash to aid in completion of the overall project__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">.</span>
=Negative= 
I'm too lazy to give you cites for everything, I'll run anything I have in my tub if it links. Likely candidates include:
Privatization CP
States CP
Spending DA
Coercion
Tradeoff DAs
Dedev
Topicality
Framework
Security
Case
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]