=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sept/Oct:</span>= 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**GREENHILL 2012 DEBATERS LOOK HERE**</span>=== 
== == 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The following link takes you to a survey being conducted to assess harassment in the high school LD community. Please fill it out - the goal is to get an accurate understanding of this to better address problems in our community. </span>
<span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif;">[[@http://tinyurl.com/ldseqghill]]</span>

== == 
== == 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Sept/Oct:-AFF:]]AFF:</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">FOUCAULT ME MAYBE AC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">We cannot use rationality to justify all of our beliefs. Asking us to do so is an impossible demand and asks the wrong question. **Keller**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The Reason For God. Timothy Keller. 2008. BG.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Is there anything […] to bow to.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Therefore,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> because the nature of justification ultimately relies on belief, we must reflect upon what shapes those beliefs. **Foucault**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Michel Foucault. Power And Knowledge. 1980. BG.</span>

<span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-family: Calibri;">It seems to […] importance of Nietzsche.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Thus the **burden** of the affirmative is to demonstrate that by giving terrorists due process rights, that the AFF detaches truth from current hegemonic powers that construct truth.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Further,</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> in order to stop specific instances violence, we must examine the structures and hidden violence within society that cause these visceral explosions of violence. **Zizek**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Violence: Big Ideas/Small Books. Slavoj Zizek.2008. BG.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">If there is […] </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">of subjective violence.</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Advantage 1 is the State of Exception </span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The war on terrorism takes place outside of the framework of law placing terrorists in a state of exception. **Munster**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">THE WAR ON TERRORISM: WHEN THE EXCEPTION BECOMES THE RULE. International Journal for the Semiotics of Law Revue Internationale de SeÅLmiotique Juridique 17: 141–153, 2004. 2004 Kluwer Academic Publishers. Printed in the Netherlands.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Building upon the […] is actually effective.’’</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">We strip terrorists of all rights and reduce them to bare life when refuse to incorporate them in existing legal structures. Rens Van **Munster** 2 - THE WAR ON TERRORISM: WHEN THE EXCEPTION BECOMES THE RULE. International Journal for the Semiotics of Law Revue Internationale de SeÅLmiotique Juridique 17: 141–153, 2004. 2004 Kluwer Academic Publishers. Printed in the Netherlands.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">As noted earlier […]</span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> exercised over them.</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">28</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Advantage 2 is Discourse About Terrorists</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">A) is the Status Quo</span>**

<span style="color: #1a1718; font-family: Calibri;">Current discourse on terrorism stigmatizes terrorists as an unrelatable Other whose motives we can never comprehend. **de Benoist ’07**</span>

<span style="color: #1a1718; font-family: Calibri;">Alain [editor of the two French academic journals //Krisis// and //Nouvelle Ecole//, and the author of more than fifty books about political philo- sophy, sociology and the history of ideas]. “Global terrorism and the state of permanent exception: the significance of Carl Schmitt’s thought today.” //The International Political Thought of Carl Schmitt: Terror, liberal war and the crisis of global order.// JE.</span>

<span style="color: #1a1718; font-family: Calibri;">From the point […] the best society.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">This terrorist rhetoric reinforces a binary that puts the good in an endless war against so-called “evil” terrorists.Kellner</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Douglas Kellner - Chair of Philosophy @ UCLA, Presidential Studies Quarterly. Vol. 37 (4), 2007, pg. 622+)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">On the day […]be a military response.</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Indeed, this perception has profound impacts by justifying unsubstantiated claims of the impending threat. **Mueller** and **Stewart**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">John Mueller, Mark G. Stewart- 2011[Professor and Woody Hayes Chair of National Security Studies Mershon Center for International Security Studies and Department of Political Science Ohio State University, Professor of Civil Engineering Director, Centre for Infrastructure Performance and Reliability The University of Newcastle] “Terror, Security, and Money: Balancing the Risks, Benefits, and Costs of Homeland Security”. AS</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">In the same […] **__helping to stoke]__**."75</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">B) is the Impact</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Terrorist rhetoric shuts off solutions to terrorism, necessitates eradication of those who its applied to, and incites racist violence.Kapitan and Schulte</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">Tomis Kapitan and Erich Schulte – Prof of Philosophy @ N Illionois U, and Erich – Journal of Political and Military Sociology Vol. 30 Iss. 1, 2002, pp. 172+, Questia)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Given that a […] violence" (Said 1988)</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Indeed, the insecurity fostered by the rhetoric of these policiesleads to endless wars and unbelievable amounts of collateral damage. **Aradau**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Claudia Aradau-2001[Research Associate in the Centre of International Relations, Department of War Studies, King’s College London] “Beyond good and evil: Ethics and securitization/desecuritization techniques” AS</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Survival</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> refers not […] **__and eventually violence__**.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">C) is the Solvency</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Giving due process to terrorists makes trials more transparent and allows us to hear the voices of terrorists. **Nickel**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">James W. Nickel- 2007[University of Miami] “Due Process Rights and Terrorist Emergencies” AS.</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">DPRs protect</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> us […] **__DPRs more stable.__** </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">By hearing the voices of terrorists we are able to understand them as actual people instead of as impending threats. **Zulaika** and **Douglas**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Zulaika, 1996. Joseba. Professor and Co-Director Center for Basque Studies at University of Nevada Reno. Douglas 1996. William. Professor John Hopkins University. Terror and Taboo: the follies, fables, and faces of terrorism. Routelage. </span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Confronted with </span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">the […] **__agency and subjectivation.__** </span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Zulaika</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> and **Douglas** continue</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Zulaika, 1996. Joseba. Professor and Co-Director Center for Basque Studies at University of Nevada Reno. Douglas 1996. William. Professor John Hopkins University. Terror and Taboo: the follies, fables, and faces of terrorism. Routelage. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">This chapter presents […] </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt;">proximity and sympathy. </span>__**
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Sept/Oct:-NEG:]]NEG:</span>== 
====**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">CLS K</span>**==== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 14pt;">A) is the Framework.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The K Works Both Pre and Post Fiat</span>
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 14pt;">B) is the Link.</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The Affirmative says due process protections through the Constitution provide a methodological, objective approach for deciding what people are due. These claims of systemic objectivity prevent criticism of traditional legal discourse.**Gordon**</span><span class="FootnoteReference1" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn1|**[1]**]]</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> ’97 writes;</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Now a central tenet … </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">and rational choices.</span>__</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Due process is the ultimate utopian fantasy. **Peller**</span><span class="FootnoteReference1" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn2|**[2]**]]</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> ’85 explains:</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">In law, before … part, performs politically.</span>__</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Hutchinson</span>**<span class="FootnoteReference1" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn3|**[3]**]]</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> ‘84 concurs </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">that there is no rhyme or reason to court adjudication**;**</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Traditional jurisprudence … </span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">For Unger, there is a 'permanent disequilibrium of doctrine.'</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 14pt;">C) is the IMPACT</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The courts and the law create hierarchical systems of domination to reinforce the myth of legal objectivity. **Hutchinson**</span><span class="FootnoteReference1" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn4|**[4]**]]</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> ’84 writes;</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Liberalism and contemporary legal ….</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> a world of rights.</span>__</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">The law is a jurispathic killer. Violence is the norm under a commitment to the law. **Henderson**</span><span class="FootnoteReference1" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn5|**[5]**]]</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> ‘91 writes;</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">The lack of scholarly …</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">alternative legal meanings. </span>__</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 14pt;">D) is the ALTERNATIVE</span>**

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">Vote negative to reject the myth of legal objectivity that prevents any real progress or change in the way we deal in society. **Singer**</span><span class="FootnoteReference1" style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn6|**[6]**]]</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;"> ’84 writes;</span>**

<span class="CardText-Underlined" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">Legal scholars can </span>****<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">… </span>****<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">that question ourselves</span>**</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri;">This criticism cannot happen absent the ballot – by endorsing the traditional legal theory advocated by the Affirmative you as an individual help to crush criticism of the system. **Gabel[[debatecoaches/home#_ftn7|**[7]**]] ’84 writes;**</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">We therefore can … of mutual distance.</span>__</span>**

====**KSM NC**==== 

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Justice takes on new meaning in political context. **Rawls**</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">John Rawls. 1987. //The Idea of an Overlapping Consensus.// Oxford Journal of Legal Studies, Vol. 7, No. 1 (Spring, 1987), pp. 1-25. MO.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The first feature […] </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">that structure alone. </span>__**

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">A scheme of justification for the government must relate to the desires of its citizens. **Houser**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Houser, Susan K. //Metaethics and the Overlapping Consensus.// Ohio State Law Journal, Fal 1993. MO.</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Government, </span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">on the […] should be wide-circle.1</span>
**Thus,** the standard is **consistency with public reasons.**

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">A variety of concerns people spoke up about demonstrate a trend against constitutional rights for terrorists. **Stimson**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Stimson, Cully. [Heritage Foundation] //Escape From New York: Obama Retreats on KSM Trial.// 29 January 2010. The Heritage Foundation Blog. MO.</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Today, the **__Obama__** […] force their hand**__.__** </span>

====**DECLARE WAR CP**==== 
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">A is the Text: The United States Congress will declare war on Al Qaeda</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">B is the Competition: </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">If we declare war on Al Qaeda, then we can no longer try terrorists in federal courts. **Wedgwood ’02** </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Ruth [Edward B. Burling Professor of International Law and Diplomacy; Director of the International Law and Organizations Program at Johns Hopkins University]. “Al Qaeda, Terrorism, and Military Commissions.” //American Journal of International Law//. JE.</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The </span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">accepted **__use__** […] a military court."'</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri;">C is the Solvency:</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Article 13 in Part II of the Geneva Convention clearly bans torture against prisoners of war,</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Prisoners of war </span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">[…] **__war are prohibited__**.</span>

THEORY FOR CHARLOTTE LOL HI <3
All burdens must be sufficient to both affirm and negate. 



----
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref1|[1]]] [R.W., Professor of Law, Stanford University Unfreezing Legal Reality: Critical Approaches to Law, 15 Fla. St. U.L. Rev. 195, pg. L/N]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref2|[2]]] [Gary, assi. prof law UVA – 73 Calif. L. Rev. 1151]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref3|[3]]] [Allan and Patrick Monahan, The ‘rights’ stuff: Roberto Unger and Beyond, Texas Law Review, May 1984, page 1503]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref4|[4]]] CRITICAL LEGAL STUDIES SYMPOSIUM: Law, Politics, and the Critical Legal Scholars: The Unfolding Drama of American Legal Thought, 36 Stan. L. Rev. 199, Stanford Law Review</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref5|[5]]] [Lynne – prof law Indiana – 66 Ind. L.J. 379]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 11pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref6|[6]]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Lucida Grande'; font-size: 6pt;">Joseph William __Singer__, Associate Professor of Law at Boston University, __1984__</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Lucida Grande'; font-size: 6pt;">[“The Player and the Cards: Nihilism and Legal Theory,” Yale Law Journal (94 Yale L.J. 1), November, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Lucida Grande'; font-size: 12pt;">[[debatecoaches/home#_ftnref7|[7]]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 6pt;"> [Peter – law prof New College of San Fran. – 62 Tex. L. Rev. 1563]</span>