=Affirmative= 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">The current system systematically ignores the bottom rungs of society, those that have been forgotten by the violent miscount of American politics and media, and actively suppresses them via the logic of the police. This systemic oppression is equivalent to an ongoing nuclear war.</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mumia Abu-Jamal in `98</span>
(Mumia, Political Activist, “A Quiet and Deadly Violence”, September 19, [[http://www.angelfire.com/az%20/catchphraze/mumiaswords.html|http://www.angelfire.com/az /catchphraze/mumiaswords.html]]<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>

<span class="underline">__<span style="font-size: 16px;">It has often been observed that America is a truly violent nation, as shown by the thousands of cases of social and communal violence...</span>__ __<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">no matter how oppressive that status was</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">, or is</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Systems are essentially ways of doing things that have concretized into tradition, and custom, without regard to the rightness of those ways. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">No system that causes this kind of harm to people should be allowed to remain</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, based solely upon its time in existence. Systems must serve life, or be discarded as a threat and a danger to life. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">Such systems must pass away, so that their great and terrible violence passes away with them.</span>
The current regime of automobility has a major role to play in this systemic ignorance. The rich, those who have a say, use the automobile and the suburb to secede from the rest of society, so that they may forget about the needs of those they have forgot. This results in widespread racism, sexism, and socio-economic discrimination.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Henderson, 06</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Jason Henderson, Professor of Geography at San Francisco State University who writes about the politics of mobility, “ Secessionist Automobility: Racism, Anti-Urbanism, and the Politics of Automobility in Atlanta, Georgia”, International Journal of Urban and Regional Research, 6/2006, [[http://bss.sfsu.edu/jhenders/Writings/ijur_final.pdf]], RM)</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">The racial crisis centered on a young white male baseball player</span> for the local professional team, the Atlanta Braves, <span class="DebateUnderline">who had delivered a racially charged homophobic diatribe to the </span>national sports <span class="DebateUnderline">media</span>. It began when<span class="DebateUnderline"> these bigoted comments about New York’s subway were widely published</span>__: <span class="DebateUnderline">Imagine having to take the number seven train to the ballpark, looking like you’re riding through Beirut next to some kid with purple hair next to some queer with AIDS next to some dude who just got out of jail for the fourth time next to some 20-year old mom with four kids...</span>__<span class="DebateUnderline">accessible for lower-income families that could otherwise not come out here</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">because they don’t have transportation and that’s good’</span> (Wood, 2000).
This regime of automobility is part of the larger project of consensus, in which the rights of minorities have been systematically ignored because they have no voice in favor of projects that only benefit those who have a say.
Sanchez at al 03
(Thomas W. Sanchez, Rich Stolz, and Jacinta S. Ma, homas W. Sanchez is an associate professor of Urban Affairs and Planning and research fellow in the Metropolitan Institute at Virginia Tech in Alexandria, Virginia. Rich Stolz is Senior Policy Analyst at Center for Community Change. Jacinta S. Ma is a Legal and Policy Advocacy Associate at The Civil Rights Project at Harvard, “Moving to Equity: Addressing Inequitable Effects of Transportation Policies on Minorities” DM)
Transportation policies and practices of locating <span class="DebateUnderline">freeway projects in minority neighborhoods have</span>, in a number of cases, <span class="DebateUnderline">impeded the ability of minorities to access housing</span>....developers and local politicians have repeatedly attempted to build roads through the park to facilitate access to new suburban growth <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">farther out into the areas around Albuquerque. Through political and community organizing and legal advocacy, the Sacred Alliances for Grassroots Equality Council has succeeded in slowing efforts to develop portions of the Petroglyph National Park. Whether they will be able to prevent completely road construction through the Petroglyphs remains in question because powerful interests continue to advocate for road construction.121 Although proposed road projects would not destroy the community in which the Native Americans reside, they would be just as harmful because they would destroy a sacred site that is an integral part of their sense of community. In other large construction projects—such as I-670 in Columbus, Ohio; I-94 in Detroit; I- 5 in Portland, Oregon; and I-43 in Milwaukee—anecdotal evidence suggests that minority and low-income communities have been unable to prevent large numbers of individuals from being displaced, and the resulting disintegration of their communities. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">At the heart of consensus lies a logic of police, which works to systematically shrink the realm of the political. To prevent the destruction of democracy, we must turn to those who have been forgotten, the demos. </span>****<span style="font-size: 16px;">The demos is not the white heterosexual men but the empty void that has been subject to the miscount. Is it both no one and everyone.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Ranciere 10 </span>**<span style="font-size: 16px;">[Jacques, Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School Emeritus and Professor of Philosophy at the University of Paris; Dissensus on Politics and Aesthetics pg 53] </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This is what demos and democracy mean.</span><span style="font-size: 16px;"> **__The demos is...__****__Democratic logic, on the contrary, consists in blurring and displacing the borders of the political__**. </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This is what politics means: displacing the limits of the political by re-enacting the equality of each and all qua vanishing condition of the political.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Consensus lies at the root of new modes of racism and ethnic cleansing. The consensual regime that creates the topography of war and peace relegates this peace to 'here' while violently expelling its underbelly to the periphery. Violence lies at the heart of the impetus to put things in their proper place.</span>**
**Ranciere 10 [**<span style="font-size: 16px;">[Jacques, Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School Emeritus and Professor of Philosophy at the University of Paris; </span>Chronicles of Consensual times pg viii]

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The pages that follow recall to us that consensus does not consist in the pacification of attitudes and bodies thus described.</span> **__New forms of racism and ethnic cleaning,...__** **__of the present which leaves no room in which to dispute its presence__**, <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">to scenarios of the past in which one confines the recalcitrant- the lame of modernity or survivors ill-cured of utopia – and of the future which commands the totally deployment of energies. The chronicles gathered here strive to analyse the twists and turns accredited to time: continual diagnostics of the present and politics of amnesia, farewells to the past, commemorations, duties of remembrance, explanations of the reasons why the past refuses to go, repudiations of the futures which claimed to sing, exultations of the new century and of new utopias.</span>
===<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in transportation infrastructure by implementing mass transit.</span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mass transit can break down the current consensus by exposing those who have previously been isolated from the elites of society. By breaking down barriers set up by automobility and suburbia we can challenge discrimination and allow dissensus to emerge.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Frug 98 </span>**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">(Gerald E Frug, Samuel R. Rosenthal Professor of Law, Harvard University, “CITY SERVICES”, LexisNexis, 4/98, RM)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Highway maintenance also raises broader issues than the need to fill potholes. Fixing the streets is simply one of the many direct costs imposed on cities by America's automobile-based society: cities spend money policing the streets, sweeping them, installing traffic signals, and sending the fire department and paramedic services when accidents occur. n223 And </span>__highways are only one ingredient in a transportation system that can either link metropolitan residents together or divide them...__ __holding hands, the panhandler, and the mentally ill person pushing a shopping cart pass by.__ n227 __That reaction is: "whatever."__

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Transportation is the key issue. Equal access to mobility is crucial to challenge systemic violence and oppression.</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Bullard 04</span>
(Robert Doyle Bullard, PhD, professor of sociology, Dean of Public Affais at Texas Southern, Jan 1, 2004, [[http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=NB_lJoyiF2cC&oi=fnd&pg=PA1&dq=%22Racism%22+%22transportation%22&ots=GWUJak2CQL&sig=pIexHRQlEh8LI5INLy2-lbBgFZM#v=onepage&q=%22Racism%22%20%22transportation%22&f=false|http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=NB_lJoyiF2cC&oi=fnd&pg=PA1&dq=%22Racism%22+%22transportation%22&ots=GWUJak2CQL&sig=pIexHRQlEh8LI5INLy2-lbBgFZM#v=onepage&q=%22Racism%22%20%22transportation%22&f=false]])

From Rosa Parks and the brave souls who risked their lives in the Montgomery Bus Boycott to John Lewis and the Freedom Riders,<span class="DebateUnderline"> individual and organizational frontal assaults ...to spend up to one-third of their income on transportation.</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This book afﬁrms that transportation is neither a marginal cost nor an irrelevant need, but a necessity.</span>


**another aff**
The United States has developed a culture of “Automobility” – in which the automobile is idealized by the American public, seen as a symbol of status and an absolute necessity. The upper class uses Secessionist Automobility – the avoidance of all “others” by use of the autonomous, individual transportation afforded by cars - to maintain physical separation from the lower classes of society - facilitating socio-economic and racial discrimination and hatred.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Henderson, 06</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Jason Henderson, Professor of Geography at San Francisco State University who writes about the politics of mobility, “ Secessionist Automobility: Racism, Anti-Urbanism, and the Politics of Automobility in Atlanta, Georgia”, International Journal of Urban and Regional Research, 6/2006, [[http://bss.sfsu.edu/jhenders/Writings/ijur_final.pdf]], RM)</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">The racial crisis centered on a young white male baseball player</span> for the local professional team, the Atlanta Braves, <span class="DebateUnderline">who had delivered a racially charged homophobic diatribe to the </span>national sports <span class="DebateUnderline">media</span>. It began when<span class="DebateUnderline"> these bigoted comments about New York’s subway were widely published</span>__: <span class="DebateUnderline">Imagine having to take the number seven train to the ballpark, looking like you’re riding through Beirut next to some kid with ...</span>__<span class="DebateUnderline">families that could otherwise not come out here</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">because they don’t have transportation and that’s good’</span> (Wood, 2000).
Reallocating resources to mass transit will foster a broader acceptance of people from every walk of life, and break down the physical separation of classes for everyone in a region – not just those who use the transit. And people will use it because it will be cheap.
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Frug 98 </span>**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">(Gerald E Frug, Samuel R. Rosenthal Professor of Law, Harvard University, “CITY SERVICES”, LexisNexis, 4/98, RM)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Highway maintenance also raises broader issues than the need to fill potholes. Fixing the streets is simply one of the many direct costs imposed on cities by America's automobile-based society: cities spend money policing the streets, sweeping them, installing traffic signals, and sending the fire department and paramedic services when accidents occur. n223 And </span>__highways are only ...____cart pass by.__ n227 __That reaction is: "whatever."__

===<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">The plan will stimulate ridership – empirics prove. </span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Bailey, 07</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">-</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Federal Programs Advisor at the New York City Department of Transportation.(transportation policy analyst [[http://www.apta.com/resources/reportsandpublications/Documents/apta_public_transportation_fuel_savings_final_010807.pdf]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">A final analysis was completed to estimate the effect of an expansion of public transportation service and use. Total ridership, as measured in unlinked trips, was doubled. Growth in public transportation use was assigned to two major sources: improvements to an existing route or system, and extensions and new routes. By conducting an analysis of growth on public transportation systems from 1999 to 2004, the research team found that approximately </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">one-third of ridership ..l.</span>____<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> the route miles built</span>__</span>**.**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Figures from several recent rail and high-quality bus projects were collected directly from public transportation agencies. Most major improvements and extensions to public transportation systems currently operate either light rail, commuter rail, or high-quality bus systems. For households, an increase in the number of route miles served by high-quality public transportation service would increase the total number of households with the option to use public transportation, as well as the total number of employment sites served by public transportation networks. The number of households that would have improved or new public transportation service is estimated using some basic assumptions about the distribution of residences:</span>
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Our willingness to accept structural violence is the proximate cause of all war – it creates priming that psychologically structures escalation.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">Scheper-Hughes and Bourgois ‘4</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Prof of Anthropology @ Cal-Berkeley; Prof of Anthropology @ UPenn) (Nancy and Philippe, Introduction: Making Sense of Violence, in Violence in War and Peace, pg. 19-22)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">This large and at first sight “messy” Part VII is central to this anthology’s thesis. It encompasses everything from the routinized, bureaucratized, and utterly banal violence of children dying of hunger and maternal despair in Northeast Brazil (Scheper-Hughes, Chapter 33) to elderly African Americans dying of heat stroke in Mayor Daly’s version of US apartheid in Chicago’s South Side (Klinenberg, Chapter 38) to the racialized class hatred expressed by British Victorians in their olfactory disgust of the “smelly” working classes (Orwell, Chapter 36). In these readings violence is located in the symbolic and social structures that overdetermine and allow the criminalized drug addictions, interpersonal bloodshed, and racially patterned incarcerations that characterize the US “inner city” to be normalized (Bourgois, Chapter 37 and Wacquant, Chapter 39). Violence also takes the form of class, racial, political self-hatred and adolescent self-destruction (Quesada, Chapter 35), as well as of useless (i.e. preventable), rawly embodied physical suffering, and death (Farmer, Chapter 34). Absolutely</span><span class="TitleChar">**central**</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">to our approach </span><span class="TitleChar">**is a blurring of** </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">categories and</span><span class="TitleChar">**distinctions between __...__**</span> **__and institutions__**<span style="font-size: 8px;">from the family, to schools, churches, hospitals, and the military. They </span><span class="TitleChar">**harbor the**</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">early “warning signs” (Charney 1991), the </span><span class="TitleChar">“**priming**”</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> (as Hinton, ed., 2002 calls it), or the “genocidal continuum” (as we call it) </span><span class="TitleChar">**that push social consensus toward devaluing certain forms of human life**</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">and lifeways from the refusal of social support and humane care to vulnerable “social parasites” (the nursing home elderly, “welfare queens,” undocumented immigrants, drug addicts) to the militarization of everyday life (super-maximum-security prisons, capital punishment; the technologies of heightened personal security, including the house gun and gated communities; and reversed feelings of victimization).</span>


**Thus the Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in mass transit in the United States through the FTA**. **We reserve the right to clarify.**




===<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">Current federal funding focuses on roads which prevents alternative transit choices that can decrease greenhouse gas emissions. </span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Prum and Catz, 11</span>- * <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Assistant Professor, The Florida State University AND ** Director, Center for Urban Infrastructure; Research Associate, Institute of Transportation Studies, University of California, Irvine (Darren and Sarah, “GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION TARGETS AND MASS TRANSIT: CAN THE GOVERNMENT SUCCESSFULLY ACCOMPLISH BOTH WITHOUT A CONFLICT?” 51 Santa Clara L. Rev. 935, 970)//AWV</span>
In addition, <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">past funding by the federal government with regard to transportation strongly prefers </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">new</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> road projects </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">over other options</span>.197 For example, when state and MPOs...<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> transit options as a tool </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">or alternative </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">in reducing greenhouse gas emissions.</span>
=== === 
===<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">Plan is a credible international signal of the need to reduce warming and is modeled</span>=== 
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Burwell, 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">– Director of the Energy and Climate Program at Carnegie (David, “Transportation—The Leading Cause of Global Warming,” 4/15, [[http://carnegieendowment.org/2010/04/15/transportation-leading-cause-of-global-warming/2fr2)/DH|http://carnegieendowment.org/2010/04/15/transportation-leading-cause-of-global-warming/2fr2)//DH]]</span>
How do U.S. efforts to reduce transportation’s impact on atmospheric warming relate to global climate negotiations?
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">The U</span>nited <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">S</span>tates <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">consumes 25 percent of the world’s petroleum and that’s </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">primarily </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">because of the way we travel. Seventy percent of oil consumption </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">in the United States</span> <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">is transportation</span> and... <span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">is serious </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">about reducing its transportation carbon</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> and</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> it</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> would contribute to </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">the likelihood of</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> a global climate agreement</span>.
=== === 
===another aff=== 



===<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">Federal funding through the FTA is necessary to entice states to green transit</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Prum and Catz, 11</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">- * Assistant Professor, The Florida State University AND ** Director, Center for Urban Infrastructure; Research Associate, Institute of Transportation Studies, University of California, Irvine (Darren and Sarah, “GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION TARGETS AND MASS TRANSIT: CAN THE GOVERNMENT SUCCESSFULLY ACCOMPLISH BOTH WITHOUT A CONFLICT?” 51 Santa Clara L. Rev. 935, 944-947)//AWV</span>
Unlike the other two DOT agencies that...<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">support those public transportation options that meet </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">the government’s</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> policy objectives, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">like the reduction of greenhouse gases.</span>



===<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 16px;">Left unchecked, warming will cause extinction</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Sify 10’ </span><span class="Heading3Char">–</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Sydney newspaper citing Ove Hoegh-Guldberg, professor at University of Queensland and Director of the Global Change Institute, and John Bruno, associate professor of Marine Science at UNC (Sify News, “Could unbridled climate changes lead to human extinction?”, [[http://www.sify.com/news/could-unbridled-climate-changes-lead-to-human-extinction-news-international-kgtrOhdaahc.html]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The findings of the comprehensive report: </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">'The impact of climate change</span> **...** **__<span style="font-size: 16px;">the planet's oceans, </span>__**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">in ways 'unprecedented</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">in nearly a million years'. 'This is causing fundamental and comprehensive changes to the way marine ecosystems function,' Bruno warned, according to a GCI release. These findings were published in Science.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Overwhelming consensus that warming is anthropogenic</span>**
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Cook</span>, <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">12’</span> (John Cook, 5-28-2012, “Is there a scientific consensus on global warming?” Skeptical Science, http://www.skepticalscience.com/global-warming-scientific-consensus-basic.htm
That humans are causing global warming is the position of the Academies of Science from 19 countries plus many scientific organizations that study climate science. <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">More specifically, </span>around 95% of active climate researchers actively publishing climate papers endorse the consensus position. <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Scientists need to back up their opinions with research and data that survive the peer-review process.</span> **__A survey ...__**considerable gap in expertise between the two groups.

=Deleuze and Guattari affirmative= 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Debate is essentially carnivalesque in nature, and is a spectacle in which all participate, but no one leads. We come to these tournaments, and we enter our second world, a wonderful place where anything goes, and everyone is equal. We, as debaters, are the jesters, and through our acts of fiat and of roleplaying, mimic the USfg. In doing this, we can stand on the borderline between life and art and realize utopia, if only for a moment in time. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Bakhtin 65’ </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">(Mikhael Bakhtin was a literary critic and philosopher, //Rabelais and His World//)</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Carnival festivities and the comic spectacles and ritual connected with them had an important place in</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">the life of</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> **__medieval [life]__** ... </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">carnival is the people’s second life, organized on the basis of laughter.</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">It is a festive life. Festivity is a peculiar quality of all comic rituals and spectacles of the Middle Ages.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">This debate carnival, and fiat, constitutes simulacra. The simulacrum starts out as a copy, but quickly takes upon itself its own proliferation and detaches itself from the model. There is power in this falsehood, which we can ultimately use to overcome the model itself.</span>**
**Massumi 87** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Brian Massumi,</span> //<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The Simulacrum According to Deleuze and Guattari, </span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.anu.edu.au/HRC/first_and_last/works/realer.htm)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">A common definition of</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> **__the simulacrum__** ... **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">__the assumption of difference__</span>**. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">As Eric Alliez and Michel Feher observe, the best weapon against the simulacrum is not to unmask it as a false copy, but to force it to be a true copy, thereby resubmitting it to representation and the mastery of the model: the corporation that built the rebellious replicants introduces a new version complete with second-hand human memories.15</span>
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; text-align: center;">Now for a poem by Jim Morrison</span>==== 

<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; text-align: center;">Men who go out on ships</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; text-align: center;">...</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; text-align: center;">in an instant</span>
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">The plan: The USfg should significantly invest in a ship, and then send everyone in this round into the ocean.</span>==== 

====**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">This idea takes the form of experimentation. We set the revolutionary machine of desire in motion by imagining a nomadic existence. We, in this imagining, engage in a becoming-nomadic. When we send send off our carnival selves, they are carried to the very ends of the Earth, and in confronting that uncertainty; we can realize their destinies, and our own desires. This plan serves as a confrontation with a politics of uncertainty. We are on the verge of an exorcism, a rite of passage.</span>**==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Michel </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">Foucault 64’</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">, (//Madness and Civilization: A History of Insanity in the Age of Reason//)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">“Thus we better understand the curious implication assigned to the navigation of madmen and the prestige attending it. On the one hand, we must not minimize its incontestable practical effectiveness: to hand a madman over to sailors was to be permanently sure he would not be prowling beneath the city walls; it made sure that he would go far away; it made him a prisoner of his own departure.But </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">water adds to this the dark mass of its own values;</span>__** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">... </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">through the whole of Western culture?</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Or is it, conversely, this relationship that, from time immemorial, has called into being and established the rite of embarkation? One thing at least is certain: water and madness have long been linked in the dreams of European man</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">”</span>
==== ==== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">**Today we place too much faith in our own predictions. This fantastical imposition of our delusions has its place in the carnival, but now it’s time for something new, because this delusion is dangerous. Throw off your rose colored lenses, we don’t know what will happen after fiat, and embrace the politics of uncertainty.** </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> Deleuze and Guattari 1987 (Gilles and Felix, French writers, philosophers and revolutionaries, Capitalism and Schizophrenia: A Thousand Plateaus, pg. 227-228)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">The second danger, Clarity, seems less obvious. Clarity, in effect, concerns the molecular. Once again, everything is involved, even perception, even the semiotic regime, but this time on the second line. Castaneda illustrates, for example, the existence of a molecular perception to which drugs give us access (but so many things can be drugs): we attain a visual and sonorous microperception revealing spaces and voids, like holes in the molar structure. That is precisely what clarity is**:** <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the</span></span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;"> distinctions</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> that </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">__**appear in what used to seem full**__</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">, ... __**possessing a clarity on their situation, role, and mission even more disturbing than the certitudes of the first line**__.</span>

**This schizophrenic mindset is one which opens ontology to the actuality of desire and life.**
==== ==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 17.3333px;">Deleuze and Guattari, 72’ (Gilles and Felix, Anti-Oedipus: Capitalism and Schizophrenia, Book)</span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">A schizophrenic out for a walk is a better model</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">than a neurotic lying on the analyst's couch**.**</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> A breath of fresh air, a relationship with the outside world.</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> ...</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">all of species life: the self and the non-self, outside and inside, no longer have any meaning whatsoever</span>**.</span>__
==== ==== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">**Through the artistic license of the jest, we can challenge the violence inherent in the systems we live in. We transform the restrictive space into a site of openness through our representations of our own revolutionary dreams.** </span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Marie-Chantal **Locas, 10’** </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Locas is the supervisor of the School of Political Studies at the University of Ottawa, //Artistic Resistance at the US-Mexico Border: From Chicano Art to Tactical Media//, http://stockholm.sgir.eu/uploads/Locas_SGIR%202010.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">In the middle of the 1980s, multiculturalism emerged as the dominant model of border art. According to Michael Dear and Gustavo Leclerc, multiculturalism marked the beginning of the “postborder art” era, and was a distinct break from the preceding tradition (2003: 27). Rather than focusing on identities, postborder art is “a representational aesthetic concerned with the production of hybridities in the liminal/intersticial boundaries between political ideologies” (14). Postborder artists view the border as a liminal/in-between space and locate its transformative capacity and potential for resistance in the production of hybrid subjectivities. Thus, subjects of postborder art include borders, hybridity, and resistance. For Dear and Leclerc, the most influential collective representing multiculturalism and postborder art was the //Border Art Workshop/Taller de Arte Fronterizo// (BAW/TAF).</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">From its founding in 1984 to its dissolution in 1990, the BAW</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">/TAF</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> staged 16 performances-installations that proposed a new polymorphous,</span>__** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">... </span> **__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">since they “make comedy of a particular system of order, ridiculing its practices and opening up the space to see things differently”</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Amoore, 2005: 8).</span>

====**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Thus, what we are ultimately challenging is fascism, which leads us to believe that we must be good, because the other is certainly evil, and its final manifestation is that of the neurotic. The neurotic is consumed by the idea of his own security, yet he no longer cares about the security of life. This justifies every evil.</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Seem, 83’ </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(</span><span class="text" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Dr. Mark Seem, Ph.D., President of </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[[@http://www.tsca.edu/|Tri-State College of Acupuncture, Anti-Oedipus xvi-xvii http://1000littlehammers.files.wordpress.com/2010/02/anti-oedipus-fixed.pdf)]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">In confronting and finally overturning the Oedipal rock on which Man has chosen to take his stand, //Anti-Oedipus// comes as a kind of sequel to another similar venture, the attack on Christ, Christianity, and the herd in Nietzsche's //The Antichrist.// For who would deny, //Anti-Oedipus// begins, that psychoanalysis was from the start, still is, and perhaps always will be a well-constituted church and a form of treatment based on a set of beliefs that only the very faithful could adhere to, ie., those who believe in a security that amounts to being lost in the herd and defined in terms of common and external goals? But where do such beliefs originate? What are they based on? For it is absolutely hopeless to think in terms of security, as Miller states in //Sexus;// "there is none.</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">The man who looks for security, even in the mind,</span>__** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">... </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">the ego—for he is prompted by an instinct of //self//-affirmation and //self//-preservation that cares little about preserving or affirming life, an instinct "in which every lie is sanctified."</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">3 This is the realm of the silent majority. And it is into these back rooms, behind the closed doors of the analyst's office, in the wings of the Oedipal theater, that Deleuze and Guattari weave their way, exclaiming as does Nietzsche that it smells bad there, and that what is needed is "a breath of fresh air, a relationship with the outside world."</span>

=**HSR AFF**= 

**The United States has developed a culture of “Automobility” – in which the automobile is idealized by the American public, seen as a symbol of status and an absolute necessity. The upper class uses Secessionist Automobility – the avoidance of all “others” by use of the autonomous, individual transportation afforded by cars - to maintain physical separation from the lower classes of society - facilitating socio-economic and racial discrimination and hatred.**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Henderson, 06</span> (Jason Henderson, Professor of Geography at San Francisco State University who writes about the politics of mobility, “ Secessionist Automobility: Racism, Anti-Urbanism, and the Politics of Automobility in Atlanta, Georgia”, International Journal of Urban and Regional Research, 6/2006, [[http://bss.sfsu.edu/jhenders/Writings/ijur_final.pdf]], RM)
<span class="DebateUnderline">The racial crisis centered on a young white male baseball player</span> for the local professional team, the Atlanta Braves, <span class="DebateUnderline">who had delivered a racially charged homophobic diatribe to the </span>national sports <span class="DebateUnderline">media</span>. It began when<span class="DebateUnderline">**__these bigoted comments__** about New York’s subway **__were widely published__**</span>**__:__** <span class="DebateUnderline">**...** ‘**__transit makes areas accessible for lower-income families that could otherwise not come out here__** </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">because they don’t have transportation and that’s good’</span> (Wood, 2000).
Reallocating resources to mass transit will foster a broader acceptance of people from every walk of life, and break down the physical separation of classes for everyone in a region – not just those who use the transit.
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Frug 98 </span>**<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">(Gerald E Frug, Samuel R. Rosenthal Professor of Law, Harvard University, “CITY SERVICES”, LexisNexis, 4/98, RM)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Highway maintenance also raises broader issues than the need to fill potholes. Fixing the streets is simply one of the many direct costs imposed on cities by America's automobile-based society: cities spend money policing the streets, sweeping them, installing traffic signals, and sending the fire department and paramedic services when accidents occur. n223 And </span>__highways are only one ingredient in a transportation system that can either link metropolitan residents together or divide them from each other. ...__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> __That reaction is: "whatever."__ </span>
===<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Car crashes are at a peak now, killing 30,000 Americans every year. </span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 16px;">AAA 12</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(AAA Foundation For Traffic Safety a government institute responsible for traffic safety “Distracted Driving” June 26, 2012 AAA Foundation For Traffic Safety is the publisher [[http://www.aaafoundation.org/multimedia/Distracteddriving.cfm]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The AAA Foundation for Traffic Safety and AAA are concerned about your safety on our nation’s roads. That’s why we are calling on drivers to eliminate distractions in the car. We want drivers to put away distractions and focus only on the road. Multi-tasking is undoubtedly a regular activity for most people but it is critical that we remind ourselves of the most important task behind the wheel – driving safely. Share the message, spread the word, and help us create safer roads for everyone. Distracted driving contributes to up to 8,000 crashes every single day – the facts speak for themselves.</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> **__More than one million people have died in car crashes__** ... </span>**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Passengers are one of the most frequently reported causes of distraction</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, with young children being four times more distracting than adults and infants being eight times more distracting. A majority of drivers – 94% – agree that texting or emailing while driving is unacceptable and 87% support laws against reading</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">,</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">typing or sending text messages or emails while driving, according to the AAA Foundation’s 2011 Traffic Safety Culture Index, yet more than one-third of drivers reported texting or emailing while driving in the previous month. This “do as I say, not as I do” attitude is one of the greatest obstacles preventing us from improving safety on our roads.Multi-tasking is a fact of life – we all face constant demands for our time, and we all have to juggle more now than ever before. Unfortunately, many people try to multi-task while driving, which is NEVER a good idea. In fact, a recent study by the University of Utah has reconfirmed that our brains are simply not wired to multi-task. Being distracted behind the wheel for even just a few seconds greatly increases your chance of a crash. Take a look at our 10 quick and easy ways to minimize distractions to keep yourself and all of us safer on the roads. It’s time that we all stop ignoring the facts and take action to change our roads. The first step is changing our own attitudes, and more importantly driving our own behaviors. Distracted driving is the cause of thousands of preventable injuries each year and has cost many families the life of a loved one. You can start solving the problem by pledging to change your own behavior and drive distraction-free from now on and then sharing this pledge with friends and family.</span>
==== ==== 
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The discourse of individual responsibility causes us to displace the blame for car crashes on deviant behavior rather than recognizing that crashes are inevitable in the culture of automobility. The very act of objectively calculating the car crash participates in a voyeuristic celebration that always treats it as something that only happens to other people – we must refuse this gesture and confront the problem in its immediacy</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">O’Brien 02</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Wendy O'Brien is a lecturer in Literary and Cultural Studies at Central Queensland University, No specific date in 2002 “No Title” Publisher Cercles http://www.cercles.com/review/r6/brottman.html]</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Throughout the volume </span>the automobile is read, predictably enough, as symbolising freedom, independence, phallic display, technological progress, and wealth. ...__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> **__Car crash culture might do well to embrace the “crash” of the culture, the__** </span>**__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">random and</span> chaotic destruction of boundaries as discrete objects or subjects collide violently in a destruction/creation of something new.__** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Car crashes are not a conspiracyof the drunk, the maniacal, the patriarchal or the sexually rapacious.To emphasise conspiracy, causality or prevention is to apply a false logic, as Ulmer reminds us, “traffic fatalities are not an anomaly in an otherwise rational order”[336]. Perhaps, as Darius explicates in his excellent article “Car Crash Crucifixion Culture”, all of this is to deny that **“**the car crash is not only commonplace but also embodies the futility of a death or injury seemingly without point of poignancy**”** [</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">308].Despite the phenomenological emphasis, the eclectic mix of pathology, forensics, cultural criticism, psychiatry and legal discourses do offer an interesting, albeit safe, tour through aspects of car crash culture. For those interested in the complex cultural nexus of the car crash, parts of this volume are well worth the ride.</span>



===<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Our willingness to accept structural violence is the proximate cause of all war – it creates priming that psychologically structures escalation.</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">Scheper-Hughes and Bourgois ‘4</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Prof of Anthropology @ Cal-Berkeley; Prof of Anthropology @ UPenn) (Nancy and Philippe, Introduction: Making Sense of Violence, in Violence in War and Peace, pg. 19-22)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">This large and at first sight “messy” Part VII is central to this anthology’s thesis. It encompasses everything from the routinized, bureaucratized, and utterly banal violence of children dying of hunger and maternal despair in Northeast Brazil (Scheper-Hughes, Chapter 33) to elderly African Americans dying of heat stroke in Mayor Daly’s version of US apartheid in Chicago’s South Side (Klinenberg, Chapter 38) to the racialized class hatred expressed by British Victorians in their olfactory disgust of the “smelly” working classes (Orwell, Chapter 36). In these readings violence is located in the symbolic and social structures that overdetermine and allow the criminalized drug addictions, interpersonal bloodshed, and racially patterned incarcerations that characterize the US “inner city” to be normalized (Bourgois, Chapter 37 and Wacquant, Chapter 39). Violence also takes the form of class, racial, political self-hatred and adolescent self-destruction (Quesada, Chapter 35), as well as of useless (i.e. preventable), rawly embodied physical suffering, and death (Farmer, Chapter 34). </span><span style="font-size: 8px; text-decoration: none;">Absolutely </span>__<span class="TitleChar">**central** </span>__<span style="font-size: 8px; text-decoration: none;">to our approach </span>__<span class="TitleChar">**is a blurring of** </span>__<span style="font-size: 8px; text-decoration: none;">categories and </span>__<span class="TitleChar">**distinctions between wartime and peacetime violence. Close attention to the “little” violences produced in the structures, habituses, and mentalites of everyday life shifts our attention to** </span>__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">pathologies of class, race, and gender</span><span class="TitleChar"> __**inequalities**__. </span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> ... </span>__<span class="TitleChar">**harbor the**</span>__<span style="font-size: 8px;">early “warning signs” (Charney 1991), the </span><span class="TitleChar">“__**priming**”__</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> (as Hinton, ed., 2002 calls it), or the “genocidal continuum” (as we call it) </span>__<span class="TitleChar">**that push social consensus toward devaluing certain forms of human life**</span>__<span style="font-size: 8px;">and lifeways from the refusal of social support and humane care to vulnerable “social parasites” (the nursing home elderly, “welfare queens,” undocumented immigrants, drug addicts) to the militarization of everyday life (super-maximum-security prisons, capital punishment; the technologies of heightened personal security, including the house gun and gated communities; and reversed feelings of victimization).</span>


**<span style="font-size: 16px;">HSR not only immediately relieves the need for millions to use cars, but will spur other public transportation projects which cause a cultural shift away from automobile use</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">Kambitsis, 10</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Jason, editor for Wired Magazine and senior planner for City of Pittsburgh, “High-Speed Rail As a Conduit of Sprawl”, March 16, Wired, http://www.wired.com/autopia/2010/03/high-speed-rail-and-sprawl/)</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Proactive land use policies focused on increasing urban density </span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> ... **__Focusing on these ideals will reduce the risk of sprawl and make high-speed rail__** — and the communities it connects — </span>**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">a guidepost to</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the future of </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">**__transportation__**.</span>
=== === 
===<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">High speed rail is insanely safe – zero recorded crashes after 40 years of operation in Japan or France</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px; text-decoration: none;">California High-Speed Rail Authority, 8</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(state agency planning future high speed rail network, 2008, “Safety”, California High-Speed Rail Authority, http://www.cahighspeedrail.ca.gov/safety.aspx)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">High-speed train systems have been operated safely every day in other parts of the world for many years. The unparalleled safety record for high-speed trains is based upon their actual operating experience. For example, in Japan high-speed train operations began in 1964. </span>**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">In over 44 years of operation, Japanese high-speed trains</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> ...</span> **__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">train system has never had a </span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">single high-speed train related</span>**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> passenger fatality</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> on the completely dedicated new line such as will be built in California. In contrast</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">, </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">the automobile is unquestionably the most used and most dangerous when comparing auto, air and rail modes of transportation.In 2004 alone, there were over 4,000 fatalities and more than 200,000 nonfatal injuries on California highways. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration estimates that deaths and injuries resulting frommotor vehicle crashes are the leading cause of death for persons between the ages of 4 and 33 in the United States. With more and more vehicles on our highways, the potential for automobile accidents increases.</span>
**Thus the Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in high speed rail in the United States**.

**The plan halves automobile emissions**
**CCAP, environmental research group, 6**<span style="font-size: 8px;">—environmental think tank, in collaboration with the Center for Neighborhood Technology, a think tank dedicated to local sustainability (January, “High Speed Rail and Greenhouse Gas Emissions in the U.S.”, The Center for Clean Air Policy, [[http://www.cnt.org/repository/HighSpeedRailEmissions.pdf]], AL)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">Results</span>
__We calculated a total emissions savings of **6 billion pounds of CO2 per year**__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> ... </span>together __these__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> two modes </span>__make up 80 percent of__ <span style="font-size: 8px;">the estimated emissions</span>__savings__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> from all modes. The total emissions savings vary greatly by corridor, however, as do the source of those savings, as shown in Figures 3 and 4. Figure 4 looks at the emissions for every corridor except California, because its large potential savings overshadows the other corridors studied when the corridors are considered together. </span>

**That’s the controlling internal link to warming**
**EDF, environmental think tank, 6**<span style="font-size: 8px;">—Environmental Defense Fund, a think tank dedicated to sustainability and fixing global warming (1/26/2006, “Cars Built by Each of the Big Three Emit More Greenhouse Gas Than America”, Environmental Defense Fund, [[http://www.edf.org/news/cars-built-each-big-three-emit-more-greenhouse-gas-america]], AL)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8px;">“</span>__Fixing the global warming problem without__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> making </span>__cars__<span style="font-size: 8px;"> more efficient </span>__is like **trying to fix a leaky roof without a hammer**__<span style="font-size: 8px;">,” ... – </span>__can help solve the problem by addressing those aspects of CO2 emissions they can control.__<span style="font-size: 8px;">” </span>

====Overwhelming consensus that warming is anthropogenic==== 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Cook</span>, <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">12’</span> (John Cook, 5-28-2012, “Is there a scientific consensus on global warming?” Skeptical Science, http://www.skepticalscience.com/global-warming-scientific-consensus-basic.htm
That humans are causing global warming is the position of the Academies of Science from 19 countries plus many scientific organizations that study climate science. <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">More specifically, </span>around 95% of active climate researchers actively publishing climate papers endorse the consensus position. <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Scientists need to back up their opinions with research and data that survive the peer-review process.</span> **__A survey of all peer-reviewed abstracts ...__** **__there is <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">also</span>__** **__a considerable gap in expertise between the two groups__**.

====Global Warming leads to extinction.==== 
Oliver <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Tickell</span>, British journalist, author and campaigner on health and environment issues, and author of the Kyoto2 climate initiative, 8/11/<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2008</span>, “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction,” The Guardian, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange
**__<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">We need to get prepared for four degrees of global warming</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, ... **__The more the ice melts, the more sunshine is absorbed by the sea, and the more the Arctic warms. And as the Arctic warms, the release of billions of tonnes of methane – a greenhouse gas 70 times stronger than carbon dioxide over 20 years –__** </span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">captured under melting permafrost is already under way</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

=Negative= 
Deleuze and Guattari
Stravakakis
Dedev
Privatization
Capitalism
T
FW
coercion
nietzche
baudrillard
Zizek
Security
CASE
Virrilio
CO2 DA
SO2 Screw
Rancierre
States CP


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]