[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Greenhill Round 1== 

<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 14pt;">Keystone Aff 1AC</span>**</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Obama has rejected Keystone XL --- this will cause damage to both U.S. jobs and our energy supply</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Loris </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">January 18, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 10pt;">2012 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">( Nicolas, Policy Analyst at The Heritage Foundation's Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies, ‘Obama’s “Forced” Keystone Decision Rejects Jobs, Energy, and Logic’, The Foundry, p. <span style="color: #000082;">[[http://blog.heritage.org/2012/01/18/obama]]</span>’s-forced-keystone-decision-rejects-jobs-energy-and-logic/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">President Obama’s politically intoned decision to reject .... has already conducted a thorough, three-year environmental review with multiple comment periods.</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Arial Bold',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Obama already approved southern section of the pipeline.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Bold',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Fox News 2012</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">. July 23. “House Republican attempts to end run on Obama to advantce Keystone pipeline.” </span><span style="color: #00008e; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2012/07/23/house-republican-has-plan-to-end-run-obama-to-complete-keystone-pipline/]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">A House Republican introduced a bill Monday that attempts an end-run around President Obama’s approval to pave the way for construction of the northern stretch of the controversial Keystone XL Pipeline. The proposal by GOP Rep. Lee Terry would cover the Canada-to-Nebraska stretch, the permit for which remains under federal review..... by asking for additional studies but have disappointed some labor unions by delaying the proposed project.</span>
1AC – China
<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Contention Two</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">: China</span></span></span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Canada isn’t waiting for the US --- will shift to China.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Madhani</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 1/09/</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 10pt;">2012 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Aamer-national correspondent at Chicago Tribune, Canada seeks alternative route for Keystone XL pipeline, USA Today p. <span style="color: #000082;">[[http://content.usatoday.com/communities/theoval/post/2012/01/obama-canada-alternative-route-keystone-xl/1#.T-MBgbWcATZ|http://content.usatoday.com/communities/theoval/post/2012/01/obama-canada-alternative-route-keystone-xl/1#.T-MBgbWcATZ]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">While President </span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Obama wants to delay a decision on the</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> controversial </span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Keystone XL pipeline until after the 2012 election, ....... export markets</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">," Harper said in a radio interview on Thursday, the Wall Street Journal reports. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Shift to Chinese-Canadian oil routes will enflame China bashing --- collapsing US/China relations and collapsing Chinese climate negotiations</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Tu</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, 2/10/</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 10pt;">2012</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Kevin Jianjun – senior associate in the Carnegie Energy and Climate Program, China should be cautious about the Canadian Oil Sands, Phoenix News Group, p. <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://carnegieendowment.org/2012/02/10/china-should-be-cautious-about-canadian-oil-sands]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First, </span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Canadian oil sands exports to China ..... </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">consideration when they make future overseas investment decisions. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Chinese cooperation is a __pre-requisite__ for solving global warming.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Bush</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> III, 10/11/</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 10pt;">2011</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Richard – director of the Center for Northeast Asian Policy Studies, The United States and China: A G-2 in the Making, p. <span style="color: #000082;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/research/articles/2011/10/11-china-us-g2-bush]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Now there are a couple of “germs of reality” in the Brzezinski-Bergsten G-2 idea. In the sixth month of his presidency, President Barack </span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Obama</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> laid out a grand vision for bilateral relations between the two countries. On the occasion of the first Strategic and Economic Dialogue, he </span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 10pt;">said, .... </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">global warming will continue to endanger the planet</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Unchecked global warming causes extinction.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Tickell 8 (Oliver, Climate Researcher, The Guardian, “On a Planet 4C Hotter, All We Can Prepare for is Extinction”, 8-11, <span style="color: #000082;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">We need to get prepared for four degrees of global warming, Bob Watson told the Guardian last week. At first sight this looks like wise counsel from the climate science adviser to Defra..... </span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> us towards a similar hothouse Earth. </span>

<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 10pt;">1AC – Oil Dependency</span></span></span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Contention Three</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">: Oil Dependency</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The need for oil is __inevitable__ --- Keystone is key to adjust for U.S. dependency</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Washington Post</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, 11/12/</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 10pt;">2011</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Washington’s unwelcome delay in the Keystone XL pipeline project, p. <span style="color: #000082;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/washingtons-unwelcome-delay-in-the-keystone-xl-pipeline-project/2011/11/11/gIQAQDl5FN_story.html]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Despite the passion among environmentalists against Keystone XL, Mr. Oliver’s travels illustrate the critical point: </span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Canada’s oil will come out of the ground, and someone</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> somewhere </span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 10pt;">will </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">refine it</span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> and </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">burn it</span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 10pt;">. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Even under optimistic assumptions</span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> about ...... jobs</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the United States </span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 10pt;">and offend a reliable ally</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. More delay after three years of review is insult enough.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Oil dependency causes econ collapse and extinction.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif;">Bearden</span>, 6/12/<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif;">2000</span> (Thomas – Association of Distinguished American Scientists and LTC, U.S. Army (Retired), Why The Energy Crisis Needlessly Exists and How to Solve It, p. <span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cheniere.org/techpapers/Unnecessary%20Energy%20Crisis.doc|www.cheniere.org/techpapers/Unnecessary%20Energy%20Crisis.doc]]</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">History bears out that ..... </span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 10pt;">significant part of the "</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">transportation using oil products</span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 10pt;">" factor</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Oil dependency hamstrings the U.S. military and foreign policy goals --- that escalates to great power conflict/nuk war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Crawford</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 2010/</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 10pt;">2011</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Colin – J.D. Wake Forest University School of Law, Green Warfare: An American Grand Strategy for the 21st Century, Wake Forest Journal of Business and Intellectual Property Law, p. Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[*248] In addition to the potential for economic growth, </span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 8pt;">even the most ardent climate change skeptics will concede that the </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">...... are clear as U.S. foreign policy throughout entire regions is framed in the context of energy. n32</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">US dependence on foreign energy supplies makes US-Russia and US-China war inevitable</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Klare 4</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Klare, Michael. Author of Blood and Oil: The Dangers and Consequences of America's Growing Dependency on Imported Petroleum, expert on oil dependency as professor of Peace and World Security Studies and director of the Five College Program in Peace and World Security Studies. Interview with the Carnegie Council on September 30, 2004. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.carnegiecouncil.org/resources/transcripts/5017.html]]</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is troubling enough, but to conclude my panorama, </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">...... </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">this will lead to an ongoing series of oil wars for as long as we continue to depend on this substance</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Extinction</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Cheong ’00 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Ching, 6-25, Lexis, No one gains in war over Taiwan)</span>

THE DOOMSDAY SCENARIO<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> THE high-intensity scenario </span>...... <span style="font-size: 10pt;">entirely, for China puts sovereignty above everything else.</span>

<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="font-size: 14pt;">Contention 3-econ:</span></span></span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Econ is down now – jobs numbers __prove__ decline </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Rasmus 5/8</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;"> (Jack, "US GDP Slowdown and Prospects for Recovery in 2012," </span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif;"><span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://truth-out.org/news/item/9001-us-gdp-slowdown-and-prospects-for-recovery-in-2012]]</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif;">The jobs numbers</span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> for April </span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif;">andother economic .......</span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Obama’s Economy: Recovery for the Few’, just published this April.</span>


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Unemployment causes backlash against free trade and China bashing</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">JIMENEZ ‘12 - Master's student at Georgetown University; degree in political science and international relations from CIDE, Mexico City. (“Protectionism Makes Comeback As Recovery Stalls”, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span style="color: #000082; font-size: 11pt;">[[http://atlanticsentinel.com/2012/01/protectionism-makes-comeback-as-recovery-stalls/]]</span></span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;">As a result, protectionism could gain ........ c</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">ertain interest groups, whether they’re corporati</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">ons or unions, at the expense of their economy’s competitiveness as a whole. Perhaps, in this sense, China’s comparative advantage is its very authoritarianism</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">?</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Protectionism snowballs and causes nuclear war</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Panzner 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase (Michael, “Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse,” p. 136-138)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Continuing calls for curbs on the flow of</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> ...... will interpret stepped-up conflicts between Muslims and Western societies as the beginnings of a new world war.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Keystone Pipeline to Generate $9.6 billion and 118, 935 Jobs</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Perryman, 2010</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (M. Ray, Founder and President of The Perryman Group, The Impact of Developing the Keystone XL Pipeline Project On Business Activity in the US, The Perryman Group, p. </span><span style="color: #000082;">[[http://www.perrymangroup.com/|www.perrymangroup.com]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Perryman Group measured ...... with regard to manufacturing, are quite notable.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"> </span>
<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif;">Canada Adv</span></span></span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Rejecting Keystone pushed relations with Canada to the brink.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Burney and Hampson 6-21</span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;"> (Derek and Fen, Derek H. Burney, OC, LLD Senior Strategic Advisor for Norton Rose Mr. Burney served as Canada’s Ambassador to the United States from 1989 to 1993 Fen Osler Hampson, FRSC is Chancellor’s Professor and Director of the Norman Paterson School of International Affairs (NPSIA), Carleton University. He holds a Ph.D. from Harvard University where he also received his A.M. degree (both with distinction). He also holds an MSc. (Econ.) degree (with distinction) from the London School of Economics and a B.A. (Hon.) from the University of Toronto. “How Obama Lost Canada” Council of Foreign Relations </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/137744/derek-h-burney-and-fen-osler-hampson/how-obama-lost-canada]]</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Permitting the construction of the Keystone...... failed to combat the Buy American provision in Congress’ stimulus bill, which inefficiently excluded Canadian participation in infrastructure spending</span><span style="color: #13171d; font-family: 'Georgia Bold',serif; font-size: 8pt;">...</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 13pt;">KXL is the critical signal for the overall US-Canadian relationship.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Lucian </span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Pugliaresi December 2011</span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Pugliaresi has been President of Energy Policy Research Foundation (EPRINC) Mr.Pugliaresi has served in a wide range of government posts, including the National Security Council at the White House, Departments of State, Energy, and Interior, as well as the EPA. North America's Strategic Loss </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span style="color: #000082; font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.wilsoncenter.org/sites/default/files/Geopolitics%20of%20Energy%20-%20November-December%202011.pdf]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Keystone XL Pipeline and the High Cost of the American Regulatory Regime </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;">The construction of the Keystone..... on both American security </span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;">(and the national economy) </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;">for years to come. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Issues spill over – perception of the energy trade is critical to relations.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Parfomak & Ratner 2011</span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;"> The U.S.-Canada Energy Relationship: Joined at the Well Paul W. Parfomak Specialist in Energy and Infrastructure Policy Michael Ratner Analyst in Energy Policy June 17, 2011 </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/R41875.pdf]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;">The United States and Canada, while independent countries,.... </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;">but ensuring that this relationship continues to be as mutually beneficial as possible will likely remain a key oversight challenge for the next decades.</span>




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Failure to advance the Keystone pipeline will collapse US/Canada relations ---prevents North American economic integration and collapses Canada’s economy</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Velk</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, 2/9/</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 10pt;">2012</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Tom – Associate Professor of Economics at McGill University, director of North American Studies, Keeping Canada Close, The National Interest, p. <span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">[[http://nationalinterest.org/commentary/keeping-canada-close-6472]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">History, geography and economic logic combine to make America and Canada close partners. </span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 10pt;">...... Cool-headed Canadians hope Obama's Keystone decision will not precipitate</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> such </span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 10pt;">a risky departure from U.S.-Canadian mutual economic interests</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 13pt;">US Canada relations are key to NORAD which allows us to prevent missile attacks and terrorism. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs,</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;"> December 22, 20</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 13pt;">11</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;">, US Department of State, Canada, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span style="color: #000082; font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.state.gov/r/pa/ei/bgn/2089.htm]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;">U.S. defense arrangements ....... </span><span style="color: #101010; font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;">law enforcement cooperation while streamlining the flow of goods and people between the two countries.</span>

**<span style="color: #10100f; font-family: Times,serif;">Canadian relations and NORAD solve Russian aggression.</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia Italic',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Ariel </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia Bold Italic',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Cohen</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia Italic',serif; font-size: 11pt;">, Ph. D. </span><span style="color: #1c1c1c; font-family: 'Georgia Italic',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Senior Research Fellow for Russian and Eurasian Studies and International Energy Policy, The Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies. J</span><span style="color: #1c1c1c; font-family: 'Georgia Bold Italic',serif; font-size: 11pt;">une 15, 2010.</span><span style="color: #1c1c1c; font-family: 'Georgia Italic',serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Heritage Foundation. “</span><span style="color: #081431; font-family: 'Arial Italic',serif; font-size: 11pt;">From Russian Competition to Natural Resources Access: Recasting U.S. Arctic Policy</span><span style="color: #1c1c1c; font-family: 'Georgia Italic',serif; font-size: 11pt;"> .” </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span style="color: #00008e; font-family: 'Georgia Italic',serif; font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.arielcohen.com/articles.php?id=361]]</span></span>

<span style="color: #1c1c1c; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The United States has a strong interest ...... program is a good example of how cooperative efforts are working.</span>__<span style="color: #141414; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">[55]</span>__

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia Bold',serif; font-size: 11pt;">C)Russian aggression leads to preemptive nuclear strikes with follow-up nuclear attacks.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia Bold',serif; font-size: 11pt;">BBC ’09 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(December 16, 2009, British Broadcasting Channel, ITAR-TASS “Russia may face large-scale military attack, says Strategic Missile Troops chief,” Lexis Nexus, BD)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">"As regards military threats ....... missile strikes," the commander explained</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 13pt;">US Canada relations key to solve terrorism </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia Bold',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Kitchen ‘9</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (1/15/9 Author at Department of Political Science at the University of Waterloo Ontario, and Center for Political Science and International Affairs at Harvard “US-Canada Relations and Counter-terrorism Policy)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Concerns about sovereignty and .......some quarters in the United States that the porous border to the north is a huge vulnerability</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Georgia Bold',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Terrorism causes Extinction </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia Bold',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Sid-Ahmed, 04</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – Al-Ahram political analyst (Mohamed, “Extinction!,” Al Ahram Weekly, No. 705, August/September 1, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span style="color: #000082; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]]</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">What would be the consequences of </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">..... nuclear pollution infects the whole planet, we will all be losers</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">.</span>


<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif;">1AC – Plan</span></span></span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The United States federal government should invest in infrastructure development of the Keystone XL pipeline.</span>
<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">1AC – Solvency</span></span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Can’t wait for KXL – delay kills the project entirely.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;">M.D. </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Harmon, 6/23/12</span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;"> a retired journalist and military officer, is a freelance writer. Canada may take any decision about Keystone out of US hands </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.onlinesentinel.com/opinion/canada-may-take-any-decision-about-keystone-out-of-us-hands_2012-06-22.html]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Some recent Mitt </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;">Romney campaign ....... </span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;">however, may not just be pandering to his hard-core supporters. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;">It could kill the project entirely</span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;">, if it has not already done so</span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Rerouting the pipeline solves all environmental concerns.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 13pt;">Dinan,</span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Stephen, May 4, </span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 13pt;">2012,</span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Reporter for the Washington Times, Obama to get do- over Keystone Pipeline, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span style="color: #000082; font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2012/may/4/obama-get-do-over-keystone-pipeline/]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;">TransCanada</span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 8pt;">announced it has</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;">....and support job growth by putting thousands of Americans to work</span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 11pt;">,” </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/russ-girling/|Mr. Girling]]</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> said</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Keystone will be funded through tax breaks</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Paulman</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, 2/8/</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman Bold',serif; font-size: 10pt;">2012</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Ken, Analysis: $1B in subsidies for Keystone XL refiners, Midwest Energy News, p. <span style="color: #000082;">[[http://www.midwestenergynews.com/2012/02/08/analysis-finds-1-billion-in-subsidies-for-keystone-xl-efining/]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 10pt;">While the Keystone XL pipeline may </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">.....</span><span style="font-family: 'Lucida Grande',serif; font-size: 10pt;">finds taxpayers will spend $1 billion to $1.8 billion subsidizing these upgrades</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. The report’s authors characterize their estimate as “conservative.”</span>


=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]