===Observation 1: Inherency=== 
====**Mass transit is in jeopardy in the U.S.---- Inflation has cut into the spending power of funding that hasn’t been increased in almost 20 years.**==== 

<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 13pt;">[[http://www.saturdayeveningpost.com/author/james-mccommons|James McCommons]]</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 13pt;">[[http://www.saturdayeveningpost.com/issue/july-2012|July/August 2012]]</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">. (veteran journalist, specializing in ecology, environmental and travel topics). Saturday Evening Post. “The Looming Crisis In Mass Transit.” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 13pt;">[[http://www.saturdayeveningpost.com/2012/06/26/in-the-magazine/features/mass-transit.html/2]]</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">government exists to provide...</span>
proposed cutting mass transit entirely



====**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Therefore, my partner and I stand resolved that: the United States federal government should substantially increase transportation infrastructure investment in the United States by providing for mass transit. Funding will come from the budget of the Department Of Transportation and go to the Transit Cooperative Research Panel.</span>**==== 

===Observation 2: Solvency=== 
====**The TCRP ensures the proper planning, implementation, and follow up to guarantee appropriate public transportation solutions for urban and rural communities.**==== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Burkhardt, Hedrick, and McGavock 98.</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> JON E. BURKHARDT, JAMES L. HEDRICK, and ADAM T. McGAVOCK of Ecosometrics, Incorporated, Bethesda, MD; “TCRP Report 34: Assessment of the Economic Impacts of Rural Public Transportation.” TRANSPORTATION RESEARCH BOARD; NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL; NATIONAL ACADEMY PRESS; Washington, D.C. 1998. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/tcrp/tcrp_rpt_34.pdf]]</span>
public transit systems...
practitioners rural transit

**Advantage 1: Urban Residents**

**Highways are constructed with the goal of providing choice to city residents, but this choice is denied to the urban residents who are uprooted by the highways swath. The effect of this segregates and isolates minorities and the urban poor.**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kuswa 2. (Dr. Kevin Douglas Kuswa is the Director of Debating at the University of Richmond and has written on issues of globalization, critical whiteness, and rhetoric. He received his PhD from the University of Texas at Austin in Communication Studies). “SUBURBIFICATION, SEGREGATION, AND THE CONSOLIDATION OF THE HIGHWAY MACHINE.” The Journal of Law in Society. Winter, 2002. 3 J.L. Soc'y 31. Copyright (c) 2002 Wayne State University.</span>
The connections between highways...
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">into new concrete carpeting</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">,</span>


====**This inequity and instability creates a desire for the homogeneous suburb as a purified community. This ideal is used to justify acts of violence against anyone deemed an outsider.**==== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Jerry Frug, 1996. Professor of Law at Harvard, “The Geography of the Community,” Stanford Law Review, 1996. 48 Stan. L. Rev. 1052 (1995-1996) </span>

the desire to live in a...

on the control of disorder




====**Transportation is crucial to many quality of life factors. However, transportation decision making currently privileges affluent suburban commuters to the disadvantage of other communities.**==== 



<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bullard 4</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> Robert D. Bullard, Ph.D, Distinguished Professor of Sociology and Director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University, Fordham University School of Law Fordham Urban Law Journal, October 2004, THIRTEENTH ANNUAL SYMPOSIUM ON CONTEMPORARY URBAN CHALLENGES: URBAN EQUITY: CONSIDERATIONS OF RACE AND THE ROAD TOWARDS EQUITABLE ALLOCATION OF MUNICIPAL SERVICES: ADDRESSING URBAN TRANSPORTATION EQUITY IN THE UNITED STATES, http://www.lexisnexis.com/us/lnacademic/search/homesubmitForm.do </span>

transportation decision making...
In the U<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>S<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">tates</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">,</span>__**


===Advantage 2: Rural Residents=== 

====**Public transportation for rural areas is greatly lacking; isolating rural dwellers from mainstream society.**==== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Burkhardt, Hedrick, and McGavock 98.</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> JON E. BURKHARDT, JAMES L. HEDRICK, and ADAM T. McGAVOCK of Ecosometrics, Incorporated, Bethesda, MD; “TCRP Report 34: Assessment of the Economic Impacts of Rural Public Transportation.” TRANSPORTATION RESEARCH BOARD; NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL; NATIONAL ACADEMY PRESS; Washington, D.C. 1998. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/tcrp/tcrp_rpt_34.pdf]]</span>

Rural transit systems provide..
systems could be quite great.

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Placing rural people outside of society creates psychological distancing which justifies discrimination and leads to such “outgroups” as being treated as less than human</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>__**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bassett ‘06</span>.<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> (Debra Lyn Bassett – Visiting Professor of Law, University of California, Davis, School of Law.) “Distancing Rural Poverty.” Georgetown Journal on Poverty Law & Policy. Volume XIII, Number 1, Spring 2006. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=832090]]</span>

Our society consider...
remaining majority population.

====**AND, Improving access to public transportation in rural areas links residents to jobs, health care, and other social services.**==== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Friedman 4.</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;"> Pamela Friedman. “Transportation Needs in Rural Communities.” Rural Assistance Center; Vol. 2, No. 1. </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://76.12.61.196/publications/transportationneedsINRAC.htm]]</span>
rural public transportation...
increasing employment opportunities

===Advantage 3: sustainable communities=== 
====**Scenario 1 is air pollution**==== 
====**Failure to invest in urban mass transit and reliance on cars is the single largest source of air pollution.**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">WCN, 2006</span> CAR CULTURE AND THE LANDSCAPE OF SUBTRACTION http://www.worldcarfree.net/resources/freesources/CarCult.htm
The environmental problem...
on calmer streets

====**Air pollution causes extinction**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Driesen 3</span> (David, Associate Professor – Syracuse Univeristy Law, 10 Buff. Envt'l. L.J. 25, Fall/Spring, Lexis)
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Air pollution can make life...</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">implicates both of these concerns</span>


====**Scenario 2 is poverty**==== 



**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Public transit helps strengthen local economies</span>** **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">and reduces poverty by helping those without transportation obtain jobs that were previously out of reach.</span>**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fleischfresser 2011</span>Channtal Fleischfresser (Worked for The Economist, WNET/Channel 13, Al Jazeera English, Wall Street Journal and Associated Press. Degrees from the University of Pennsylvania and the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism.) September 6, 2011 “Better public transit could help economic recovery”

Those promoting public...

previously out of reach

====**Poverty is the worst form of violence –systemic violence outweighs any imaginable war**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gilligan 2000</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">James Gilligan, Department of Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School, Violence: Reflections on Our Deadliest Epidemic, p. 195-196</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">the deadliest form of violence is poverty</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">...</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> throughout the world</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">. </span>