[[toc]]
=Round 1= 
==<span class="boldunderline">Adv 1</span>== 


**Contention 1 is the Military:**

**We’re behind in military neuroscience- China and Iran are overtaking us**
**Hearn, 08** (Kelley, Washington Times, “Iran, China make neuroscience advances”, [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2008/oct/02/neuroscience-wake-up-call/?page=all]] SW)

__Iran and China are developing the … not decades,”__ Mr. McBride said.

**Neuroscience warfare is inevitable – enhanced troop performance and brain-operated machines will inevitably tip the tides of battle**
**Kelland 12** (Feb 6, Kate, Rueters, “Neuroscience the new face of warfare: experts”, [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/02/07/us-brain-neuroscience-conflict-idUSTRE81600820120207]] SW)

(Reuters) - __Directed energy … burning sensation__.

**Non-military neuroscience research is vital to military applications**
**BAST 09** (Board on Army Science and Technology for the National Research Council, The National Academy Press, “Opportunities in Neuroscience for Future Army Applications”, [[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12500&page=70]] pg 70 SW)

This section describes … __behavioral performance__.

**Two internal links:**

**First, information:**

**The improved stress response aided by neuroscience is key to the military effectiveness– its also key to data interpretation and preventing over-saturation of data**
**BAST 09** (Board on Army Science and Technology for the National Research Council, The National Academy Press, “Opportunities in Neuroscience for Future Army Applications”, [[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12500&page=70]] pg 67 SW)

__The transformation of …__ enhancements.

**Independent miscalc impact**
<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif;">Adams 1</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Thomas K. Adams, national security consultant based in the Washington DC area. He is a veteran of thirty-four years military service, principally in intelligence and special operations at tactical, operational, and strategic levels from Vietnam to Bosnia, Future Warfare and the Decline of Human Decisionmaking, Parameters, Winter 2001-02, pp. 57-71. http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/Parameters/Articles/01winter/adams.htm</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The entry point for automated … Still other factors are omitted entirely.</span>

**Leads to an Accidental nuclear war**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Michael S. Gerson, 2010, research analyst at the Center for Naval Analyses (CNA), in Alexandria, Virginia. No First Use The Next Step for U.S. Nuclear Policy.</span>

<span style="color: #1a1718; font-family: Times,serif;">Second, </span>in the midst <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…</span><span style="color: #1a1718; font-family: Times,serif;">intended for deterrence.</span>


**Second, brain machine interfaces – ensuring effective stress response via neuroscience is key to them**
**BAST 09** (Board on Army Science and Technology for the National Research Council, The National Academy Press, “Opportunities in Neuroscience for Future Army Applications”, [[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12500&page=70]] pg 69-70 SW)

__Neuroergonomics__ has been …__such controls have been created.__

**BMIs connect troops directly with their weapons, increasing accuracy and speed – this would make the most efficient military machines yet made**
**Sample 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ian, Science correspondent for The Guardian, February 6,“Neuroscience could mean soldiers controlling weapons with minds”, [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/science/2012/feb/07/neuroscience-soldiers-control-weapons-mind)katie]]</span>
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">*BMIs- brain-machine interfaces</span>**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">One of the report's most …</span> __and accuracy__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," the report states.</span>

**NASAs neuroscience research is vital to stress responses**
**BAST 09** (Board on Army Science and Technology for the National Research Council, The National Academy Press, “Opportunities in Neuroscience for Future Army Applications”, [[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12500&page=70]] pg 69-70 SW)

The National Aeronautics and … human subjects to a light-dark cycle.

<span class="cite">Heg is key to global stability and accesses every major impact – Prevents Great Power War</span>
<span class="cite">Thayer, 6, </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Professor of Strategic Studies</span><span class="cite"> – </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Associate Professor of Defense and Strategic Study @ Missouri State University, Former Research Fellow @ International Security Program @ Harvard Belfer Center of Science and International Affairs </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Bradley, “In Defense of Primacy,” The National Interest, November/December)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">A grand strategy based on American primacy … primacy due to the economic prosperity it provides. </span>




==<span class="boldunderline">Adv 2</span>== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Contention 2 is the ISS:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Current ISS neuroscience missions are inadequate – we need more people and more time </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Clement and Reschke 08</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> *PhD in Neurobiology from the University of Lyon and PhD in Natural Sciences from the University of Paris, CNES Chair - Human Space Flight AND **Neuroscience Laboratories at the NASA Johnson Space Center (Gilles and Millard F., “Neuroscience in Space”, Springer, pg 263** </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[[http://www.springer.com/engineering/mechanical+engineering/book/978-0-387-78949-1]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> SW) </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Compared to the previous flight opportunities … discontinuation of Shuttle flights (Figure 9-02).</span>**


<span style="background-color: white;">The International Space Station’s National Laboratory will be under-utilized due to lack of NASA support and launches</span>

<span style="color: #141413; font-family: Georgia,serif;">GAO, 9</span>

**<span style="color: #141413; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Government Accountability Office Report to Congressional Requesters. “International Space Stations: Significant Challenges May Limit Onboard Research.” GAO-10-9, November.</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.gao.gov/]]</span><span style="color: #141413; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> new.items/d109.pdf]</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The ISS</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> has been continuously …</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> the ISS beyond 2015.</span>__**

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif;">And NASA launches are key – international partners and commercial sector launches cause delays that lead to abandoning science research and can’t transport the necessary payloads</span>

<span style="color: #141413; font-family: Georgia,serif;">GAO, 9</span>

**<span style="color: #141413; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Government Accountability Office Report to Congressional Requesters. “International Space Stations: Significant Challenges May Limit Onboard Research.” GAO-10-9, November.</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.gao.gov/]]</span><span style="color: #141413; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">new.items/d109.pdf</span>**



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> __NASA faces several significant …__ minimal science experiments.</span>**

<span style="background-color: white;">Plans to abandon ISS signal end of space coop and decline of scientific leadership—timeframe is 2015</span>

<span style="background-color: white;">Hauser and John, 9</span>



**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Marty. VP, Washington Operations, Research and Analysis. Mariel. Research analyst at the Space Foundation, Space Foundation, 2009, “The International Space Station: Decision 2015"</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.spacefoundation.org/docs/ISS_Decision_2015.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">]</span>**




**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">If __the United States …__ conducted by other nations. </span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">US Space coop checks miscalc, debris, arms races</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">MacDonald ’09 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">(Brian,- Senior Director of the Congressional Commission on the Strategic Posture of the United States. He is based at the United States Institute of Peace, Washington, DC. “Steps to strategic security and stability in space: a view from the United States” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.unidir.org/pdf/articles/pdf-art2907.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">) </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Although the United States has …</span><span class="underline">//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> agreements</span>//</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> to greater security and stability in space. </span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Miscalc from space debris causes nuclear war with Russia – warning systems mistake collision</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Lewis, ‘4</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;"> – postdoctoral fellow in the Advanced Metods of Cooperative Study Program; worked in the office of the Undersecretary of Defense for Policy [Jeffrey, Center for Defense Information, “What if Space were Weaponized?” July 2004, http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/scenarios.pdf]</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">This is the second of two scenarios that consider how … that allows national nuclear forces to operate safely. </span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">American science leadership is the vital internal link to every major impact—collapse makes extinction inevitable.</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Fedoroff, 08</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> – Science and Technology Adviser to the Secretary of State and the Administrator of USAID (Nina, Testimony Before the House Science Subcommittee on Research and Science Education, 4/2, http://www.state.gov/g/oes/rls/rm/102996.htm</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Science by its nature …create sustainability</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">.</span>**


<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Specifically, abandoning the ISS ruins image of US science commitments with Russia – damages overall relations</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Broniatowski et al 6</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[D. A. PhD Candidate in the EDAM, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. “The Case for Managed International Cooperation in Space Exploration” International Space Exploration Update, from Center for Strategic and International Studies.</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://web.mit.edu/adamross/www/BRONIATOWSKI_ISU07.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">]</span>**




**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Reason #2: International … would be more likely. </span>**

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">It’s also reverse causal – increasing support for the ISS increases overall US-Russian scientific engagement</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Popov, 5</span>

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[S.A. With the Keldysh Research Center. </span>**“Means and Methods of Overcoming Barriers in Cooperation: Mindset Gap as a Legacy of the Cold War and Cooperation in Exploration and Utilization of Cosmic Space.” National Academies Press.**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11302&page=86]]</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">]</span>



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> When conducting space-related … __needed to resolve the compatibility problem.__</span>**




<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">US-Russian relations prevent environmental destruction, regional wars, proliferation, and several scenarios for US-Russian nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Cohen 2000 – </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">professor of Russian studies at New York University (Stephen, Failed Crusade, p. 196-205)</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">These assurances are manifestly untrue and, coming … will reap the benefits or pay the price. </span>**




==<span style="font-size: 11pt;">PLAN</span>== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The United States federal government should substantially increase its missions to the ISS for the purpose of neuroscience experiments beyond the earth’s mesosphere.</span>**






=Round 2 Neg vs. OPRF CR= 

==Mediated Ethics== 
**The affirmative’s approach to ethics makes the question not “how can we change ourselves?” but “how can we change our institutions to change ourselves?” This process produces a mediated relationship that makes genuine ethical engagement impossible and turns the aff.**




**__Zupancic__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**2k**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Research – Institute of philosophy – Ljubljana, 2000. [Alenka, //Ethics of the Real: Kant and Lacan//, March, pg 10-11]</span>




<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In other words,</span> __one cannot … of desire as a priori.__

**The displacement of our ethics onto external political institutions culminates in genocidal violence. Once we accept that our ethics are contingent on the political all atrocities becomes possible.**

**__Zupancic__****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__2000__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ethics of the Real: Kant and Lacan, March 2000, p. 96-7</span>

**__Another problem still remains, however: …a by-product' of our actions__****__.__**


**It is time to withdraw from this framework of mediation. Thus our alternative: we ask you to affirm the ethical commitment of the 1AC in its immediacy. Suspending the wall that mediates our relationships constitutes the only genuine ethical act.**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Paul </span>**__Santilli__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**__2003__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Siena College, 2003 “Radical Evil, Subjection, and Alain Badiou’s Ethics of the Truth Event,” </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">World Congress of The International Society for Universal Dialogue </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">in Pyrgos, Greece</span>
on May 18-22, 2003 http://www.isud.org/papers/pdfs/Santilli.pdf


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If we retain this original … to deliberation and practical reason.30</span>

==<span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">Framework</span>== 

**A. The affirmative must exclusively defend a world in which a topical plan is hypothetically enacted**
<span class="Heading2Char">Ericson ‘3</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Jon, Dean Emeritus, College of Liberal Arts – California Polytechnic U., The Debater’s Guide, Third Edition, p. 4)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The Proposition of Policy: Urging … future action that you propose. </span>



==Kappeler PIC== 


**Richard and I think that we s****hould substantially increase its exploration of space beyond the Earth's mesosphere with cyborgs.**

**Political violence is sustained by organized thinking that looks at violence through meta-analysis. We need to have deeper insight that realizes that each of us are culpable for violence. This is integral to ending the cycle of violence.**
**__KAPPELER IN 1995__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Susanne Kappeler, The Will To Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior, pg 8-11]</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Moreover, personal behaviour is no …</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> not acting or doing nothing.</span>__</span></span>
==Anthropocentrism== 

**The affirmative ignores the huge role of animals in space policy subjugating them to the realm of exclusion that they criticize and re-creating the harms of the aff. Their ethical position fractures our relationship with Nature proliferating anthropocentric frameworks that will cause ecological catastrophe.**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gottlieb</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> 19__94__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Roger S. Gottlieb, Professor of Humanities at Worcester Polytechnic Institute, holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from Brandeis University, 1994 (“Ethics and Trauma: Levinas, Feminism, and Deep Ecology,” //Crosscurrents: A Journal of Religion and Intellectual Life//, Summer, Available Online at http://www.crosscurrents.org/feministecology.htm]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Here I will at least …</span><span class="Underline"> other, but for us all</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**



**Speciesism must be rejected—this domination over animals is the root cause of all violence, genocide, and war—the k turns and solves the case.**
**__Best__** 20**__07__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Stephen, Associate Professor of Department of Humanities and Philosophy @ UT-El Paso, “Commonalities of Oppression: Specieism, Racism, and Oppression”, MT)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">In this context, Charles Patterson’s …</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the ongoing pogrom against animals.</span>



**The alternative is vote negative to jam the anthropological machine and its ability to create distinctions between forms - it solves.**
**__Calarco__** 20**__07__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Matthew, Assist. Prof. of Philosophy @ SUNY Binghamton, “Jamming the Anthropological Machine,” Sovereignty & Life, pgs. 178-179, MT) </span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">It should come as no …</span> __have become irreparable and unsavable?__


=Round 3 Neg vs. Northside College Prep CT= 

==Politics - Transportation== 
**Transportation will pass – robust bipartisan support**
**Javsicas 4/27**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/12 – executive director of Pennsylvanians for Transportation Solutions Inc (Peter, "Why Congress should adopt the Senate transportation bill" Philedelphia Daily News, [[http://www.philly.com/philly/opinion/20120427_Why_Congress_should_adopt_the_Senate_transportation_bill.html]])</span>

The<span class="Underline"> long-running congressional </span>battle over <span class="Underline">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> reason we should have to. </span>

Pol cap key to Earth Observation
<span class="cite">Lambright 10 </span>(W. Henry, professor of political science and public administration and director of the Center for Environmental Policy and Administration, 10/7, http://history.nasa.gov/sp4801-chapter16.pdf, accessed 7-9-11, JMB)
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The dilemma NASA now faces …a challenge of political will.</span>


**Obama’s leadership is key – resolves Keystone issues**
**Geman 4/24**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/12 – correspondent for The Hill (Ben, "Senate names highway bill conferees, setting up showdown on Keystone" The Hill, [[http://thehill.com/blogs/e2-wire/e2-wire/223303-keystone-endgame-inches-closer-as-senate-taps-highway-bill-conferees]])</span>

<span class="Underline">The Senate has selected lawmakers …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Jay Rockefeller (D-W.Va.) and John Hoeven (R-N.D.). </span>

**Bill is key to economic growth**
**HCTI 11 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure (“CEOs: Congress Must Pass Robust Transportation Bill to Rebuild America” 9/22/11, http://democrats.transportation.house.gov/press-release/ceos-congress-must-pass-robust-transportation-bill-rebuild-america)</span>

__With nearly 150,000 deficient American … leadership in the global economy.”__

**Nuclear war**
**Tilford 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– PhD in history from George Washington University, served for 32 years as a military officer and analyst with the Air Force and Army (Earl, “Critical mass: economic leadership or dictatorship”, Cedartown Standard, lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Could it happen again? Bourgeois … to that point </span>very quickly<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
==T - Human== 

**A. Interpretation - Exploration means to expand human presence to space**
**Logsdon, 9 –** professor of political science at George Washington, former director of the Space Policy Institute (John, “Fifty Years of Human Spaceflight //Why Is There Still a Controversy?,”// [[http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20100025875_2010028362.pdf]])

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Exploration as a Compelling Rationale</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Many believe that the only … of the several “secondary objectives.”</span>

**Development requires staffed projects, everything else is space technology which is distinct**
**Livingston 07**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – former adjunct professor in the Graduate School of Business at Golden Gate University his doctoral dissertation was titled “Outer Space Commerce: Its History and Prospects” citing Eric Westling co-author of “The Space Elevator” and numerous papers on space tech and development [quals in card] (9/10/07, “This Week On The Space Show: Eric Westling”, [[http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298]])</span>

__Eric Westling is a____science … **manned commercial projects in space**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
==Ehrenfeld== 

**The aff’s worship of a technological solution to the world’s problems creates a view of humanity as useless and incomplete and makes their solution inevitably fail**
**Ehrenfeld, 81** – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(David, professor of biology at Rutgers University, studied at Harvard, Ph.D in Zoology from University of Florida, known author, The Arrogance of Humanism, Ch. 3 Pg. 84-86) Idriss</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Here we see a remarkable … and replaced by bionic substitutes. </span>

**The worship of technology legitimizes violence that culminates in nuclear extinction**
**Ehrenfeld, 81** – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(David, professor of biology at Rutgers University, studied at Harvard, Ph.D in Zoology from University of Florida, known author, The Arrogance of Humanism, Ch. 3 Pg. 103-104) Idriss</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Despite the prevalence of the …</span> **__God seem welcome by comparison.__**

**The alternative is to embrace humanity’s inability to manage the world.**

**That’s the only way the atrocities of humanism be solved**
**Ehrenfeld, 81** – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(David, professor of biology at Rutgers University, studied at Harvard, Ph.D in Zoology from University of Florida, known author, The Arrogance of Humanism, Ch. 7 Pg. 261-262) Idriss</span>
__To understand that we are …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for, and it is enough. </span>



==<span style="font-size: 11pt;">NASA Tradeoff</span>== 


**Moon outpost is being pursued now –but it could get cut if budget pressures get worse– key to spaceflight**
**Kennedy,**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> PC World Writer </span>**2/13/12**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Jason, “NASA Plans an Outpost on the Far Side of the Moon”, [[http://www.pcworld.com/article/249866/nasa_plans_an_outpost_on_the_far_side_of_the_moon.html]] SW)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Back on February 3, </span>__NASA__ __released … future is deep space exploration.__

**NASA’s funds are a zero sum game** **– tradeoff will occur**
**Chameides 09**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - </span>**Professor of the Environment, PhD, Yale University, MS, Yale University, BA, SUNY Binghamton**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Bill, “Is NASA Spacing Out?” http://www.nicholas.duke.edu/thegreengrok/moonwalk]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Now there’s a plan afoot …</span> __bacon without all the hoopla__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**Its key to coop, NEO exploration, Mars colonization, and Earth Science**
**Korea Herald, 2/14/12**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (“Space colony imminent? NASA eyes lunar "outpost" plan”, [[http://news.asiaone.com/News/AsiaOne%2BNews/Asia/Story/A1Story20120214-327742.html]] SW)</span>

__NASA is pushing__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> for a …</span> __traveled from Earth to date__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space coop solves extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hays ‘10</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Peter, PhD and director of the U.S. Air Force Institute for National Security Studies, “Space Law and the Advancement of Spacepower” 12-13 http://www.ndu.edu/press/space-Ch28.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Other </span><span class="Underline">impediments to</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> further developing </span><span class="Underline">… </span>improve our odds for survival<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>
==Near-Space CP== 

**The United States federal government should substantially increase it’s Earth Observation Systems in near-space within the earth’s Mesosphere. This should include persistent global covariance and high-resolution monitoring capabilities sufficient to adequately gauge the pace and magnitude of climate change, and resource usage in at-risk conflict areas in addition to monitoring the movement of populations from climate stress. It will include, but not be limited to, coverage of important environmental stresses in Yemen, Pakistan and the Arctic.**

**The United States will share all data collected from this system with the government of China and start a dialogue over environmental monitoring issues. All relevant agencies will ensure that any data collected will be shared with all relevant agencies including NASA. The agency responsible for deployment and maintenance will allow NASA to determine the use and coverage of the constellation.**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The CP solves --- avoids spending and checks ASAT vulnerability</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Axe ’11</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(David,- Writer for Wired, Quoting Andrew Erickson, a Naval War College Professor “China Analyst: U.S. Can’t Win in Space, So Why Bother Racing?”)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With access to more than … But it wouldn’t win, either.</span>

=Round 4 Aff vs. Blake= 
==<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Bipolar aff</span>== 
==<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Cred</span>ibility== 

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Contention 1** **is Cred**</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Plan creates effective science program**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**AFP, 12** </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">(“Penguins aplenty in Antarctica,” News 24, 4/15/12, http://www.news24.com/SciTech/News/Penguins-aplenty-in-Antarctica-20120413)</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Red**</span>
Satellite<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> imagery clearly showed the … information for international conservation efforts.</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">"</span>

**Science leadership in Antarctica ensures US leadership**
**USAP, 10** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(U.S. Antarctic Program Participant Guide, 2010-2012, “Chapter 1: U.S. Role in Antarctica,” http://usap.gov/USAPgov/travelAndDeployment/documents/ParticipantGuide-Chapter1.pdf)</span>**Red**
__Research__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> is </span>__pursued in__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> aeronomy …</span> __and diplomatic leadership__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> in Antarctica.</span>


**Prevents CBW and Nuclear War**
**Barlow, 02**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Director of the Berglund Center for Internet Studies, holds the Matsushita Chair of Asian Studies at Pacific University, Ph.D. in history from UC Berkeley (Jeffrey, March, “American Power, Globalism, and the Internet: Editorial Essay”, The Journal of Education, Community and Values, http://bcis.pacificu.edu/journal/2002/03/editorial.php#6)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">Much of Nye’s analysis is … autonomy in a networked system.</span>

**Bioweapons cause extinction**
**Ochs 2**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> former president of the Aberdeen Proving Ground Superfund Citizens Coalition, member of the Depleted Uranium Task force of the Military Toxics Project, member of the Chemical Weapons Working Group [Richard Ochs, , June 9, 2002, “Biological Weapons Must Be Abolished Immediately,” http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]</span>
__Of all the weapons of …__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> How slippery is this slope?</span>


**Science overcomes alt causes**
**Miotke 2008**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Deputy Assistant Secretary for Science, Space, and Health (Jeff, Before the Subcommittee on Research, Science Education, House Committee on Science and Technology, United States House of Representatives, Washington, DC April 2, 2008http://www.state.gov/g/oes/rls/rm/102995.htm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Conclusion—</span>__S&T is universally perceived …__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> cooperation on science and technology.</span>

==March of the Penguins== 

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Contention 2** **is March of the Penguins**</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**There is a massive data deficit on Emperor Penguins now – space based monitoring is the only way to solve**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Fretwell et al, 12** </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">– Peter T., British Antarctic Survey, with Norman Ratcliffe, Adrian J. Fox, Andrew H. Fleming, and Phil N. Trathan of the British Antarctic Survey, with Michelle A. LaRue, Paul Morin, and Cliare Porter of the Polar Geospatial Center, University of Minnesota, with Gerald L. Kooyman of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, and with Barbara Wienecke of the Australian Antarctic Division (“An Emperor Penguin Population Estimate: The First Global, Synoptic Survey of a Species from Space,” 4/13/12, PLoS ONE, http://www.plosone.org/article/info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0033751)</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Red**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">An </span>accurate assessment of the <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">… to model their population dynamics.</span>

**Climate change is devastating emperor penguin populations**
**Soos, 11** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Andy, “Emperor Penguin Colony,” ENN, 3/14/11, http://www.enn.com/wildlife/article/42463)</span>**Red**
__Scientists__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> at British Antarctic Survey … </span>__highly sensitive to climatic changes.__


<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Emperor penguin populations are declining now – plan provides an effective conservation mechanism and sets a cost cutting model**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**NSF, 12** </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">(“Scientists Determined First-ever Census for Emperor Penguins,” 4/13/12, http://www.nsf.gov/news/news_summ.jsp?cntn_id=123854)</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Red**</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The results provide an important …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> vulnerable to further climate change.</span>

**Key to global biodiversity and climate research – specifically preserving Southern Ocean resources**
**Ormsby, 12** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Mary, “Satellite images of Antarctic emperor penguins will benefit climate change research,” The Star, 4/13/12, http://www.thestar.com/news/insight/article/1161346--satellite-images-of-antarctic-emperor-penguins-will-benefit-climate-change-research)</span>**Red**
**__Mapping the emperor penguins has …__** __that are important to us.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">”</span>

**Multiple scenarios for extinction ---**
**Biodiversity**
**Ghista ’05** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Garda, freelance journalist and public advocate [[http://www.worldproutassembly.org/archives/2005/04/biodiversity_un.html]] “Biodiversity - Underprotected or Overprotected?”)</span>
**__Biodiversity is crucial to human …__** __causing havoc to our environment.__

**Warming causes extinction**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mazo 10 – PhD in Paleoclimatology from UCLA</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Jeffrey Mazo, Managing Editor, Survival and Research Fellow for Environmental Security and Science Policy at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, 3-2010, “Climate Conflict: How global warming threatens security and what to do about it,” pg. 122</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The best estimates for global … social, cultural and political </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">changes</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**Ocean**
<span class="Heading2Char3">Adam, 2006</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [David, the Hindu, Jun 19, Lexis]</span>
//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">We don’t endorse gendered language. </span>//
Damage to<span class="Heading4Char1"> the once </span>pristine <span class="Heading4Char1">… **cradle for life on Earth.''** </span>


**Independently destroys the Antarctica Treaty – leads to escalatory war**
**ICE, 07** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">– Inventory of Conflict and Environment (ICE) intends to provide acommon basis and method for looking at issues of conflict and environment (“Considering conflict in Antarctica,” ICE Case Study 215, May 2007, http://www.asparis.net/pamun/Crisis2008/CRISIS-SCL.pdf)</span>**Red**
__In a resource-driven world__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, where … space for involvement may arise.</span>

**Nuke war**
**NRC 86**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (National Research Council, “Antarctic Treaty System: An Assessment: Proceedings of a Workshop Held at Beardmore South Field Camp, Antarctica, January 7-13, 1985”, pg 36-37 SW)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Thus the nuclear-free zone and </span>__…__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> foreign bases in the area. </span>

**American leadership is key**
**Khosla, 09**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Ashok, IUCN President (“A New President for the United States: We have a dream,” International Union for Conservation of Nature, 1/29/09, [[http://cms.iucn.org/news_events/?uNewsID=2595]])</span>**Red**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">A rejuvenated </span>__America__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, with a …</span> __an issue of planetary survival.__

==Arctic== 
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Contention 3** **is The Arctic**</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**NSF funds are tight – forcing scaled back programs**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Koebler, 12** </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Jason, “Endangered Species: Penguins, Ice Caps, and Arctic Monitors,” US News, 4/6/12, http://www.usnews.com/news/articles/2012/04/06/endangered-species-penguins-ice-caps-and-arctic-monitors)</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Red**</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The temperatures are warming and … their importance would be recognized.</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Institutionalizing our mechanism spills over – reduces cost and frees up funds for other programs** </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Fretwell et al, 12** </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">– Peter T., British Antarctic Survey, with Norman Ratcliffe, Adrian J. Fox, Andrew H. Fleming, and Phil N. Trathan of the British Antarctic Survey, with Michelle A. LaRue, Paul Morin, and Cliare Porter of the Polar Geospatial Center, University of Minnesota, with Gerald L. Kooyman of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, and with Barbara Wienecke of the Australian Antarctic Division (“An Emperor Penguin Population Estimate: The First Global, Synoptic Survey of a Species from Space,” 4/13/12, PLoS ONE, http://www.plosone.org/article/info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0033751)</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Red**</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Current predictions [5], [6] suggest that trends … other species for similar survey.</span>


**NSF arctic research is on the chopping block – it’s key to arctic resource management and ensuring US access – cost effective model is needed**
**Weisburger, 11** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">– Alison, Analyst and North American Arctic/Outreach Coordinator for the Arctic Institute (“Proposed Cuts to Funding Threaten Arctic Research in U.S. and Canada,” The Arctic Institute, 11/7/11, http://www.thearcticinstitute.org/2011/11/34522-proposed-cuts-to-funding-threaten.html)</span>**Red**
__As tough economic times persist__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> … are nonessential for policy decisions.</span>


**Tensions in the arctic are rapidly escalating – research program needed to calibrate deterrence and prevent environmental disasters like oil spills**
**Talmadge, 4/16/12** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Eric, “As ice cap melts, militaries vie for Arctic edge,” AP, http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5hHahS23wLPy4fhU-vLwWGFHfwrDQ?docId=cea62528aa6a4ac6ba8846e0e37b42fe)</span>**Red**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">YOKOSUKA, Japan (AP) — To the </span>__world__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">'s military </span>__leaders__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">,… that is the real risk."</span>

**NSF arctic research solves**
**Ulmer, 11** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">– Fran, Chair of the US Arctic Research Commission (“Statement in Response by USARC’s Chair,” Arctic Update, 10/17/11, http://archive.constantcontact.com/fs062/1103854201241/archive/1108177225795.html)</span>**Red**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">STATEMENT in response by USARC's … a tremendous return on investment." </span>


<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Spills are probable – further research is imperative** </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**State News Service 2k10** </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">(“Time Out On Arctic Offshore Oil Drilling Needed” May 6, 2010, pg Lexisgreenhill-au)</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**r/e**</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The lawsuit, filed last January, … and the Minerals Management Service."</span>


**Arctic oil spills cause extinction – can’t be cleaned up**
**Dempsey 84**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Paul Stephen, Professor of Transportation Law and Director of the Transportation Law Program – University of Denver College of Law, “Compliance and Enforcement in International Law -- Oil Pollution of the Marine Environment by Ocean Vessels”, Northwestern Journal of International Law & Business, Summer, 6 NW. J. INT'L L. & BUS. 459, Lexis)</span>**r/e**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In the short term, </span>__oil …__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> feet, submerging most coastal cities. 27</span>

**Miscalc causes nuke war**
**Huebert, 2007**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Rob, Associate Professor of Political Science & the Strategic Studies Program @ the University of Calgary, Appendix 4, Canada and the Circumpolar World: Meeting the Challenges of Cooperation into the Twenty-First Century: A Critique of Chapter 4 – “Post-Cold War Cooperation in the Arctic: From Interstate Conflict to New Agendas for Security.” http://www.carc.org/calgary/a4.htm]</span>
<span class="HeaderChar">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The potential for an accidental …</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> to build the Borei class.</span>

**Escalates quickly**
**SI 2007** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Security Innovator, 8/23/2007, http://securityinnovator.com/index.php?articleID=12387§ionID=43)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;">Huebert explained that he’d “like … why we couldn’t start tomorrow.” </span>


==Solvency== 

**Contention 4 is Solvency**

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Initial surveys were successful, but not enough – deploying satellites with greater resolution for long term monitoring is key**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Fretwell et al, 12** </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">– Peter T., British Antarctic Survey, with Norman Ratcliffe, Adrian J. Fox, Andrew H. Fleming, and Phil N. Trathan of the British Antarctic Survey, with Michelle A. LaRue, Paul Morin, and Cliare Porter of the Polar Geospatial Center, University of Minnesota, with Gerald L. Kooyman of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, and with Barbara Wienecke of the Australian Antarctic Division (“An Emperor Penguin Population Estimate: The First Global, Synoptic Survey of a Species from Space,” 4/13/12, PLoS ONE, http://www.plosone.org/article/info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0033751)</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Red**</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Colony Detection </span>__To determine whether__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> ... consequent loss of sea ice [8].</span>


<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**That requires the NSF**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**The State Column, 12** </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">(“NSF studies emperor penguins in fight against global warming,” 4/14/12, [[http://www.thestatecolumn.com/articles/national-science-foundation-studies-emperor-penguins-fight-global-warming/]])</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Red**</span>
The NSF <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">has</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">funded a … and glaciers have been decreasing.</span>

**Budget savings mean we can more effectively do science – NSF will use low cost mechanisms**
**Prior, 97**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Stuart, officer of the New Zealand Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, head of the Antarctic Policy Unit (“ANTARCTICA: View from a Gateway,” Working Paper 5/97, Centre for Strategic Studies, Victoria University of Wellington, 1997, http://www.victoria.ac.nz/css/docs/Working_Papers/WP05.pdf)</span>**Red**
__Whilst America's place in Antarctica …__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> return on Antarctic science spending.</span>

**Space based capability is key – it solves**
**Brown, 12** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Eryn, “Biologists count penguins by satellite,” Los Angeles Times, 4/13/12, http://articles.latimes.com/2012/apr/13/science/la-sci-penguins-20120414)</span>**Red**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The </span>__harsh conditions have made …__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> to assist with their calculations.</span>

==Plan== 

**Plan: The United States National Science Foundation should deploy a satellite equipped to take ultra-high resolution images for the purpose of surveying emperor penguin populations from beyond the Earth’s mesosphere**

=Round 5 Neg vs. Lexington CY= 

==Politics - Iron Dome== 
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Iron Dome funding will pass, top of the docket, and key to prevent Middle East war </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Bloomfield 4-26</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Douglas,- Washington-based syndicated columnist “Iron Dome On The Move”)</span>
The House<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of Representatives today </span><span class="Underline">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> adds an ominous new threat." </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The plan causes a political firestorm- it would have no Congressional support and State department would opposition will prevent congress from supporting it</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Gangale 8</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> (Thomas, executive director of OPS-Alaska, “Castles in the Air: Debunking the Space Settlement Prize”, Jan, http://www.astrosociology.com/Library/PDF/ASM2008_CastlesInTheAir.pdf, accessed 6/25/11, KF)</span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">It is rare for Congress … of the United States works. </span>__


**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Capital is key </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Streeter ’11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(David,- writer for the National Jewish Democratic Council 4-22)</span>
The U<span class="Underline">nited </span>S<span class="Underline">tates’ </span>strong support <span class="Underline">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> its borders from rocket attacks.</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**The impact is Gaza escalation and Iran prolif**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hiromoto 3-23</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Lee,- Yale Graduate, current contributor to the Harvard National Security Journal) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although the Iron Dome is … threat of </span>a nuclear Iran<span class="Underline">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Global nuclear war </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Kosyrev ‘08 </span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Dmitry Political Commentator – RIA Novosti, “Carnage in Gaza: A Prelude to World War III?”, RIA Novosti, 12-31, http://en.rian.ru/analysis/20081231/119298038.html)</span>
Can the Gaza Strip conflict <span class="Underline">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the situation becomes really bad.</span>


==Commissions CP== 
**Text – The United States Congress should establish an independent agency empowered by the executive to submit to Congress recommendations for space policy as per Newton and Atkins. Congress and the executive will delegate authority to the agency to create recommendations and allow 90 days to pass legislation maintaining existing legislative baselines. If Congress does not pass legislation revising the Commission’s recommendations within the specified period, those recommendations will enter into legal force. The Commission should recommend to Congress that The United States federal government should establish lunar property rights by recognizing lunar land claims.**


**The CP solves --- avoids policy churn that tanks solvency**
**Newton and Atkins 10** (Elizabeth, Director for Space Policy- U Alabama-Huntsville, and Chuck, former Chief of Staff-House Science Committee, Take the Chaos Out of U.S. Space Policy, 10 May, 2010, [[http://spacenews.com/commentaries/100510-take-chaos-out-space-policy.html]])

**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Policy stability is not an …</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> long-term benefit of the nation.</span>

**Will pass and doesn’t drain capital**

**Mayer ’07**
(Kenneth,- professor of political science at the University of Wisconsin, Madison “THE BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE PROCESS: IS IT POSSIBLE TO MAKE RATIONAL POLICY?”)
**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The conventional wisdom was that … came //anywhere close// to passing</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>




==Weaponization== 

**Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization**
<span class="Underline">**ENS, 1/30** </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">(“U.S. Joins Effort to Clean Up Space Environment,” Environmental News Service, http://www.ens-newswire.com/ens/jan2012/2012-01-30-02.html)</span><span class="Underline">**Red**</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Decades of space activity have …</span><span class="Underline"> **encourage openness among space actors.**</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">"</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The plan powerbombs space co-op and causes backlash --- tanks solvency </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Cook ’95</span>** (Kevin V,- J.D. Georgetown lAW 11 Geo. Int'l Envtl. L. Rev. 647)
4. Unilateral Action by the United States
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The fourth potential alternative, that …</span>//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">chilling effect on private investment</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens, 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 7pt;"> – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, [[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]])</span>

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Perhaps of even greater concern …</span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> would be unacceptable to all.</span>


==U.N. CP== 
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The United States federal government will cede its authority to unilaterally regulate theoretical lunar property rights to the UN Committee on the Peaceful Uses of outer Space. The United States federal government will submit a proposal to the Committee “guaranteeing property rights to private actors under the social obligation norm,” and recognize rights pursuant to the committee’s recommendation. </span>**


**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Only the CP solves --- avoids backlash from unilateral action </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dalton ’10 </span>**(Taylor Reeves,- J.D. and LL.M., Cornell Law School lexis)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Many solutions to the problem … in the Outer Space Treaty.</span>


=Round 6 - Aff vs. Dulles= 

==Plan== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Plan: The United States Central Intelligence Agency's spy satellite division of the Directorate of Science and Technology should deploy a quantum gravity gradiometer into topical orbit.</span>

==<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Contention 1: Intel</span>== 


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Intelligence on underground assets is insufficient now</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Richelson ’12</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Jeffrey,- Senior Fellow of the National Security Archive “Underground Facilities: Intelligence and Targeting Issues”)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">\</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">A central element of the …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">such shared intelligence might have on Israeli decisions. </span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Key to deterring new proliferators --- stabilizes transition </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Colby ’11</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Elbridge,- research analyst at CNA and has served in several national security positions with the U.S. Government, most recently with the Department of Defense working on the follow-on to the START Treaty http://www.fpri.org/enotes/201105.colby.nuclear.html)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">One of </span>the most pressing<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, and therefore stabilizing. </span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Prolif causes global nuclear conflict </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Maass ’10</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Richard,- PhD candidate (expected 2012) whose primary research interests concern international security, IR theory, US foreign policy “Nuclear Proliferation and Declining U.S. Hegemony”) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Despite nuclear proliferation’s… irrational political actors.</span>



<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Deterring new proliferators is key to check global nuclear and biological war </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">IFPA ’10 </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">(The Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis @ International Security Studies Program of The Fletcher School, Tufts University,- a conference report summarizing the consenus of experts at “Air, Space, & Cyberspace Power in the 21st-Century” Prepared by Robert L. Pfaltzgraff, Jr. President, IFPA and Shelby Cullom Davis Professor of International Security Studies The Fletcher School, Tufts University) </span>


<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In marked contrast…f a nuclear-weapons-free world. </span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Nuke terrorism causes nuke war </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Speice ‘06 </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Patrick, JD Candidate – College of William and Mary, “Negligence and Nuclear Nonproliferation: Eliminating the Current Liability Barrier to Bilateral U.S.-Russian Nonproliferation Assistance Programs”, William and Mary Law Review, 47 Wm and Mary L. Rev. 1427, February, Lexis)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Terrorist </span>groups could <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…of nuclear weapons</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. 53 </span>




<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Specifically checks future weapons deployment </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cetron and Davies ’08 </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">(“Tech 2035: Future Technology, Future Power in Asia, and Future intelligence challenges”)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">However, it also …</span>to stop them<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">That’s two scenarios for extinction --- 1st --- Genetically engineered weapons </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Krug ’99</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Wayne -- The Threat of Genobiological Weapons -- [[http://www.kingdomofprussia.com/GenobiologicalWeapons.htm]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Many advances have …pose </span>to humanity<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2nd --- Nanotech and AI weapons, it outweighs, try or die</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gubrund ’97</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mark,- research assocaite, Center for Superconductivity Research, assistant professor at the University of North Carolina “Nanotechnology and International Security”) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Recent U.S. planning …exactly our dilemma. </span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">We’re at the tipping point</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Folardori ‘07</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Guillermo, Guillermo Foladori is Professor at the Development Studies Program, Universidad Autónoma de Zacatecas; member of the Latin American Nanotechnology & Society Network last date cited “The U.S. Military’s Influence on Nanotechnology Research in Latin America,” International Network of Engineers and Scientists Against Proliferation, Bulletin 28, April [[http://inesap.org/node/109]])</span>

We are on …of wars worldwide<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">This is critical to detecting underground assets --- vital to send a signal of credible strike and deter proliferation </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sepp ‘2K</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Eric M,- Lt Col USAF “Deeply Buried Facilities: Implications for Military Operations”)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Recent research concludes … in the twenty-first century.40 </span>



<span style="font-size: 13pt;">This signal is effective --- deescalates conflict </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Johnson ’01</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (David C,- Lt. Col in the USAF “USING SPACE FORCES AS MILITARY FLEXIBLE DETERENT OPTIONS”)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The deployment and …or diplomatic communications. </span>



==<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Contention 2: Solvency</span>== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Only the plan solves </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Streland ’03 </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Arnold,- Lt Col, US Air Force “Going Deep: A System Concept For Detecting Deeply Buried Facilities From Space”) </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Space is the …United States airpower</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Quantum gravity gradiometers and space deployment are key </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Streland ’03 </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Arnold,- Lt Col, US Air Force “Going Deep: A System Concept For Detecting Deeply Buried Facilities From Space”) </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">GRACE</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> mission …quantum gravity gradiometer.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Key to sophisticated intel</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Streland ’03 </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Arnold,- Lt Col, US Air Force “Going Deep: A System Concept For Detecting Deeply Buried Facilities From Space”) </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Finding deeply buried …</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">buried targets themselves.</span>


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Tons of new satellite programs this year --- super expensive</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Labrador ’12</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Virgil,- Editor-in-Chief of Satellite Markets http://www.satellitemarkets.com/events/defense-sector-sees-opportunity-beyond-budget-cuts)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In contrast to …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the satellite industry.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">New ones this month </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Seattle PI 4-12</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(http://blog.seattlepi.com/travelforaircraft/2012/04/12/cia’s-“big-bird”-spy-satellite-—-kh-9-hexagon/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">CIA’s “Big Bird”</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …words, two feet.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Triggered politics </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Risen 4-19</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(James,- writer for the NYT “A Military and Intelligence Clash Over Spy Satellites”)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But at the …the budget cuts. </span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">And the tradeoff DA</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Covault 3-24</span> <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Craig,- writer for America Space “Top Secret Radar Satellite Set for Vandenberg Liftoff”)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A top secret</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span>//dollar cost overruns//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Intel is key to arms control --- solves prolif**
**__Hansen 11__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Keith A. Hansen is a visiting professor of international relations from Stanford University. “Intelligence and Nuclear Proliferation: Lessons Learned” Summer 2011. [[http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CCoQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.ifri.org%2Fdownloads%2Fpp38hansen.pdf&ei=lBOdT5b2N4qI8QTn1eiRDw&usg=AFQjCNHXHK0PTcJXxvxY9ycVA6qgUdkLug&sig2=ZAielN6QVCzuiszWrxj37Q]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">As is the …of inside information.31 </span>


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Arms control is effective </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mützenich ’08</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Rolf,- disarmament spokesman for the Social Democratic Party (SPD). “The Undiminished Relevance of Disarmament and Arms Control: Ten Theses”)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As this thesis-based …by military intervention. </span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Empirical evidence</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">O’Neil ‘09</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Andrew,- Professor of International Relations and Director of theGriffith Asia Institute at Griffith University from January 2010 “Nuclear Weapons and Non-proliferation:Is Restraint Sustainable?”)</span>
Predictions of nuclear <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">for many states.5 </span>

**No prior questions – positivist analyses of IR are best**
**Houghton 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Associate Professor of International Relations Theory at the University of Central Florida</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(David Patrick, Positivism ‘vs’ Postmodernism: Does Epistemology Make a Difference?</span> //<span style="font-size: 8pt;">International Politics</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (2008) 45 ) ]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As long ago …</span> __relations scene today.__

**Even if objective truth is impossible we can recognize the contingent utility of risk assessment**
**Aven ‘3** (Terje, U. Stavanger, Foundations of Risk Analysis A Knowledge and Decision-Oriented Perspective, http://training.nigc.ir/files/files/ben%20saeed%20book%20hse/safety%20books/s10.pdf)

__Many__ social __scientists …__to provide one.

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Prediction is possible and accurate even if not perfect-game theory and political modeling can account for complex social systems by aggregating expertism-forecasting can provide an accurate basis for scenario planning**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**de Mesquita 11**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Bruce Bueno de Mesquita is Silver Professor of Politics at New York University and a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution B.A. from Queens, M.A. from Michigan, PhD from Michigan, "FOX-HEDGING OR KNOWING: ONE BIG WAY TO KNOW MANY THINGS" July 18 www.cato-unbound.org/2011/07/18/bruce-bueno-de-mesquita/fox-hedging-or-knowing-one-big-way-to-know-many-things/</span>

__Given what we …toward better prediction__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**No __root cause__– prefer __proximate causes__**
**Moore, 04** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[John Norton, Professor of Law at the University of Virginia He formerly served as the first Chairman of the Board of the United States Institute of Peace and as the Counselor on International Law to the Department of State, Winter, “Beyond the Democratic Peace: Solving the War Puzzle”, 44 Va. J. Int'l L. 341, Lexis Law]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If major …</span>**__generations__** __to come.__



=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]